02-10-2021||Other||MLA Vaid inaugurates development projects in Ludhiana||To commemorate the 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, Kuldeep Singh Vaid, MLA, Gill, inaugurated three development projects worth ₹24.01 lakh in Dhandra village of the district on Saturday.Additional deputy commissioner (D) Amit Kumar Panchal and assistant commissioner Harjinder Singh Bedi launched the projects, including solid waste management at ₹6.40 lakh, the establishment of a library at ₹5 lakh, and Neki Da Ghar at ₹12.61 lakh.MLA Vaid said that under the solid waste management project, compost manure will be prepared from the biodegradable solid waste collected from 21 villages under Dhandra Cluster and be used by the farmers in fields, besides being sold in the market.He said that turning waste into manure will help ensure cleanliness in the village.Vaid further informed that under the Neki Da Ghar project, volunteers of self-help groups will prepare reusable cloth bags. These will be distributed free of cost among people in the market to end the menace of single-use plastic bags.Vaid said the establishment of a library will help inculcate a habit of reading among people, especially school and college-going students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mla-vaid-inaugurates-development-projects-in-ludhiana-101633199261645.html
02-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: ICAR-CIPHET’s industry interface fair on agro-processing to begin today||ICAR-Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology (CIPHET) will hold an industry interface fair on agro-processing – 2021 on October 3 and 4 to celebrate its 33rd foundation day and commemorate the 75th anniversary of India’s independence.ICAR-CIPHET’s director Nachiket Kotwaliwale said the programme will be organised virtually.Different stakeholders of the institute including, farmers, students, entrepreneurs, FPOs managers, extension functionaries of the state and central government, NGO representatives and officers and staff of ICAR-CIPHET, Ludhiana, and Abohar, will attend it, he added.He said different technologies, machines, processes, and protocols will be showcased during the virtual fair, and panel discussions on themes related to post-harvest will also be held. He said that success stories of entrepreneurs promoted by ICAR-CIPHET will also be shared at the fair.He informed that Trilochan Mahapatra, secretary, DARE and director-general, ICAR, will inaugurate the programme with his ICAR-CIPHET Foundation Day lecture.The session will be chaired by Suresh Kumar Chaudhari, DDG, ICAR, New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-icar-ciphet-s-industry-interface-fair-on-agro-processing-to-begin-today-101633199082644.html
02-10-2021||Noida||With 11 new cases, dengue tally reaches 60 in Noida||Eleven new cases of dengue were reported in Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday, taking the tally of such cases to 60 in the district, the highest in the last five years, said officials from the district health department. Seven of the 11 cases reported on Friday are currently taking treatment at various hospitals. According to official data, the district reported 13 cases of dengue in 2017, 28 in 2018, 40 in 2019 and 27 cases in 2020. Officials said the prevalence of the disease in Gautam Budh Nagar is lower than in nearby districts. “While comparative data of the last five years shows that the district has maximum dengue cases this year, it is still better than nearby districts where the tally of dengue cases has breached the 300 mark. Compared to nearby districts like Ghaziabad or Meerut, Gautam Budh Nagar has been successful in controlling the outbreak of dengue. We are undertaking several measures with the help of authorities, nagar panchayat and nagar palika and conducting scheduled programmes and drives to eliminate larvae breeding spots. We are also focussing on the areas from where maximum dengue cases are being reported,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.In the past one month, the district health department has found larvae at 30 places. “While larvae was found at 30 places, 18 notices have been issued in the last 10 days to those establishments where mosquito larvae was found. Notices have been issued under the Uttar Pradesh Prevention and Control of Malaria, Dengue, Kala Azar and any Vector Borne Disease Regulations, 2016. According to the rules, the inspecting officer can issue a notice to the owner or the occupier of any place where water is found accumulating, which become harbours for mosquito breeding,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.He added the department is continuing fogging and anti-larvae spraying drives in the district. “Our health teams are screening densely populated localities in the district to eliminate any chances of mosquito breeding. Dengue is an urbanized disease; the mosquito causing the disease breeds indoors in artificial or man-made containers, hence our teams’ focus is on such areas. The teams are also going door-to-door to check for fever patients and taking their samples to test them for dengue and malaria,” added Sharma.According to medical experts, the low number of dengue cases in Gautam Budh Nagar compared to nearby districts could be due to more awareness among the residents of the district.“I believe people in Gautam Budh Nagar are more aware when it comes to sanitation and illnesses, which is why the number of dengue cases in the district are still under control. We also have fewer densely populated colonies or temporary settlements (slums), as compared to Ghaziabad, Hapur or Meerut, which helps in controlling the outbreak of dengue. However, Gautam Budh Nagar is the one of the most advanced medical hub in the region and it is possible that serious cases of dengue may be referred to here in the coming weeks,” said Dr N K Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association (Noida). Meanwhile, the district has also reported one new case of scrub typhus from a private hospital in Noida, taking the tally of such cases to four. Two leptospirosis cases have also come to the fore.“One new scrub typhus case and two leptospirosis have been reported from private hospitals in the district. All three patients have recovered. Currently, there are no active cases of the diseases in the district,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-11-new-cases-dengue-tally-reaches-60-in-noida-101633199081388.html
02-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Electricity tower repaired, reinstalled||A 66 KV electricity tower on Gill Road that was damaged on Tuesday after a truck rammed into it, was finally repaired and reinstalled on Saturday.According to the officials of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), the tower was installed at around 11:40 am, following which power supply from the same was resumed in the area.Surjit Singh, XEN, Janta Nagar, said, “We are no longer taking supply from Dholewal. The tower became functional on Saturday morning, following which proper supply was resumed in the area.”The incident had resulted in power outages in nearby areas and even though power was being supplied through the Dholewal sub-station in the meanwhile, residents of nearby areas complained of frequent outages and low voltage.Earlier, the officials had claimed that the impact of the collision had also damaged another 11KV tower and cable wires.The driver of the truck was arrested while he was trying to escape the spot after the accident. He has been identified as Jagsir Singh of Sangrur.He was booked for rash driving following a complaint by sub-divisional officer Gurpratap Singh at Division Number 6 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-electricity-tower-repaired-reinstalled-101633198783707.html
02-10-2021||Noida||Noida authority felicitates winners of swachhta competition on Gandhi Jayanti||On the occasion of Mahatma Gandhi Jayanti, the Noida authority on Saturday felicitated the winners of its ‘swachhta ranking’ competition. The competition, announced by the authority in August this year, was held to provide cleanliness rankings in different categories, including residential body, hotel, school, hospital, and registered market association in the city. Authority officials said that the move was aimed at encouraging citizens and other institutions for cleanliness and sanitation.“A committee was formed to survey the premises of each participant. The first three winners in each category were felicitated by the authority at the Indira Gandhi Kala Kendra in Sector 6 on Saturday,” said Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari who led the felicitation programme.In the category of apartment owners association (AOA), Grand Omaxe in Sector 93B bagged the first position, followed by Century Apartments in Sector 100 and Gulshan Vivante in Sector 137. “Getting the first rank in the swachhta competition became possible because of the consolidated efforts of all residents of the society. We always try to maintain cleanliness and sanitation in and around our society,” said Manish Gupta, member of Grand Omaxe AOA.The Sector 18 Market Association was awarded the first rank in market category. “We have been awarded by the authority for the third consecutive year for our efforts to keep the Sector 18 market clean and garbage free. We shall continue the good work for years to come,” said SK Jain, president of the association.In the category of clean hospitals, Kailash Hosptal in Sector 71 got the first place while Felix Hospital in Sector 137 was ranked second. “Bagging the first position in swachhta competition is a great honour for us. We hope we live up to the expectations in future as well,” said VB Joshi, a spokesperson of Kailash Hospital. “A Noida authority team had inspected the hospital on maintenance, cleanliness, waste management and sanitation. We are happy that we ensured a clean environment for patients at our hospital,” said Dr DK Gupta, chairman of Felix Hospital.After the distribution of cleanliness ranking awards, various groups working towards cleanliness in Noida were also honoured by the authority CEO. Jan Jagran Sangathan (JJS), a self-help group, was honoured for its services towards making the city cleaner and greener. “We are grateful to the Noida authority for recognizing our organisation’s efforts. Such encouragements go a long way in motivating and inspiring us to do more,” said Madhu Mittal, founder of JJS and a Sector 50 resident. According to Mittal, her organisation advocates against use of single-use plastic by promoting cloth bags and steel utensils.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-felicitates-winners-of-swachhta-competition-on-gandhi-jayanti-101633198781958.html
02-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Alleged robbers shoot at police in Bajghera, three held||Police arrested three suspected criminals allegedly involved in several criminal cases who were roaming around in Bajghera area with the intention of committing a robbery late on Friday night. Police said that in a bid to escape, the suspects crashed their jeep into a police barricade and one of them fired a gunshot, which was almost going to hit a police official. A pistol, one live cartridge, one bullet, number plates, and a Thar jeep were allegedly seized from their possession. Police said a case was registered against the accused under various sections of the IPC at Bajghera police station. The arrested suspects were identified as Dara Singh alias Dara, who allegedly fired the gunshot, Amit alias Meeta and Abhinav Verma alias Chunnu. Subash Boken, a spokesperson of Gurugram police, said a team from Sector 31 crime branch put a barricade on Sector 114 road in Bajghera late Friday night and started checking vehicles as they had information that the suspects were moving around in the area in an old Thar jeep with the intention of committing a robbery. Around half an hour later, the police observed a jeep coming towards Gurugram from Delhi side. When the police team signalled the vehicle driver to stop, he allegedly crashed the jeep into the police barricade, which hit a head constable and injured him on the leg. As soon as the vehicle stopped, the driver and four other men allegedly jumped out of the jeep and one of them fired a shot at the police, which allegedly hit a side of the police vehicle. The police chased the suspects and managed to nab three men, including the one who had fired the shot. Boken said the suspects were questioned regarding their involvement in other cases. “The jeep in which they were travelling belonged to one of their associates. They admitted that they were moving around in Bajghera with the intention to commit robbery. They will be put in police custody for further questioning,” he said adding that a manhunt has been launched for the two suspects on the run. The suspects also admitted to their involvement in two criminals cases registered at Kherki Daula and Manesar registered in August and June this year, said police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-alleged-robbers-shoot-at-police-in-bajghera-three-held-101633198721359.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Row after video of girl dancing inside Bada Imambada goes viral||LUCKNOW: The All India Shia Muslim Personal Law Board (AISMPLB), Shia clerics and Shia youth wing registered a strong protest after a 30-second video clip of a girl dancing inside the Bada Imambada here went viral. Calling the act ‘un-Islamic’ and ‘breach of sacredness’ of the religious structure, the protestors demanded ban on entry of tourists in Bada Imambada. An FIR under Section 295A of the Indian penal Code for malicious act with intent to hurt religious feelings of a community has been registered at Chowk police station. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP) West CN sinha said a team had been constituted to investigate the matter and identify the people involved in the act. Earlier, Shia Muslims had demanded ban on wedding shoots inside Bada Imambada and opposed shooting of ‘tik-tok’ videos. “We strongly oppose the act as it is a breach of sacredness of the religious structure. We demand immediate intervention of the district magistrate, the chairman of the Hussainabad and Allied Trust (HAT) that owns the structure. We also demand ban on the entry of tourists in the Bada Imambada. One must not forget that it is not a tourist place, it is a religious structure and such acts hurt our religious sentiments,” said Maulana Yasoob Abbas, senior Shia cleric and general secretary of AISMPLB. Similarly, Maulana Saif Abbas, president, Shia Chand Committee too raised objection to the video clip and said this was not for the first time such videos had gone viral. “We strongly oppose the act and demand action against the girl. We have written several letters to the administration demanding ban on such acts which hurt our religious sentiments. The sanctity of Imambadas should be maintained,” said Abbas. “Such acts should be banned immediately,” said Shamil Shamsi, convener, ‘Hussaini Tigers’—a group of Shia Muslim youths. Besides, he said that he had also written to the ASI and HAT to make all possible arrangements and install CCTV cameras in order to keep a check on such acts. In the 30-second video, a girl in black attire, wearing a mask, was seen dancing inside the Bada Imambada that is also known as Asafi Imambada. However, this is not for the first time when the objections on such acts were raised. In 2019, ban on pre and post wedding shoots inside Bada Imambada was imposed after Shia Muslims raised objections. However, in 2020, Shia Muslims demanded ban on the shooting of ‘tik tok’ videos at Bada Imambada. A Shia Muslim group also demanded dress code and said that tourists only in decent attire should be allowed to enter the Imambada. One of the most preferred tourist destinations Bada Imambada, an over-200-year-old Nawabi era structure that was constructed by the then Nawab Asaf Ud Daulah during 1784-1791 to carry out religious ceremonies, is among the most popular tourist destinations in the state capital. If HAT and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials are to be believed, it is among the three most frequented heritage structures of the state capital, the others being Chhota Imambada and Residency. As per HAT records, in 2019 Bada Imambada witnessed footfall of 80,6854 tourists, of which 5361 were from foreign countries. The same financial year saw revenue collection of ₹4,92,14,343. However, the tourist movement dipped in 2020 and 2021 following the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/row-after-video-of-girl-dancing-inside-bada-imambada-goes-viral-101633198607036.html
02-10-2021||Other||Dengue cases on the rise in Amritsar as authorities ignore garbage disposal||Amritsar With the holy city reporting over 500 cases of dengue and counting, authorities have simply abandoned their responsibility towards cleanliness. What to say about the city, the problem of blatant littering, mounds of garbage and poor sanitation plagues even hospitals, leading to over a 100 dengue cases being reported over the past week. Sample this: less than 100 metre from the special ward for dengue at the Jallianwala Bagh Martyrs’ Memorial Civil hospital, the railway line leading to Amritsar junction has been turned into mini-garbage dumping sites at multiple points. Those responsible for sanitation have not been implementing the basics of efficient garbage disposal. “I have been running a dhaba near the civil hospital for four years, and this area has always been filthy. This rail track is right alongside the post-mortem section of the hospital. People throw used plastic bottles, food waste and other every other kind of rubbish. Two of my workers are sick because of this. Water gets stored in plastic bottles, leading to larvae formation, and dengue,” says Sonu Kumar, 54, adding that business has been hit. “The problem is widespread, even in Islamabad area, or around the GT Road or the smaller alleys in the area around the Golden Temple,” says social worker Praneet Babbar, adding that dengue mosquitoes thrive moist damps and the uncovered water pools on or near the garbage. “Only fogging is not the complete solution, we need cleanliness,” Babbar added. Gurpreet Singh, a hotelier in Kishangarh says, “The quantity of open waste generated in a congested city is a grave health hazard. Amritsar is called the Holy City, but looks anything. Visitors complain of the stench around the alleys and under bridges and flyovers.”The government authorities appear to be in a denial mode and despite major announcements, there is little change on the ground. Just a couple of days ago, mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu had announced that the municipal corporation had constituted 56 teams for the prevention of the spread of dengue and malaria. When will things improve on the ground remains a key question, though? Dengue needs to be checked with war-like urgency. Amritsar civil surgeon Amarjeet Singh said, “As temperature decreases, dengue cases will come down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dengue-cases-on-the-rise-in-amritsar-as-authorities-ignore-garbage-disposal-101633198361669.html
02-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Christian Medical College gets non-invasive cardiology centre||Nohar Chand Gupta Memorial, a non-invasive cardiology centre, was inaugurated at the department of cardiology of Christian Medical College and Hospital on Saturday.Padma Shri Rajinder Gupta and Varinder Gupta, who got the centre established as a tribute to their father NC Gupta, inaugurated it. Rajinder Gupta appreciated the treatment and care given to his father by the team of doctors and nurses at the cardiology department of CMC Hospital.Dr Rajneesh Calton, professor and head of the cardiology department at CMC Hospital, informed that the centre is equipped with state-of-the-art equipment including, a colour doppler echocardiography machine with 2D and 3D imaging facilities for adult and paediatric patients. It also has a wireless treadmill machine, holter recorders, ambulatory blood pressure recorders, and 15-lead electrocardiography machines, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-christian-medical-college-gets-non-invasive-cardiology-centre-101633198241431.html
02-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: A year on, residents still wary of using city’s first cycle track||Lack of streetlights, broken bollards, encroachments and parking of cars and autorickshaws are among a host of issues plaguing the city’s first cycle track on Netaji Subhash Marg, even a year after its construction. The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) inaugurated 5km cycle tracks on each side of the stretch between HUDA City Centre (HCC) and Subhash Chowk on October 2 last year. V S Kundu, the then CEO of GMDA, had said the project was aimed at ensuring pedestrians and cyclists have equal right of way (ROW). The track is also used for parking cars and autorickshaws at various points, such as near Subhash Chowk and near residential clusters on Arya Samaj Marg. The stretch has limited signages indicating the presence of a cycle track, due to which a large number of cyclists end up riding on the main carriageway. “Only if one observes closely can they spot the signage with a cycle drawn on it. I had no clue about the cycle track and thought it to be a service road as I could see cars and motorcycles passing by. More signages should be put in place along the stretch, preferably in Hindi, so that daily workers can understand it,” said Kishan Singh, a resident of Samaspur village.The Netaji Subhash Marg track was launched as a pilot project, based on which cycle tracks across the city were planned. Over the past year, cycle tracks have come up on various stretches across the city such as Hamilton Court Road, Vyapar Kendra Road, the service lane leading towards Gold Souk Mall, and a section of the Old-Delhi Gurgaon Road while one such facility is also under construction at the Anaath Road in Udyog Vihar, the new sector road which links Rampura Chowk on National Highway 48 with Pataudi Road.Last month, the GMDA also decided to construct 800 kilometres of cycle tracks across the city by 2035. While GMDA is going ahead with its plan of scaling up the cycling infrastructure in Gurugram, many residents are not comfortable using the tracks due to lack of safety. “The cycle track is much-needed but must be equipped with necessary features so that people are encouraged to use it. At night, a large portion of the track, especially near HUDA City Centre, is completely dark because there aren’t any streetlights or the ones that are there aren’t turned on. In addition, motorcyclists drive their vehicles at high speed on the track, due to which I rarely use the facility,” said Chetna Das, a resident of Sector 47.Sudhir Rajpal, CEO of GMDA, said the issues concerning cycle tracks, including the one at Netaji Subhash Marg, were raised during a residents’ advisory council meeting held recently, and he subsequently directed officials to address all issues.“The GMDA is constructing a cycle track for every new road that is coming up or being taken up for special repairs. We want to promote cycling in the city by all means and the maintenance and upkeep of cycle tracks are of utmost importance to us,” said Rajpal.Sewa Ram, associate professor and urban roads design expert at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi, said, “The biggest problem with the Netaji Subhash Marg cycle track is its design. It does not take into account the crossings that are located on the stretch. The cycle track is not continuous as a result. Further, the space between two concrete bollards is significant that leaves enough space for motorcycles to enter the cycle track” He added the entire stretch needs to be under 24x7 surveillance, for which CCTV cameras should be installed to keep a check on violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-a-year-on-residents-still-wary-of-using-city-s-first-cycle-track-101633198121329.html
02-10-2021||Other||Amritsar village Cong leader tweets to Channi on drug menace; SHO says issue of groupism||Amritsar Amid the raging political crisis in the Punjab government, a Congress leader in Amritsar, Ravinder Cheema, has raised the issue of rampant drug menace, the eradication of which was one of the key pre-poll promises of the party. “I am sarpanch of Cheema Bath village [sic] falling under the Baba Bakala constituency. I have repeatedly informed the local police about those who have been selling drugs, but no action has been taken so far. If drug smuggling continues as it is, my village will be ruined. Please take immediate action. My mind is saddened,” Cheema, a member of the block samiti and husband of the party’s sarpanch, had tweeted on September 30 (Thursday), while tagging Channi. Cheema told HT on Saturday, “After my tweet, Amritsar-rural police raided some locations in my village, but those involved in drug smuggling have gone underground.”He added, “I have been complaining to the police for months, but they asked me to name those involved in the trade. If I directly reveal their names to the police, these people will harm me and my family, as they are dangerous. Police know who is behind these networks, but don’t act deliberately.”He added that to underplay the drug problem in his village, police had taken a note from the family of a young man, suspected to be a victim of drug overdose, stating that their ward did not die of drugs. There was no medical examination carried out, he alleged. “Many people of our village are involved in drug smuggling. They all should be sent behind bars. We need a good society,” he said, adding that if this continues, many more deaths due to drugs will happen in the coming days.Beas station house officer (SHO) Harjit Singh, however, feigned ignorance about the issue. He said, “There is no complaint from any leader regarding drug smuggling or the menace of drugs.There is an issue of groupism.”Even as Channi had not responded to his tweet, Amritsar-rural police had replied, “We are looking into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-village-cong-leader-tweets-to-channi-on-drug-menace-sho-says-issue-of-groupism-101633197824385.html
02-10-2021||Noida||Man held for ATM fraud in Noida||A 25-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly tampering with an ATM and fraudulently withdrawing cash in Noida’s Sector 51. The suspect was identified as Maan Singh Nishad, a native of Etawah. Police said that they had received complaints from some banks that some miscreants were involved in manipulating ATMs. Sanat Kumar, sub-inspector at Sector 49 police station, said that police received information about the presence of a suspect near an ATM in Sector 51 market. A police team reached the spot and apprehended the suspect, he said. Police recovered two debit cards, ₹19,600 in cash, a motorcycle, and a knife from his possession. The suspect revealed that he had taken these debit cards from two vulnerable people from his hometown. “Nishad had found a trick to manipulate the machine and withdraw money. He used to visit different ATMs and first deposit some cash using a deposit machine. He then tried to withdraw cash from an ATM. Once the machine dispensed cash, the suspect used to grab the cash and then pushed back a few notes inside the machine to ensure the transaction failed,” he said. Nishad also carried a knife to threaten the ATM kiosk security guards if they put up resistance to his suspicious activities, police said, adding that the suspect had been doing such activities for the last one year. Vinod Kumar, SHO of Sector 49 police station, said police are investigating his crime records. “We are yet to figure out the number of ATMs he manipulated. A case has been registered against him under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC. The suspect was produced in a court that sent him to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-for-atm-fraud-in-noida-101633197762806.html
02-10-2021||Other||35 fresh Covid cases in Punjab; active cases at 280||Chandigarh Punjab on Saturday registered 35 fresh cases of Covid-19 with one death from the virus over the past 24 hours, a state government medical bulletin said. The positivity rate of the state has been calculated at 0.1% on Saturday, the media bulletin said. With these fresh cases, the state’s total tally of Covid cases reached 6,01,698, the bulletin said, noting that the number of active cases had decreased to 280. Among fresh cases, the maximum seven had been reported in SAS Nagar; five in Jalandhar, four in Gurdaspur and three in Hoshiarpur. With 33 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,84,898, it said. To date, 16,520 persons have lost their lives due to the virus. A total of 1,46,06,979 samples have been collected for testing so far in Punjab, of which 35,228 were tested on Saturday. Nearly 16,000 doses of the vaccine were administered on Saturday, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/35-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-active-cases-at-280-101633196981324.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Monkey enters VIP lounge of Delhi airport||A monkey entered the VIP lounge of Delhi’s IGI airport, videos of which have gone viral on the internet. The monkey was seen sipping Real fruit juice on the bar counter of the premium plaza lounge of the airport while travellers in the airport shot videos of the monkey.The video has left netizens amused. It is still unclear as to when this incident occurred. The airport authorities are yet to release a statement regarding the primate entering the lounge of the airport.The video surfaced weeks after Delhi recorded heavy rainfall and the terminals of the airport were flooded due to incessant rains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/monkey-enters-vip-lounge-of-delhi-airport-101633196651296.html
02-10-2021||Other||Women deserve same respect, social status as men: Cabinet minister Aruna Chaudhary||Women are no less than men and deserve the same respect and social status as them said cabinet minister Aruna Chaudhary during the ‘Dheeyan da Sanman’ programme at Government High School, Mundian Kalan, on Saturday.The cabinet minister honoured a few girls on the occasion. Aruna also met the female hockey players of the government school and announced ₹3 lakh fund for a hockey academy there.The school hockey team played an exhibition match. The winners were felicitated by the minister.Punjabi singer, a former national hockey player, and Congress Halka in charge from Sahnewal, Satwinder Kaur Bitti, thanked Chaudhary for her support. Issues warning to revenue officialsOn the occasion, Aruna also directed officials of the revenue department to remain present in their offices for public dealing to avoid any departmental action for negligence.Chaudhary directed the patwaris to work transparently and dedicatedly to resolve property-related issues of the people.“Corruption or any kind of indiscipline by patwaris or any revenue officials will not be tolerated. They all need to work honestly and deliver their duties timely without harassing the public. Senior revenue officials should frequently keep a check on patwaris to ensure smooth flow of work,” said the minister.She added that 700 new patwaris will be recruited in the revenue department in the state soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/women-deserve-same-respect-social-status-as-men-cabinet-minister-aruna-chaudhary-101633196621355.html
02-10-2021||Noida||Mihir Bhoj row: Gurjar leaders tell UP govt to apologise by Oct 30||Members of the Gurjar community on Saturday held a meeting under the banner of ‘Rashtriya Gurjar Swabhiman Samiti’ to discuss the issue related to the statue of king Mihir Bhoj. In the meeting, the Gurjar leaders set a October 30 deadline for the Uttar Pradesh government to issue an apology to the community for the alleged removal of word ‘Gurjar’ from the plaque installed below the 15-foot statue of the ninth-century ruler. The statue has been the centre of a controversy since its inauguration at the Mihir Bhoj PG College in Dadri by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on September 22. The Gurjar community has been protesting against the removal of their caste’s name from the plaque installed below the statue. The community leaders maintain that the king belonged to the Gurjar community. The Rajput community has also claimed that the king belonged to their caste.“The samiti has demanded the UP government to issue an apology over the issue and add the word ‘Gurjar’ before the name of king Mihir Bhoj on the plaque by October 30,” said Raj Kumar Bhati, a Gurjar leader. “If the government does not issue an apology and rectify the plaque, we will change the plaque and intensify our struggle,” he said. The meeting was held at a research institute in Greater Noida. On September 26, during a mahapanchayat held at Piyawali village in Dadri, the Gurjar leaders had formed the swabhiman samiti and called a meeting on October 2. More than 600 people, who participated in the mahapanchayat, were booked for allegedly violating Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Police had said that the organisers of the mahapanchayat were not given permission to hold any such event.On September 28, police booked 150 people for allegedly smearing black paint on the chief minister’s name on the plaque.Ravindra Bhati, another Gurjar leader, said that if a case was registered for smearing black paint on the plaque, a case should also be registered against those who removed the word ‘Gurjar’ from the plaque. “Everyone is equal before the law, and a counter FIR should be registered in this case,” he said. The Gurjar leaders claimed that around 200 people from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Delhi, and Madhya Pradesh participated in the meeting on Saturday. They have also planned to hold similar meetings at local levels in these states and continue their protest. Police have so far arrested four persons for damaging the plaque and posters of the chief minister’s programme in Dadri. The swabhiman samiti also demanded that all the arrested persons be released. Meanwhile, Thakur Dhiraj Singh, UP president of Rajput Uthan Sabha, said that the Gurjars’ meeting on Saturday was politically motivated. “The Gurjar community leaders in the meeting urged people against voting for a certain party, which showed the programme was politically motivated. There is historical evidence that king Mihir Bhoj belongs to Rajput community. We urge people not to get misguided by the Gurjar leaders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mihir-bhoj-row-gurjar-leaders-tell-up-govt-to-apologise-by-oct-30-101633196261942.html
02-10-2021||Other||Unprecedented, unethical: BJP on presence of Punjab CM’s son at meeting with DGP||Chandigarh Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ashwani Sharma said on Saturday that it was unprecedented and unethical that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s son attended a high-level meeting with the Director General of Police (DGP), earlier this week.“The CM is well aware of governance rules as he is a former Punjab cabinet minister and a three-time MLA. Credibility and dignity of governance and your position should always be maintained, as also respecting Constitutional norms. It is unfortunate that senior bureaucrats, also well aware of rules and norms, allowed this error to happen,” a press note from Sharma said. Pictures of Channi’s younger son, Rhythmjeet Singh, attending a security review meeting on Wednesday had gone viral on social media. Notably, the information and public relations department of the Punjab government had, itself, released these pictures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unprecedented-unethical-bjp-on-presence-of-punjab-cm-s-son-at-meeting-with-dgp-101633195721282.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Governor directs Uttar Pradesh universities to distribute old degrees to students sans fee||Governor Anandiben Patel on Thursday directed state universities to disburse pending degrees of previous years to students for free. While suggesting that a special drive must be held in this regard, the governor constituted a ten-member committee under the chairmanship of additional chief secretary, governor, Mahesh Kumar Gupta to ensure 100% distribution of degrees.The decision was taken following a recent information submitted to the governor by the state universities wherein it was mentioned that a large number of degrees of previous years were yet to be distributed. Some of these degrees were over a decade old and the universities had to use their resources for its safe keeping.“Taking cognisance of this, the governor has suggested that universities must make arrangements for speedy distribution of these degrees. The governor has also suggested that universities must distribute all degrees during or right after their convocation event as well as remove unnecessary rules to ease the system,” said additional chief secretary, governor, Mahesh Kumar Gupta. Gupta further said “The committee has suggested that requirement for taking an application from candidates for taking old degrees must be removed and the new relaxations must be advertised to encourage people to take their old degrees.”Further, it has also been decided that universities will make available degrees in Digi Locker, take degree fees from students in the last year of the academic session or along with the fees of the last semester, will obtain no-dues certificate from students before issuing final marksheets or provisional degree certificate, obtain student’s address for the option of sending the degree by post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/governor-directs-uttar-pradesh-universities-to-distribute-old-degrees-to-students-sans-fee-101633195002014.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||B’wood star visits WSCO-1090 HQ in Lucknow as part of Mission Shakti||Bollywood actor Pooja Hegde visited the headquarters of Women and Child Security Organisation (WCSO)-1090 to promote the online community engagement initiative ‘Hamari surakhsha’, on Saturday. The visit was organised by the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce (IACC)The actress interacted with officials and staff of WCSO and learned about their working. She also visited the counselling and calling areas where WSCO personnel take complaints from women across the state and arrange for required relief measures.The community initiative is part of Mission Shakti project launched by chief minister Yogi Adityanath last year to ensure safety and equality to women in the state. The programme which focuses on women’s safety, respect, also works for their empowerment. This community engagement initiative of WCSO is headed by additional director general of police Neera Rawat and her team that include deputy inspector general Ravi Shankar Chabi, superintendent of police Alankrita Singh and other officials.Mukesh Singh of IACC, who played a pivotal role in arranging the visit, said, “Such initiatives by popular individuals are aimed at spreading awareness regarding empowerment of women in the state. IACC will continue to promote such events in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bwood-star-visits-wsco-1090-hq-in-lucknow-as-part-of-mission-shakti-101633193321507.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Door to door survey in Nov to identify inactive ration cards: Delhi minister||New Delhi: From November, the Delhi government will launch a door-to-door survey to identify inactive ration cards so that those who actually need it are given a chance to get subsidised food grains. A ration card is considered inactive when the beneficiary does not collect the subsidised ration from fair price shops for three consecutive months.“The food and civil supplies department will start a survey from next month to track those beneficiaries who have not been collecting their ration for the past three months. We will check if the person has gone to his hometown or is sick. In such cases, ration cards will not be disconnected. In other cases, it will be made invalid and those in the waiting list will be connected to the public distribution system,” said Delhi food minister Imran Hussain.If the ration card is inactive and the beneficiary does not exit or has left Delhi, the card will be cancelled and new ones will be included, he said. The food minister assured that ration cards will not be cancelled without any valid reason. “There will be some people who must have not come in July, but collected ration in August and some must have skipped August but taken food grains in September. We will spare those cards who did not come to collect ration for one or two months,” said Hussain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/door-to-door-survey-in-nov-to-identify-inactive-ration-cards-delhi-minister-101633192906365.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||100% cut-offs: DU principals say it will help cut over admissions||New Delhi: Even as the first cut-off list released by Delhi University colleges have broken all records, with eligibility scores mostly ranging from 98-100% for popular subjects such as English, Political Science, Economics, Computer Science, and BCom (Honours), principals across colleges urged students to not lose heart and expressed hope that seats may free up in the courses as applicants tend to switch colleges in subsequent cut-off lists.DU Principals’ Association (DUPA) president Jaswinder Singh, who is also the principal of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College which has a 100% cut-off for its BCom course, said that most colleges were being cautious by setting extremely high cut-off as they want to avoid over admissions. This year, 38 out of 54 DU colleges are offering BCom (Honours) to students with a score of 98% and above.“Last year, admissions under popular courses such as English, BCom, and Economics had closed under first list itself and even then, we saw over admissions. We reopened Commerce courses after the fifth list as some of our students had either moved to other colleges or cleared DU entrance tests for other courses and hence cancelled their admission. Another trend is that in off-campus colleges such Kamala Nehru, Gargi, Satyawati, Bharati or Vivekananda colleges, admissions really begin after the second cut-off (as students wait for seats to free up in their desired courses),” he said.On Friday, eight colleges declared 100% cut-off in eleven courses such as Political Science, Computer Science, and BCom.Applicants who take admissions under the first cut-off but wish to change colleges and apply to other colleges under subsequent cut-offs can do so by cancelling their admission and paying a cancellation fee of ₹1,000. This enables movement of applicants between different colleges of the university or to other institutes, freeing up seats in popular courses in some cases and leading to reduced cut-offs in subsequent lists. However, in the second cut-offs, the dips are mostly marginal.Last year, over 34,800 students had taken admissions under the first cut-off for the 70,000 undergraduate seats offered by the varsity. However, Lady Shri Ram College for Women, which had announced 100% cutoff in Political Science, Psychology, and Economics, had not filled its seats under the first cut-off. The college had marginally reduced it in the second cut-off, with a drop of 0.25 percentage points in Political Science and Psychology and one percentage point in Economics.Last year, students seeking admission in Economics – one of the most sought-after courses – could apply to around 25 colleges under the second cut-off list as admissions were closed in 12 colleges in the first list. A few prominent colleges like Hansraj College, Hindu College, IP College, LSR, Miranda House and SRCC still had seats to fill as a result of which the second cut-off list saw a drop between 0.25-1 percentage point.Last year, Miranda House too had dropped cut-offs in the second list by 0.25 percentage points in courses such as Economics (98.50%), History (98.50%) and English (98.75%) even as it closed admissions in Political Science with the 99% first cut-off.In Science courses too, cut-offs in Chemistry, Mathematics, and Physics dropped by 0.33 to 0.50 percentage points, ranging between 97% and 98.25% in prominent colleges like Hindu College, Ramjas College, Hansraj College, and Venkateswara College.For courses such as English (Honours), colleges like Daulat Ram College, Gargi College, and College of Vocational Students dropped their second cut-offs by 1-1.25 percertange points, though the dip was only marginal, from 0.25 to 0.50 percentage points, in colleges such as Hansraj College, Miranda House, LSR, Ramjas College, and Kirori Mal College.Vibha Chauhan, principal of Kirori Mal College, said students should take admission in eligible colleges instead of waiting for preferred colleges under the first list itself. “Colleges have no prior knowledge about the number of students who will take admission in different courses or the number of over-admissions. There is no way to gauge whether there will be a second list or not (in their preferred college-subject) so students should take admission in eligible colleges. The drop in cut-off percentage depends on the admissions that take place in the particular subject. If there are fewer seats, the drop in cut-off will be marginal.”With a record number of top-scorers from Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) schools, which constitute around 70-80% of DU applicants, the cut-offs this year have broken all records. A total of 220,156 students scored 90% or more marks in their Class 12 this year, as compared to 196,620 in 2020 — a jump of nearly 12%. Students scoring 95% or more almost doubled to 70,004 from last year’s 38,686. According to data given to principals, around 1,250 students have a score of above 100% (in best of four subjects) in Class 12 exams.Admissions under the first cut-off will be conducted between Monday and Wednesday, and the second cut-off list will be released on October 9. The university is expected to release five cut-offs, followed by a special cut-off to fill vacant seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/100-cut-offs-du-principals-say-it-will-help-cut-over-admissions-101633192841465.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Heavy rain in Gorakhpur breaks record of 100 years, throws life out of gear||With incessant heavy rains that lashed the district in the last 24 hours, Gorakhpur received its highest rainfall of October in 100 years, officials said Saturday. The city on Saturday recorded 193 mm rainfall.According to records maintained by the MeT, the district measured 218.7 mm rainfall in 1894.There were continuous rains from 8.30 am on Friday to 8.30 am on Saturday, leading to a dip in temperature and waterlogging in several parts of the district and affecting traffic movement.According to MeT official Kailash Pandey, “there is a well-marked low pressure area over southwest Bihar and adjoining UP (east) which has caused this heavy rain of 193 mm in the last 24 hours.” In the next 48 hours, moderate to low rain is expected in the region.During this period, day temperature may be around 30 degrees Celsius while night temperature may fall down to 22 degrees, he said.The neighbouring Deoria and Kushinagar districts also witnessed heavy rainfall Saturday, recording 75.5 mm and 66 mm rainfall respectively while Maharajganj and Sant Kabirnagar received moderate rainfall at 33.2 mm and 29.5 mm respectively.Basti and Siddharth Nagar received low rainfall at 6.7 mm and 14.7 mm respectively, the weather office said. Due to heavy rain since Friday night, the streets wore a deserted look and shops remained shut as people preferred to remain indoors. Due to public holiday on Saturday, schools and offices were anyway closed.Also, pictures of inundated buildings and offices went viral on social media with people blaming the local municipal body for not making proper arrangements to pump out the rainwater. Abdul Jadid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/heavy-rain-in-gorakhpur-breaks-record-of-127-years-throws-life-out-of-gear-101633192665043.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Temporary power connections: Inquiry points to nexus between engineers, builders in Noida, Greater Noida||The inquiry report on irregularities discovered in issuing temporary power connections in Noida and Greater Noida points to a strong nexus between local power engineers and builders causing a massive revenue loss to the Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL).The UPPCL management has already issued charge sheets to 23 engineers and three clerks after transferring them to distant places on the basis of the inquiry report that HT has accessed.“We will take further departmental action against the accused if they are not able give satisfactory replies to charges framed against them,” UPPCL chairman M Devraj said. He said serious irregularities were committed deliberately in giving temporary power connections with connivance between the department and the consumers. The 13-page inquiry report that makes startling disclosures was signed jointly on August 17 by inquiry officers Anil Kumar Tiwari, chief engineer (Lucknow discom), Vikram Singh, superintending engineer (planning), UPPCL, and Sourabh Kumar, account officer (Lucknow discom). The inquiry report reveals that a large number of temporary power connections of load as low as only 2 kw (kilowatt) were issued to colonisers to construct multi-storey apartments, besides maintaining no record of the date of issuing such connections, their validity period, billing etc. In some other cases, 2 kw temporary power connections were given for running 5 hp tubewell motors for irrigation.In the inquiry conducted to check the status of temporary connections issued between July 1, 2019 and June 30, 2021 it was also found that most of the connections were issued off line, billing was done manually and no records were maintained in a majority of cases against the rules. As many as 39 temporary power connections of 2 kw each were found to have been given in one single day in Greater Noida division while 43 similar connections were found to have been given for running 5 hp motors for agriculture purpose.In one case, it was found that a 2 kw temporary power connection was issued for three months. On checking, a four-storey building was found on the site while the power connection was found to have been snapped though there was no record of the permanent disconnection.“No four-storey building can be built in three months,” the inquiry report said.In another case, a 2 kw temporary power connection was given for three months for construction of a three-storey building. The 2 kw connection was found to be connected to a thick 16 mm cable that can bear 70-80 kw load. “Not only is it not possible to complete the construction of the three-storey building in three months but using such a fat cable for a 2-kw load connection also raises doubts,” the report observed.One 2-kw temporary connection was issued for construction purpose in May 3, 2018. The physical inspection by the inquiry team found a township comprising 96 duplex type houses on the site for which the connection was given. Though the township now has a 172 kw residential multi-point power connections, no other records of the temporary power connection and its billing were found. The inquiry committee also found a 2-kw temporary connection being used for an under-construction five-storey building belonging to some Amzad Khan. The meter found installed at the site showed 1133 KWH consumption but no information about the temporary connection was found in the contract register.Yet another 2 kw temporary power connection was found to have been used for the construction of a multi-storey complex comprising 28 flats in Chipiyana Khurd area of Gautam Buddha Nagar. The connection was released on March 7, 2020 for a period of three months only, but no records pertaining to billing and the time extension were found even after 11 months of the expiry of the three months’ period.The committee further found that a bill (TC) of ₹4,06,00,940 was issued as charges to a 1600 KVA temporary power connection to a mobile manufacturing company in Sector 24, Yamuna Expressway on July 15, 2019 after which a revised bill of ₹2,64,58,140 was issued on Aug 18, 2019. The TC was again revised and finally this time it was issued for ₹32,98, 342 on September 9, 2020. UP Rajay Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman Avachesh Kumar Verma, who has demanded a state-wide inquiry into the status of temporary power connections, said it was a big scam in the power department in Noida.“The engineers-builders’ nexus is clear and it must have caused a revenue loss of more than ₹100 crore to UPPCL,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/temporary-power-connections-inquiry-points-to-nexus-between-engineers-builders-in-noida-greater-noida-101633192540908.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||SIT begins probe in Kanpur realtor’s death case||Sleuths of Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Saturday began probe into the alleged murder of Kanpur realtor Manish Gupta, who died during a midnight raid by police at a hotel in Gorakhpur on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The incident had led to massive public outrage and protests seeking immediate arrests of the six guilty cops who are on the run after a case of murder was lodged against them on the intervention of chief minister Yogi Adityanath who had assured justice to the victim’s family. The Uttar Pradesh government had on Friday recommended a CBI probe into the case but said that till the time the central agency takes over the inquiry SIT will investigate the matter. The SIT was constituted by commissioner of police Kanpur Asim Arun after the case was transferred to Kanpur from Gorakhpur on CM’s instruction. The CM had ordered transfer of case after meeting the deceased’s widow Meenakshi Gupta earlier this week. The SIT team led by additional police commissioner Anand Kumar Tiwari accompanied by forensic team inspected the hotel, including room number 512, where 36-year-old Gupta stayed with his Gurgaon based friends Pradeep Singh Chauhan, 34, and Hardeep Singh Chauhan,35. “They collected evidence and recorded statements of employees and also took into account missing evidences, including the CCTV footages, which the hotel owner claimed were taken away by the accused cops,” said a senior official who didn’t wanted to be named. The official further said the team reconstructed the scene and carried out photography of the room, hotel gallery and the lift by which the accused took Manish down from third floor to ground floor and then to hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sit-begins-probe-in-kanpur-realtor-s-death-case-101633192480954.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Daily wager falls into open manhole, Punekars cry foul over cover theft||The latest incident - where a daily wage worker, 39, fell into an uncovered, 15-foot-deep manhole in Katraj on Saturday – has angered Pune residents no end besides once again bringing to the fore the menace of stolen/missing manhole covers in major parts of the city.Recalling the incident, Pandurang Tambe, fire brigade officer, said, “In the morning on Saturday, a daily wage labourer Vijay Belbahadur, while walking from the side, went to see how deep the uncovered manhole was only to fall into the 15-foot-deep pit. Luckily, the fire brigade team managed to pull him out in three minutes.”Although there was no major casualty, Katraj residents are worried as there are a couple more manholes with covers missing in the area. Even where manholes have covers, some of these covers have become very old and need replacements.It’s the same story in other parts of the city such as Kalyani nagar, Balewadi, Pashan and Mundhawa. While the police have strengthened night patrol to curb manhole cover theft which is increasingly posing a threat to citizens’ lives, citizens expect a more immediate solution to the problem, both from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune police.Earlier on September 9 in Pimple Gurav, a labourer was similarly saved by a whisker after falling into an uncovered chamber/manhole. He was rushed to the hospital after the accident. In the month of July, 24 chamber covers were stolen from Baner-Pashan road while in August, Kalyaninagar and Mundhwa residents had to deal with the same problem.Madhavi Shah, a resident of Kalyaninagar, said, “A few manholes have been covered by barricades while others remain open. The situation was worse in August but has improved now as there are less open manholes.”An official from the PMC road department on condition of anonymity said, “We have covered manholes in major parts of the city. Wherever work is underway, we have put up barricades. There was a barricade in Katraj as well, where the Saturday incident took place.”As per official data, there are 1.2 lakh manholes spread across 2,300 km of drainage network in the city limits. Of the 1.2 lakh manholes, 1.05 lakh have reinforced cement concrete lids. Since iron lids give more scrap value, thefts continue in major parts of the city. As a solution to this problem however, iron lids have been replaced by fibre lids that are easy to replace - under the new smart city programme.“Fibre lids have very low scrap value. In Baner and Pashan, three manhole cover thefts took place recently. All have been replaced by fibre covers,” said an official from the Pune Smart City Development Corporation.“The police stations of the respective areas have been conducting inquiries about the thefts. A few people were taken in for investigation. Those who have been caught are not involved in other crimes; most of them are first-timers and are stealing covers for the sake of the money,” said a senior police officer from the police commissioner’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/daily-wager-falls-into-open-manhole-punekars-cry-foul-over-cover-theft-101633192421001.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi moots fee waiver for one of two sisters studying in same private school or college||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday mooted the idea of tuition fee waiver for one of two sisters if they are studying in the same private school or college.Yogi was speaking at an event to distribute scholarship to students on Gandhi Jayanti in Lucknow.“We should consider this for girls’ education. If two real sisters are studying in the same private school or college, then those institutions should consider waiving the tuition fee of one. At the government level, we should discuss and ask those institutions for the fee waiver of one sister. If they (private institutions) are not willing, then the department should work at the government level so that the government pays the tuition fee (of one sister) to those institutions,” Yogi Adityanath said.The chief minister distributed scholarship totalling ₹1773.5 million to 1,51,215 meritorious students via the online medium during the event. Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, along with deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, and other senior members of the government and officials attended the event.“I hope this scholarship will help the students to continue their education in future without facing any financial trouble. We must ensure that all eligible students get their scholarship by the end of November,” Yogi Adityanath said.The chief minister paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi and recalled how he chose the path of non- violence and forced the British to leave the country.“People were surprised how Gandhiji used simple means to force an empire to withdraw from our country and achieve independence from British rule,” Yogi Adityanath said.Yogi went on to highlight the importance of cleanliness and how it has led to saving many lives that would otherwise have been lost due to diseases caused by the lack of sanitation.“Previous governments used to overlook the deaths caused by lack of cleanliness because of vote bank politics. We have changed this under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Our government has saved many lives by ensuring cleanliness as part of the Swachh Bharat Mission,” he said.He also remembered former PM the late Lal Bahadur Shastri and his contribution to the development of Indian society as a wartime prime minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-moots-fee-waiver-for-one-of-two-sisters-studying-in-same-private-school-or-college-101633191521340.html
02-10-2021||Other||Mentally unstable woman raped in Aligarh’s JNMC trauma centre||A 20-year-old mentally challenged woman, undergoing treatment at the trauma centre of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC), Aligarh, was raped by a staff member at the medical store situated opposite the medical college. The accused was arrested after being blamed by the victim and has been sent to jail. “A 20-year-old woman, of unsound mental state, was admitted to the trauma centre of JN Medical College, in Aligarh. She was admitted to the JNMC by men from the Railway Protection Force (RPF) on July 18 after the woman was injured in an accident and had been undergoing treatment here since then,” said Shwetabh Pandey, the Circle Officer (III), Aligarh police. The woman was unable to tell details about her family and thus was alone.Waris, 22, working at the medical store near the Medical College began taking care of the woman recently and developed proximity with her. The victim was not in her bed on Thursday night and thus, the supervisor on duty asked attendants to look for her. These attendants found the woman rushing out of the bathroom in panic and on being asked the reason, blamed the accused inside the bathroom for molesting her. The accused was handed over to the police.“A case of rape has been registered at the Civil Lines police station of Aligarh against the accused and he has been arrested. Waris was presented before the court and sent to jail on Friday,”Pandey said. “Investigation has begun in the case lodged on complaint by the security guard at the medical college. Waris is a resident of Quarsi area in Aligarh. The victim was sent for medical examination and efforts are being made to know more about her family,” Pandey said, adding that the victim did not reveal more than her name.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mentally-unstable-woman-raped-in-aligarh-s-jnmc-trauma-centre-101633191402285.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Free NEET coaching for EWS girl students in Delhi govt schools||New Delhi: In order to provide “special support to students from socially or economically weaker backgrounds”, the Directorate of Education on Friday launched a free coaching programme for female medical aspirants belonging to reserved categories studying in Class 12 of Delhi government schools.“...To offer support to SC/ST girls for preparation of NEET exams, a pilot project for providing free coaching is being launched in partnership with Avanti, a non-profit organisation. Avanti has been working for more than 11 years with the State governments of Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. Under this partnership, shortlisted girls of the aforesaid category shall be enrolled for free online courses. The course will cover all subjects of NEET [National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test],” the DOE said in a notice on Friday.On February 15, Hindustan Times reported that though 569 students from Delhi government schools cleared NEET last year, only around 10% scored the cut-off necessary for admission to government medical colleges. Since these students could not opt for private medical colleges, most of them decided to reappear for the test this year as well.All interested girl students from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes category of Class 12 who have studied Physics, Chemistry, and Biology will take an objective-type aptitude test on October 8. “The purpose of the aptitude test is to determine the interest of the student in pursuing medical course after class 12 and in order to prepare for the same, free coaching will be provided to such students. The students who qualify the exam and enroll in the program will receive the device support also,” the DOE said.Heads of schools have been asked to appoint nodal teachers who would speak to eligible students about the scheme, facilitate transportation to and from the test centre in each district, and seek consent from parents. The education department has also asked school officials to ensure that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is followed at the 11 government schools where the tests will be held next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-neet-coaching-for-ews-girl-students-in-delhi-govt-schools-101633191167625.html
02-10-2021||Kolkata||Tons of adulterated kala jeera mixed with rodent excreta, mobil oil, seized in Kolkata||The Kolkata Police on Friday seize more than 12 tons of adulterated kala jeera, which officials said were presumably mixed with mobil oil and rodent excreta. Acting on a tip-off, sleuths of the city police’s enforcement branch (EB) intercepted a truck loaded with at least 222 sacks, each carrying 50 kilos of kala jeera. “We have arrested one person in this regard. We have also obtained the details of the dealers to whom these were to be supplied. Further investigation is going on,” said a senior police official. In August, EB officials seized a small quantity of kala jeera from Jorabagan area in north Kolkata. The samples were sent for testing. “The results revealed that they were adulterated with rodent excreta and mobil oil. Presumably, the consignment which has been seized on Friday, also contain the same materials,” said an official. The police have been receiving information over the past few days that truck-loads of adulterated kala jeera were being smuggled into the city from the districts. The trucks enter the city early in the morning and unload the material at Posta market, the city’s main wholesale market. From there the materials are distributed to other markets in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tons-of-adulterated-kala-jeera-mixed-with-rodent-excreta-mobil-oil-seized-in-kolkata-101633190920793.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Taljai hill development project likely to remain on hold for next few months||The Taljai hill development project is likely to be kept on hold, with standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne clearly saying that they will not consider the proposal. “The administration submitted the proposal directly to the committee without giving any presentation. We are not in favour of it and our emphasis will be to keep the hill green. We will not consider the proposal,” Rasne said.The administration had submitted the detailed project report (DPR) for the 107 acre Taljai hill development project with the total project cost being Rs120 crore. The proposal was submitted to the standing committee for approval. However, the ruling BJP’s stance was, “It is clear that the project will not get the nod in the standing committee. If the standing committee does not approve it, it is not possible to execute it”Whereas NCP member Subhash Jagtap said, “Guardian minister Ajit Pawar had given clear instructions that the administration should give a presentation to the local elected members and consult with them. But the proposal was put before the standing committee without any presentation. It now looks difficult to get a nod in the committee.”Congress leader Aba Bagul’s response was neutral. “The administration has prepared the proposal. The standing committee and the general body will take a decision on it.”Meanwhile, sources in the administration said that with civic elections inching closer, no political party will touch this issue for the next few months. Even the standing committee will not discuss it; elected members would rather postpone the matter than discuss it. In any case, nearly all political outfits have already taken a stand against the proposal and submitted a letter to that effect to the municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taljai-hill-development-project-likely-to-remain-on-hold-for-next-few-months-101633190622616.html
02-10-2021||Other||Smart city project initiative: Public bike sharing facility launched in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: As part of the smart city project initiative, ‘Public Bike Sharing’ (PBS) facility was launched in the Sangam city on Saturday. The PBS system would allow users to rent out a bike from a designated automatic docking station and deposit it at another docking station located close to his/her destination. The facility would be available at a nominal rent. In the first phase, the city would have 32 docking stations, each having 14-10 bicycles. In this phase, around 300 bikes would be in service for the denizens, according to officials. The facility was inaugurated at an event in Civil Lines. Apart from BJP MP from Phulpur, Kesari Devi Patel and divisional commissioner Sanjay Goyal, several senior police officers, city Mayor Abhilasha Gupta, municipal commissioner Ravi Ranjan, mission manager of Smart city project, SK Sinha and others were also present during the launch. “We believe that the initiative, which is part of smart city project, would go a long way in providing the cheapest means of transport to the commuters. It will not just help them in maintaining good health but will also bring down pollution level in the city,” said divisional commissioner, Sanjay Goyal, who is also the chairman of Prayagraj Smart City Board. “To start with two docking stations, one at Subhash crossing and second one at gate number 3 of Chandra Shekhar Azad park have been made operational. Over 50 cycles have been docked at these stations which would be available at a minimal cost,” said Goyal. Docks have special bike racks that lock the bikes and only release them by a command generated by computer- controlled system. The user enters payment information and the computer unlocks a bike. The user returns the bike by placing it in the dock, which locks it in place. Some of the sites identified for setting up the docking stations, include Nagar Nigam Prayagraj, All Saints Cathedral, Girls High School and College, Hotel Harsh Ananda, Sardar Patel Marg, Hotel Allahabad Regency, PD Tandon Park, Chandra Shekhar Azad Park Gate number 3 and 6, besides Anand Bhawan and Allahabad University among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/smart-city-project-initiative-public-bike-sharing-facility-launched-in-prayagraj-101633190621317.html
02-10-2021||Other||Police ‘abduct’ Aligarh trader, thrash him; cop suspended||A police inspector from Kotwali police station in Bulandshahr was suspended for taking a trader from Aligarh into custody and thrashing him. The police official in question had not taken permission to go to Aligarh and had left Bulandshahar district without any order to do so. A case was registered at Harduaganj police station of Aligarh where the victim trader was thrown back after being ‘abducted’ and thrashed by police inspector Ajay Kumar and his associates. The Aligarh police have begun a probe in the matter. Meanwhile, the Bulandshahr police got the matter probed after allegations were levelled against the inspector. Ajay Kumar was posted at Kotwali Nagar police station of Bulandshahr, said Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh. “The matter relates to a case registered at Kotwali Nagar police station in Bulandshahar on September 16 as Crime No. 1398/2021. The case was lodged by Rajeev Kumar Sharma, a resident of Bulandshahar against Abhishek Tiwari, a trader in Aligarh, after a cheque of ₹6,60,000 issued by Tiwari, in favour of complainant Sharma, bounced. “Inspector Ajay Kumar was the investigating officer in the matter and went to Aligarh without any order or permission from senior authorities and left the district against the rule book. The matter of cheque bouncing does not come within the definition of serious offence, and neither is there a provision for arrest of an accused.“Yet, Ajay Kumar allegedly had trader Abhishek Tiwari in custody for no valid reason and tortured him on Thursday night. These allegations were probed and were found to be true and as such inspector Ajay Kumar was suspended,” said the SSP Bulandshahr. The matter created resentment in Aligarh as trader Abhishek Tiwari was virtually ‘abducted’ by Ajay Kumar and others, who came to Tiwari’s factory in Aligarh on Thursday night. Tiwari was beaten up as he came out of the factory in Harduaganj.It is reported that the in-charge of local police post in Harduaganj had reached the spot to stop the attack but was outnumbered and told that it was a police raid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-abduct-aligarh-trader-thrash-him-cop-suspended-101633189660797.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Author Dattaram Maruti Mirasdar passes away at 94||An author who regaled his readers with humour, Dattaram Maruti Mirasdar, born April 14, 1927, passed away due to old age in the city on Saturday.Known widely in Marathi literary circles as “D Ma” and “Dadasaheb” he brought the village life of Maharashtra alive through his writings.Though he studied in Pandharpur, this Akluj-born writer went on to earn his Masters from Sir Parashurambhau College in Pune and became a teacher in 1952. He became a professor of Marathi in a college in Pune in 1961.Although many of Mirasdar’s stories were humorous, he also touched upon serious social issues and the lives of the poor living in villages. His stories Gavat, Ranmanus, Kone Eke Kali, Bhavaki, Hubehub, and Sparsha are classic examples.Mirasdar was the acting president of Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad, Pune. While in 1998, he was the president of the 71st Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan in Parli, Maharashtra.In 2015, he received the Vinda Karandikar Jeevan Gaurav Puraskar from the department of Marathi language, Government of Maharashtra and is also the winner of the first-ever Sahityaseva Krutadnyata Puraskar in 2018.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, said, “It is sad to hear the news of the demise of Mirasdar. He was a well known Marathi writer, professor and storyteller. He wrote many books. I have read a lot of his books.”Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad’s Milind Joshi said, “ For six decades, Mirasdar’s writings brought immense joy to the readers. It is a great loss.”“He was also the backbone of the Sahitya Parishad and supported many new writers thus becoming known in Marathi literary circles as Sahitya Rushi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/author-dattaram-maruti-mirasdar-passes-away-at-94-101633189360714.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||Plastic dominates marine debris in city mangroves: Study||A recent study by researchers at the Central Institute of Fisheries Education (CIFE) has found that plastics dominate the composition of marine debris present in the city’s mangrove forests, comprising 62% of all surface debris items (by number) and 43 percent (by weight).The study — published in July this year in international peer-reviewed Elsevier journal ‘Science of the Total Environment’ — demonstrates how mangrove swamps are more polluted than city beaches, acting as traps that retain debris and rubbish flowing in from the city; and attaches empirical data to an issue that environmentalists and scientists have long been concerned about.“The structural features of the mangrove trees let them hold the sea debris during the high tide and retain it for months to years. The accumulated debris shows a negative impact on the mangrove ecosystem,” the authors state. Trapped debris is a potential risk to mangroves as it creates a barrier over their canopy, blocking out solar radiation needed for photosynthesis. The debris gets entangled within the flora, and masks their pneumatophores (aerial roots) which could lead to oxygen deprivation in the trees and also reducing available space for sapling growth, the researchers posit. Other impacts associated with debris pollution include impact on fauna, such as wader birds and marine line. “The plastic debris after accumulating in sediments impacts the mangrove crabs and also creates an anaerobic condition in the sediment,” the study claims.Environmentalists who reviewed the study on HT’s request said that its findings are no surprise, but clarified that it is confined only to quantification of debris. ““The paper does not present evidence of mangrove growth being hampered because of plastic or other debris. Mangrove cover in the state is actually expanding at a good pace. The paper does not propose any solutions, such as installing nets in drainage outlets to keep the plastic from reaching mangroves. It suggests regular clean-ups, which will be an endless exercise if we don’t stop pollution at its source,” said Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti, which is fighting two separate PILs relating to marine debris in city drains and mangrove conservation. The CIFE study uses data gathered from 20 ‘transect surveys’ conducted between September 2019 and March 2020, at six locations including Versova, Gorai, Bandra Bandstand, Sewri, Vikhroli and Elephanta Island. Researchers surveyed a total area of 800 sq mtrs and 35 mangrove trees, collecting 3526 debris items weighing 367.9 kg. These were later classified into ‘surficial’ debris and ‘trapped’ debris, based on where they were collected from. The 35 selected trees were all located at Bandstand and alone yielded 1224 items (88kg in weight) of ‘trapped’ debris.Though the locations showed an “irregular pattern in the distribution of debris”, Versova and Gorai emerged as the most polluted areas, while Elephanta Island was the least. In all locations, plastic dominated the composition and distribution of materials. “By weight and number, plastics contributed highest to the collected surficial debris were about 43% and 62%, respectively. In the collected surficial plastic debris, plastic carry bags (19.2%) contributed more, followed by food wrappers (15.9%),” the study states. Other plastics researchers found in the surface debris included personal care products (8.03%), plastic rope/small net pieces (7.08%), bottle or container caps (6.40%), buoys & floats (5.22%), styrofoam cups (3.95%), beverage bottles (2.86%) others. The majority of collected plastic (31.28% by weight), however, could not be identified and were classified as others, indicating that these materials had remained in the environment and degraded over a period of time. The share of plastics was followed by metal, glass, rubber, processed lumber, cloth and other miscellaneous items, in that order. Further analysis of the 3,526 debris items collected revealed that “recreational/shoreline activities” were the primary source of pollution for city mangroves, contributing 54 percent of all the debris surveyed (including the bulk of plastic carry bags, food wrappers, plastic cups, bottles, plastic caps and similar waste).Researchers also observed that, in terms of weight, the abundance of plastics in mangroves was much more than their abundance in beach plastics, as demonstrated by an earlier 2013 study on marine litter in Mumbai, by the National Aquatic Resources Research and Development Agency in Sri Lanka. Compared with similar studies conducted around the work, researchers also note that the mean abundance of surface debris (by area) in Mumbai is seven times higher than the mangrove swamps of the São Vicente Estuary in Brazil.In terms of trapped debris, the study shows that there is a direct relationship between the quantity of debris and the height of a mangrove’s pneumatophores (aerial roots), which physically trap the material. “Larger trees accumulate debris (primarily plastics) in their trunk and branches, which stays in the tree for years and creates a new environment that acts as a shelter for various insects… more debris was found where the height and number of pneumatophores were more,” the paper says.Hindustan Times spoke with two of the study’s researchers, including the corresponding author, who declined to comment citing official protocol. A senior official with the MPCB, too, declined to comment and asked that the matter be directed to the forest department’s mangrove cell. Independent experts, on the other hand, said the study merits further, impact-focused research. “This is a unique study that highlights the vulnerability of mangrove habitat for pollution accumulation... Long-term observations are necessary to reveal the actual impact on the associated biota, especially the edible fishes and molluscs. There is potential harm not just to marine life but also to human populations that consume fisheries products from mangrove mudflats.”“Mangrove Foundation would like to take up further studies as suggested in this paper. We are in talks with many NGOs working on mangrove clean-ups and are finalising SOPs for clean-ups going forward. Mangrove Foundation will provide necessary assistance to stakeholders for such activities,” said Virendra Tiwari, APCCF, mangrove cell.Also, the independent expert quote at the end needs to be attributed to Dr Baban Ingole, former scientist with the National Institute of Oceanography. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/plastic-dominates-marine-debris-in-city-mangroves-study-101633189190402.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sangrur, Barnala farmers hold protests seeking paddy procurement||Hundreds of farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) protested against the delay in paddy procurement at Sangrur and Barnala districts on Saturday. Sitting on dharnas outside district administrative complexes, farmers alleged that the central government was harassing them by making excuses. The Union food and public distribution ministry on September 30 postponed paddy procurement in Punjab and Haryana to October 11 from October 1, citing high moisture content in the crop due to rain.Slamming the move, farmers announced that they will intensify the agitation if the government refuses to start procurement by the central agencies immediately.Chamkour Singh Nainewal, chief of the union’s Barnala district unit, said the paddy crop has been abandoned and the central government has not made any arrangements for procurement. “Due to the Centre’s anti-farmer policies, farmers are already under debt in Punjab and are forced to hold protests,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sangrur-barnala-farmers-hold-protests-seeking-paddy-lifting-101633188226347.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Casteist slur case: Actor Yuvika Chaudhary moves HC against FIR||Actor Yuvika Chaudhary has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking quashing of a criminal case registered against her in Hisar under the Scheduled Castes and Schedules Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The high court bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh has sought a response from the Haryana Police, but refused to stay the investigation, said advocate Arjun Sheoran, who appeared for the complainant, Rajat Kalsan. Chaudhary, who has acted in the movie Om Shanti Om besides appearing in reality television shows Bigg Boss and Nach Baliye, found herself in hot water after she used a casteist slur to describe how badly she was dressed in a video blog in May this year.Demands for her arrest began trending on the social media shortly after she uploaded the video, which also featured her husband, reality television star Prince Narula. After Rajat Kalsan, an activist based in Hansi town of Hisar, approached the local police, an FIR was registered against Chaudhary on May 28. In her plea in court, the actor has claimed that she had not used the derogatory word to denote a caste but to point out how badly she was dressed. The court has sought a response from police by October 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/casteist-slur-case-actor-yuvika-chaudhary-moves-hc-against-fir-101633188224009.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||NIA joins probe into KTF module busted in Tarn Taran||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has joined the probe into the Pakistan-backed Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) module that was busted with the arrest of its three members by the Tarn Taran police on September 23.Two members of India’s counter-terror task force have visited Tarn Taran and collected evidence related to the case, said Punjab Police officials privy to the development.The border district’spolice had busted the module with the arrest of three men — Kanwarpal Singh, Kulwinder Singh and Kamalpreet Singh of Moga district — and recovery of two tiffin bombs, two hand grenades and three pistols, which had been allegedly dropped by a drone from Pakistan.The NIA team reportedly visited some locations near the India-Pakistan border from where the cache of arms and ammunition was allegedly retrieved by the men.“The NIA team has joined the investigation. They have been working in coordination with us. They haven’t yet taken over the case,” said a Punjab Police official, who didn’t wish to be named. However, Tarn Tarn senior superintendent of police (SSP) OS Ghuman remained silent on the development.Police investigations had found that the trio was working at the behest of one Arshdeep Singh, alias Dalla, of Moga, who fled to Canada between 2017 to 2019. Dalla is a close associate of Hardeep Singh Nijjar, a citizen of Surrey in Canada and chief of KTF. The process to extradite Arshdeep from Canada is also underway.On Friday, the Moga police had arrested Dalla’s four associates with three sophisticated weapons, 14 live cartridges and 300 grams of heroin. The Moga police have also been assisting their Tarn Taran counterparts and the NIA to trace all backward and forward linkages of the module.Sources said the police and NIA have also identified some more suspects ,who are likely to be arrested in the coming days. Recovery of more arms and ammunition is also likely at any time, they said.Earlier, the Tarn Taran police had said that the three arrested men had disclosed that an SSP and two inspectors of the Punjab Police were their main target. Dalla is apparently holding a grudge against these cops as they were behind the arrests of his associates and family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nia-joins-probe-into-ktf-module-busted-in-tarn-taran-101633188222301.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rain damages paddy awaiting procurement in Amritsar||Heavy rain in and around Amritsar on Saturday morning added to the woes of farmers who are left stranded in grain markets due to the postponement of paddy procurement by central agencies.The rain started around 4.30 am in Amritsar and lasted till 7.30 am, inundating heaps of the produce waiting to be lifted at grain markets in Amritsar, including at Bhagatanwala Mandi, the largest in the district. Farmers struggled to save their crop by covering it with sheets.The Centre on September 30 postponed paddy procurement in Punjab and Haryana to October 11 from October 1, citing high moisture content in the crop due to rain.“We were already bound to sell our produce at prices lower than the MSP due to postponement of procurement by central agencies. The rain has further increased moisture level in the crop. As a result, private buyers will offer us much lower prices,” said Kabal Singh, a farmer from Attari village, whose produce was affected by rain at the Amritsar grain market.Another farmer, Harjit Singh, said: “We brought the produce to the market to keep it under the sunshine for a few days so that it become free of moisture, but the rain has spoiled our plan.”The rain also damaged the crop ready for harvest in the fields. “The ripened crop has fallen flat in the fields. This untimely rain will not only affect yield and quality of the crop, but also delay harvesting,” said Kuljit Singh Saini, chief agriculture officer, Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-damages-paddy-awaiting-procurement-in-amritsar-101633188220833.html
02-10-2021||Other||Man shot dead at mukhiya’s party in Bihar’s Saharsa||A 24-year-old person was allegedly shot dead during a mukhiya’s victory celebration at Murali Basantpur village under Bangaon police station of Saharsa district late Friday evening. According to the report, the victim, identified as Uday Yadav, was celebrating mukhiya Manju Devi’s victory with his friends and brother when someone accidentally fired and a bullet hit him in the chest. He was rushed to Sadar hospital where he died during treatment. On the other hand, the deceased’s younger brother Vivek Kumar, who was also present at the occasion, alleged that his brother was deliberately killed and lodged an FIR against five persons at Bangaon police station under Section 302 (murder) of IPC.Station house officer (SHO) of Bangaon police station Saroj Kumar, “We have lodged an FIR and raids are being carried out to arrest the five accused who are currently absconding.” The autopsy of the body was conducted and the body was handed over to the victim’s family, he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-shot-dead-at-mukhiya-s-party-in-bihar-s-saharsa-101633187860876.html
02-10-2021||Patna||New sand mines set for auction in 8 districts in Bihar||Bihar is set to start auctioning of ghats (river banks) for sand mining in eight more districts after the state cabinet on Friday evening gave its nod to the mines department’s proposal, officials said. The state government has also decided to extend the lease of ghats of various rivers for sand mining in another eight districts — Patna, Bhojpur, Saran, Rohtas, Aurangabad, Gaya, Jamui and Lakhisarai — for a period of six months (from October 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022) on the deposit of 50% extra of the previously settled lease amount. Sanjay Kumar, additional chief secretary (cabinet secretariat), said Bihar State Mining Corporation Limited had been asked to settle the lease of ghats in districts like Arwal, Nawada, Banka, Bettiah, Madhepura, Kishanganj, Vaishali and Buxar for mining of sand through open tendering. “Ghats of rest of the districts would be open for settlement once cases pending with various courts are resolved,” said Kumar. Prices of sand in Bihar, already very high, have soared following the crackdown on illegal sand mining and officials involved in the racket. Kumar said extension of lease and the mines department’s plan to go for sand mining in new districts were approved by the state cabinet at its meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar Friday evening. In another decision, the cabinet gave its nod the road construction department’s (RCD) plan of connecting newly built Atal Path — a four-lane high-level road in Patna connecting R-Bloc to Digha Ghat— with the upcoming Ganga Path. Meanwhile, the transport department has extended the deadline for banning the plying of diesel-powered autos in town areas of Patna till March next year owing to the cascading impact of the pandemic on the sector. As per the notification issued in January this year, operation of diesel autos were to be completely shut by the September-end with a view to curbing pollution in the ambient air in Danapur, Phulwari Sharif and Khagaul nagar parishad areas. After the crackdownSix-month extension of leaseFor sand mining in Patna, Bhojpur, Saran, Rohtas, Aurangabad, Gaya, Jamui and Lakhisarai (from October 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022) on the deposit of 50% extra of the previously settled lease amount.New auctions in eight districtsBihar State Mining Corporation Limited had been asked to settle lease of ghats in Arwal, Nawada, Banka, Bettiah, Madhepura, Kishanganj, Vaishali and Buxar districts through open tendering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/new-sand-mines-set-for-auction-in-8-districts-in-bihar-101633187622199.html
02-10-2021||Other||Kaimur: Warden of child adoption agency sacked, booked for torturing 3-yr-old girl||A female warden of a child adoption agency at Bhabua in Bihar’s Kaimur district, accused of burning a three-year-old orphan girl with a hot tong for defecating on bed, has been booked by the police and dismissed from her job, officials said. The girl was brought to the agency from Sasaram railway station on September 4.The incident came to light when agency coordinator Chandra Shekhar Singh noticed injuries on hands and legs of the girl, who was then admitted at sadar hospital on Friday.When asked about the injuries, the warden told the coordinator it could be of an insect bite, but doctors at the hospital confirmed they were burn injuries and informed the authorities.“A case has been registered against the warden, Chandrawati Kumari, with the Town police station,” Anjelika Kriti, assistant director (child protection), said on Saturday.“The warden later admitted she was tensed because of some family dispute and the girl was disturbing her by repeatedly defecating on bed. She lost her cool, took the girl to the storeroom and burnt her hands, legs and butts with hot tongs,” Kriti said. Kaimur’s superintendent of police Rakesh Kumar said a case under section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons and means ) of Indian Penal Code had been registered against the warden on the petition of child protection officer Jitendra Pal and police were investigating the case.The adoption agency is run under the state’s social welfare department for shelter and adoption of orphans. It is monitored by the district child welfare committee and headed by additional director, child protection.Past incidentsDecember 2019: The then DM sacked the coordinator and warden of the agency and wrote to social welfare department to remove the then additional director (child protection) after the mysterious death of a nine-month-old girl child.August 2019: A West Bengal couple accused the then ADCP of demanding ₹1.5 lakh for allowing adoption of a child April 2019: The then wrote to social welfare department seeking to remove the then ADCP from the district||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kaimurwarden-of-child-adoption-agency-sacked-booked-for-torturing-3-yr-old-girl-101633187620792.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Governor, chief minister visit Gandhi Ashram in Lucknow to promote khadi||Governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other senior leaders visited Gandhi Ashram centre in Lucknow to promote the use of khadi among the people on Mahatma Gandhi’s 152nd birth anniversary on Saturday.For its part, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) launched a cleanliness-cum- khadi promotion campaign on the occasion. The chief minister, his ministers, party leaders garlanded the statue of Mahatma Gandhi and also made purchases at the Gandhi Ashram in Lucknow.The governor, the chief minister and BJP leaders also spun khadi on the occasion and listened to bhajans (devotional songs) that the Mahatma loved. The others who visited the Gandhi Ashram centre included ministers Swami Prasad Maurya, Brijesh Pathak, Sidharth Nath Singh, party leaders Swatantra Dev Singh and senior bureaucrats Awanish Awasthi and Navneet Sehgal.Khadi was popularised by Mahatma Gandhi and Gandhi Ashrams were set up in his memory to promote the use of khadi and other indigenous products.The cleanliness-cum-khadi promotion campaign started on Saturday as part of the 20-day sewa aur samarpan abhiyan that started on September 17, Modi’s 71st birthday.UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal launched the cleanliness campaign. “Party leaders would also undertake cleanliness of ponds, lakes and other water bodies. The party is also running awareness campaigns to mobilise public opinion against the use of polythene,” BJP leaders said. To promote local products, the BJP has also decided to launch “vocal for local” campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/governor-chief-minister-visit-gandhi-ashram-in-lucknow-to-promote-khadi-101633186901025.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Nitin Gadkari a great example of how people’s rep can work for India’s development: Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar lavished praise on union minister for transport and highways Nitin Gadkari when the duo shared the dais at a function in Ahmednagar on Saturday.Speaking about the implementation of various public infrastructure projects, Pawar lauded Gadkari for effectively using power to carry out development. “I am attending this function because I was told that Gadkari is going to inaugurate many projects in Ahmednagar, which will solve long-pending issues of the city and that he wants me to be present,” Pawar said during the foundation stone-laying ceremony of the infrastructure projects.The NCP chief said that while many projects lie on paper even after the stone-laying ceremony, “When it comes to Gadkari’s projects, one sees the work starting within a few days of the function. Gadkari is a great example of how a people’s representative can work for the development of the country.”“I remember that before Gadkari took over the portfolio of road transport and highways, about 5,000 km of work had been done. But after he took over, the figure has crossed 12,000 km,” Pawar said.Although Pawar and Gadkari share good relations, their parties have been political rivals in Maharashtra for the longest time.In his address, Gadkari said that his ministry is ready to fund various road-related projects provided the Maharashtra government takes responsibility for providing land. “Wherever the government will take responsibility to provide land, our ministry will bear the financial burden of executing the project,” he said.Gadkari reiterated about the proposed greenfield Surat-Nashik-Ahmednagar-Solapur highway that will later connect to the southern regions of the country. “The distance between Delhi and Chennai is 1,600km. But by initiating the Surat-Nashik-Ahmednagar-Solapur route, the total distance will be reduced by 330km to 1,270km,” he said. The cost of the project is Rs50,000 crore and an around 481km stretch will pass through Maharashtra, Gadkari informed. “This route will be access control and complete greenfield corridor,” he said.Gadkari appealed to the Maharashtra government to hand over government-owned land along this new corridor to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI). “We will develop industrial facilities and other infrastructure projects alongside. They will be growth engines and generate employment,” he said. Meanwhile, the union minister also said that the government has decided to increase ethanol blending up to 20% in petrol. “I have instructed all vehicle manufacturing companies to build hybrid flex-fuel engines in vehicles which will work completely either on ethanol or electric. Very soon, the transport ministry will issue the order for the same.” Gadkari cited the example of Brazil saying that the country is using ethanol in vehicles and aeroplanes. “We too are planning to go towards green fuel. If farmers generate fuel, our money will be saved on importing petrol. Even this will bring prosperity to farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nitin-gadkari-a-great-example-of-how-people-s-rep-can-work-for-india-s-development-sharad-pawar-101633186720735.html
02-10-2021||Other||Proposal to hike salaries of super-specialists in Punjab govt hospitals ready: Soni in Barnala||Barnala Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni, who also holds the portfolio of health and family welfare, has said that salaries of specialist and super-specialty doctors will be revised, after the state cabinet’s nod, as a proposal had been prepared on the matter. In town to lay the foundation stone of a 300-bed government super-specialty hospital at Handiaya town in Barnala district on Saturday, Soni said, “We have super-specialty doctors, but there is a shortage of these skilled personnel. Private hospitals pay between ₹4 lakh and ₹5 lakh salary to a super-specialist and these doctors join there. We are making a proposal with increased salaries and it will be presented in the state cabinet meeting. After the cabinet’s nod, there will be no shortage of super-specialists in Punjab,” he said.Soni, accompanied by former Barnala MLA Kewal Singh Dhillon, also added new doctors will also be recruited on revised salaries. The super-speciality hospital that he launched is spread over six acre. “As an initial grant, ₹40 crore has been approved; as the project progresses more money will be released based on need.” Soni added that he had issued instructions to stock all government hospitals with required medicines. “To streamline availability of medicines in different government hospitals in the state, a mobile application is being developed. We are also providing ₹2 crore aid to the Barnala civil hospital.”Dhillon added that the Barnala area suffered from acute shortage of health services. “The super-specialty hospital can change people’s lives,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/proposal-to-hike-salaries-of-super-specialists-in-punjab-govt-hospitals-ready-soni-inbarnala-101633186060841.html
02-10-2021||Other||Conduct high-level inquiry into Punjab police recruitment, hold process anew: Majithia||Amritsar Former Punjab cabinet minister and senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Bikram Singh Majithia on Saturday demanded a high-level inquiry into the alleged scam of ₹150 crore in Punjab Police recruitment, while also calling for scrapping of the current process and holding a fresh test.“According to the first-information report (FIR) registered at the Anaj Mandi police station in Patiala, it is clear that a candidate was helped from outside the examination centre. It is clear that computers were hacked and other candidates also resorted to malpractices to clear the examination. The future of 7 lakh aspirants, competing of 5,500 posts of head constables and constables, has been compromised,” he alleged, adding that fraudulent methods had been used in the test held for recruitment of 560 sub-inspectors.Majithia said even though it was becoming clear that this was a full-fledged recruitment scam, the government was not acting on the issue. “We demand a CBI inquiry into the entire scam or one by a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court. A number of Congress leaders as well as senior police officials are also involved in this scam,” he alleged.Condemning the complete silence on this issue by the Congress government, Majithia demanded that the entire process should be held anew. “All those who have participated in the examination should be allowed to reappear for the same and they should not be charged any fee for appearing in the same test again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/conduct-high-level-inquiry-into-punjab-police-recruitment-hold-process-anew-majithia-101633185460943.html
02-10-2021||Patna||Nitish aide Ashok Choudhary sceptical of Kanhaiya’s move to Congress||A key aide of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday cast doubts over Kanhaiya Kumar’s induction into the Congress yielding any benefits to either the young leader or the party. which seems riddled with insurmountable crises. Ashok Choudhary, who was himself a dynamic president of the state Congress a few years ago before being done in by a factional feud that played itself out on the streets, nonetheless wished the former JNU student leader well. “Kanhaiya is a young man from Bihar and my best wishes are with him” said Chaudhary, a powerful member of the state cabinet on whom the former JNUSU president had called on here a few months ago intensifying speculations about the ex-student leader’s plans to quit the moribund CPI. Choudhary, however, wondered “What future can he (Kanhaiya) look forward to in a party in which there is something fundamentally wrong. Look at what is happening in Punjab. They humiliated Capt Amarinder Singh, who has decided to quit. And they seem unable to appease Sidhu on the other hand”. He also cited recent crossovers by a host of prominent Congress leaders like Jyotiraditya Scindia and Jitin Prasad and pointed to dissatisfaction among the old guard who are being referred to as “G-23” and “frustrated” young faces like Sachin Pilot in Rajasthan. “So, what benefit a party in such a mess can expect with the induction of one or two people. And what prospects can the new entrants hope for in such a scenario ?”, he asked. Notably, Choudhary had joined JD(U) in 2018 after having burnt his bridges with the Congress. He had earned plaudits after the 2015 assembly election when the Congress had contested in alliance with JD(U) and RJD and performed well. He was inducted into the cabinet from the Congress quota but factionalism reared its head no sooner than Nitish Kumar returned to the NDA in July, 2017 citing irreconcilable differences with the RJD. Choudhary’s detractors accused him of working at the behest of the chief minister to “break” the party which led to his removal from the BPCC chief’s post. Pictures of Choudhary, defending himself before the camera, teary-eyed, had made headlines. He had alleged that the national general secretary in-charge in those days, C P Joshi, was in cahoots with the BPCC “lobby” which was uneasy over his rise in the party. Born to late Mahavir Choudhary, a senior Congress leader of his time, Ashok Choudhary, then an MLC, finally made the much-anticipated crossover in March, 2018. He joined JD(U) along with two other party legislators, effecting a split in the Congress in the legislative council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-aide-ashok-choudhary-sceptical-of-kanhaiya-s-move-to-congress-101633183763400.html
02-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM pays tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on his birth anniversary||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami paid homage to the father of the nation on his birth anniversary at Gandhi Park in Dehradun."Today, on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti, paid homage to the father of the nation Mahatma Gandhi by garlanding him at Gandhi Park, Dehradun," he tweeted in Hindi.The Chief Minister also paid tribute to former Prime Minister and Bharat Ratna Lal Bahadur Shastri.Dhami said Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri have always inspired people and promoted non-violence in the country."On the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi and former Prime Minister 'Bharat Ratna' Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri, who dedicated his life for truth, non-violence, cleanliness and humanity, paid tribute to him," he said in a tweet.Born on October 2, 1869, in Porbandar town of Gujarat, Mahatma Gandhi or Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi adopted a non-violent resistance and was at the forefront of the freedom struggle against colonial British rule.Globally, Gandhi's birth anniversary is celebrated as the International Day of Non-Violence. Several events are held in India and across the world to mark the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-pays-tribute-to-mahatma-gandhi-on-his-birth-anniversary-101633183799944.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Two arrested in Pune for duplicating rickshaw number plate, raking up 18 violations||PUNE In light of police action against rickshaw drivers in the aftermath of the Wanowrie child sexual assault case, an incident of number plate duplication by a person posing as a rickshaw driver has come to light.Two people were arrested for making a duplicate of another, permitted rickshaw driver’s number plate and violating traffic rules at least 18 times.The arrested accused have been identified as Vishal Prakash Gawade (25), a resident of Nigdi, and Mahesh Jalinder Ugade, a resident of Walhekarwadi in Chinchwad.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Afzal Yunus Shaikh (41), a rickshaw driver living in Annabhau Sathe nagar area of Mohammadwadi, Hadapsar.The complainant started getting messages of violation on his number but did not commit them. Another rickshaw was found roaming around with the same number and violating rules.The fake rickshaw driver had 18 violations and racked up a fine worth ₹4,800, according to the police.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station.Police sub-inspector Pradeep Gaikwad is investigating the case.Meanwhile, a 14-year-old girl was kidnapped by a rickshaw driver on August 31 and sexually assaulted by several people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-in-pune-for-duplicating-rickshaw-number-plate-raking-up-18-violations-101633184620653.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Fiercely self-reliant, she is the master of her own destiny||Right from childhood, Asifa Mushtaq valued financial independence. So, even when she was in school, Mushtaq would take tuitions for children in her neighbourhood, for pocket money. As she grew up, she realised wouldn’t be happy in a regular job, where she would have to work under someone.“After completing M.Com, I started working as lecturer. It was a comfortable job, but I wanted to do something more. I wanted to be something more,” she recalls.So in 2016, she quit the job and picked up the entrepreneurial hat.After discussions with her family members, she set up a production unit in Industrial Estate, Khonmoh, which deals in school uniforms. It employs around eight skilled and unskilled workers. “In our first year, our annual turnover was in lakhs. There was a huge demand for our products even though we were just starting out. But due to the pandemic the demand for uniforms dipped; so we decided to diversify and started making traditional Kashmiri outfits, such as pherans,” says the entrepreneur who is now in her early 40s.Exhorting others to give entrepreneurship a try, she says, “There is certain sense of freedom that comes with being self-employed. Firstly, you are your own boss and secondly, there is a lot of satisfaction in giving back to the society by way of employment generation.”She advises the youth against becoming obsessed with government jobs. “As an entrepreneur, you are the master of your own destiny. Whatever efforts you make, you will get the outcome accordingly,” she says. She also emphasises on building a strong support network. “As an entrepreneur, you need a strong team. For me, it is my husband and brothers. They encouraged me from Day 1 and till date, they continue to be my support system,” says Mushtaq, adding that she is grateful to her parents – father, who was a school principal, and mother, a homemaker – for providing good education to her and her siblings. Mushtaq is happy that she has been able to inspire her own sisters to follow the same path. For other girls, hoping to do the same, she says, “As a woman trying to make it big in a male-dominated society, it is important to develop a strong will power and never-give-in attitude.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fiercely-self-reliant-she-is-the-master-of-her-own-destiny-101633183900596.html
02-10-2021||Pune||350 species found in and around Velhe village: Biodiversity Census||Around 350 species, including 156 species of plants and over 80 species of birds, have so far been recorded over the first three months of the biodiversity census carried out at Velhe near Pune. Of the 350 species, some are endemic to the western ghats while others are on the red data list of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Even as the census findings coincided with “Wildlife Week” celebrated across India between October 2 and 8 every year, experts warned that community is important for protecting the flora and fauna of any region.About the census findings, Dharmaraj Patil, programme manager, environment, Raintree Foundation, said that the western ghats are biodiversity hotspots and a UNESCO world heritage site. “Velhe village and an area of around 2,100 hectare falls under the territorial forest area. We have observed that there is fragmentation of forest area in the entire northern ghats as villages are increasing. Fragmentation of forest area leads to islands of species as movement of animals is restricted. This in turn leads to inbreeding within species and finally local extinction of species and break in the species gene pool,” Patil said.“The forest department and local communities can help in corridor conservation. We are trying to protect the area through community initiatives. This is the five to seven year connecting corridor. And mapping is the first step to understanding how the species are scattered. That is a conservation priority area. From July to September, we have carried out mapping of the area. In August itself, a variety of species were found among butterflies, odonates, mammals, birds, reptiles and others. With the help of camera traps, species such as Barking Deer, Mouse Deer, Small Indian Civet, Grey Junglefowl, Red Spurfowl and Common Grey Mongoose were caught on camera,” Patil said.Asha Bhong, assistant conservator forest, Bhor sub-division, said that community is important to conserve a region. “This survey has highlighted once again that the region is rich in biodiversity. Many species we knew that were earlier not seen in the region are now being reported. And this information is crucial in spreading awareness among the villagers. We will be conducting workshops and awareness programmes for community members as and when Covid-19 cases reduce further,” Bhong said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/350-species-found-in-and-around-velhe-village-biodiversity-census-101633183360543.html
02-10-2021||Other||Bid on life of Dera Sacha Sauda follower foiled: Faridkot police||Faridkot District police on Saturday claimed that it had foiled an attempt on the life of a Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda follower Shakti Singh, who is also an accused in the 2015 Bargari sacrilege case, with the arrest of a resident of Jeonwala village. The man nabbed is Bhola Singh, alias Khalsa of Jeonwala village, in Faridkot district, with the police also recovering two 9mm pistols and 10 cartridges from his possession. Tarn Taran police also have him on its wanted list for murder; Bhola also faces five extortion cases. Faridkot senior superintendent of police (SSP) Swarndeep Singh said, “Last month (On September 10), three unidentified persons in a Mahindra vehicle had visited Shakti’s house to kill him. They had been identified using CCTV footage; police got a recent tip-off that the same vehicle was again seen near Shakti’s house. A police team rushed to the spot and arrested Bhola along with weapons. Raids are on to nab his accomplices.”Shakti, of Daggo Romana village, is out on bail in the Bargari sacrilege and in spreading propaganda posters, is facing three FIRs in connection with the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib. The special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases had arrested Shakti along with other accused on May 16. In June, the Moga Police had claimed that the banned Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) was planning to kill Shakti, with the plan being revealed after two of its operatives, who allegedly killed a prominent dera follower in Bathinda last year, were interrogated. The two has been arrested on May 22 this year. Police claim Bhola and two other men had visited Shakti’s house to assassinate him on September 10. “Earlier this year, Bhola murdered Charanjit Singh of Tarn Taran district. In 2018, Bhola extorted ₹1 lakh from a Moga resident, Sukhdev Singh. Last month, he had also threatened a Panjgrain village resident and sought ₹3 lakh extortion money,” the SSP said.He added, “During interrogation, he has confessed that he wanted to kill Shakti to avenge the sacrilege. Investigation has pointers that show that he had not acted alone there are more people involved. We are also probing their links with the KTF or any other outfit of such nature.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bid-on-life-of-dera-sacha-sauda-follower-foiled-faridkot-police-101633183300809.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||Police arrest 2 thieves for stealing homes after posing as watchmen in Navi Mumbai||The NRI police arrested two persons on Friday for looting houses after working as watchmen in buildings.According to the police, some unidentified people broke into a flat at Balkrishna CHS in Seawoods and stole cash and jewellery collectively worth ₹25 lakh on September 24. The owner of the flat was in his hometown at Rajasthan. Vivek Pansare, deputy commissioner of police (zone I), said, “During investigation, we learnt that a watchman who was working in that society for the previous two months went missing just after the theft. The society’s CCTV cameras were not working that day. We checked the cameras of the nearby buildings and spotted the watchman and three other persons carrying the stolen valuables.”Acting on a tip off, the police arrested two of those people from Mumbai. They are Navin Vishwakarma, 31, and Kami Gore, 36. Both of them are natives of Nepal, but they stayed in Mumbai. While Vishwakarma is a watchman by profession, Gore ran a Chinese food stall. They have six such cases registered against them at Vanrai police station in Mumbai. “We have recovered stolen cash and jewellery collectively worth ₹14.28 lakh from their possession. We are now looking for the other two accused,” Pansare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-arrest-2-thieves-for-stealing-homes-after-posing-as-watchmen-in-navi-mumbai-101633182884194.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Corporation targets 100% vaccination against Covid with both doses by March 2022||Around 38.82% increase has been noted in the vaccination drive within Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) in September. The continuous supply of vaccine doses and the increased number of centres in different parts of the city has led to more people being vaccinated with the first dose of the vaccine. TMC expects to fully vaccinate the entire population by March 2022.“Currently, we are trying to vaccinate as many as possible, and on some days we have vaccinated 30,000 as well. However, on an average, if we are able to vaccinate around 20,000 daily, then we are hoping that by March 2022, we can vaccinate the entire population with both doses of the vaccine. However, the supply of the vaccine doses should continue to be the same as of now,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.TMC has vaccinated 13.89 lakh beneficiaries with at least the first dose of vaccination till now. From among this, 31% are fully vaccinated. Whereas till September 1, only 47.90% were given at least the first dose and 18.70% were fully vaccinated. Until August 20, only 15% were fully vaccinated. The figure has doubled within a month.Overall, around 77% of the eligible population has been vaccinated within Thane city with at least the first dose till now.Thane Municipal Corporation had planned a massive vaccination drive on Saturday. With around 35,000 vaccinations planned across the city, a massive 10,000 vaccination was scheduled in Diva itself. As a part of this drive, thousands gathered at the vaccination centre at Agasan Road.“Diva has a huge population of labourers and working class. Hence, we organised a special drive on national holiday. This will be convenient for all to attend. We are catering to different sections of the society to get vaccinated at the earliest. This is a part of our motive to vaccinate 100% of the population at the earliest,” said Naresh Mhaske, Thane mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-municipal-corporation-targets-100-vaccination-against-covid-with-both-doses-by-march-2022-101633182043532.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi’s advice to cops: Present correct facts to avoid media trial||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday advised police personnel to provide correct facts and information after visiting crime scenes so as to avoid media trial. The CM’s statement comes at a time when the state police force has been drawing much flack over the recent death of a Kanpur businessman Manish Gupta allegedly due to police highhandedness in Gorakhpur during checking of hotel rooms.“Police have done several good works in the past four and half years but a single fault wipes out everything. Public doesn’t take much time to make a villain of a hero. This fault could be rectified only with better communication and senior police officials should own the responsibility of maintaining better communication with public and media,” he said during ‘Police Alankaran Diwas’. The CM said a person in crisis first approaches police and the entire government machinery has to face embarrassment due to their wrong behaviour and insensitivity towards victims. “Therefore, efforts should be made to ensure that people’s faith in police grow stronger,” he said.The chief minister further said one can befool public or senior authorities only for some time but the truth ultimately comes out when officials meet during ‘Janta Darshan’. “Whatever is happening in different districts comes out in open during the Janta Darshan,” he added.The CM further said that today every police range has cyber police stations and 50,000 police personnel are been trained to tackle cyber crime at large level.Earlier on Thursday also, the chief minister had warned that any illegal activities by police personnel would not to be tolerated and those found involved in “very serious offences” would be dismissed. He had also said no important field postings be given to any tainted police officers and personnel. The chief minister also inaugurated UP Police Manav Sambada Portal that will have all information of police personnel since their recruitment to posting, promotion and work. The portal is designed by UP Technical Services.On the occasion, the CM also awarded medals to 75 police officers and personnel for bravery and meritorious services. Before this, the CM also paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on their birth anniversaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogis-advise-to-cops-present-correct-facts-to-avoid-media-trial-101633181445774.html
02-10-2021||Other||IRCTC’s Jyotirlinga darshan train to start from Prayagraj Sangam on October 21||For the benefit of the devotees planning to visit four prominent Jyotirlingas of the country, the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has come up with an ideal package for visiting these popular pilgrimage sites through the “Jyotirlinga Darshan Yatra train”. The train would kick-start its journey from Prayagraj Sangam station from October 21 for the 10-day tour, bookings for which have already started, informed officials. The passengers would be taken for darshan of four Jyotirlinga, Statue of Unity and Udaipur as part of this package. The package of 10 nights and 11 days has been priced at ₹10,395 per head, they add. The four Jyotirlingas include Mahakaleshwar, Omkareshwar, Somnath and Nageshwar Jyotirlinga. “A pilgrimage special train, for darshan of all the four Jyotirlinga, was introduced by IRCTC from October 24 this year but soon the reservations were all full. To meet out the enhanced demand for the train on the same route, we have decided to reintroduce the pilgrimage special train which would run between October 21 and October 31,” informed chief regional manager (North zone), IRCTC, Ajeet Kumar Sinha. It is for the first time that this train is being operated from Prayagraj Sangam and passengers can board the train from several stations en route, he added. Apart from the four Jyotirlingas, the pilgrims would also be taken to visit Dwarkadhish Mandir in Dwarka, Bhent Dwarka Mandir, Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad and Statue of Unity in Baroda. Along with these tourist destinations, the train would also have its stoppage at the city of Udaipur wherein the passengers would be taken to visit City Palace, Saheliyon Ki Bari and Maharana Pratap Memorial. The Jyotirlinga Darshan train would start its journey from Prayagraj Sangam station (earlier called as Prayag ghat) and the passengers can board the train either from the originating station or from en route stoppages including Prayag, Pratapgarh, Amethi, Rae Bareli, Lucknow, Kanpur, Etawah, Bhind, Gwalior and Jhansi. Along with the tour of 10 nights and 11 days, this package includes pure vegetarian breakfast, lunch and dinner during the journey. Besides, the facility of a local bus for site seeing and accommodation in Dharamshalas, etc would also be provided by IRCTC and the cost of the ticket includes all these expenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/irctcs-jyotirlinga-darshan-train-to-start-from-prayagraj-sangam-on-october-21-101633180963175.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP, Amarinder conspired to delay paddy procurement, alleges Pargat Singh||In a fresh salvo against Captain Amarinder Singh from the new Congress dispensation in Punjab, sports and education minister Pargat Singh on Saturday alleged that the former chief minister conspired with the Bharatiya Janata Party to delay the procurement of paddy in the state. A day before its scheduled beginning, the Union food and public distribution ministry on September 30 decided to postpone paddy procurement in Punjab and Haryana to October 11. Even as the Centre attributed the move to high moisture content in the fresh stock, farmers and opposition parties are up in arms against the delay. Questioning the timing of the announcement, which came a day after Amarinder met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, Pargat said: “The BJP government has been harassing farmers... (relations between Amarinder and BJP) have been an open secret now... no leader should opt for such a behaviour.” Pargat, who was talking to mediapersons in his Jalandhar Cantt constituency, said the Punjab government was fully prepared for paddy procurement. He said chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, urged him to immediately withdraw the decision to postpone procurement as first 10 days are very crucial for the lifting of paddy. Amarinder, after his meeting with Shah, had denied reports of joining the BJP and claimed that he discussed the ongoing farmers’ agitation with the home minister and urged him to repeal the contentious farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-amarinder-conspired-to-delay-paddy-procurement-alleges-pargat-singh-101633180799801.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Drama theatres to reopen in Pune: Producers face a challenge to put together team of backstage artists||The decision of the state government to reopen cinema halls and drama theatres after October 22 has sparked enthusiasm among the theatre industry. However, bringing the drama on the stage isn’t a cakewalk for the producers.As the theatres and auditoriums are set to reopen, after the second Covid-19 wave, drama and show producers are facing a hurdle in putting together the team of artists, especially backstage artists who have gone back to their hometown or have taken up odd jobs during the lockdown.The theatre industry is also eagerly waiting for the standard operating procedure (SoPs) which is likely to be declared by the state government soon.“After the government announced that theatres and auditoriums would reopen we have geared up for a new beginning. We have contacted the artists and backstage artists such as technicians, costume makers, make up artists, light and sound managers among others. But many of the backstage artists replied that they have gone back to their hometown or have taken up odd jobs because of the unemployment during the lockdown,” said Mohan Kulkarni, head of the Manoranjan group, which produces dramas.Covid-19 curbs snatched away the employment of many backstage artists and folk artists as well.“Many of them started to work as security personnel or put up some vegetable stall. There is still no certainty,” said Sunil Mahajan, president of Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Natya Parishad, Kothrud branch.On September 25, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced that theatres and auditoriums would reopen after October 22, while observing all Covid-19 safety protocols. He also announced that the SoPs were under being designed and would be declared soon. However, the government hasn’t yet published the SoPs and stakeholders in the theatre industry have demanded to release the SOPs soon.“Our planning will depend on the rules set by the state government. We are eagerly waiting for the SoPs. Unless the picture is clear we cannot plan the shows. They have to be viable for us as well. There should not be a cap of 50% operational capacity. If only the fully vaccinated audience or the artists are allowed then I am not sure how it would work out,” said Bhagyashree Desai, drama producer.“The theatres and auditoriums are first to be closed and last to reopen. Corporations should reduce the rent for a play,” she said.The producers predicted that entirely new shows and plays are unlikely to come on the stage in near future. “Because of the uncertainty, nobody would take a new project in the hand. Everyone would like to wait and watch for a while and then start working on a new project,” said Kulkarni.There is also scepticism about the response from the audience. “Even if theatres reopen and shows are set to be presented, business depends on how many people would turn up to watch. This remains a concern. But we would like to hope for the best,” said Mahajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/drama-theatres-to-reopen-in-pune-producers-face-a-challenge-to-put-together-team-of-backstage-artists-101633180002604.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||NMMT AC bus fare to be cheaper by 33% from next week||From next week, the Navi Mumbai commuters will be able to travel in the air-conditioned Volvo buses of Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) at a cheaper rate.In an effort to popularise its services, the civic transport authority has decided to reduce the fares of such buses by 33%.Due to exorbitant fares, the air-conditioned Volvo buses were not receiving the desired response from the commuters in the past few years. Thus, the decision to reduce the fare was taken.Yogesh Kaduskar, general manager of NMMT, said, “The minimum fare of the air-conditioned Volvo buses is now ₹15 and we have decided to reduce it to ₹10. From next week, the commuters will be able to travel in those buses by paying the reduced fares. We hope more people will board those buses after that.”According to sources, NMMT owns a total of 450 buses at present and 68 of them are air-conditioned Volvo buses. These buses go to different places of Mumbai, Borivali, Bandra, World Trade Centre, Andheri, Mulund, Thane, Dombivli, Kalyan, Badlapur, Kharghar, Kalamboli and Panvel. Manish Patil, 41, a Panvel resident, said, “Presently, to travel to Vashi from my area in the air-conditioned buses, we have to shell out ₹45. If the NMMT reduces the fares by 33%, then we will be able to travel by paying just ₹30 and we will be able to save some money every month. I am sure a lot of people from the city who now prefer to travel in non-AC buses, will start travelling in air-conditioned buses after that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmmt-ac-bus-fare-to-be-cheaper-by-33-from-next-week-101633179587322.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||ATS arrests Bangladeshi national who travelled to UAE on fake Indian passport||The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) has arrested a Bangladeshi national who allegedly travelled to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) using a fake Indian passport. When he was abroad, the ATS had discovered that the Bangladeshi national had made an Indian passport using fabricated documents and he was using the fraudulently made passport to travel abroad. The ATS since then has been keeping a watch on Irshad Shahabuddin Shaikh, 33, who originally hails from Noakhali district of Bangladesh. Recently, through reliable sources, ATS officials have learnt that he is returning to India from UAE. On Friday, he was nabbed by security personnel at Delhi airport, as he returned to India and was handed over to Maharashtra ATS.On Saturday morning, the ATS team brought him to Mumbai. Shaikh was produced in a local court that remanded him in ATS custody till October 8.ATS officials are trying to find out who helped him in fraudulently making the Indian passport and how he managed to come to India without proper documents. The ATS is also checking if Shaikh was involved in any anti-national activities, using such a passport||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ats-arrests-bangladeshi-national-who-travelled-to-uae-on-fake-indian-passport-101633179580499.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Waive fee of one sister if two sisters studying in same school: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said if two sisters are studying in the same school or college, then the fee of one of them should be waived. If private schools do not agree to the proposed setup, then the departments concerned should work to pay the tuition fees of one of the girl students. Yogi further said that nodal officers should be appointed at the district level to fulfil the purpose.“In private schools and colleges in which two and more than two girls from the same family are studying, if they are to be sisters, then take action to waive the fees of one sister. If not, then the department should work to consider it. This will help their parents in Corona,” Yogi Adityanath said.निजी स्कूलों और कॉलेजों में जिनमें एक ही परिवार की दो और दो से अधिक बालिकाएं पढ़ रही हैं, अगर वे बहने हैं तो एक बहन की फीस माफ़ करने की कार्यवाही करेंगे। अगर नहीं करते हैं तो विभाग को इस पर विचार करने का काम करना चाहिए। यह कोरोना में उनके अभिभावकों को मदद करेगा: उत्तर प्रदेश CM https://t.co/MLPQyGW2XD pic.twitter.com/qdYNRYb4cfThe Chief Minister made the remarks during a scholarship distribution programme organised in Lucknow. During the programme, he also paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi, reported Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan.“I heartily welcome the Governor, who took his time to launch this program of online scholarship for the students belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Castes, Minority Communities and General Castes of the State Government,” ANI further quoted Yogi Adityanath as saying.As today marks the birth anniversary of Gandhi, the Chief Minister further urged everyone to take out time to introspect how much they have contributed to the development of the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/waive-fee-of-one-sister-if-two-sisters-studying-in-same-school-yogi-adityanath-101633177723003.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||MNS demands repair of potholes in Navi Mumbai||The Navi Mumbai unit of MNS has threatened to name potholes in the city after the municipal commissioner, city engineer, and executive engineer if they are not repaired in a couple of days.MNS Navi Mumbai chief, Gajanan Kale, said, “The modern city of Navi Mumbai is full of potholes in internal roads as well as the main roads. There have been several instances of mishaps. This is playing with the lives of the people. We have warned the administration that if the potholes are not filled immediately, we will name them after the municipal commissioner, city engineer and executive engineer.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mns-demands-repair-of-potholes-in-navi-mumbai-101633177180356.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||No pre-arrest bail to jeweller booked for fraudulently availing ITC of ₹30 crore||The Bombay high court (HC) has rejected the anticipatory bail plea of a city bullion trader booked by the CGST authorities for fraudulently availing input tax credit (ITC) of about ₹30 crore.“There is sufficient material to deny pre-arrest bail to applicant,” said justice PD Naik, while rejecting the anticipatory bail plea of the bullion trader, Dev Adania.The 36-year-old owner of Gajmukhi Bullion had moved high court for pre-arrest bail, apprehending arrest in the case registered by the Commissioner, Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST), for contravention of section 70 of the CGST Act, 2017.On March 25, 2021, CGST authorities had searched his premises in Zaveri Bazaar and at one more place, after the authorities received information that Gajmukhi Bullion had received ITC worth ₹15.22 crore from a non-existent tax payer, M/s. Karnataka Jewellers.The authorities also claimed that Adania had allegedly also received fraudulent ITC from two more firms, M/s. Kismat Enterprises and M/s. Balaji Enterprises, but no payments were made to these entities.The jeweller had maintained that when the transactions were entered, the firms were active and no material was placed by the CGST authorities to indicate that parties were non-existent at the relevant time. HC, however, refused to accept his contention. Justice Naik noted that during the course of investigation statement of one Gautam Joshi was recorded under Section 70 of CGST Act. “He stated that he was ex-employee of the applicant (Adania) and the firms namely M/s. Karnataka Jewellers, M/s. Balaji Enterprises and M/s. Kismat Enterprises were opened by him on the basis of documents arranged from various sources,” said the court while rejecting the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-pre-arrest-bail-to-jeweller-booked-for-fraudulently-availing-itc-of-30-crore-101633176340183.html
02-10-2021||Other||Girl from primitive Bonda tribe in Odisha digs up well in her village, inspires others||A 25-year-old tribal girl from the primitive Bonda tribe living in Malkangiri district of Odisha has managed to solve the perennial issue of water scarcity in her village by digging up a well along with her three younger sisters, officials said.Malati Sisa, the first post-graduate from the primitive Bonda tribals, who were first brought to light by renowned anthropologist Verrier Elwin in the 1950s, dug up a well near her home in Bandiguda village with the help of her three sisters.“I, along with my sisters, decided to dig up a well as it was difficult for my family to get water. Though handpump tube wells have been installed in my village, many have stopped functioning due to poor maintenance. We used to trek for long distances to fetch water from a stream. Then I spoke to my parents and told them about my idea of digging up a well,” said Sisa.The sisters slogged for about 10 days before they managed to strike water at a depth of 25 feet. A good downpour triggered by cyclone Gulaab filled up the well last week.“Not only my family, other villagers too are using water from the well. We are using the well water for drinking, bathing, and cultivation. We have sorted out the perennial drinking water crisis,” said Sisa.Her father Dhabalu Sisa said she was overjoyed with what his daughters have done. She could achieve her dream through her dedication and hard work. The entire village is benefitting from the well,” said her father.In January 2016, Malati’s father travelled to New Delhi along with his wife Samari as PM Narendra Modi’s guest during the Republic Day function and apprised him about the problems related to road connectivity, drinking water and healthcare facilities faced by his community.Malati completed her MA from a tribal university in Bhubaneswar becoming the first woman from the Bonda community, which is infamous for low literacy level, to become a postgraduate. During last year’s lockdown, she came down to her village where she realised that she needed to do something about the water crisis.She said due to financial constraints, she could not put up concrete rings inside the well. But her effort has inspired other youths in the village to dig up wells. There are around 60 families in the village who are now drawing water from these wells for household chores.The Bonda community, also spelt as Bondo, is one of the very primitive tribal communities living in the uphills of Eastern Ghats. They speak a dialect of the southern Mundari group of Austro-Asiatic language.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/girl-from-primitive-bonda-tribe-in-odisha-digs-up-well-in-her-village-inspires-others-101633174780218.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||Rare heritage trees, birds of Kolshet in Thane being gradually destroyed, claim environmentalists in survey||The rich biodiversity of rare heritage trees and birds in Kolshet, Thane, is gradually being destroyed, highlighted Thane-based environmentalists in a survey conducted recently. The rampant construction and developmental activities in these areas have necessitated protecting 17.5% of the bird species in the area. The survey also claimed that without identifying the species of trees in these areas, orders to transplant or cut trees have been noticed by environmentalists.Kolshet region is blessed with a thick green cover of trees that were a part of the forest. There are a number of typha-rich wetlands and a vast creek with mangroves. The survey was conducted from Nandibaba Chowk to Kolshet Creek – the most green cover region.“Many environmentalists visit Kolshet areas to understand their rich biodiversity. They found that permissions were haphazardly granted to hack trees without understanding the species or their importance. In the current scenario, it is very likely that rare and important trees have not been identified correctly and clubbed together as wild by the local authorities,” said Rohit Joshi, environmentalist, Thane.In a permission granted by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), the Thane tree authority has mentioned 46 trees as wild trees. This constitutes around 10% of the 431 trees in Kolshet. Whereas, in the survey conducted by the environmentalists last month, they noticed eight mango trees, seven jamun trees and many banyan, peepal and umbar or gular trees that are likely to be around 50 to 60 years old. Moreover, two amherstia nobilis (Urwashi) trees were observed behind Clariant Bus Stop that seem to be the only trees of this species in the entire Thane.“A fair attempt should be made by local authorities to conserve the remaining trees in their existing locations. In cases where transplanting these non-heritage trees is inevitable, they should be transplanted following proper and scientifically-recommended transplantation procedures and within the geographical area of Thane city. Moreover, monitoring of the transplanted trees for at least three years after transplantation is extremely important,” added Joshi.The green cover of trees within the compounds of a few companies and factories has been a boon for birds, both resident and migratory, for feeding, roosting, nesting and breeding. With the high amount of green cover within the Kolshet area, 37% of the bird count in Thane city is from here alone. Among these, around 17.5% of the birds are to be protected.“The River Tern, Oriental Darter and the Alexandrine Parakeets that are near-threatened birds are resident birds of Kolshet. The yellow-footed Green Pigeon – the State bird of Maharashtra – are also seen here in sizable numbers and there is a record of them nesting on the tamarind trees in Kolshet. There are more than 80 species of migratory birds that visit this region from October to March every year. They will lose their roosting and nesting spots as well,” said Clara Correia, professor and environmentalist who was a part of the survey team.Experts who conducted this survey are keen on providing TMC with support to identify species of trees or conduct any detailed research regarding Thane city’s bio-diversity.A senior official from the Thane Municipal Corporation said, “We always consider the feasibility of the situation, consider with the forest department if need be and take a conscious call before hacking trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rare-heritage-trees-birds-of-kolshet-in-thane-destroyed-claim-environmentalists-in-survey-101633174485705.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||POCSO case: 63-year-old gets 20 years in jail for sexually assaulting minor||Refusing to show leniency to a rape accused only on the grounds of his advanced age, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court on Friday sentenced a sixty-three-year-old city resident to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting the nine-year-old daughter of his neighbour.Special POCSO judge Sanjashree J Gharat convicted the accused for rape under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and penetrative sexual assault under section 4 of the POCSO Act and sentenced him to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment.At the time of sentencing, the accused had prayed for leniency on the grounds of his advanced age. The court, however, rejected the plea. The court said in such type of cases, maximum punishment should be awarded to the accused not only to deter him from committing such type of offence in future, but also to deter the public at large from indulging in such type of offences.“If the accused is shown leniency then it will send a wrong message in the society,” said the court, adding that, “The offences proved against the accused are serious in nature.”The court said the sufferings of the survivor cannot be ignored. “At the time when the offence happened (2015), the victim was just nine-years-old and now she will have to carry that mental trauma throughout her life,” said additional sessions judge Sanjashree Gharat. The accused was a neighbour of the victim, she said, adding, therefore, the complainant showed trust in him and asked the elderly person to look after his minor niece when he was required to visit railway station to drop his relatives. The accused took advantage of it and sexually assaulted the minor girl and later threatened her not to tell anyone about it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pocso-case-63-year-old-gets-20-years-in-jail-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-101633173220406.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kangana among Himachal BJP contenders for Mandi LS ticket||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut figures among the aspirants for the BJP ticket for the byelection to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat that has been vacant since the death of Ramswaroop Sharma in March this year. Also read: ‘Post or no post, will stand by Rahul, Priyanka Gandhi’, tweets SidhuThe state election committee of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party will meet in Dharamshala soon to draw a panel of candidates for the October 30 byelections in the three assembly segments of Fatehpur, Jubbal Kotkhai and Arki besides the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency. The Arki seat fell vacant after six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh died on July 8, while the Jubbal Kotkhai incumbent Narendra Bratga passed away in June and former transport minister Sujan Singh Pathania, who represented Fatehpur died earlier. Though Kangana has not openly expressed her desire to contest the elections, the BJP top brass has already had one round of discussions on the prospective candidates and her name was discussed. One section of the party was averse to allotting the ticket to her. Kangana belongs to Bhambla village in Mandi district and has built a new house in Manali, which is also a part of the Mandi parliamentary constituency. CM’s aide among contenders for Mandi ticket Pankaj Jamwal, the BJP leader from Jogindernagar and the younger brother of BJP organisational secretary for the seven northeast states Ajay, is also vying for the ticket. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s aide, Nihal Chand, who was the Milkfed chairman, is also said to be keen to contest from Mandi. Kargil war hero Brigadier Kushal Thakur has been lobbying to contest the elections from Mandi since long. He was interested to contest in 2017 but the party preferred sitting Lok Sabha member, Ramswaroop Sharma. Ajay Sharma, the BJP spokesman, was also vying for tickets along with state media coordinator Praveen Sharma. The names of state Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh and education minister Govind Thakur also figure among the contenders. Party’s poll committee gathers feedback The party’s state election committee includes Jai Ram Thakur, Union sports minister Anurag Thakur, state party chief Suresh Kashyap, BJP national vice-president Saudan Singh, state party in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna said and co in-charge Sanjay Tandon, BJP organisational secretary Pawan Rana, former state party chief Satpal Singh Satti, former speaker Rajiv Bindal and party general secretaries Trilok Jamwal, Trilok Kapoor and Rakesh Jamwal. The committee will also hold a meeting with in-charges appointed for the byelections, including state industries minister Vikram Singh Thakur, power minister Sukhram Chaudhary, forest minister Rakesh Pathania, health minister Rajiv Sehjal, education minister Govind Thakur, jal shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur and Bindal. The in-charges are to share feedback on the preparations and prospects of the candidates. Frontrunners and challenges Narendra Bragta’s son Chetan is the frontrunner from Jubbal Kotkhai, while former zila parishad member Neelam Seraik is also vying for the ticket. In Arki, the BJP has given the go-ahead to Rattan Pal Singh, while former legislator Govind Ram Sharma has threatened to contest as an independent. The party faces a tough challenge to select the candidate in Fatehpur with former Rajya Sabha member Kripal Parmar besides Baldev Thakur and Rita Thakur vying for the ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kangana-among-himachal-bjp-contenders-for-mandi-ls-ticket-101633172800034.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||More than 2 lakh get first vaccination dose against Covid in September as Navi Mumbai civic body receives 69% more vaccine supplies||In September, almost 69% more vaccine supplies were received by Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) compared to the previous months, leading to a maximum number of vaccination centres being arranged for the drive.In September alone, NMMC received 2,15,700 doses of Covishield and 13,170 doses of Covaxin. Before September, the highest received doses was in April with 1,61,500 Covishield and 20,500 Covaxin doses.In September alone, 2,00,391 people got their first dose and 1,71,048 people got their second dose as well. Till now, 10.57 lakh people in Navi Mumbai have got their first dose, of which 5.17 lakh have got their second dose as well. The highest number of vaccine booths that NMMC could arrange in September was 103, which the civic commissioner intends to raise to 110 in the coming months if the supply remains good.“We have enough staff to handle even 110 vaccination booths. With 103 booths as well, the drive went smoothly. If the supply continues to remain the same way next month as well, we might have 110 booths,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.Of the eligible 10.60 lakh population of Navi Mumbai, 10.57 lakh have been vaccinated with the first dose. The civic body believes that 10.57 lakh would also include people getting vaccinated from private hospitals who are actually not Navi Mumbai residents and hence around 15% to 20% of the total vaccinated would be considered as non Navi Mumbai residents.Of the 15 lakh population in Navi Mumbai, 10.60 lakh is eligible for the vaccination, 6.79 lakh people between the age group of 18 and 44 years have received their first dose. Meanwhile, as per the statistics, only 6.10 lakh people are eligible under this age group. “There are working class age group people who work in Navi Mumbai wherein they might have got their jabs done. Hence, the number of people getting their first dose is more than the actual eligible population,” an NMMC officer said.Of the 6.79 lakh, only 2.35 lakh have taken their second dose, which is 34% of those who took the first jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-than-2-lakh-get-first-vaccination-dose-against-covid-in-september-as-navi-mumbai-civic-body-receives-69-more-vaccine-supplies-101633172443052.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||Intsa-’Book gets creative in MaharashtraOpportunities for creators Instagram and Facebook, on Thursday, held their largest event for creators - ‘Creator Day India.’ At the event, the company shared some of the top trends on the platforms, as well as launched its creator education and enablement program in India - www.bornoninstagram.com.The company also announced its creator education and enablement program in India - www.bornoninstagram.com to make access to creator resources more scalable and democratized. Paras Sharma, director of Media Partnerships, Facebook India, said, “Creators from Maharashtra are creating trends that are going mainstream and are shaping popular culture. The program is intended to help them learn, earn and grow their communities on Instagram. We hope creators leverage this opportunity.”Y4D Foundation’s soft skill training Y4D Foundation has announced an employability and soft skill training programme in collaboration with Ishanya Foundation and Tata Motors.A special skill training centre has been set up by the Y4D Foundation, for marginalised communities to impart knowledge, hands-on training and market-oriented learning modules, which will enable them to take new economy jobs. Praful Nikam, president, Y4D Foundation, said, “Y4D Foundation envisions the nation where each of its citizens lives a happy and content life. This can be attained easily by empowering the underprivileged sections. Their full potential can be harnessed through encouragement, education and employment. We are working towards shaping up a society which is sustainable for future generations.” Y4D Foundation is also upgrading the Rural Health care centre in Satara District of Maharashtra in collaboration with Alfa Laval India. An MoU has also been signed between Y4D Foundation and Policy Bazaar for a large-scale Financial Literacy Program, to educate the youth about financial skills and knowledge at an early stage to help them to make informed financial decisions. A strong foundation of financial literacy can help support various life goals, such as saving for education or retirement, using debt responsibly, and running a business.Payworld expanding to tap non-tech-savvy customersFintech company Payworld is expanding its retail network further in Maharashtra to tap the non-tech-savvy customers living in the marginalized areas.The company aims to bring all local retailers on board who understand the regional customers and their needs. Payworld currently has,000 active retailers in the state and offers a one-stop solution for all digital financial transactions with services like Domestic Money Remittance, Aadhar Enabled Payment System (AePS), Rail Reservation, Insurance and Bill Payments services.Praveen Dhabhai, COO, Payworld, said, “The Payworld Retail touchpoints are fulfilling the banking and ATM (automated teller machine) needs of the customers in rural and Tier-II and Tier-III cities. Currently, we have over 20,000 active retailers in the state, and we are eagerly looking forward to increasing the numbers further to 50,000 by the end of ongoing Financial Year. The most consumed service in the state is AePS, which is simplifying the lives of people living in villages with its easy cash withdrawal feature. We are grateful for our key growth drivers, which are the local retailers, which are well versed in regional languages and dialects and making us a customer-friendly fin-tech platform.”Esri introduces Site Scan for ArcGISGeographic Information System (GIS) software and solutions provider Esri India has introduced Site Scan for ArcGIS, a complete cloud-based drone mapping solution. The solution encompasses flight planning, data capture, data processing, analysis, data sharing and drone fleet management. It is offered as ‘Software as a Service’ (SaaS) with unlimited storage and computing. Site Scan for ArcGIS is hosted in India, on a cloud approved by the Government of India, and ensures that the drone data is stored and processed within India in compliance with the government regulations. Site Scan for ArcGIS exhibits the capability to process data captured by most of the drones manufactured in India or abroad.Agendra Kumar, managing director, Esri India, said “With the new Drone Rules 2021, Geospatial data creation through drones is set to get a boost in the country. There is a need for a solution that simplifies drone flying, data capture, processing, and consumption. Site Scan for ArcGIS hosted on a government approved cloud in India meets these requirements and provides much needed manageability, reliability, scalability, and cost efficiency for drone data processing. Site Scan will also be a great enabler for our partner community and numerous Drone service providers.”MechaniK TV partners with ASDCMechaniK TV, a skill-tech initiative for automotive technicians launched by T7E Aftermarket Connect, has entered into a strategic partnership with Automotive Skills Development Council (ASDC) to launch an online advanced BS6 two-wheeler training in Hindi. The training course is expected to go live on November 1, 2021.Initially, the MechaniK TV-ASDC partnership will revolve around developing content for vehicles powered by hydro-carbon fuels. Over time, the partnership is also expected to produce certification programs that will enable mechanics in the independent aftermarket to be able to service electric vehicles and their eco-system as well.Rajeev Radhakrishnan, co-founder, MechaniK TV said, “Through carefully curated technical content, MechaniK TV has already enabled 1000s of two-wheeler mechanics across the country to be able to service BS6 bikes without any formal training. The partnership with ASDC will enable us to bring structure and credibility to the training. We hope to reach 10,000 two-wheeler mechanics over the next 12 months, with the new course.”Arindam Lahiri, CEO ASDC said “These m-learning courses will help them in diagnosing and fixing problems of vehicle system and components. This will upskill them on new technology and emission systems to better serve their customer base.”AlphaSense raises $180 million in Series C New York-based AlphaSense, the leading market intelligence and search platform, announced its $180 million Series C financing round led by Viking Global Investors and the Growth Equity business within Goldman Sachs Asset Management (Goldman Sachs), joined by Morgan Stanley, Citi, Bank of America, Barclays, Wells Fargo Strategic Capital, Cowen Inc., and AllianceBernstein, as well as existing investors. The capital infusion will be used to further invest in product development, content expansion, and customer support, and to drive organic growth as well as acquisitions. The company previously closed a $50 million Series B in July 2019, which included prominent investors such as Innovation Endeavors, Jim Simons’ Euclidean Capital, Soros Fund Management and Tribeca Venture Partners. Raj Neervannan, Co-founder and Chief Technology Officer of AlphaSense, commented on the occasion, “In the next two years, we intend to scale the research and development of our platform, and a huge contributor to this will be the doubling of our innovation hub in Pune and Mumbai.” AlphaSense’s technology leverages AI and NLP to extract relevant insights from an extensive universe of public and private content, including over 10,000 premium business sources. This enables professionals to make critical decisions with confidence and speed, thus improving business performance and outcomes. Insurance startup Loop Health raises $12mn Mumbai Health insurance distribution startup Loop Health has raised USD 12 million (around ₹88 crore) in a funding round led by Elevation Capital and General Catalyst. The series-A funding round also saw participation from Vinod Khosla (through Khosla Ventures), YC Continuity Fund, and Tribe Capital. Leading angels like Amit Kumar Agarwal of Nobroker, Ramakant Sharma of Livspace, Vidit Aatrey and Sanjeev Barnwal of Meesho, Eren Bali of Carbon Health and Udemy, Zach Sims of Codeacademy, and Kate Ryder of Maven Clinic also participated, the Pune-based company said in a statement. Loop Health has sold over 50,000 policies to 150 companies in the past 12 months and has been clipping at 50 per cent month-on-month. It has also ramped up its team form just 10 to over 80 employees and is operational in Pune, Mumbai, and Bengaluru. The biggest hiring is of Amit Punchhi, who was CBO and CIO at HDFC Life as the president. The company will use the funds to scale business and for product development through custom insurance products including wellness and physical healthcare clinics, and drive strategic hiring, mainly in the sales and engineering verticals, said Mayank Kale, co-founder and CEO, Loop Health. Loop was established in 2018 by Mayank Kale, Ryan Singh, Amrit Singh, and Shami Raj and currently it sells only group health insurance plans. Loop’s client list of 150 companies include Shaadi.com, Rediff.com, Helpshift, Knorr Bremse, Shoptimize, Weikfield, and Moonshine Meadery, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101633172020101.html
02-10-2021||Other||Priyanka Gandhi to address mega rally in Varanasi on October 10||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra would address a mega rally in Rohania area of Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh on October 10. She would address the rally after offering prayers at Kashi Vishwanath Temple and Durga Kund Temple, said Congress leader Ajay Rai. “Preparations are in full swing. A large number of people from different parts of eastern UP will attend the rally,” said Rai. He said that the party general secretary would expose the BJP’s state government that failed to check the inflation and rise in prices of petro-products, including petrol, diesel and cooking gas. “Farmers and youths are upset with the state government as unemployment is at its peak and growing inflation has left every section upset,” he added. People familiar with the development said that she will stay in UP for five days every month. Political analyst Kaushal Kishore Mishra, Professor of Political Science at BHU, said that the rally is an effort by the Congress to restore its base in Eastern UP where it enjoyed immense support of people till three decades ago. What or how much impact it casts will be clear in near future.“Eastern UP, especially its centre Varanasi, is crucial for several reasons, therefore, every political party is focusing on this region,” Mishra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/priyanka-gandhi-to-address-mega-rally-in-varanasi-on-october-10-101633171720706.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: Colleges in tier 2 cities get a ‘community’ upgrade to IIT levels, thanks to Eventbeep||Eventbeep is an early-stage edtech start-up that is two parts Facebook, three parts Microsoft and the rest, all IIT.Consider that Zuckerberg and Bill Gates are the inspiration for founding head honcho Saurabh Mangrulkar, and you can see why. IIT has the blueprint that Eventbeep is aiming to replicate across its target metaverse (cue McZucky) - colleges in India – specifically, in tier 2 and tier 3 cities.Seed funding of ₹1.5 crore is what has put this early-stage edtech startup based in Pune on the way. The back-story, however, is rather Netflix-ish; in terms of an Indian drama with all the necessary ingredients for a multi-serial binge-boiler; A female founder, not supported by her family joins this startup run by a male founder, still on-boarding his family to the idea and their CTO sitting in Bengaluru.Founded by Saurabh Mangrulkar, Rakhi Pal and Venkatesh Prasad in May 2019, Eventbeep is a next-generation virtual community platform, empowering students at every step of their college life through the ever-changing world of education and work.Eventbeep provides space to get inspired, ask questions and network with experts, build connections with students from other colleges, share ideas, gain recognition, and ultimately receive support from people with shared interests and values. Eventbeep also closely works with colleges and universities to transform their campuses by building intra-college communities, “gameifying” the college experience and opening up a a world of opportunities and learning for its students, by connecting them with other college students and campuses.In the beginning…Says Mangrulkar, “My journey started pretty early on. When I was 15-years old, I used to read lot, including listen to audio books. I was inspired by Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg. In 2011-12, I started an NGO ‘Nature Lovers’ to organise events for students. I gained lot of practical experience. As I started going to college, I faced another reality. Everything was bookish and students were wasting a lot of time. I thought this was very wrong and these students should come out of the classrooms to make their career. Thereafter, I built a ticketing platform for events for college students and tied up with several colleges. We crossed ₹1.5 crore in ticketing sales volumes on our platform. It was a hit. As I went to other colleges, I realised that the problem was much bigger and lies at the root of our education system.”Winner of the Global Student Entrepreneurs Award, USA, Mangrulkar (CEO at Eventbeep) has done 500+ college tie-ups in India. A student of MIT and COEP, Mangrulkar met the other co-founder Rakhi Pal at a startup pitch event. While he was interested in entrepreneurship, Mangrulkar’s family members felt that that he should study further or get a job. Mangrulkar organised 20+ events with 6,000 participants netting a profit of ₹10 lakh, after which his family agreed to let him pursue his dreams. He says, “Slowly, the resistance from family started to decrease. I showed them inspirational YouTube videos and TV shows, but they were concerned about my income.”Originally from Uttar Pradesh, Rakhi Pal (COO) also faced a similar situation except that her family is still not on the same page. For the first two years, Pal had to hide the fact that she is a startup founder from her family. Investor pitch or other outstation visits for business purposes were “field visits” or “extra lectures”, during those days. A student of Cummins College of Engineering for Women, Pal completed her Mechanical BTech in 2019. She was also selected for a six-month Volkswagen OML program.The third co-founder, Venkatesh Prasad (CTO) hails from Chennai but lives in Bengaluru. He got connected with Mangrulkar and Pal through a mentor. Prasad completed his B Tech CSE in 2019 and has worked at IBM as a developer.Founding EventbeepMangrulkar, Pal and Prasad started their edtech journey in 2019 with the specific aim of changing the lives of students. Says Mangrulkar, “I had observed that the IITs and other colleges had only one differentiating factor – their community with access to top quality alumni, events, opportunities and peers. There were students who liked painting or photography but chose chemical engineering and were pursuing it unwillingly. If there were 500 events per year at IITs, not more than five were organised at other colleges. IIT students have role models who have been to Harvard and founded billion-dollar businesses, but other college students are looking for good placements and jobs. We thought we should build a rich community like the IITs for students from tier 2 and 3 institutes, which accounts for 92 per cent of Indian universities. Through EventBeep we’re democratising this ecosystem.”Tech-firstThe cofounders decided to go with app development first. A mistake. They outsourced the app development. Says Mangrulkar, “Ours is an edtech company so for us, our tech platform comes first. There would be no business if there is no technology. However, initial product development progress slowed down as the agency did not bother to make the changes and iterations on time. So, we decided to have our own tech team. Prasad and his team ensured that all the changes, features, iterations, and new product launches started happening quickly.”Team buildingBeing young student-founders and building a team meant more learning for the trio. When Mangrulkar was exploring his options, he would offer literally any role to his friends. “That was the biggest mistake. My friends had different aims, goals and their family situation was different. Later, I also learnt that skills can be taught, but character of a person is very important. Identifying a good and hardworking human is the most difficult task,” he recalls. With all the hard lessons learnt, Mangrulkar then started visiting colleges and the placement offices. He asked for lists of students who wanted to work with startups. “I made a form and spread it. Chose the best candidates after interviewing them. Some of them left later, but then I realised that hiring professionals is better than hiring students,” he said. Product featuresSays Mangrulkar, “The first set of 5,000 to 10,000 students we on-boarded was from COEP and MIT colleges. We had got the database from the colleges and started inviting these students to use our platform. Soon we realised that we had given such features on our platform that were not required or useful for students. Some features did not work and we started improvising the platform.”Mangrulkar and his team started trials in 10 colleges including some MBA and engineering colleges under the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). Says Mangrulkar, “When we tie-up with any college, they provide student data. We collect information like mobile number, email id, year of passing Based on this data, we start giving them access to the application and later send reports related to attendance, lectures, subjects, interests, to the college management. At present, the app is open for all students without verification. We will take measures like ID card verification at the appropriate stage.”COEP Bhau Institute’s roleEventbeep has received support in terms of services like incubation, infrastructure, mentoring, from the Bhau Institute of Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Leadership at College of Engineering Pune (COEP). Although Bhau Institute, which is an approved incubator by Department of Science and Technology (DST), did not seek equity, the services are being provided on rental basis and at discounted rates. Investor experienceSharing their hard journey of seeking investment for their startup, Mangrulkar said, “We were not from IITs. Almost all investors were looking for IITians or experienced founders. It was difficult for us to prove ourselves. We took lot of efforts in the last two years. We pitched to more than 150 investors with emails, decks and interviews. However, the standard response from the investors was “Let the team and product become more mature”. On the other side, we had a product running with good responses but unable to secure funding. We knew we had to work hard.”“Initially we put in ₹10 lakh to ₹15 lakh from the revenue of our previous startups. We did not take salaries, but we were getting stable revenues. Since our costs were zero, we were able to sustain. After Covid-19 outbreak, during the lockdown we did ₹60 lakh revenue in just four months. That was a turning point and investors started noticing,” Mangrulkar said. FundingEventBeep has secured seed funding in a round lead by SucSEED Indovation Fund, Uincept, Palimala Ventures and other angels including Vinit Deo and six others from Pune. “The total VC funding received is ₹1.5 crore which would give us a runway of 12 months. Thereafter we will be looking for another round of ₹10 crore at least,” says Mangrulkar.What’s next?Mangrulkar says, “On the product side, five years down the line we want to create a global community. Students across regions will be able to connect and work on their goals and careers. The app will be made more attractive and valuable for students by introducing new features including a mentor connect. On the growth side, we are onboarding more colleges and students.” “When on-campus colleges will resume, we will offer students a ‘video challenge’. Students completing these challenges and posting videos of their challenge on our platform will be offered coins and rewards. Also, we will enhance the college digitising efforts by introducing more tracking points and upgrades. Based on students’ behaviour about their interest in the subject, teachers will be able to change their teaching methods accordingly.” Investor speak“Before 2020, the Indian universities and colleges were not allowed to offer more than 20 per cent of degrees online, but recently we have seen a disruptive change in the way education is being delivered. EventBeep is currently operational in 10 college campuses, it has received pre-orders from over 75 colleges and universities for bringing the platform to their campuses. We believe that with the distinctive rise of e-learning and the world revolving around digitisation, technology paves the way for education, by empowering students and creating limitless opportunities and making learning eventful. Our investment will further help to grow the technology base and to reach out to thousands of students helping them to reach their full potential,”says Lax Chepuri, Co-Founder and Partner, SucSEED Indovation Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-colleges-in-tier-2-cities-get-a-community-upgrade-to-iit-levels-thanks-to-eventbeep-101633171600385.html
02-10-2021||Other||‘207 arrested in cases of crime against women in 10 months’: Tripura govt report||Over 200 people were arrested in Tripura in connection to women-related crimes, rape, molestation and murder in ten months since September last year, according to a state government report. According to government data, a total of 240 incidents of crime against women were recorded of which 128 cases are related to rape followed by 111 cases of molestation and one rape followed by murder across the state from September last year till June this year. Tripura police arrested 207 people accused in 151 such cases within the said time period. On the other hand, total of 111 minor girls and another 586 housewives were found to be missing from September last year till June this year, according to the data. However, police recovered 108 minor girls and 536 housewives to date. Besides women related crimes, police took 102 murder cases and arrested 163 accused persons within the time period. The police took a total of 781 cases of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in three years since 2019. As many as 1476 persons accused of the NDPS case were arrested. Chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb, in the recent Assembly session, said that 16,719 crime-related cases were lodged in three years with 6078 in 2018 followed by 5988 cases in 2019 and another 4653 cases last year. “Our state has formed different units, including a serious crime unit, economic offence unit, cybercrime unit etc., to ensure efficient policing,” said Deb in the recently concluded Assembly session. According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) 2020 report, Tripura is in the second position in the northeastern region in case of women related crimes and other crimes that include murder, attempt to murder, medical negligence, road mishaps etc. The state also came second in the region in case of abduction with the registration of 127 cases after Assam which registered 6934 cases of abduction last year, as per the NCRB report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/207-arrested-in-cases-of-crime-against-women-in-10-months-tripura-govt-report-101633170762430.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||UP ATS arrests man from Kanpur in religious conversion racket||Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Friday arrested a man from Kanpur in connection with a religious conversion racket case. Arrested Dheeraj Jagtap is a native of Maharashtra's Yavatmal.According to Uttar Pradesh Police, Dheeraj adopted Islam 10 years back and started converting others. He created Whatsapp groups "Revert', 'Rahab' and 'Dawah' to execute religious conversions and propagate radical messages. He was also an active member of the Islamic Youth Foundation.Uttar Pradesh ATS said Dheeraj was actively involved in the nationwide racket of religious conversions. He used to make people convert to Islam on the pretext of providing jobs or money and sometimes by intimidating them.ATS will produce him before the court on Saturday.Uttar Pradesh ATS has arrested 14 people so far including Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui, Maulana Umar Gautam, Mohammad Idrees Qureshi, Mohammad Salim and others in the nationwide religious conversion racket case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ats-arrests-man-from-kanpur-in-religious-conversion-racket-101633169107787.html
02-10-2021||Other||Nagaland eases more Covid-19 curbs; issues guidelines for Durga Puja celebrations||In view of the state’s Covid-19 positivity rate falling under five percent for two consecutive weeks, the Nagaland government has ordered the reopening of more activities as per the recommendation of the chief minister-led state high powered committee (HPC), officials said. As per the new “unlock” guidelines, social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, political and religious functions and other public gatherings will be permitted outside containment zones beyond 50 percent and up to 100 percent capacity, subject to adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and fulfilment of existing requirements for vaccination or testing.The government also gave a green signal for the resumption of regular/offline classes for students of all classes in the state starting November 1 should the Covid-19 situation continue to further improve. Schools for classes 5 to 10 have already resumed from October 1 with 50% attendance subject to adherence to guidelines to be issued by the Home department. Night curfew has also been relaxed by one hour, and will be in force from 10 pm to 4 am till further orders. Meanwhile, the state government issued a set of guidelines in view of the forthcoming Durga Puja celebrations in the state. According to the guidelines, puja pandals will be allowed to be set up only outside containment zones and the timing for the visit of devotees to the pandals will be restricted to 5 am till 9 pm. The maximum number of persons, including organizers, allowed to gather in the pandals is 50 percent capacity subject to adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as maintenance of social distancing, wearing of masks etc.The organizers are to arrange facilities for hand washing and sanitization at the entrance of puja premises and deploy volunteers/private security to assist the police in ensuring wearing of face masks, social distancing etc, outside the respective puja premises. The organizers should ensure sanitizing the premises before opening and after closing and every six hours during the day, the guidelines said.All visitors to the puja location will be subject to thermal scanning by puja organizers and no person with any symptom related to Covid-19 would be allowed to enter the puja pandals. In case any person/visitor to puja pandal is suspected to be symptomatic with Covid-19, it shall be the responsibility of the puja organizers to inform the nearest government medical facility and arrange for shifting of such person to that medical facility.The guidelines also advised persons above 65 years of age, children below 10 years of age, persons with co-morbidities and pregnant women to avoid visiting the puja pandals.A maximum of 50 persons will be allowed to be a part of any immersion procession and for completing the ritual of immersion, and all concerned should observe Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at all times, the government guidelines added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-eases-more-covid-19-curbs-issues-guidelines-for-durga-puja-celebrations-101633167761578.html
02-10-2021||Kolkata||IMD issues alerts for heavy rain in north Bengal||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday issued alerts for heavy rain over all districts in the northern part of West Bengal, from October 2 to October 4. During this period, the IMD said, thundershowers with lightning are “very likely” to occur over north Bengal, adding that the same activity is “likely to increase” in south Bengal on October 3 and 4.Also Read | 2 dead as fresh floods sweep West Bengal“A low pressure area lies over west Bihar and adjoining east Uttar Pradesh. It is likely to move eastwards and reach east Bihar and adjoining north Bengal during 3rd-4th October 2021. Rainfall activity is likely to increase over the districts of north Bengal during 2nd-4th October 2021,” the weather department said in a bulletin, according to news agency ANI. West Bengal | IMD issues Orange and Yellow warnings for heavy rain for Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Alipurduar, North and South Dinajpur districts and few other districts from 2nd to 4th October pic.twitter.com/L2rWprBgaiThe IMD has issued a yellow alert (used to warn people from any danger) for the following districts in north Bengal for October 2: Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Alipurduar and North and South Dijnapur. For October 3 and 4, this alert applies to the following districts: Coochbehar, North and South Dijnapur, Malda and Murshidabad (October 3); Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalpaiguri (October 4).Also Read | ‘This is a crime’: Mamata Banerjee’s shrill attack over floods in 9 districtsThe yellow alert is for rainfall measuring 7 to 11 centimetres.Meanwhile, the weather body has issued an orange alert (possible deterioration of weather conditions) for the following districts in the division: Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar (October 3); Coochbehar and Alipurduar (October 4). Such an alert is for rainfall measuring 7 to 20 centimetres.According to the Met department's advisory, possible impact of the showers include a rise in water level of rivers, waterlogging in low-lying areas of municipality/corporation, damage of standing vegetable crops, landslides in Darjeeling and Kalimpong, as well as low visibility in the two districts.During the lightning activity, people should stay inside “pucca” structures, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/imd-issues-alerts-for-heavy-rain-in-north-bengal-101633164925905.html
02-10-2021||Other||NIA asked to probe Zeliangrong leader’s murder in Manipur||The Union Home Ministry (MHA) has asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe into the abduction and murder of a Zeliangrong leader and social activist who came to attend a programme of Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh last month, officials said. Athuan Abonmai, advisor and former president of Zeliangrong Naga body, Zeliangrong Baudi, was found dead at Tamenglong, 150 kilometres west of Imphal near Pallong village after report of his abduction by unidentified miscreants in Tamenglong district on September 22. He was known to have come to attend a government programme that Biren Singh also attended. Special secretary (home), Government of Manipur, in a press release issued on Friday said MHA (CTCR Division) issued an order in this regard on Thursday directing “the NIA to take up investigation of the aforesaid case.”Earlier, the state home department had written to the MHA regarding the abduction and murder of Zeliangrong leader.Meanwhile, women in Imphal staged sit-in protests at different locations on Friday demanding a high-level investigation by the NIA, suspension of DC, SP of the Tamenglong district and adequate compensation besides booking the culprits, The newly formed Joint Action Committee (JAC) has called for a 24 hours long shutdown in the state from October 3 at midnight. Earlier, the JAC blocked National Highways 2 and 37 - the two main supply lines of the state on Tuesday.Abonmei had contested the state assembly polls from the Tamei seat in Tamenglong district twice earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nia-asked-to-probe-zeliangrong-leader-s-murder-in-manipur-101633166860340.html
02-10-2021||Other||14 Myanmar nationals with fake Aadhaar cards detained in Manipur||Fourteen Myanmar nationals, including a woman, who were supposed to travel to New Delhi using fake Aadhaar cards were detained by security personnel deployed at the Bir Tikendrajit International Airport in Imphal, Manipur, people aware of the development in the police department said.The detainees who were mostly in their early twenties also reportedly revealed that they crossed into the county through the porous border region. They were handed over to Singjamei Police station in Imphal West district.Meanwhile, eleven of them have been reportedly remanded to police custody till October 8 after appearing before the court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Imphal West, on Friday.Sharing a brief video clip on his social media accounts, chief minister N Biren Singh on Friday tweeted,” The state govt. takes this matter very seriously. Stringent actions will be taken up against those people who enter the country without proper documents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14-myanmar-nationals-with-fake-aadhaar-cards-detained-in-manipur-101633164100204.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy procurement delay: Protesting farmers march towards Haryana CM Khattar's residence||At a time when the Haryana government is already facing farmers’ anger over the three contentious central agricultural laws, it has now invited protests over its decision to postpone the procurement of paddy, from October 1 to October 11. Protesting farmers on Saturday marched towards chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence in Karnal, breaking police barricades with a tractor, and forcing security personnel to make way for them. #WATCH Protestors break barricades, police use water cannon against them, gathered outside the residence of Haryana CM ML Khattar in Karnal after paddy procurement delayed till October 10 in Haryana pic.twitter.com/ZPWqYp1JqUThe police tried, in vain, to stop the farmers by using water cannon against them. The protesters have threatened to gherao the chief minister’s residence “indefinitely” until agencies begin procuring paddy for markets in the state.Separately, farmers gathered outside the residence of Khattar’s colleague in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), legislator Aseem Goel, objecting to the delay in procurement.
02-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Cong condemns Kejriwal govt's decision to ban Chhath Puja in public places||Two days after the Aam Aadmi Party- (AAP) led government in Delhi said that Chhath puja celebrations will not be allowed in public places and river banks in the national capital, the Congress party on Saturday condemned the decision and asked for permission for the celebrations on November 7. Speaking to news agency ANI, Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar Chaudhary said the government should allow Chhath puja at public places. "When Ramlila and Dussehra can be organised with certain conditions, then Chhath pooja can also be conducted with Covid-19 protocols in place," Chaudhary added."The government should allow people to celebrate Chhath puja at open places on Yamuna Banks, Bawana Munak (canal) and Bhalswa lake. People could perform rituals while following the social distancing norms but the government has banned the celebration of Chhath Puja," he also told the news agency.Also Read| Delhi: For 2nd yr, Chhath Puja celebrations in public banned over Covid-19 fearsChaudhary also pointed out that the owner of a house in Delhi might be hesitant in letting the tenant celebrate the puja and hence the government should allow it at public places.Before Anil Kumar Chaudhary, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manoj Tiwari also criticised the Delhi government's move to disallow people from publicly celebrating Chhath puja. Tiwari said on Friday that the decision to ban celebrations hurt the sentiments of the community. “1.8 crore people have got vaccinated…weekly markets, Metro, buses, theatre, liquor vends etc. are all open, then why can’t people celebrate Chhath while following Covid-19 restrictions, @ArvindKejriwal? Please meet and provide a solution,” Tiwari's tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Also Read| CM Kejriwal should allow Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi: BJP MP Manoj TiwariThe Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued the order on Friday. “Chhath Puja festival celebrations shall not be allowed in public places, public grounds, riverbanks, ghats, temples, etc in Delhi and the public is advised to celebrate the same at their homes,” it said.This is the second consecutive year that public celebrations of Chhath have been banned in the national capital due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. However, the DDMA allowed the public celebration of festivals such as Ramlila, Durga Puja and Dussehra, Hindustan Times reported on Thursday.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cong-condemns-kejriwal-govt-s-decision-to-ban-chhath-puja-in-public-places-101633161001807.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Video of girl dancing inside Bada Imambada sparks controversy||The All India Shia Muslim Personal Law Board (AISMPLB), Shia clerics and other Shia youth wing members registered a strong protest after a 30-second video clip of a girl dancing inside Lucknow’s Bada Imambada went viral, officials said.Calling the act ‘un-Islamic’ and ‘breach of sacredness’ of the religious structure, the protestors condemned the act and demanded a ban on the entry of the tourists at Bada Imambada while Shia youths said they are going to lodge FIR into the matter.Initially, Shia Muslims demanded a ban on wedding shoots inside Bada Imambada and also opposed the shooting of ‘tik-tok’ videos in and around the premises.“We strongly oppose the act as it is a breach of the sacredness of the religious structure. We demand the immediate intervention of the district magistrate, the chairman of the Hussainabad and Allied Trust (HAT) that owns the structure, and demand a ban on the entry of tourists in the Bada Imambada. One must not forget that it is not a tourist place, it is a religious structure and such acts hurts our religious sentiments,” said Maulana Yasoob Abbas, senior Shia cleric and general secretary of AISMPLB.Similarly, Maulana Saif Abbas, president, Shia Chand Committee too raised the objection on the video clip and said it is not the first time when such videos have gone viral. “We strongly oppose the act and demand action against the girl. We have written several letters to the administration demanding a ban on such acts which hurts our religious sentiments. The sanctity of Imambadas should be maintained,” said Abbas.However, Shia Muslim youths said an FIR should be lodged against the girl. “Such acts should be banned immediately. We are going to lodge FIR into the matter against the girl and the person who was shooting the video,” said Shamil Shamsi, convener ‘Hussaini Tigers’ — a group of Shia Muslim youths.Besides, he said that they have also written to the ASI and HAT to make all possible arrangements and install CCTV cameras in order to keep a check on such acts.In the 30 second video, a girl in black attire and wearing a mask was seen dancing inside Bada Imambada that is also known as Asafi Imambada. However, it is not for the first time when objections to such acts were raised. In 2019, the ban on pre and post-wedding shoots inside Bada Imambada was imposed after an objection raised by Shia Muslims, including cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad. However, in the year 2020, Shia Muslims demanded a ban on the shooting of ‘tik tok’ videos at Bada Imambada. A Shia Muslim group also demanded a dress code and said that tourists only in decent attires should be allowed to enter the Imambada.Bada Imambada, an over-200-year old Nawabi-era structure, was constructed by the then Nawab Asaf Ud Daulah during 1784-1791 to carry out religious ceremonies. It is among the most popular tourist destinations in Lucknow. If officials with HAT and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) are to be believed, Bada Imambada is among the three most frequented heritage structures of the state capital including Chhota Imambada and Residency.As per the records with the HAT, in 2019 Bada Imambada witnessed a footfall of 80,6854 tourists, of these 5361 were from foreign countries. The same financial year saw a revenue collection of ₹4,92,14,343. However, the tourist movement dipped in 2020 and 2021 amid the pandemic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/video-of-girl-dancing-inside-bada-imambada-sparks-controversy-101633163199631.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Veteran Delhi Congress leader Tajdar Babar no more||Veteran Delhi Congress leader and former president of the party Tajdar Babar passed away on Saturday.Babar, aged around 85, was admitted at a hospital in Malviya Nagar for 15-20 days due to health issues. She passed away at 5.30 am, said Delhi Congress party president Anil Kumar.Babar was the mother of senior Congress leader and former Mayor Farhad Suri. Her last rites will be performed at a graveyard in Nizamuddin East area in the evening, said party leaders.Her mortal remains are kept at the community building in Nizamuddin East for people to pay homage to her. The body will be taken for burial around 4.30 pm, they said.She was also an MLA of Delhi Assembly from Minto Road constituency that was later merged with the New Delhi Assembly segment.Many senior party leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, paid tributes to Babar."My condolences to the family and friends of Smt. Tajdar Babar ji. We remember her commitment towards the people of Delhi and the values of the Congress party," Gandhi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/veteran-delhi-congress-leader-tajdar-babar-no-more-101633162411056.html
02-10-2021||Ranchi||New high court building to be completed soon: Jharkhand govt to HC||The Jharkhand government on Friday informed the high court that the pending work of the under-construction new HC building will be completed soon.The Building Construction Department said that the Bill of Quantities has been finalised and the financial bid from prospective bidders is yet to be opened.Bill of Quantities or BOQ is a document formulated in the construction industry to specify materials, labour and cost.The division bench of Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad and Ratnaker Bhengra, while hearing the public interest litigation filed by advocate Rajeev Kumar, ordered the state government to file a status report in the matter.The case will be heard again on October 7.Kumar had filed the PIL in 2018 exposing alleged anomalies in the construction work of the new high court which is now being investigated by the anti-corruption bureau.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/new-high-court-building-to-be-completed-soon-jharkhand-govt-to-hc-101633159136659.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices touch all-time high in Mumbai, petrol sells at ₹108 per litre||At an all-time high, fuel prices surged in Mumbai on Saturday. Petrol crossed ₹108 while diesel crossed ₹98 in the city on Saturday. Fuel prices increased in the city on the third consecutive day.One litre of petrol was priced at ₹108.19 while a litre of diesel was available at ₹98.16. An increase of 24 paise and 32 paise were witnessed respectively on Saturday.Fuel prices were hiked in Thane as well, one litre of petrol was available at ₹108.33 while a litre of diesel was priced at ₹98.29. On Friday, a litre of petrol was priced at Rs. 107.95 while one litre of diesel was available at ₹97.84.Petrol increased by 24 paise while diesel increased by 32 paise on Friday.On Thursday, petrol was priced at ₹107.71 per litre while one litre of diesel was available at ₹97.52 in Mumbai.In Maharashtra’s Parbhani, petrol was the costliest in the state at ₹110.75 while diesel was selling at ₹99.70 in Amravati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-touch-all-time-high-in-mumbai-petrol-sells-at-rs-108-per-litre-101633158821482.html
02-10-2021||Patna||Bihar govt’s focus back on Nitish’s dream project Simultala Awasiya Vidyalay||After a long wait, the Bihar government has turned its focus on chief minister Nitish Kumar’s dream project, Simultala Awasiya Vidyalaya (SAV) - a unique abode of learning in a picturesque hamlet bordering Jharkhand where the elite once spent months in the still existing sprawling villas. The project is billed as Bihar’s answer to the undivided state’s pride Netarhat Vidyalay.The government has also decided to develop ‘Swastho Kothi’, where Swami Vivekanand once lived to recover from illness, as an attraction for visitors and inspiration for students. The premises where the campus is being developed also includes ‘Swastho Kothi’.Last month, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar, director (secondary education) Manoj Kumar, managing director of the Bihar state educational infrastructure corporation Shrikant Shastri, among others, reached Simultala by helicopter to make an on-the-spot review of the infrastructure development work and interacted with teachers, staff and students to get a first-hand feel of the ground realities for taking immediate steps required to make it a pace-setting institution as envisaged.“The school has done well as far as its results in the Bihar board is concerned but the larger objective of holistic education through the Gurukul system to prepare students for future challenges in varied fields is yet to be achieved. It was set up to fill the void, which was felt after Netarhat Vidyalaya went to Jharkhand following bifurcation. There are certain issues, which will be worked upon, viz. infrastructure development, faculty and staff shortage etc. The students also gave their feedback and highlighted loopholes that need to be addressed,” said the minister.In Niti Aayog’s SDG India Index 2020-21, Bihar has been adjudged again as the worst performer. The School Education Quality Index (SEQI) is developed to evaluate the performance of states and Union territories (UTs) in the school education sector.Choudhary said an on-the-spot visit had been planned to take stock of the issues and help the institution achieve its avowed objective as it is close to the heart of the chief minister and was set up with a purpose to give talented students a platform to make their mark. “There are certain limitations right now. The building construction has just begun. As far as vacancies are concerned, they will be filled at the earliest. Students’ grievances will be resolved and officials will soon visit to give positive solutions. ‘Swastho Kothi’ will be protected and developed to inspire the present generation. I visited the place. A statue of Swami Vivekanand will also be installed to make it an added attraction for the SAV and inspiration for the students,” he added.Swami Vivekanand spent a fortnight at the ‘Swastho Kothi’ in 1887 to regain his health. The place has now been taken by the government on lease for developing the school campus. Earlier, some villagers met local legislator Damodar Rawat with a request to keep the rich legacy intact. With the minister’s assurance to further develop it as an inspirational spot, that issue was resolved.Since its inception in 2010, the boarding school, with an annual intake of 120 students (60 boys and 60 girls) through a statewide screening test, has been running from rented buildings having prefab structures, though the SAV project was to be initially completed by March 2012. Now, the fresh deadline for campus development is February 2023 and the minister has asked the contractors to speed up work so that the deadline is not missed. The work was started during the Covid-19 pandemic.In its debut class 10 board exams in 2015, 19 SAV students secured more than 96% - a record since the inception of the Bihar school examination board in 1952. A year later, all 42 students in the top 10 were from SAV. Though the same performance could not be maintained, it remains the best performer in the state. The government spends a handsome budget on SAV which other government schools are deprived of. In the beginning, it was planned to make SAV a CBSE-affiliated school to let the students compete nationally, but later it stuck to the Bihar board. Netarhat has now switched over to CBSE. Earlier, a CAG report also flagged certain issues, including lack of account of the SAV Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-s-focus-back-on-nitish-s-dream-project-simultala-awasiya-vidyalay-101633158340460.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Following the Mahatma: Cycling for a Green India||What better than a cyclothon to spread the message of a green way of life, in consonance with Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals? The event, which began as part of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, culminates at Rajghat, right on the birth anniversary of the Mahatma. Braving tough terrains, monsoon, blizzard and dust-laden winds, jawans and officers of paramilitary forces — including CISF, BSF and ITBP — took part in cycle rallies that began from locations across India. One team will continue beyond Delhi to Kevadia, Gujarat, to celebrate Rashtriya Ekta Divas on October 31.“We planned to carry the message of our freedom fighters through the journey, and along with it, honour them for their supreme sacrifices. It is a reminder for Indians to pay homage to our martyrs. We visited their birthplaces and memorials. Besides, we have been promoting several government initiatives for health and cleanliness as well as plantation activities to seek general commitment towards a brighter India,” says ITBP assistant commandant Adheesh Gupta.Pradeep Kumar, ITBP assistant commandant, who joined the rally from Bareilly to Rajghat, says that all cyclists prepared well before the event. “Challenges kaafi the par humara ITBP ka post 9,000-18,000ft ki uchai par hai aur Indo-China border ki upari seemaon ki raksha kar raha hai. Our jawans actively participate in events which are organised for the nation, such as mountaineering expeditions and cycling rallies. For this event, we underwent physical and medical fitness tests. Our medical team also came with us,” he shares.To mark Gandhi Jayanti, cyclists intend to pay a tribute to the Mahatma at Rajghat. BSF officer Ajit Singh, whose team started from Jhansi, tells us, “We will reach Rajghat around 4pm and will attend the pushpanjali there. After this, we will be heading to Red Fort, where the final flagging of the rally will occur.” Meeting the locals of the places where the cyclists made stops was inspiring, says Prashant Nagar, assistant commandant, BSF. “We started from Gwalior and reached Delhi in five days. Everywhere we went, the public greeted us with enthusiasm. We were overwhelmed by the feeling. We could feel their respect for the forces and their sense of nationalism. We held on to the goal of Swachh Bharat throughout the journey. Wherever we stopped, we would try to clean up the place as much as possible. We have a tradition in the forces that if we stop en route, before leaving, we clean up the place. So, we did all this in public areas, to send out a message to everyone to keep our nation clean,” Nagar concludes.Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/following-the-mahatma-cycling-for-a-green-india-101633155040124.html
02-10-2021||Other||Odisha saw record September rainfall in 14 years, farmers’ woes rise||A burst of rainfall propelled by a deep depression across the Bay of Bengal in September this year made it the wettest September in the last 14 years in Odisha. Around 385 mm of rainfall poured across the state bridging the rain deficit, but farmers and experts are not sure if the late rains would help the farming.Meteorologists said in September, 384.9 mm of rainfall was recorded in the state, bringing the deficit down to just 9 per cent less than the normal from 29 per cent deficit by the end of August. September is the month when the monsoon is on a withdrawal phase and sees less amount of rain, but this year, rainfall was higher in that month compared to June, July and August. In June, it rained 181.3 mm, while July saw 275 mm of rainfall. In August it was 204.8 mm.“July and August are the two months when farmers get much of the rainfall they need for Kharif crops. But the prolonged dry phase in July and August was disrupted by a very wet September. Bhubaneswar recorded 195 mm of rainfall over 24 hours while Puri was lashed by 341 mm of rainfall in 24 hours on September 12, an all-time single-day record for September. This is one more evidence of climate change,” said Uma Shankar Das, a senior Meteorologist of Regional Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar.The last time it rained so much in September was in 2007 when Odisha received 401.7 mm rainfall causing a flood. The highest September rainfall record was in 1961 when it rained 483.2 mm.Incidentally, the late burst of rainfall happened when farmers across the state were resigned to their fate over an imminent drought with 24 of the 30 districts recording more than 20 per cent deficient rains. August was worse with an overall deficit of around 63 per cent. Districts like Angul (88 per cent), Kandhamal (85 per cent), Bargarh (83 per cent), Sambalpur (83 per cent), Sonepur (80 per cent), Boudh (79 per cent), Jharsuguda, Puri, Keonjhar (78 per cent each), Bolangir, Deogarh (76 per cent each) and Nuapada (75 per cent) saw rains disappear.On September 1, Odisha agriculture minister Arun Sahoo told the state assembly that in view of an imminent drought, contingency crop plans would be implemented after 213 of 314 blocks in Odisha faced deficient rainfall. “Odisha has experienced drought 8 times in last 20 years. But we are prepared to tackle a possible drought,” said Sahoo in the assembly.The record rainfall in September has somewhat kept the fears of drought at bay, but farmer leaders said the late burst of rainfall is certainly not going to help the farmers in Odisha this year. Incidentally, at least 6 of the 30 districts, including the rice bowel districts of Kalahandi and Sambalpur, are still in the red despite record rainfall in September.“Timing of rains is very important in paddy farming and late rains affect germination to a great extent. While in coastal Odisha, farmers plant kharif paddy around August, in western Odisha, in districts like Sambalpur, Bargarh and Kalahandi, which are major paddy producing districts, farming starts around June. Post-transplantation activities in western Odisha were greatly affected by insufficient rainfall in July and August. Even by the end of September, Sambalpur district as a whole is running deficient by 28 per cent. We would see lesser harvest this year due to late rains,” said Ashok Pradhan of Paschima Odisha Krushak Sangram Samanwaya Samiti, a major farmers organisation in western Odisha.Pradhan said, on Wednesday hundreds of farmers in Jamankira block of Sambalpur held a huge demonstration demanding that the government declare drought in their area which would help them get assistance from the government.In the western Odisha district of Bargarh, farmer Jhasketan Bhoi of Bhatli block said the delayed rainfall gave rise to weed in the paddy field. “By the end of August, Bargarh was rain deficient by 31 per cent. There were several blocks where the rainfall deficiency was higher which led to wilting of paddy seeds. Farmers who had access to borewell or some source of water, managed to stay afloat but others have suffered a lot,” said Bhoi.In the western Odisha district of Sonepur, which had a rainfall deficiency of 34 per cent till August-end, farmers had a major worry as it rained non stop in September. In Jampali village of the district, farmers who earned a livelihood from vegetable cultivation and borrowed from local moneylenders were shattered after their vegetable crop of cauliflower, brinjal, tomato, long beans, bitter gourd, chilly and radish were destroyed in the September rainfall.This time we had cultivated cauliflower and cabbages and wanted to sell them at the start of the winter season at Jampali market. But the September rainfall submerged our farmlands destroying all vegetable plants,” said farmer Binod Bisi.“I don’t know how I am going to pay my loans.”Experts say heavy rainfall in the monsoon season after a prolonged dry phase is going to prove disastrous for a state like Odisha that has not been able to negotiate the adverse impacts of climate change.“For a state like Odisha, such extreme rainfall is going to be disastrous for the farmers who are clearly at their wit’s end. We are doing a vulnerability analysis and risk assessment of Odisha with the help of IIT Mandi,” said senior scientist KC Pal, ecology and environment, working in the forest and environment department.The successive natural disasters have taken their toll on farmer incomes across the state. The All India Debt and Investment Survey, conducted between January and December 2019 by the National Sample Survey Organisation, the reports of which were released this month, showed Odisha farmers had the lowest average value of asset (AVA) per farmer household at ₹6.21 lakh while Delhi topped the list with ₹4.65 million. Odisha performed worse than Assam where the AVA was ₹8.68 lakh and Jharkhand ( ₹9.61 lakh).The Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India, 2019, conducted by the National Statistical Office the report of which was released last week, showed that the average monthly income of an Odisha farmer was ₹5112, the second-lowest after Jharkhand which reported average monthly income of ₹4895.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-saw-record-september-rainfall-in-14-years-farmers-woes-rise-101633152580326.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||Western Railways to install 2,729 cameras with 4K technology across 30 stations||Western Railways is installing 2,729 cameras with 4K technology in all of its 30 stations of Mumbai suburban network from Virar to Churchgate, said Chief Public Relations Officer (CPRO) of Western Railways on Friday.Speaking to ANI, Sumit Thakur, CPRO, Western Railways said that out of 2,729 cameras, 450 have face recognition technology that will be primarily installed at entry and exit points of the stations."Under the integrated surveillance system, 2,729 high-resolution cameras worth ₹60 crores are being installed in 30 stations of the Mumbai local train network. These cameras have a tilt angle of 180 to 270 degrees that will help in 360 degrees of an area leaving no blind spot behind. Basically, these cameras will help us keep an eye on the crowd, any abandoned object or trespassing in the stations," he stated."The data collected from these cameras will be beamed through an IP network to 12 surveillance stations and will be further relayed to a unified control command. Through these, all these 30 stations will be under a digital eye," he added.Talking about the cameras with face recognition technology, the CPRO said, "If the cameras recognise a person whose face is stored in our database, then immediately an alert will be sent to the concerned authorities. The recognition can be done through any part of the face like retina or forehead."Elaborating on the monitoring system for the cameras, the CPRO said that there will be a multilayered monitoring network for the cameras and the data collected by the cameras will be stored for a period of 30 days."These cameras are a step towards holistic surveillance as security and safety of the commuters is paramount to us," he said.Thakur informed that the cameras will be installed by the end of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/western-railways-to-install-2-729-cameras-with-4k-technology-across-30-stations-101633151142131.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||From Nov, Delhi govt to start survey to track inactive ration cards: Minister||From November, the Aam-Aadmi Party (AAP)-led government in Delhi will begin carrying out a door-to-door survey to track ration cards, which have been inactive for the past two to three months, Delhi food minister Imran Hussain has said. “We will conduct a door-to-door survey from next month to check beneficiaries who are not collecting ration for two-three months. We will check if the person has gone to his hometown or is sick. In such genuine cases, ration cards will not be disconnected,” Imran Hussain told PTI on Friday.Hussain also said that if the ration card is inactive and the beneficiary is not existing or has left Delhi, then such card will be cancelled and new ones will be included. The food minister assured that ration cards will not be cancelled without any valid reason. A ration card is said to be inactive when the beneficiary does not collect the subsidised ration from fair price shops for three straight months."There will be some people who must have not come in July but collected ration in August and some must have skipped August but taken food grains in September. We will spare those cards who did not come to collect ration for one or two months," Hussain further said. He added that with the use of electronic-point of sale (e-PoS) machines by the end of this month, the department will have data about beneficiaries who are contentiously not collecting ration.The Delhi government banned the use of e-PoS machines in early 2018 after complaints came in of poor network leading to authentication failures and exclusion of genuine beneficiaries. However, the system was restored in July this year. Delhi currently has around 7.2 million beneficiaries, who are delivered ration through a network of around 2,000 fair price shops under the public distribution system.Delhi food minister Hussain chaired a review meeting on September 9 to issue new ration cards and told officials to ensure that cases of biometric mismatch don’t lead to any problem for beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-nov-delhi-govt-to-start-survey-to-track-inactive-ration-cards-minister-101633144670592.html
02-10-2021||Other||Pala wonders why Mukul Sangma won’t take his calls||Politics in Meghalaya is churning out another potpourri of action with the open spat between Shillong MP and new Meghalaya Congress president Vincent H Pala and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Dr Mukul Sangma.Pala, once again, iterated that he had made several attempts to reach out and connect with Dr Sangma but “unfortunately” it did not fructify. “I tried to meet him since I reached Shillong. I went to his house also, but I couldn’t meet him… they said he is in Tura,” Pala told HT over the phone late night while returning to Shillong from Delhi after a brief detour to share a quick meal with chief minister Conrad Sangma at a premier hotel in Guwahati.He said that even his messages failed to elicit any response from Dr Sangma. “I don’t know why he’s not replying. If you call me and I don’t answer, don’t I always call you back even if it is late?” he said, adding, “It’s ok, let’s leave that behind now, I will meet him at the PEC meeting later.”The PEC (Party Election Committee) meeting is scheduled for 11 am today at the sprawling Windermere Estate owned by Congress legislator from Nongthymmai, Charles Pyngrope.“It’s a brief 10-15 minutes meeting to select the candidates for the three bye-elections, I don’t think it is going to take long. I will meet Doctor after that,” Pala said.When asked about his visit to Delhi, he said it was related to a pre-scheduled Parliament Committee meeting and nothing else. “I did not meet anyone from the AICC, and I returned soon after my work to be on time for the PEC meeting,” he said.On being queried about the news of Dr Sangma possibly parting ways with the party and looking at more viable options, the politician said he was made aware of this through media reports. He replied, “Is it true? I know that he (Mukul) said he was going to Delhi to meet with the AICC leaders, what they discussed I am not aware really.”Meanwhile, all eyes are on the astute politician and his every move will remain under scrutiny. According to a person close to Dr Sangma, who is known to be extremely good at keeping secrets, “this time he is keeping all his cards really close to his chest, I doubt it if even his family knows anything”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pala-wonders-why-mukul-sangma-won-t-take-his-calls-101633145620895.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The pale white Red Fort||Great stories, they say, can also be told backwards, or sideways. Like the Red Fort. You must have seen the Mughal-era monument in all its red glory—the sandstone ramparts spread out along a great length of Delhi’s Netaji Subhash Marg. Now start afresh by heading to the Ring Road, behind. Launch a leisurely walk from Raj Ghat towards Kashmere Gate. Here the Lal Qila is sans its Lal. The Red Fort appears pale white.This is back of the fort. Indeed, the Red Fort has the distinction of being the only monument in the Capital whose rear doesn’t appear like a rear at all (try that with Jama Masjid or Hauz Khas ruins). Instead, it opens up like a book that tells the same story but in a very different style.In the old times, this side of the fort faced the Yamuna—you might have seen it in old paintings. Today the river has drifted further east and the fort has ended up facing this traffic-heavy avenue. Whatever, the much-neglected rear side offers something that the classic frontside doesn’t —a view of the innards of the fort, built by Emperor Shah Jahan as his palace when he shifted his capital to our city some 400 years ago.The fort’s rear is bordered by Dilli Chalo Park. Named after a call raised by freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose, this place was until some decades ago the site of a footpath market selling all sorts of bargainable knick-knack.This evening, the gates are locked and the fountains are dry. Beyond the sandstone wall in the distance, above a tall platform, a few pigeons are hovering about a white dome that used to be the emperor’s apartment, the Khas Mahal. It is flanked by his harem, the Rang Mahal. Then there’s the Diwan-e-Khas that had the peacock throne. You see all this from the Ring Road.Walking ahead, you realise that barely anything of the Red Fort appears to be red, except the ramparts. Indeed, almost all the private apartments of the royals were built in white marble. The Lal Qila wasn’t even originally called the Lal Qila. It was Qila Mubarak, the Blessed Fort.In the walk’s final stretches, the fort wall comes so close towards the pavement that you could almost touch the old stones. In certain places, the pathway is home to homeless men, sitting silently in their motionless postures, indifferent to the historic landmark, as if it were nothing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-pale-white-red-fort-101633135716100.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||SC declines plea to keep pvt liquor vendors in Delhi open till November 16||The Supreme Court on Friday closed the doors on 260 private liquor vends in the Capital seeking a last-minute approval to remain operational beyond September 30, the cut-off date prescribed under the Delhi government’s new excise policy for private vends to shut shop for 46 days, before the new liquor regime kicks off from November 17.According to the new policy, the Delhi government required all existing liquor vends to close by September 30. For the period from October 1 till November 16, only government liquor vends will stay open to cater to the festive season rush. The government will exit the retail sale of liquor in Delhi from November 17, and all its vends will shut.In all, there are 849 liquor stores in Delhi of which more than 260 are privately run, holding L7 and L10 licenses. Around 408 liquor vends in Delhi will be operational till November 17.Demanding parity with government liquor vends to operate till November 16, the private liquor vends, mostly operating in malls, told the Supreme Court that there will be chaos at the government liquor vends during Diwali, and to avoid this, it will be “fair and just in the public interest” for private liquor vends to meet the Capital’s liquor demand.The court was hearing separate appeals filed by Radinton Tradex Private Limited and one Harish Chauhan against interim orders passed by the Delhi high court, which refused to stall the roll-out of the new excise policy. The Delhi Liquor Traders Association approached the high court against the excise policy, a matter that is still under consideration.The bench of Supreme Court justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said, “We are not inclined to entertain these petitions.”“What larger public interest will be served if the private liquor vends are allowed to operate till November 16,” it asked.Senior advocates Vikas Singh and Sidharth Luthra appearing for the private liquor vends told the court, “The rush outside government liquor vends is huge and this can be avoided if we are allowed to operate. Also, the state will earn revenue as we sell top quality liquor for which the customers in the Capital will go to Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.”The Delhi government appeared on caveat and was represented by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi who argued that the old policy was meant to expire on September 30 to ensure a smooth, seamless transfer to the new excise policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-declines-plea-to-keep-pvt-liquor-vendors-in-delhi-open-till-november-16-101633132568538.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Gahlot: Delhi govt to set up driving test tracks in schools to raise capacity||Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Friday said that the government will soon set up drivers’ test tracks in some government schools to increase the capacity of transport offices. “Very soon we will take on board schools and colleges and have already identified six locations, where we will establish tracks for driving tests,” said Gahlot, who attended a road safety summit organised by the transport department on Friday.The transport minister also launched a six-month long social media campaign under the hashtag 'SadakSurakshitDelhiSurakshit, aimed at deterring people from overspeeding and drunk driving, and encouraging correct use of helmets and seat belts.The Delhi government said that the transport has inked an MoU with IIT-Delhi’s Foundation for Innovation and Technology Transfer to work on road safety projects and policies. “With this partnership, the government envisages more data driven research, enforcement and execution including road crash data analysis, integration with Implementation of Integrated Road Accident Database, more blackspot identification and rectification etc,” said the government statement.The summit also included presentations by Transportation Research and Injury Prevention Centre (TRIP Centre) of IIT-Delhi highlighting how evidence-based global best practices accompanied by sustained enforcement helps in reducing road crashes, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gahlot-delhi-govt-to-set-up-driving-test-tracks-in-schools-to-raise-capacity-101633131970740.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ground situation belies BJP govt’s claims of development in J&K: PAGD||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration on Friday said the ground situation in the union territory (UT) belies the BJP government’s claims of development post-abrogation of special status of J&K.The PAGD in a statement said the claims of the BJP government that the abrogation of Article 370 has paved way for new industries, created new employment opportunities, decreased terror incidents, brought atmosphere of peace and security, nurtured democracy, eradicated corruption, and brought new central laws for betterment of people in this region are nothing but “concocted and fabricated” stories while the ground situation belies these claims. “The claims in a recently released report by the Union home ministry are far from the reality. The reality is that there is a systematic disempowerment of the people of Jammu and Kashmir that is continuing to happen through bureaucratic rule,” PAGD spokesperson MY Tarigami said. He said the projects mentioned in the booklet are mostly approved by the previous governments, but shown to have been the outcome of abrogation of Article 370. “On November 7, 2015, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had in Srinagar announced a reconstruction programme during the PDP-BJP coalition government of about ₹80,000 crore, known as the Prime Minister’s Development Package, to strengthen the social-economic infrastructure of Jammu & Kashmir. It is claimed that after the reorganisation of the erstwhile state, 53 projects of ₹58,477 crore in J&K and nine projects worth ₹21,441 crore in Ladakh are under progress which are the part of the PM’s 2015 package. How can you attribute this progress to abrogation of Article 370?” he asked. He said that the BJP government was boasting of implementation of various laws, like Land Reforms and the RTI Act, which were claimed to have been effective now.“This is a blatant lie as the state of Jammu and Kashmir was a pioneer in implementing the revolutionary land reforms laws which no other state had done, except Kerala to some extent. Similarly, the erstwhile state’s own RTI Act was stronger than the Union law. Its repeal when Article 370 was read down has led to chaos and complications. Without knowing the facts of the matter, BJP leaders had maintained that the people of J&K had no access to information under the RTI Act until Article 370 was read down,” he added. The spokesperson said that one of the much-touted success stories of the NDA government has been its achievement in getting bank accounts opened for women under programmes to expand their financial inclusion and gender equality. “Before the NDA assumed power, government data reveal that significant progress was made in Jammu and Kashmir in the past one decade. Article 370 was not an impediment in the overall development of the state as claimed by the government. All government data and surveys indicate a marked improvement in almost all human development indices in the state,” Tarigami said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ground-situation-belies-bjp-govt-s-claims-of-development-in-j-k-pagd-101633130978180.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||J&K clocks 133 new Covid cases||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 133 fresh coronavirus infections and one death on Friday. Of the total, 97 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 33 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 138 with active positive cases reaching 1,339 which are four less than yesterday.Officials said with 67 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 14 cases in Budgam district. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,23,811, prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.23%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,29,563 and the death toll stands at 4,423.183 test +ve for Covid in HimachalMeanwhile, Himachal Pradesh logged 183 fresh Covid cases on Friday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,19,244 while the death toll mounted to 3,663 after three more patients died of the contagion. The active cases have gone up to 1,694 while recoveries reached 2,13,871 after 281 people recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-clocks-133-new-covid-cases-101633130619084.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man held over J&K Police inspector’s killing in Srinagar||A man accused of being involved in the killing of a police inspector in the Nowgam area here has been arrested, police said on Friday.Inspector Parvez Ahmad was shot dead by militants when he was on his way to the mosque to offer prayers in Nowgam on the outskirts of the city on June 22 this year.“Police in Srinagar have arrested one accused involved in the killing of Inspector Parvez Ahmad. He has been identified as Muheeb Bashir Dar, a resident of Manganwagi,” a police spokesperson said.He said Dar is also involved in many other terror-related incidents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-held-over-j-k-police-inspector-s-killing-in-srinagar-101633130498088.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||In brief: 14-year-old boy from PoJK nabbed in Poonch||The army on Friday nabbed a 14-year-old boy from Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK), who had crossed the Line of Control (LoC) in Balnoi area of Poonch district. He was identified as Ali Yadar, son of Mohammad Sharif of Malla Baspora in Kotli district of PoJK. “About 12.30pm, a PoJK national, aged around 14 years, crossed the LoC and was apprehended by the Indian Army troops along Mendhar river in Balnoi area,” said a defence spokesperson. He was immediately detained. Official sources said that the boy seemed to be case of inadvertent crossing and was likely to be repatriated in a day or two. 2 women drown in flash flood in J&K’s RajouriTwo women were washed away in a flash flood in a rivulet in Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district on Friday, officials said here. The incident took place when the women were at a farmland near the rivulet in Chatyari Bagla village, they said. In the search and rescue operation launched by authorities, body of one the women has been recovered. SJVN earns record ₹2,168 crore PBT in current FY: CMDShimla The Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam (SJVN) has earned a record ₹2,168.67 crore Profit Before Tax in the current financial year while its net profit has gone up to ₹1,633.04 crores from ₹1,557.43 crores in 2019-20. Addressing a press conference here SJVN CMD Nand Lal Sharma said the PSU’s Earnings Per Share (EPS) increased from ₹ 3.96 per share in 2019-20 to ₹ 4.16 per share in 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-brief-14-year-old-boy-from-pojk-nabbed-in-poonch-101633130258189.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP sees five deaths, 284 cases of scrub typhus this year||A total of 284 cases of scrub typhus have been detected in Himachal Pradesh and five people have died due to the bacterial disease this year so far. Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) senior medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said a total of 2,049 samples have been tested till date for scrub typhus. “A total of 284 people were found infected. The first fatality was recorded on September 8 and since then, four more people have lost their lives to the disease,” he added. Besides chikungunya and dengue, scrub typhus is the third most prevalent disease these days, Dr Raj said. Scrub typhus is a bacterial infection caused by orientia tsutsugamushi bacteria that is fatal. It is caused by the bite of infected larval mite (chigger), which is mainly found in shrubs. It is largely prevalent in the rural areas and occurs mostly during the monsoon season. Its symptoms are similar to chikungunya’s. It is spread by fleas that feed on grass-fed insects. While dengue and chikungunya are more prevalent in urban areas, scrub typhus cases are found more in villages. The symptoms of scrub typhus are fever, muscle pain, headache, cough and gastrointestinal problems. The disease is mostly caused in rural areas. The peak of the disease is August to October. Dr Raj urged people to be aware and said, “People should avoid walking barefoot and wear gloves and gumboots while working in fields. If people notice any symptoms of the disease, they should immediately visit nearby hospital.” He said it is important that bushes and grass do not grow nearby houses. If there is an outbreak of insects in the kitchen garden, steps should be taken to control it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-sees-five-deaths-284-cases-of-scrub-typhus-this-year-101633129778140.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of HP bypolls, Congress steps up offensive against BJP government||Ahead of the parliamentary and assembly byelections in the end of this month, the Congress has stepped up offensive against the Jai Ram Thakur-led state BJP government over rising inflation and unemployment. Members of the Congress, led by its Himachal chief, took out a march in Dharamshala on Friday protesting against jobs given to the non-Himachalis in government departments in recent days. The protest march began from the war memorial and culminated into a public meeting at DC’s office. Rathore said a series of protests is being organised at district level against the “injustice” being done to the youth of Himachal. “I personally came here to participate in the protest as Kangra is an important district,” said Rathore. Taking on the state government, Rathore said there was an unprecedented rise in inflation under the current BJP regime while the public also suffers due to poor law and order situation. “Even the opposition leaders are being attacked,” he claimed. ‘Jobs to outsiders, injustice to Himachal youth’ Rathore said the employment scenario has deteriorated in Himachal since the Covid outbreak. “Instead, of providing relief to the youth of Himachal, the state government is giving jobs to non-Himachalis in public sector which is evident from the recruitments done in departments like electricity board and PWD,” he alleged. Rathore also claimed that the most of the non-Himachalis who have got jobs here were from the states ruled by BJP governments. Demands white paper on loans, expenditure Hitting at the state government over raising loans repeatedly, Rathore said the debt burden on Himachal has risen to more than ₹60,000 crore. “Despite the government borrowing huge amounts, the development is nowhere to be seen. The money collected by way of loans is being spent on luxuries of the ministers,” he alleged. “We demand the state government to issue a white paper on the loans raised and where the money was spent,” he added. Confident of winning bypolls Rathore also expressed confidence that the Congress will win the byelections to the Mandi parliamentary constituency and Arki, Jubbal-Kotkhai and Fatehpur assembly segments. He said the BJP has lost its ground in the state due to its “anti-people, anti-farmer, anti-youth, anti-horticulturist and anti-employee policies”. “We will not only win the byelections but the Congress will also return to the power with a thumping majority in 2022 assembly polls,” he claimed. District Congress president Ajay Mahajan and former state Congress president Viplove Thakur also addressed the protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-hp-bypolls-congress-steps-up-offensive-against-bjp-government-101633129598164.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||IGNOU extends last date for online admissions up to October 11||The Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has extended the last date of submission of online fresh admission forms of all masters, bachelors and diploma programmes up to October 11 for the July 2021 session. This extension of last date shall not apply to certificate and semester-based programmes and all certificate and awareness programmes of six-month duration or less.Details can be accessed from the link https://ignouadmission.samarth.edu.in/. Earlier, the last date was fixed for September 30. Clear skies expected over the weekendChandigarh: After cloudy weather on Friday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted clear skies ahead. As per IMD officials, there is a small chance of rain if humidity rises and the maximum temperature is also on the higher side. Monsoon withdrawal is likely from October 6. The day temperature is expected to remain around 34-35°C and minimum around 24°C over the next three days.SDO suspended for dereliction of dutiesChandigarh: A sub-divisional officer (SDO) was suspended on Friday due to dereliction of duties. SDO Mohal Lal, posted in the UT Estate Office, was suspended by UT chief engineer CB Ojha, as he disobeyed the deputy commissioner’s orders. The order states, “The SDO…failed to attend the meeting of the plan approval committee fixed for October 1 nor submitted the agenda for PAC and remained absent without giving/sanctioning leave by the higher authorities.”Chandigarh govt schools to be closed on second SaturdaysChandigarh: Every second Saturday will once again be a holiday at the city’s government schools, as per an order issued by the UT education department. After summer vacations were extended till June 15 due to the pandemic, holiday on second Saturdays was suspended. Also, three holidays will be given on account of Diwali on November 3, 5 and 6. The winter break has also been announced from December 27 to January 5, 2022.Chhatbir Zoo closed todayMohali: Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, will remain closed on October 2 due to Gandhi Jayanti. The zoo will be celebrating Wildlife Week 2021 on the theme “Forests and livelihoods: Sustaining people and planet” from October 2 to 8. Zoo field director Naresh Mahajan said as part of the week, online seminars and competitions, including videography, story writing and origami, will be organised.Local MLA initiates development works worth ₹1.6 crore in MohaliMohali: Local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday inaugurated development works worth ₹1.6 crore in different areas of Mohali. The former minister also laid the foundation stone of Valmiki Dharamshala to be constructed at a cost of ₹27 lakh. A grant of ₹3 lakh for another club was also given. Similarly, work was started to install premixes at a cost of ₹50 lakh on the outer boundary of Sohana.Two blood donation camps in UTChandigarh: As many as 180 volunteers donated blood at PGIMER on National Voluntary Blood Donation Day 2021 on Friday. The camp was organised by the department of blood transfusion. Another blood donation camp was organised by the Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital, Sector 26, in collaboration with Rotary Club, Silvercity Mohali.Online lecture held on Mahatma Gandhi, Aldous HuxleyChandigarh: The department of Gandhian and Peace Studies in collaboration with dean, Alumni Association, PU, Interdisciplinary Centre for Swami Vivekananda Studies and department of art history and visual arts, PU, organised a lecture by Christian Bartolf, president, Gandhi Information Centre, Berlin, on the topic “Mahatma Gandhi and Aldous Huxley” to celebrate the Gandhi Jayanti.Punjab U-19 lads lose againChandigarh: Bengal beat Punjab by seven wickets in the Elite Group D match during the ongoing Inter-State One Day Cricket tournament for U-19 Vinoo Mankad Trophy in Hyderabad on Friday. Batting first Punjab were bundled out 158 runs in 47 overs. Mayank Gupta scored 38 runs while Krish Bhagat made 28 runs. For Bengal, Amrit Raj Upadhyay took four wickets giving away 25 runs while Debopratim Halder took three wickets for 26 runs. Replying, Bengal achieved the target in 26.1 overs losing three wickets. Skipper Abishek Porel scored 74 runs off 46 balls.Punjab eves winChandigarh: Punjab beat Tripura, logging their third win in the ongoing Inter-State One Day Cricket tournament for U-19 in Jaipur on Friday. Batting first, Punjab scored 214 runs for the loss of six wickets in 50 overs. Skipper Krishma scored 62 runs off 111 balls. For Tripura, Ambesha Das claimed four wickets for 23 runs. Replying, Tripura were bundled out for 61 in 33.2 overs. Muskan Sogi of Punjab claimed five wickets for 13 runs and Mannat Kashyap took four wickets for 8 runs.Mohali DC flags off van to raise awareness against stubble burningMohali: To stop the menace of stubble burning by educating the peasantry about harmful effects of the practice, deputy commissioner Isha Kalia on Friday flagged off an awareness van. DC said that the vans had been fitted with audio messages to sensitise people about hazardous effects of burning paddy stubble.Chandigarh: As many as 180 volunteers donated blood at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to mark National Voluntary Blood Donation Day on Friday. The camp was organised by the department of blood transfusion. Another blood donation camp was organised by the Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital, Sector 26, in collaboration with Rotary Club, Silvercity Mohali. A plantation drive was also organised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ignou-extends-last-date-for-online-admissions-up-to-october-11-101633125637858.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||AI-powered traffic management to become reality in Chandigarh by February 2022||With the Integrated Command Control Centre (ICCC) for traffic management inching closer to being fully operationalised, city residents will soon witness Artificial Intelligence (AI) in action. For citizens, this means that traffic lights will work in tandem with road conditions to optimise the flow of traffic.This will be made possible through the Adaptive Traffic Control System (ATCS), a key feature of the ICCC, that has been set up at 40 junctions with the heaviest traffic volume. The key technology used is AI. With the help of smart cameras and sensors installed by the roadside, the system will monitor individual traffic lanes, number of vehicles and calculate the traffic light duration required to minimise traffic logjams. Chandigarh Smart City Limited is implementing the project through Bharat Electronics Limited. On Friday, CSCL showcased the working of the system, which has been scaled-up gradually over the past one-and-a-half-months. It has already been installed at the Tribune Chowk to good results. “The system will become fully operational in February 2022. Once the ICCC, which is under construction at Sector 17, is ready, the facility will become fully operational,” said Anil Garg, additional chief executive officer, CSCL. Currently, the system is being run from the MC office.NP Sharma, chief general manager, CSCL, said, “This AI-based system will reduce the travel time within the city. This will reduce the waiting time at intersections and also save fuel wastage due to idling at intersections.”Host of services under ICCCThe ICCC integrates data from different sensors, including cameras, to manage a number of functions like traffic, security, delivery of MC services, disaster management, parking, etc. When started at the Tribune Chowk, the number of traffic violations halved within a day. In addition to the ATCS, the ICCC also includes CCTV surveillance, Integrated Traffic Management System (ITMS), e-challan system, Public Address System (PAS) and Dynamic Messaging System (DMS).“There will be phase-wise integration with ICCC of the smart parking, public bike sharing, ITS, SWM, utility management, meteorological department, e-governance solution, etc,” said Sharma. For ICCC, a police command and control centre, and SCADA for MC, a dedicated fibre network (250km) has been laid. CCTVs are being installed at 267 locations.“Over 2,000 smart cameras will be installed to serve different requirements,” said Sharma, adding that 1,700 had already been installed. These are gradually being made online and operationalised. In addition to road junctions, cameras are being installed at waterworks, parks, government hospitals, community centres, parking locations and schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aipowered-traffic-management-to-become-reality-in-chandigarh-by-february-2022-101633125164747.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana chief minister orders payment of dues to Naraingarh sugarcane farmers||Days before farmers attached with the Naraingarh sugar mill in Ambala are scheduled to gherao the office of Haryana cane commissioner for their pending dues, chief minister Manohar Lal on Friday ordered full payment to the farmers.The order came after the CM chaired a meeting with officials concerned, including Ambala deputy commissioner Vikram, in Chandigarh. In two tweets in Hindi, CMO Haryana mentioned about the decisions.“Taking an important decision for the sugarcane farmers of the state, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal has directed the officials to ensure that the sugarcane farmers are paid at the earliest….Apart from this, the Chief Minister gave strict instructions to Naraingarh Sugar Mills that the crushing season should start before November 25, 2021 and at the same time, full payment to the farmers of this mill should be ensured,” the tweets read.Speaking to HT after the meeting, the DC said it will be ensured that the mill operations of the season start on time and the sugarcane attached with the mill wasn’t diverted, as decided earlier. “Payments will be cleared once the mill starts working,” he said.At a large mahapanchayat attended by BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni on September 28, the private mill owner, Rahul Anand, had accepted the demands of employees of the sugar mill, who had been protesting for 16 days, paving the way for timely resumption of the mill.However, there was no consensus on the pending dues worth ₹66 crore, as the owner showed his inability to clear the amount and the government showed no interest, Rajeev Sharma, district media coordinator of BKU (Charuni), said.“We have asked the administration to hold a meeting with the government till October 4, else we will protest the next day in Panchkula. We have no hope that we will receive our dues from the owner and the government wants us to wait for the mill to start, so that our payments are cleared,” Sharma said. Lashing out at the state government, Vinod Rana, president of Ganna Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said it should clarify who will disburse the payments and by when.“The mill has been sanctioned loan by the government thrice and farmers have agitated several times in the past as well to get their payments released,” Rana said. There are almost 7,500 farm families from Panchkula, Ambala and a few from Yamunanagar attached with the mill that receives 80-90 lakh quintals of the crop annually, from 30,000 acres spread across three districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-chief-minister-orders-payment-of-dues-to-naraingarh-sugarcane-farmers-101633124617709.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Only three new Covid cases in Chandigarh tricity, a first in 18 months||The tricity rang in October with just three fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest single-day tally in over 18 months.Only two people were found positive in Chandigarh, in Sectors 15 and 40, and one in Mohali, while Panchkula once again reported no case, after achieving the milestone nine times in September.However, a 53-year-old man from Lakhnaur in Mohali succumbed to the virus. He was admitted to PGIMER, Chandigarh, after testing positive on September 26 and later shifted to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, where he died on Friday.After staying over 100 for two days in a row, tricity’s active cases dropped to 89.As many as 36 patients are still recuperating in Chandigarh, 34 in Mohali and 19 in Panchkula.Now, Chandigarh’s caseload stands at 65,232, of which 64,377 people have been cured and 819 have died.Mohali has recorded 68,739 cases till date. Among them, 67,639 patients have recovered and 1,066 have succumbed to the virus.Of the 30,738 people testing positive in Panchkula, 30,342 have beaten the infection, but 377 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-three-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-tricity-a-first-in-18-months-101633122765456.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol price climbs to ₹98.08 per litre in Chandigarh||After remaining dormant since July, fuel prices have started rising again. The price of petrol in Chandigarh touched ₹98.08 per litre and diesel’s ₹89.90 per litre, both all time-highs, which are expected to have an adverse effect on the cost of household commodities in the coming days. It was on July 11 when the price of petrol had crossed the ₹97 per litre mark. Since then, it stayed in the same ballpark, even falling down by a few paise in August. Petrol in Mohali had crossed the ₹100 per litre mark on June 26 and has now reached ₹104.08, while diesel is at ₹93.28. In Panchkula, petrol’s cost is ₹99.41 per litre, while diesel is priced at ₹90.68.“This price hike is tied with the spike in fuel rates globally. While a crisis like that in England is unlikely here, we can expect further increase in rates,” said Arjan Singh, president of the Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers Association.General secretary of the Chandigarh Transport Association, BL Sharma said, “It has taken long for the transport sector to get back to even 80% of the work that was available before the pandemic. Now the increasing fuel rates will eat into the margins, and price of fruits and vegetables that are brought in from other states will go up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-price-climbs-to-98-08-per-litre-in-chandigarh-101633122764358.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hit-and-run accidents snuff out two lives in Mohali||Two rashly driven heavy vehicles claimed the lives of a 25-year-old woman and a 52-year-old man in Mohali on Thursday evening.Police said the female victim, Neeru, and her father, residents of Manimajra, were headed to Saidpur village on a Honda Activa.As they reached Bhankarpur light point in Dera Bassi, a truck hit their scooter, causing them to fall on the road. Before Neeru could react, the truck ran over her head, killing her on the spot.Her father, Rakesh Kumar, also suffered serious injuries and is undergoing treatment at PGIMER, Chandigarh. After the accident, the truck driver fled from the scene.Investigating officer Vijender Kumar said the unidentified truck driver had been booked under Sections 279, 304A, 337 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “The registration number of the truck has been noted down and the driver will be arrested soon,” he said.In another accident, 52-year-old Chaman Lal was killed after a speeding canter hit him and sped away in Landran.Police said Lal, a resident of Kharar, was crossing the road to visit a market when the mishap took place. He was rushed to the Kharar civil hospital, where he died on Friday. The canter driver was booked under Sections 279 and 304A of the IPC.Hit-and-run victim dies after battling for life for 10 daysA 20-year-old woman, who was injured in a hit-and-run accident in Zirakpur on September 21, succumbed to her injuries at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Friday.According to police, the victim, Balika, a resident of Jaspur village, Panchkula, worked at a factory at Zirakpur. On September 21, after work, she was crossing the Zirakpur-Ambala highway to board an auto-rickshaw, when a speeding car hit her and drove off.Investigating officer Kamal Taneja said on the complaint of her father, Dil Bahadur, the unidentified car driver had been booked under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code. The body was handed over to the family after autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hitandrun-accidents-snuff-out-two-lives-in-mohali-101633122762594.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Constable awarded four years in jail in ₹3,000 graft case||Comparing corruption to cancer, which if not detected in time will lead to disastrous consequences, a CBI court on Friday awarded four-year jail to a Chandigarh Police constable for accepting ₹3,000 bribe in 2014.The constable, Balraj Singh, was posted as naib court at the Sector 43 district courts when he was arrested on graft charges in April 2014.“The convict does not deserve the leniency prayed for by him and the same cannot be considered, as the convict was a police official working in the court and well versed with the outcome of his actions. Everyday he used to see the functions of the court and was well aware that all those who do wrong are punished by the courts,” ruled the court of special CBI judge Jagjit Singh, while pronouncing the quantum of sentence on Friday. “Corruption among public servants has always existed in one form or the other, although its shapes, dimensions, textures and shades have been changing from time to time and place to place. At one time, bribe was paid for getting wrong things done, but now bribe is paid for getting right things done at the right time,” the court added.On corruption in society, the court said, “…..many of us think that it is unavoidable. Many see it as normal and not immoral. That is disturbing. The corrupt have turned and twisted the system to suit them, and have thrived, many have prospered. Corruption is social evil, which has eroded the applicability of justness and fairness in society.”Had offered assault accused help in getting bailThe CBI had booked Balraj under the Prevention Of Corruption Act after he was caught accepting ₹3,000 as bribe from an assault accused.The complainant, Rohani, alias Romy, a resident of Milk Colony, Dhanas, had approached the bureau on April 4, 2014, alleging that Balraj had demanded ₹5,000 to help him get bail in an assault case registered at the Sector 11 police station. Later, the deal was finalised at ₹3,000.Balraj was arrested from the corridor outside courtroom number 14 as the money exchanged hands. The court had later issued non-bailable warrants against Rohani after he stopped appearing before the court.Cops on the other side of lawMarch 7, 2020: A CBI court sentenced a Chandigarh traffic police head constable Dalbir Singh to four-year jail in a 2014 graft case. Singh was convicted of taking ₹1,500 bribeFebruary 19, 2020: A former sub-inspector of Chandigarh police, Balbir Singh, was awarded four years in jail for accepting ₹35,000 bribe in 2015December 4, 2019: A court awarded four-year jail to Davinder Kumar, an assistant sub-inspector of Chandigarh Police, for accepting ₹3,500 in bribe in May 2013November 27, 2019: A CBI court sent a former UT Police sub-inspector, Kulwaranjit Singh Cheema, to jail for four years, and his aide, Subhash Chand Dhiman, to three years in a 2012 graft caseAugust 10, 2018: Deshraj Singh, a 2008-batch Indian Police Service officer, was sentenced to a three-year jail term by a CBI court. Then posted as the superintendent of police (SP, City), with the additional charge of SP (Headquarters), Deshraj was arrested from his Sector-23 house on October 18, 2012, while taking ₹1 lakh as bribe from a junior officer for getting him the clean chit in two departmental inquiries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhconstable-awarded-four-years-in-jail-in-3-000-graft-case-101633122761225.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali court awards 10-year RI to Nigerian drug smuggler||Caught with 550gm heroin and ₹4 lakh drug money in 2017, a Nigerian man was sentenced to 10-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) by a local court on Friday.The court of additional district and sessions judge Harpeet Kaur Kaleka also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on the convict, Abu Henry, alias Kevin. His local accomplice, Narinder Singh, a native of Patiala and currently living in Sector 76, Mohali, was awarded seven-year RI and a fine of ₹70,000. If the fine is not paid, both will have to undergo another one-year imprisonment. They have been convicted under Sections 21, 61, 85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) and Section 14 of the Foreigners Act. According to police, the duo was caught with the heroin and drug money by the special task force (STF) near Phase 4, Mohali, while they were travelling in a Toyota Fortuner SUV. A resident of Krishna Puri, Delhi, Abu used to bring the heroin from Delhi and sold it to Narinder, who further supplied it to his clients in Mohali, Chandigarh and adjoining places. During interrogation, Abu confessed that he came to India on a business visa in 2016 and never returned. Narinder is already facing five NDPS cases in Mohali, Dhuri and Patiala. Abu is the fifth Nigerian this year to be sentenced to 10-year RI for smuggling heroin. On September 6, Austin Krairi; on September 9, a woman, Joye Cheeka Ozuma; on September 16, Joel Smith; and on September 29, Mariam Wanoe were awarded the jail terms by the court of additional district and sessions judge Harpeet Kaur Kaleka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-court-awards-10-year-ri-to-nigerian-drug-smuggler-101633122760072.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt starts civil, criminal proceedings against GBP Group||The Punjab local bodies department has initiated civil and criminal proceedings against the management of Gupta Builders and Promoters (GBP) Group, who have left the country without completing various real estate projects.Nearly ₹1,500 crore, invested by over 2,500 people from Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and several NRIs, are hanging in balance, with no surety from the builder on when the projects will be completed.Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra said, “We have written to the respective civic bodies in Mohali district, seeking details of GBP Group’s approved colonies for civil and criminal proceedings. Investors should get justice.”On September 28, through an open letter via social media, one of group’s directors, Satish Gupta, had assured the investors that they were abroad to seek investments and had attributed the delay in completing the projects to the pandemic.A week before this, on September 21, global conglomerate SRAM & MRAM Group had pulled out its ₹700-crore investment committed to the group due to non-fulfilment of criteria.On Thursday, ECL Finance Limited put up a notice board at the group’s Athens project on Airport Road, stating that the property is mortgaged to it and the loan account of the property owner is in default.The income tax department also pasted a notice outside the group’s office in Sector 34, Chandigarh.Besides Athens, which comprises residential and commercial properties, the group is also building Aeroze, a residential project on Airport Road, but construction of both projects has not progressed for years.Among other projects are Camelia, offering both residential and commercial units, in Kharar, and GBP Centrum (commercial) in Zirakpur. Both have been under construction since 2016, while work has not even begun at a residential colony in New Chandigarh.Lookout circular issued for three directorsOn Friday, Mohali police issued lookout circulars (LOC) against three directors of the group.“An FIR is already registered against the three directors – Satish Gupta, Raman Gupta and Pardeep Gupta. Since they have fled the country, we have also issued lookout circulars that will reach airports on Saturday. Superintendent of police (Rural) Ravjot Grewal is investigating complaints against the firm,” said Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-starts-civil-criminal-proceedings-against-gbp-group-101633122759029.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Urban transformation: Chandigarh MC, admn sign MoU with Union govt||In order to achieve the aspiration of urban transformation, a tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU), outlining the commitment, roles and responsibilities, was signed digitally between the Chandigarh municipal corporation, UT administration and the central government on Friday. It came in line with the Swachh Bharat Mission-Urban 2.0 (SM-U 2.0) and Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation 2.0 (AMRUT 2.0), which were launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday.While sharing this development, MC commissioner Anindita Mitra said, “Chandigarh has been declared open defection free (ODF ++), and about 20,000 new water and sewerage connections have been provided under AMRUT in Chandigarh.”“SBM-U2.0 and AMRUT 2.0 represent a landmark moment to redefine the urban landscape of the country by achieving the vision of safe sanitation in urban areas and providing 100% coverage of water supply to all households,” she added.Through these mission, the commissioner said, the city will be made garbage free with focus on source segregation of solid waste, utilising principles of 3Rs (reduce, re-use, recycle), scientific processing of all types of municipal solid waste and remediation of legacy dumps. Further, city will be made water-secure by effecting water source conservation, rejuvenation of water bodies and wells, recycle/reuse of treated used water and rain water harvesting by involving community at large – a step towards Aatma Nirbhar Bharat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/urban-transformation-chandigarh-mc-admn-sign-mou-with-union-govt-101633122757783.html
02-10-2021||Other||Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav: Ludhiana MC holds exhibition of waste turned into art||To encourage residents to adopt environmentally sustainable practices of ‘reduce, reuse and recycle’, the municipal corporation (MC) organised a ‘waste-to-art’ exhibition in the parking lot of the Zone C office on Friday. The exhibition was organised under the ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’, launched by the Union government to celebrate 75 years of independence. Under this, different events have been scheduled by the MC, which are to be held from September 27 to October 3.During the exhibition, different products, such as pen stands made of plastic bottles, bags made of old clothes and paper bags, were put up on display. MC health officer Vipal Malhotra said, “Many products can be reused, but the public discards it irresponsibly.” The MC will organising another event at SCD Government College on Saturday wherein sweepers, who have been performing well, will be felicitated. A cycle rally is also being organised on Sunday.MC urges residents to use ‘Bartan Bhandar’ facility During the exhibition organised outside Zone C office, MC officials urged the public to use ‘Bartan Bhandar’ (utensils bank) of the civic body during social events, such as marriage functions, langars and parties. The aim is to reduce the use of single-use plastic/thermocol plates and cutlery during such events. Residents can borrow steel utensils from the bank for free and return it in a few days. Though the facility has been available since last December, it has not found many takers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-ludhiana-mc-holds-exhibition-of-waste-turned-into-art-101633122037753.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Smart City Mission: 1,742 cameras to be installed in Ludhiana||Municipal commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal on Friday informed that under the Smart City Mission, 1,742 cameras will be installed in the city in addition to the 30 vehicle- mounted cameras and 600 infrared illuminators.The ₹35.96 crore project will be completed within five years, he added. Ludhiana was amongst the first 20 cities to be selected under the Smart City Mission in 2016. Various projects are being developed under the aegis of Ludhiana Smart City Limited, under the Smart City Mission of Government of India.Sabharwal informed that the Government of India is celebrating ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’ to commemorate 75 years of Independence. He said that under this initiative, an exhibition of the Integrated Command and Control Centre Project is being organised by Ludhiana Smart City Limited, which will continue till October 3 at the Safe City Complex, Police Lines, Ludhiana. He was accompanied by joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian, MC additional commissioner Aditiya Dachalwal, besides several others.Under this exhibition, ideas of ‘freedom from crime’, ‘freedom from traffic’ and ‘freedom from queues’ is being celebrated by the Ludhiana Smart City Limited.Services like crime detection, traffic surveillance, e-governance, no-parking detection, encroachment detection etc. are being provided to the citizens of Ludhiana under this project. The project is being implemented as per the schedule and is expected to go live by end of November 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/smart-city-mission-1-742-cameras-to-be-installed-in-ludhiana-101633121677825.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Labourer held with 50gm heroin in Ludhiana||A team of the anti-narcotics cell of Ludhiana police commissionerate arrested a labourer with 50gm heroin on Monday.The accused, identified as Pushwinder Singh alias Shinda of Talwandi Kalan village, was nabbed following a tip-off. Inspector Rajesh Kumar, in-charge, anti-narcotics cell, said that during questioning, the accused revealed that he had bought the contraband from a person named Seva Singh of Zira town in Ferozepur. “But he claims he does not have the address or phone number of Seva Singh,” said the inspector, adding that the police are trying to trace the person.Meanwhile, the accused has been booked under Sections 21B/61 and 85 of the Narcotics Drug and Psychotropic Substances Act, at the Salem Tabri police station.Inspector Kumar added that the accused is a history-sheeter and has several cases of illegal mining registered against him at different police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/labourer-held-with-50gm-heroin-in-ludhiana-101633121377756.html
02-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Woman held hostage inside house, robbed of cash, jewellery||Two miscreants held a woman hostage in her house in Indira Colony of Ludhiana and took away ₹2.50 lakh cash and jewellery in broad daylight on Thursday. The accused allegedly overpowered the woman, identified as Sapna, at knifepoint and locked her up in the bathroom after tying her hands and legs with a rope.Her husband, Ashwani Kumar, 51, who is the complainant in the case, said that he owns a home décor store on Gill Road. The couple lives alone in the house as their two daughters are married and son is the US for studies. He said he leaves for work around 9am everyday and returns home around 7.30pm. In the afternoon, his worker visits the house to fetch his lunch.Kumar said that on Thursday afternoon, around 3.30pm, his worker, Mishri Lal, went to his house to bring the lunch. After Lal left home, two unidentified men barged into the house, bolted the main door from inside and overpowered his wife. They then tied her hands and legs with a rope, locked her up in the bathroom and scurried around the house to look for valuables. Kumar said the accused took away a gold bracelet, gold bangles, earrings, diamond sets and rings, besides ₹2.5 lakh cash. He said that in all, they have incurred a loss of around ₹30 lakh.After the robbers fled the scene, Sapna managed to untie herself and come out of the bathroom through a second exit. She then rang up Kumar and narrated the entire episode, following which he informed the police. According to Sapna, one of the accused was a bearded man of short height while the other one was tall. The Model Town police have registered a case against two unidentified persons under Section 454 (lurking house trespass) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said police suspect the involvement of some acquaintance of the family as the accused were well aware of the daily schedule the family members. Police have also managed to get hold of a closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera footage, in which the accused were seen escaping with the cash and jewellery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-woman-held-hostage-inside-house-robbed-of-cash-jewellery-101633121140401.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav: Waste to art exhibition organised by Chandigarh MC||Waste disposal is a huge challenge for every citizen, but the Chandigarh municipal corporation has found a special use for some of the waste material, which it has transformed into works of art.Celebrating the 75th Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav, the MC has organised a one-day Waste to Art exhibition-cum-live workshop under the banner “Apshist Kala Pradarshini” to honour various artistes working towards transformation of waste items into art.Artistes from different NGOs, organisations and individuals gathered in Sector-17 Plaza on Friday to showcase their talent and transformation of waste into best out of waste.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, inaugurating the exhibition-cum-workshop, said, “Art, which is not only a delight for the eyes but also sends out a strong social message, is the need of the hour. This exhibition-cum-live workshop will create awareness on various environmental issues also. The initiative is also going to boost socio-cultural art in the city and would encourage young artists to come up with new ideas.”The demonstrations included sanitary waste to art by Kala Sagar Group, plastic waste to art by Indian Oil Corporation Limited, cloth waste to art by Veenu and Laxmi Self Help Group, and cloth waste to art by Veenu, Shagun, Reet Self Help Groups.Other displays were exhibited by MCM DAV College for Women, Sector 36; PR wing, MC; Government High School, Sector 54; Government Middle School, Burail; Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 32; Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 23A; Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 11; Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 22A; Government Model School, Sector 8; and by Anuj Saini, son of Nek Chand, the late founder of Rock Garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/azadi-ka-amrit-mahotsav-waste-to-art-exhibition-organised-by-chandigarh-mc-101633120777617.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Gandhi Dham in Phillaur serves as route to illegal sand mining||As the country celebrates the 152th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, the Gandhi Dham in Phillaur, the memorial constructed at the place where a part of his ashes were immersed, has turned into a hotspot for illegal sand mining.Located on the banks of Sutlej River near National Highway-I (NH-I), the memorial is a picture of bureaucratic neglect. But as a yearly ritual, just before Gandhi Jayanti, the memorial and its surroundings are whitewashed to offer a red-carpet welcome to babus and politicians.As many as 50 labourers from the surrounding villages of Phillaur were seen carrying out last-minute cleaning and whitewashing in the area when this reporter visited the spot. One of the workers, while showing the tractor marks on the ground, said, “Visit the place at night and you can see hectic activity of tractors in the area. This place is frequently used as a passage by people involved in illegal sand mining.”“The memorial and its surroundings have become a haven for drug addicts. The nomadic Gujjar community, who are into livestock farming, have encroached upon the green belt around the memorial due to which maintenance becomes difficult,” another worker said.A worker, requesting anonymity, said, “The place has turned into a den of drug addicts. As the place remains secluded, drug addicts and anti-social elements frequent the place throughout the day.” “The neglect of the memorial site speaks of the scant regard governments have for freedom fighters’ sacrifices. Punjab government should save the memorial site from destruction and encroachments,” said PS Gulshan, patron, Peace Mission, and son of freedom fighter Late Ujaggar Singh Bilga.Brij Bhushan Goyal, the organising secretary of Mahatma Gandhi Peace Mission, said, “Successive governments have neglected the memorial since mid 1980s. Earlier, there was direct access to the historic memorial site, but this has been blocked due to encroachments.”He added, “The site should have been developed as a good tourist spot with a library. The grants promised by various leaders for development of the site never saw the light of the day. There should be a direct approach road from the main GT Road.” Narinder Goyal, former president of Phillaur Nagar council, said lack of bureaucratic and political will was the reason behind the sorry state of the memorial. “We have been sending repeated representations to the government for funds to restore the memorial. Sadly, neither the administration nor the politicians have issued funds for the memorial. The memorial does not fall under the municipal limits, but still, we are carrying out the cleanliness work here,” said Goyal.Despite repeated attempts, Member of Parliament from Phillaur constituency, Santokh Singh Chaudhary, who is scheduled to chair the function on Gandhi Jayanti here, was unavailable for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gandhi-dham-in-phillaur-serves-as-route-to-illegal-sand-mining-101633120657817.html
02-10-2021||Noida||Two booked for snatching cab from driver in Noida, investigation underway||Two persons were booked for allegedly snatching a cab from a driver in Noida on Friday morning, said police.The suspects (still unidentified), who had stopped a cab driver and booked a ride from Pari Chowk in Greater Noida to Noida, snatched the car from the driver near Kalindi Kunj in New Delhi. The victim -- identified as Ram Dhiraj -- is a resident of Sangam Vihar in New Delhi.Rameshwar Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector Beta 2 police station, said the driver had gone to Greater Noida to drop a passenger in the morning.“The driver was returning to Delhi from Greater Noida, after completing a ride, when two suspects signalled him to stop near Pari Chowk. The suspects asked the driver to take them to Noida, to which the driver had agreed,” Kumar said.The two suspects held the driver at gunpoint near Kalindi Kunj, and snatched the Volkswagen Vento from him, according to the police.A case has been registered against the unidentified persons under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 392 (robbery) at the Sector Beta 2 police station on Friday. “We are scanning CCTV footage from around the crime spot to arrest the suspects,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-booked-for-snatching-cab-from-driver-in-noida-investigation-underway-101633120297583.html
02-10-2021||Noida||Yeida launches one-time settlement scheme for property allottees to pay dues||The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Friday started the one time settlement (OTS) scheme for property allottees, who have failed to pay their dues. The window for clearing the dues will be available till November. On September 14, the Yeida, in its 71st board meeting, approved a proposal to bring OTS for all kinds of properties --residential plot, flat, industrial plot, commercial plot or mixed-land use plot. The OTS was planned in view of the Covid-19 pandemic that has put people under financial duress. The allottees can apply for OTS by logging on to www.yamunaexpresswayauthority.com and clicking the OTS scheme link. “After November, nobody will be able to avail of this scheme,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of Yeida. The move comes after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed that the authority should levy only simple interest on the defaulted amount instead of compound interest on defaulted amount. The Yeida considers a plot or flat allottee as a defaulter if he or she fails to pay three instalments. The Yeida imposes a compound interest of 15% on the defaulted amount or even higher, instead of a simple interest, said officials. The move will benefit around 32,000 property allottees, especially those who bought property between 2009 and 2021, said officials. “If property allottees want to avail of the benefit of OTS scheme, they must deposit 30% of the total defaulted amount upfront between October 1 and November. After November, they will have to pay compound interest,” said Singh.  The Yeida allots properties after accepting 30% down payment of the total property cost. The remaining 70% is paid in instalments. If the property allottees keep defaulting the instalments, the Yeida keeps increasing compound interest. The UP government has introduced OTS so that people don’t have to shell out more amid the pandemic, said officials.Plot allottees have welcomed the move. “We have been demanding interest waiver for a long time. The OTS will benefit many property allottees,” said Rishabh Nigam, secretary of the Yamuna Expressway entrepreneurs’ association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yeida-launches-one-time-settlement-scheme-for-property-allottees-to-pay-dues-101633120238093.html
02-10-2021||Noida||Noida: 4 held for vehicle snatching after shoot-out||Four persons, who allegedly booked an autorickshaw in Noida and snatched the vehicle from the driver at gunpoint, were arrested after an encounter with police in Noida’s Sector 39 on Thursday night. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said police received information about the movement of some suspects in an auto in Sector 98. “A team from Sector 39 police station was deployed at the spot. When the police signalled the vehicle to stop, the suspects opened fire at the police team and tried to escape,” he said. The police chased the suspects and forced them to stop the vehicle. During the exchange of fire, of the four suspects, Arjun (30), a resident of Bhajanpura in Delhi and Vishwas Das (35), a resident of Bulandshahr--sustained bullet injuries in their legs while Momraj (30), a resident of Sambhal, and Arvind (28), a resident of Amroha--were unhurt. Police arrested all the four suspects and recovered two countrymade guns, two live cartridges, one stolen auto and some auto parts from their possession. The suspects were produced in court and remanded in judicial custody. Police said on September 25, the suspects snatched the auto from one Shankar Singh at Sector 37. Singh said the four suspects had booked his auto from Noida to got to AVJ Heights Society in Greater Noida. “When we reached Greater Noida, the suspects asked me to stop the auto at a secluded place. They held me at gun point and snatched the auto,” said Singh. A case was registered against the suspects under Section 392 (robbery) of the IPC at Sector 39 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-4-held-for-vehicle-snatching-after-shootout-101633120065682.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Union minister launches Swachh Bharat campaign from Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ Union minister of information and broadcasting, youth affairs and sports, Anurag Thakur, launched a month-long nationwide Swachh Bharat programme from Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology in Prayagraj on Friday, as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. The objective of the cleanliness drive is to create awareness, mobilise people and ensure their involvement in cleaning waste, mainly single use plastic waste throughout the country. As part of the drive, 75 lakh kg of waste will be disposed of by October 31. It is being organised through a network of 744 youth clubs affiliated to the Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS) of the department of youth affairs, ministry of youth affairs and sports (government of India) and institutions affiliated to the National Service Scheme (NSS). The campaign will be organised in 2.5 lakh villages spread across 744 districts in the country, the minister informed. “The country is celebrating 75 years of independence and we should take a pledge to make it free from plastic waste,” said Thakur during the programme organised at MNNIT. The minister said the message emanating from here will inspire the entire country. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is taking forward the message of cleanliness given by Mahatma Gandhi. Together, we all will make the country free from garbage,” he added. The minister thanked the youths for taking the Swachh Bharat mission to the masses. He said everyone should share their efforts during the cleanliness campaign on social media and tag him on twitter as well. During the launch of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, BJP MP from Phulpur Keshari Devi Patel, state minister of youth affairs Upendra Tiwari, secretary, department of youth affairs Usha Sharma, director general of Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan Vijay Kumar and others were also present. After the launch, Thakur also started a cleanliness drive in the Sangam area and gave the message of cleanliness. Earlier in the day, the minister paid tribute to freedom fighter Chandrashekhar Azad at the Chandrashekhar Azad Park and also performed Ganga Aarti at the Sangam. The district administration and the municipal corporation now plan to get garbage collected in bags. These bags will be weighed and disposed of. Cleanliness drives will also be conducted at historical/famous places/tourist places, bus stands/railway stations, national highways and congested places like educational institutions etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/union-minister-launches-swachh-bharat-campaign-from-prayagraj-101633120057784.html
02-10-2021||Noida||Special court barred 4 alleged criminals from entering Gautam Budh Nagar: Police||A special court in Gautam Budh Nagar on Friday barred five history sheeters from entering the district, police said.The five suspects -- identified as Vikas Jatav, Vipin Singh, Akash Jatav, Rohit and Yashpal (go by first names) -- allegedly have several crime cases registered against them, according to the officials.They are also booked under Uttar Pradesh Gangster and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986, said a police spokesperson on Friday.“The suspects have several independent cases against them, including attempted murders, organised crimes, among others. They had been barred from entering the district. If they try to do so, the police will take strict action against them and will likely send them to jail,” the police spokesperson added.The move has been taken as a preventive measure to curb crime cases in the city, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/special-court-barred-4-alleged-criminals-from-entering-gautam-budh-nagar-police-101633119937465.html
02-10-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad constable killed at gunfight during Haridwar raid, 4 suspects arrested||A 37-year-old constable, Sandeep Kumar, of the Faridabad police was allegedly shot dead by an armed criminal during a raid conducted by the crime branch in Haridwar on Thursday night.According to police, a nine-member crime team had received a tip on that suspects involved in a robbery case in Faridabad’s Mujesar on September 28, 2021, had been hiding in Haridwar. The crime team, Sector 30, had been probing the September 28 robbery incident, where three armed men had robbed a shopkeeper in Mujesar. The suspects were identified as Anshu (goes by single name) alias Monu, Abhishek, Manish, and Amit -- all residents of Ballia in Uttar Pradesh, said police.When a police team raided the area to arrest them, Anshu allegedly shot the constable during a gunfight and succumbed to his injuries, said the Faridabad police on Friday. In retaliatory firing, Anshu was also injured, but he managed to escape.Police arrested three suspects during the Thursday night raid, and Anshu on Friday morning. Anshu has been admitted to a hospital for treatment.Faridabad police commissioner Vikas Arora on Friday announced ₹11 lakh as a compensation for the family of Kumar, according to a spokesperson of the Faridabad police.The senior superintendent of Haridwar police, Yogendra Singh Rawat, said Kumar will be cremated at his village in Sonipat’s Kathura with full state honours. “Constable Sandeep Kumar has made the supreme sacrifice to ensure safety and security of the residents of Faridabad,” Arora said in a statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-constable-killed-at-gunfight-during-haridwar-raid-4-suspects-arrested-101633119878819.html
02-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: People offer Friday prayers under police vigil amid several protests||Amid threats of disruption from a group of people, members of the Muslim community offered prayers under police vigil at around 24 places in Gurugram on Friday.Police said their deployment in Sector 47 was high as many people gathered near the prayer spot to protest against the practice. “We have asked the protesters to hold a meeting with the district administration to resolve the matter,” said the police.Over the past two weeks, offering prayers at public places like parks, parking areas on Fridays has become a major issue after a group run by members of the Hindu community in Gurugram started appearing at these sites to oppose the practice. The issue was widely discussed on social media, which made the police department issue a clarification to the people on September 27, in which it said that “the matter was in cognisance, and asked the people to refrain from spreading misinformation”. Members of the Muslim community, who were present in Sector 47 on Friday, said that the prayer spot was away from the nearby residential area. “Muslims offer congregation prayers only on Fridays, Eid, and Eid al-Adha. There’s only a small mosque in Sector 57, New Gurgaon, and everyone can’t go there on Fridays or on these occasions... Lands have not been allotted for mosques for quite a long time now. We want the Haryana government to allot us land for mosques in every sector, so that we can comfortably offer prayers there,” said Altaf Ahmad, founder member, Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch -- a Gurugram-based civil society organisation.Ahmad said that opposition to prayers is becoming a regular affair, and some vested persons have been engaged in this. “We faced similar problems earlier in March-April this year, and it hurt the religious sentiments of the masses,” he said, calling for strict action against such elements.Gurugram Police, meanwhile, said that prayers at designated spots took place peacefully on Friday, and the police maintained a close watch there. “Police personnel were deployed in Sector 47, as it was expected that people might protest there against offering of prayers. A team, led by an assistant commissioner of police (ACP), maintained law and order in the area,” said Subash Boken, spokesperson of the Gurugram Police.Aman Yadav, ACP (Sadar), who was on duty in Sector 47 on Friday, said, “The residents have the right to protest peacefully... and they have agreed to our suggestion to hold a meeting with the district administration to discuss this matter.”Raman Malik, a senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader, who has written a letter to the Gurugram administration on this issue, said that the Haryana Waqf Board has ample land, and it should use some of that for religious purposes. “Offering prayers is a private affair, and in a secular country like India, it should happen either inside homes or at religious places, not at public parks and parking areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-people-offer-friday-prayers-under-police-vigil-amid-several-protests-101633119877628.html
02-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram crosses 60,000 target set for 3-day mega coronavirus vaccination drive||With 31,684 people being administered Covid-19 vaccines on Friday, Gurugram has crossed the 60,000-target set for the district for the three-day mega vaccination drive, said officials.In two days of the mega vaccination drive on Thursday and Friday, 62,668 people were vaccinated across the district against the set target. With 30,984 people being vaccinated in a day, the district achieved more than 50% of the target for the vaccination drive on Thursday itself.According to the data, nearly 6,178 first doses and 25,506 second doses of vaccines were administered on Friday. With this, over 3.1 million have been vaccinated in the district so far.According to officials, people will be vaccinated at 139 centres across the district on Saturday. The first dose of Covishield will be administered at two centres, and second dose at 103 centres.The health department, meanwhile, has also increased the number of vaccination sites for Covaxin from five to 34, for Saturday. This will maximise the chances of a complete vaccination in the district as the gap between the two doses of Covaxin is lesser compared to Covishield.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “At present, we aim to ensure that the maximum number of people get both the doses, so we have increased the number of sites for the first dose of Covaxin as the gap between its two doses is lesser. With this, we will be able to vaccinate a greater number of people during the festive season.”The first dose of Covaxin will be available at all 34 centres, and the second dose at 10 centres. Doses of Sputnik V vaccine will also be available at the Polyclinic in Sector 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-crosses-60-000-target-set-for-3-day-mega-coronavirus-vaccination-drive-101633119818791.html
02-10-2021||Gurugram||New panel to address issues at Iffco Chowk, Rajiv Chowk pedestrian underpasses||The Gurugram administration has formed a four-member committee for carrying out field visits at two pedestrian underpasses -- Iffco Chowk and Rajiv Chowk -- in the city, for identifying and addressing the issues and resolving those accordingly, said officials on Friday. Deputy commissioner Dr Yash Garg took this decision during a meeting on the district road safety on Thursday.“During the meeting, officials of Gurugram administration, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Raahgiri Foundation, and Gurugram traffic police had raised the issues faced by pedestrians at the two underpasses. The issues need a thorough assessment, so as to resolve those. Hence, a committee comprising representatives from each of the four departments concerned has been formed for this task,” said Garg.Garg had directed the committee officials to assess the design feasibility of the Rajiv Chowk underpass, and make proper arrangements for lighting, CCTV cameras, and signboards at the Iffco Chowk underpass.Ishan Gogoi, programme coordinator, Raahgiri Foundation -- who also attended the Thursday meeting, said that officials of the foundation, NHAI, Gurugram administration, and Gurugram Police had visited the two underpasses on Wednesday.“During the visits, we conveyed our observations to the district road safety committee, which led to the formation of the four-member committee. The committee’s main task is to check if the two underpasses can be revived, and also come up with alternatives to facilitate the crossing of pedestrians at both the junctions,” said Gogoi, adding that the committee is exploring possibilities of introducing traffic signals at these junctions, and it will take a call on recommending that depending on the feasibility.The non-motorised transport (NMT) underpass at Rajiv Chowk has been closed since July 19, when an auto-driver had allegedly drowned inside it after the facility was flooded with water following spells of heavy rainfall. Pedestrians said that the underpass, near Jaipur bus stand, is unlit, and empty alcohol bottles and cigarette filters are often found inside it, which deterred them from accessing it.During the committee’s Wednesday visit, the NMT underpass was also found to be closed, said Gogoi. Following which, the contractor of the underpass was served a notice and given a one-month deadline to reopen the facility after ensuring it is properly lit and clean. The underpass was, however, closed on Friday.Due to the prevailing issues, both the underpasses see little to no users. “Even when the NMT underpass was open, I never used it because of safety concerns... people consume liquor or drugs inside it quite often,” said Rajiv, who works at a nearby hotel.The Iffco Chowk underpass, near Sulabh Complex, is also unlit. However, unlike the NMT underpass, this underpass is more compact, with air circulation and lack of daylight being major issues, according to the pedestrians. “Even during daytime, I have to turn on my cellphone’s torch to get a view of the underpass. The air circulation inside it is poor, due to which people feel suffocated there,” said Kunal Yadav, a resident of Sukhrali village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/new-panel-to-address-issues-at-iffco-chowk-rajiv-chowk-pedestrian-underpasses-101633119817418.html
02-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram administration issues guidelines to combat air pollution this winter||The Gurugram administration on Friday issued directions to nearly 40 city-based agencies to combat air pollution in the district, ahead of the winter. The air quality plummets across the national capital region (NCR) during winters, every year.According to the directions, which came into effect from Friday, all the departments concerned have to appoint nodal officers for ensuring enforcement of the action plan within 15 days.It mentioned that large construction projects, including highways and metros, will provide undertakings to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) within 15 days, that they will assure adherence to the prescribed norms for dust management in the district. Industries have also been instructed to provide an undertaking to the board that they will only use authorised fuel, and will not operate without adequate pollution control measures.“Compliance of action plans on the identified pollution hotspots in Gurugram shall be ensured by all those concerned, and night patrolling shall also be done by teams constituted at the district level. Further, there should be enhanced vigilance at sources such as industrial stacks and garbage dumping as well as use of illegal fuels. All technologies to control dust emission, including smog-guns, should be used extensively,” according to the order.The Gurugram administration order also mentioned that solid waste dumping issues have to be addressed on a priority basis. Along with these measures, the authorities concerned have been asked to sprinkle water on roads and streets in shifts -- both during days and nights -- and use mechanised sweeping machines to control the dust.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer of HSPCB, Gurugram (north), said that directions have been issued to 40 agencies in the city, including Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, Haryana transport department, among others.“All the authorities concerned have been asked to comply with the guidelines, and the nodal officers will submit action reports daily. With strict enforcement of all measures and regular night patrolling, we will be able to keep the air quality in check during the winter months. Strict action will be taken against the violators,” said Singh.The main causes for pollution in Gurugram have been identified as dust pollution due to construction and demolition activities, vehicular pollution, and solid waste burning.The pollution control board has identified 18 hotspots for vehicular air emissions or traffic congestion, 13 hotspots for road dust, 10 areas used for rampant solid waste disposal, and seven hotspots for industrial air emissions.The board has now proposed a meeting to be attended by all the NCR districts, along with the Centre, for air quality management, within the next 10 days. They will review and finalise further action in this regard. The board has also set up dust control and management cells on the directions of the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM).In January, 2021, the CAQM had reviewed the problems of road dust -- a major source of pollutants contributing significantly to particulate matter (PM2.5 and PM 10) in its second meeting. In a letter to all the NCR states, it had said, “Controlling dust pollution has been a major challenge and needs much more focused attention across the NCR.”The commission had said that dust control and management cells must be set up with the specific task of monitoring and implementing dust control measures. Some dust control measures include mechanical cleaning and sweeping of roads and water sprinkling to reduce the dust pollution.In December last year, the CAQM had also stressed on the need to develop and implement a standard set of methods across the NCR and adjoining areas for monitoring fire events.The issue of stubble burning in these states becomes a major issue during the paddy harvesting season between October and November over the past years due to spikes in air pollution levels in Delhi-NCR. Farmers set their fields on fire to clear them of crop residue left behind after harvesting paddy and before cultivating wheat and potato. Farmers continue stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana as there is a short time window between paddy harvesting and sowing of wheat. Farmers also cite the high cost of manual or mechanical management of straw as a reason behind their preference to burn stubble.Meanwhile, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data, the air quality in Gurugram dipped to the ‘moderate’ category on Friday, as compared to the ‘satisfactory’ category on Thursday. The city recorded an AQI of 102, with PM2.5 and PM10 as prominent pollutants on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-administration-issues-guidelines-to-combat-air-pollution-this-winter-101633119757587.html
02-10-2021||Admission||100% cutoffs the new normal for Delhi University?||When Shri Ram College of Commerce first announced a 100% cut-off for BCom (Honours) in 2011, the move evoked strong reactions from stakeholders, including parents and students who believed the course was beyond their reach. A decade later, the college has announced 100% cut-offs for two courses yet again. But this time, so have seven other colleges, both off-campus and south campus.Last year, Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College had announced 100% cut-off for three courses – political science, economics, and psychology. All three were among the most sought-after courses in DU.In 2015, two colleges, College of Vocational Studies and Indraprastha (IP) College for Women, fixed their cut-offs at 100% for BSc (Honours) in Computer Science. This year, three colleges have declared 100% cut-offs for computer science due to the high demand. Across colleges, principals attributed the soaring cut-offs to multiple factors, including a change in the evaluation pattern for Class 12 students, cancellation of end-term exams due to Covid-19 pandemic, a lack of subject-wise data for admissions, and most importantly, double the number of Class 12 top scorers as compared to last year.A total of 220,156 students scored 90% or more marks in their Class 12 this year, as compared to 196,620 in 2020 — a jump of nearly 12%. Students scoring 95% or more almost doubled to 70,004 from last year’s 38,686.Around 70-80% of applicants in DU are from CBSE-affiliated schools.In 2019, when the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) last managed to conduct exams for all papers o Class 12 without hindrance, 111,992 students scored between 90% and 100%. That means, the number of high scorers has increased by 96% between 2019 and 2021 – indicating the impact of the revised assessment schemes on board results.This year, Class 12 students were evaluated on the basis of their Class 10 board exam scores and internal marks of classes 11 and 12, with around 70% weightage being given to internal assessments.In the past, colleges have set 100% cut-offs for students seeking admission to those subjects that they may not have studied in school.This year, Jesus and Mary College kept 100% cut-off for psychology for those students who excluded psychology from their best-of-four combination. In contrast, students who included the subject in the best-of-four calculation need 99% to be eligible for admission.Hindu College principal Anju Shrivastava said in the past two years, the college has seen an average of 100 students seeking admissions to various courses with 100% cut-offs. The college has kept 100% cut-off for Political Science (Hons) this year.“Along with the CBSE, several other state boards, including Kerala and Telangana, also had more students getting 100% marks this year. Last year, with a cut-off of 99.5%, we admitted double the number of students in the unreserved category. As per the data we have, we knew there would be a rush for political science; so we wanted to play safe and avoid over-admissions, which affect the teacher-student ratio and put additional infrastructure burden on colleges.”The high cut-offs, year after year, have also given rise to the demand for a common entrance test. To that end, the modalities for Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) have been submitted to the education ministry this year. However, since the approval for CUCET is pending, DU continued with its merit-based admission process.Suman Kumar, who teaches political science at Rajdhani College, said, “A central entrance test for applicants or at least a combined weightage of Class 12 scores and entrance test is the only way to counter high cut-offs. The government should also open more colleges, create infrastructure, and hire more teachers to meet the higher education demand.”Since there is no first-come, first-served policy in Delhi University, colleges are required to give admissions to all applicants who meet the announced cut-off criteria, leading to over-admissions. This essentially means that colleges end up admitting more students than the number of sanctioned seats.In the previous years, the DU admission process allowed applicants to select courses they wished to apply for. Since the process was changed last year, colleges are in the blind about the number of applicants for a particular subject and have to rely on trends to gauge which courses will receive more applicants.Principal of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College, Jaswinder Singh, who is also the president of the DU principals’ association, said, “Many outstation students earlier applied to only a few colleges. This meant that off-campus colleges often could not fill their seats. That is why the university decided to do away with the option of selecting colleges. Later, the option to select courses was also removed. While this gave students more options, colleges were left with no data on ascertaining the preferred courses, which is a metric for deciding cut-offs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/admissions/100-cutoffs-the-new-normal-for-delhi-university-101633119697567.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||1 case of Covid, 9 of dengue reported in Ludhiana||One case of Covid-19 and nine fresh cases of dengue were reported in Ludhiana on Friday. The cumulative count of Covid cases in the district has now reached 87,540, of which 2,102 patients have succumbed so far. As per the health department, 29,38,650 doses of Covid vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries in the district so far. Meanwhile, the total dengue count mounted to 195 on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1-case-of-covid-9-of-dengue-reported-in-ludhiana-101633119584995.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||AAP alleges scam in SDMC’s pension scheme||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of generating fake accounts to siphon off pension money meant for the homeless under a scheme floated by South MCD.“The standing committee was told that over 50% destitute pension is bogus. Why is it not being investigated?... Legal action should be taken against those councillors who have committed fraud,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.Dismissing the allegations, Delhi-BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said: “There is no discrepancy in the destitute pensions being distributed by South MCD... pension data is fully transparent.”Delhi goes to the municipal polls next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-accuses-bjp-of-siphoning-money-from-delhi-municipal-bodies-bjp-refutes-charges-101633119397684.html
02-10-2021||Kolkata||‘BJP deployed CBI under Mamata’s nose’: BJP leader Rahul Sinha at Bengal event||KOLKATA: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has deployed the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI) in Bengal “right under Mamata’s nose” and she is not able to do anything, senior BJP leader Rahul Sinha claimed at an event in Kolkata, prompting the Trinamool Congress to hit back contending that the statement was an acknowledgement that the BJP was using CBI to hurt Bengal’s ruling party.“Thousands of our workers were driven out of their homes after the poll results were announced on May 2. Women were tortured. More than 40 BJP workers were killed. They thought they could get away with anything. The BJP has shown what it can do. The BJP deployed the the CBI right under Mamata’s nose. She is not being able to do anything now,” Rahul Sinha, a former president of BJP’s West Bengal unit, said on Friday evening.“The CBI is probing the post-poll violence. It is arresting the perpetrators. If we continue to struggle, we will surely establish BJP rule in Bengal,” said Sinha. Rahul Sinha was speaking at an event organised by the Bengal BJP unit to felicitate Sukanta Majumdar, who was appointed the party’s state president on September 20.Sinha’s statement drew an immediate reaction from the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said, “The BJP has admitted in public that BJP is using the CBI. The probe agencies are being used because the BJP could not politically defeat us.”To be sure, the Calcutta high court’s five-judge bench, headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal, ordered the CBI probe into post-poll violence on August 19 on a bunch of petitions including one filed by Priyanka Tibrewal, the BJP who contested the by-elections against chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Bhabanipur on September 30The high court ordered CBI to probe serious allegations ofof rape and murder while a special investigation team of the state police was told to investigate allegations of arson and loot under the court’s supervision.The West Bengal government has faulted the high court order and appealed to the Supreme Court, accusing CBI of framing functionaries of the ruling Trinamool Congress in false cases and questioning the high court’s reliance on the report of a committee that had three lead members with alleged links with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the party in power at the Centre.The Supreme Court on Tuesday admitted the West Bengal government’s petition and will hear the case on October 7.Rahul Sinha also targeted the Election Commission (EC) for holding the by-poll at Bhawanipore on September 30, and not later that would have forced Mamata Banerjee to step down.“The EC was yearning to make Mamata Banerjee the chief minister. It did not have Bengal’s culture and the Puja festivals in mind while selecting October 30 as the date for the bypolls at four other seats. It insulted Bengal’s people. Even so, couldn’t the Bhawanipore by-poll for Mamata Banerjee be held at that time? What was the hurry?” said Sinha.The bypolls he referred to will be held because the winners either died or resigned. “Even if Mamata Banerjee wins from Bhawanipore, her government will not last till 2026. West Bengal will witness a Taliban-like regime if we cannot oust her,” said Sinha. Other BJP leaders who spoke at the event skipped the two points that Sinha made.Dilip Ghosh, who preceded Sukanta Majumdar as state BJP chief, said: “The TMC came to power because we failed to convince people that we could form government. People thought the BJP cannot win more than 100 seats and hence chose as the opposition party. Till the day we win their confidence, we have to go forward as a formidable opposition,” said Ghosh. Leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP in December last year, stressed on the need to strengthen the party at the polling booth level.“We will not be able to form government as long as we do not have strong committees for all 77,000 polling booth areas in the state. In our elections, 51% vote means 100 (victory) and 49 % means zero. We hit the streets in a big way and our campaigns were a grand affair but we fell behind because of weakness at polling booth level organisations.”“However, it has been proved that Bengal will have only two parties for the next 20 years,” Adhikari added.Majumdar called for a relentless struggle against the TMC. “We have nothing to lose. If Himanta Biswa Sarma could oust the government in Assam, can’t we do it in Bengal? We have to protect the homeland of the Hindus. We will not appease anyone. We want the votes of all Bengalis, they may be Muslims or Hindus,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-deployed-cbi-under-mamata-s-nose-bjp-leader-rahul-sinha-at-bengal-event-101633118918848.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Court asks LG to act against prosecutor missing case hearings||A Delhi court has directed the Lieutenant Governor (LG) to take appropriate action against the special public prosecutor (SPP) for not appearing during the hearing of some northeast Delhi riots cases.The court noted that all its earlier directions to higher officials, including the police commissioner, regarding the non-representation of the state, have fallen on deaf ears.On September 29, chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) Arun Kumar Garg noted that when one of the cases — FIR 104/2020 — was listed for arguments on charges, the state sought an adjournment on the ground that the SPP was not in the country. This irked the court, which recorded that the SPP had last appeared in court on November 28, 2020 and thereafter only on August 13 this year for the case pertaining to rioting, unlawful assembly etc. in the Dayalpur area.The judge noted that the court had issued repeated directions to the deputy commissioner of police (N-E) as well as the commissioner of police, Delhi, to ensure the presence of the SPPs at every hearing so that proceedings are not stalled.It said that officials had also been directed to depute a substitute SPP in unavoidable cases.“However, all the directions have fallen deaf ears...I deem it appropriate to bring the aforesaid fact to the notice of the lieutenant governor of Delhi with a request to him to take appropriate action so as to ensure that the State is properly represented in all the riots cases before this court on each and every date fixed in the matters,” the judge said in his order.Delhi Police did not comment on the matter. Of late, the roles of Delhi Police and the SPPs have come under the courts’ scanner, prompting Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana to form a special investigation cell (SIC) to monitor the progress of the riots cases.On September 29, the judge also directed the DCP (N-E) to provide “coloured photographs and CCTV footage to all the accused in all the matters pertaining to N-E riots pending before this court...within three days”, noting that the prosecution is not supplying it without specific directions from the court, which in turn delays committal/trial of the cases.Meanwhile, in a separate case, the court sought an explanation from the investigating officer for dropping Indian Penal Code section 436 (arson) from the supplementary charge sheet after cognizance had already been taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-court-asks-l-g-to-act-against-prosecutors-missing-case-hearings-101633118917617.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM pulls up officers for ‘slow’ aid disbursal to Covid-19 victims’ kin||During a review meeting on the status of financial assistance disbursal to families of Covid-19 victims on Friday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal introduce a claimant who said he has been running from pillar to post to avail the monetary aid, as he came down on bureaucrats who during the review said the distribution process has been hassle-free.The CM also issued directions to do away with regulatory compliances such as death certificates and surviving member certificates and to complete all disbursals by October 13, said a senior government officials present in the meeting.The government has so far received around 25,000 applications under the one-time financial assistance scheme of ₹50,000 for each Covid-19 death, of whom 7,163 families have received the money, and of the total 6,700-odd applications received for the monthly ₹2,500 financial aid, so far 3,131 have started receiving the money.Kejriwal on Friday told officers these numbers “are low”, said two officials who were in the meeting, which was also attended by deputy CM Manish Sisodia, social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam and Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Dev.Delhi has so far recorded 25,087 Covid-19 deaths.“A high-level review meeting over the scheme was held on Friday at the Delhi Secretariat, where he [Kejriwal] directed the officers to disburse the amount to the families of Covid-19 victims at the earliest. The CM ordered that there will no longer be a need for death certificates and surviving member certificates from families. He said officials should instead verify applications from the MHA [Union ministry of home affairs] list or official records and immediately disburse money,” said the chief minister’s office in a statement.It added, “The CM stressed upon the fact that the government’s duty is to console and support grieving families and not create problems for them...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-pulls-up-officers-for-slow-financial-aid-to-families-of-covid-victims-101633118737487.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjeet Singh murder: HC reserves judgment on plea seeking transfer of trial||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday reserved its judgment on a petition seeking transfer of the trial against former Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in the Ranjeet Singh murder case. The high court bench of Justice Avneesh Jhingan took the decision after hearing all the parties. Ranjit Singh’s son Jagseer Singh had approached the court in August seeking directions for the transfer of the case to any other court in the region. Ranjit Singh was murdered in 2002. According to the CBI, Ranjit was killed as Ram Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter on sexual exploitation of female disciples on the dera premises. Jagseer had questioned adjournments granted by the CBI judge a number of times since joining and also levelled allegations against a CBI public prosecutor for “interfering” in the “administration of justice” and “influencing” the proceedings. The CBI has denied allegations against its public prosecutor. Acting on the plea, the high court on August 24 had restrained the special CBI court, Panchkula, from pronouncing the final verdict, two days before the final order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ranjeet-singh-murder-hc-reserves-judgment-on-plea-seeking-transfer-of-trial-101633118557624.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||CM Kejriwal should allow Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi: BJP MP Manoj Tiwari||North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari said on Friday that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal should allow Chhath Puja celebrations in the Capital. Tiwari, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Purvanchali face in Delhi, said the decision has hurt the sentiments of the community.The former Delhi BJP chief met members of Chhath Puja committees on Friday to discuss the recent ban on Chhath Puja celebrations by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority. The Delhi government cancelled the celebrations for the second consecutive year.Addressing the gathering, Tiwari questioned the ban and said that the situation has returned to almost normal (the number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital is low) and all services are being reopened, including weekly markets, and large gatherings are being allowed.He later tweeted, “1.8 crore people have got vaccinated…weekly markets, Metro, buses, theatre, liquor vends etc. are all open, then why can’t people celebrate Chhath while following Covid-19 restrictions, @ArvindKejriwal? Please meet and provide a solution.”The spokespersons of the Delhi government and office of the lieutenant governor did not respond for comment .In a recent order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority banned Chhath Puja celebrations, while allowing Ramleela and Dussehra, Durga Puja celebrations in the Capital, though with restrictions.Chhath Puja, a three-day festival, will be celebrated between November 8 and 10 this year. It is popular in states such as Bihar, eastern Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and parts of Madhya Pradesh. There is a significant presence of the Purvanchal community in Delhi.In the past decade, the community has become politically significant as it plays a decisive role in elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-kejriwal-should-allow-chhath-puja-celebrations-in-delhi-bjp-mp-manoj-tiwari-101633118438629.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Petition in high court against Punjab government’s ‘new mining policy’ withdrawn||A petition filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking quashing of the Punjab cabinet’s September 20 decision to allow “free mining” has been withdrawn.The plea was dismissed as withdrawn as the government maintained that no new mining policy has been finalised yet. All the mining contracts are in place as per the existing policy, the government told the court. Terming the plea premature, the court allowed withdrawal of the plea.The plea was filed by Mahadev Enclave Private Limited, a mining firm, which had approached the high court last week seeking quashing of the September 20 state cabinet decision. In the first cabinet meeting, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had sought a survey of the prices of sand and how to provide sand at cheaper rates, it was claimed. In the meeting, it was also decided to allow landowners to do mining in their areas. The contractor termed the decision a “political gimmick” ahead of the assembly elections and claimed that the decision was totally illegal and arbitrary as it is against the law laid down in various judgments. The firm had also told the court that the move would lead to an “environmental disaster”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petition-in-high-court-against-punjab-government-s-new-mining-policy-withdrawn-101633118257313.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC closes over 1,000 cases petty crimes involving kids||The Delhi high court has closed 1,108 cases of petty crimes allegedly committed by juveniles and ordered their immediate release, noting that enquiry in the cases has been pending or inconclusive for over a year.On Wednesday, a bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani gave two weeks to the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) to pass a formal order in each of the cases, and directed that the children “be released immediately without waiting” for the formal orders.Petty crimes under Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act are defined as those which entail a maximum imprisonment up to three years. These include offences such as assault, theft, forgery etc.Noting that the pendency of petty offences involving children has increased by 44% in the last six months, the court, in its 15-page order, said, “In all cases alleging petty offences against children/juveniles, where the inquiry has been pending and remains inconclusive for longer than 1 year, regardless of whether the subject child/juvenile has been produced before the JJB, all such inquiries shall stand terminated with immediate effect…”The order comes while hearing a criminal reference, concerning the circumstances when a child in conflict with law also happens to be a child in need for care and protection, by the principal magistrate of the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB)-2, Delhi Gate. The criminal reference was tagged with a petition filed through the NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA). Appearing for BBA, advocate Prabhsahay Kaur highlighted the pendency of petty crimes at JJBs.The DCPCR had first in March, recommended the release of the children under section 14 of the JJ Act which mandates that the inquiry pertaining to petty offences against a child in conflict with law shall stand terminated if it remains inconclusive after four months, which can be extended by two more months for valid reasons.During the hearing, DCPCR told the court that a total of 1,108 such cases were pending for over a year as on June 30, and 795 cases were pending for a period between 6 months and a year.Anu Grover Baliga, secretary of the Delhi State Legal Services Authority, had informed the court that cases remain pending before JJBs for over six months as determining the age of the juvenile takes substantial time.“Worse still...by reason of the truncated functioning of courts resulting from the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic, juveniles were not being produced before the JJBs at all... and, since it was understood that the time of four months stipulated in section 14 would begin to run only after the date of first production of the child before the JJB, hundreds of matters relating even to petty offences have been languishing at various stages...,” the bench noted in its order.“...we direct that in consonance with the spirit of Section 10, the child must be so produced before the JJB...within a period of 24 hours of the child becoming subject of processes under the JJ Act,” the court said.The court said even though most of the children are not “apprehended” by the police, or are handed over to their parents immediately if apprehended, the pendency of the case is “stigmatic and impacts the dignity of the child”.“Therefore, this situation must not be allowed to continue...,” said the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-closes-over-1-000-cases-petty-crimes-involving-kids-101633118141069.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Will introduce major reforms in education, sports sectors in Punjab, says minister Pargat Singh||Newly inducted Punjab education, sports, and NRIs affairs minister Pargat Singh on Friday said major reforms will be introduced in the education and sports sectors in the state according to the present-day needs so that youngsters could excel in both fields at national and international levels. Taking the guard of honour in Jalandhar after taking over as minister, Pargat said he would try best to fine-tune the two sectors. Interacting with mediapersons, he said that education and sports are interconnected fields through which the talent in youngsters can be tapped to channelise their energy in a right way. “Ultra-modern facilities will be provided to youngsters. A special movement would be started in the villages in the coming days to connect people in villages with sporting activities as it would act as a catalyst against the drug menace,” he said. Also, the minister called upon the Punjabi diaspora to join hands with the state government to take the state’s development to a new scale. Special committees will be formed to get inputs from renowned professionals and technical experts to make functioning of both the departments more effective, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-introduce-major-reforms-in-education-sports-sectors-in-punjab-says-minister-pargat-singh-101633118017355.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||PM Modi says ‘garbage mountains’ need to be wiped out||While launching the second phase of government’s flagship programme, Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban), on Friday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid emphasis on wiping out the “mountains of garbage” from India’s cities by processing all legacy waste.Indirectly alluding to the Ghazipur landfill, one of the largest dumps in India, Modi said, “While on the subject of clearing these huge mounds of garbage from cities, there is one such mountain of garbage in Delhi too. It has been sitting there for years, waiting to be removed.”Urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri, who was also at the event, was seen nodding in agreement as the PM spoke.Dubbed the tallest waste mountain in the country — in 2019, before bio-mining began in Ghazipur, the mounds were as high as 65 metres, just eight shorter than the Qutub Minar — the Ghazipur landfill was established in 1984 and reached capacity in 2002. But the city’s waste continued to be dumped there even after that. The result 70-acre landfill now holds more than 14 million tonnes of legacy waste, said municipal officials.To put this volume in perspective, the amount of garbage in Ghazipur is more than the combined volume in both Okhla and Bhalswa landfill sites. A section of the mound collapsed in September 2017, killing two travelling on the road adjacent to it.In July 2019, the Prime Minister’s office tasked the principal scientific advisor to the government of India with finding a solution to the Ghazipur waste problem. Some initial steps towards resolving the problem have been taken, civic body officials said. Based on directions issued by the National Green Tribunal, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) launched a bio-mining exercise in 2019 to flatten the garbage mountain.Shyam Sunder Agarwal, mayor, EDMC, said the corporation has set a December 2024 deadline to clear the landfill. Bio-mining is currently being done using trommel machines that separate the waste into plastic, paper, cloth, sand and bricks.A senior EDMC official said,“The mixed legacy waste is fed into the main trommel through a conveyor belt. The trommel consists of a cylindrical rotating sieve into which air is blown from one end. Heavy stuff like soil and stones fall through the cylindrical sieve while lighter components such as plastic and paper fall at the farthest end.”“The various components of mixed waste can also be separated in this manner by simply varying the size of sieves in the trommel machines,” the official said, asking not to be named.Agarwal said the corporation has been facing problems in disposing of the recovered inert material. “We have decided to appoint a single company for the removal of at least 50 lakh [5 million] tonnes of legacy waste as well as the disposal of recovered material. The company will also set up an engineered landfill site on a 10-acre recovered site as well as a leachate plant,” he said.The east body has, so far, deployed 20 trommel machines in Ghazipur, with a capacity to process and remove at least 3,000 tonnes of legacy waste a day. The EDMC claimed it has removed 775,000 tonnes of legacy waste since 2019. Agarwal said the height of the Ghazipur landfill has now reduced by 15m.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/swachh-bharat-2-0-pm-modi-says-garbage-mountains-need-to-be-wiped-out-101633117897341.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||53 foreigners held for violence at police station in Delhi||At least 53 foreigners have been arrested over the past four days for allegedly resorting to violence at Mohan Garden police station in south-west Delhi following the death of an African origin man at a hospital in the area on September 26, police said Friday.A mob of about 70-80 people carrying sticks, rods, and other blunt objects allegedly arrived at the police station on September 26 and resorted to stone pelting and vandalism, besides damaging vehicles. They allegedly manhandled a few policemen before other personnel responded to the situation, fired some rounds in the air, and chased away the mob, senior police officers said.The incident was captured by a local resident on his cellphone.Additional deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Vikram Singh said, “We have registered a case of attempt to murder, creating ruckus, damaging property and obstructing police personnel from performing their duties. So far, 53 people have been arrested.”A senior police officer said the foreigners were angry over the death of a man of African origin at a private hospital near Dwarka Mor, where he was brought in an unconscious state on September 26. Doctors declared him dead on arrival and told his friends that since it was a medico-legal matter, they had to inform police. They were not in favour of this, which led to an altercation and police were called. “When the police tried to explain the legal procedure, the men became aggressive and left. Around an hour later, 70-80 foreigners gathered at the Mohan Garden police station and resorted to violence,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/53-foreigners-arrested-for-violence-vandalism-at-police-station-in-delhi-101633117666397.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Start paddy procurement as per previous schedule: Sukhbir Badal to Punjab government||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday asked the Congress government in Punjab to start paddy procurement in the state according to the earlier schedule and not postpone it till October 11 as was decided a day before. The SAD leader, who reached the Food Corporation of India (FCI)’s regional office with a trolley of fresh harvested paddy, said the crop was well within permissible moisture limits and the government should start procurement at the earliest. According to the earlier schedule, the procurement was to begin on Friday. The Union ministry of food and public distribution has put okayed the postponement on the basis of report by FCI. “The arrangements for paddy procurement were not made on time due to infighting in the ruling Congress. The state does not have gunny bags. Labour and transport tenders have not been finalised,” alleged Sukhbir. Also, the level of moisture in a test conducted in the presence of FCI officials was recorded at 12.9% against the permissible limit of 17%. Sukhbir asked the FCI officials to push for advancing the date of procurement there was no issue with regards to moisture level in the grain. “In case, the central government did not withdraw its decision and start procurement, we will launch an agitation,” he announced.“Paddy has started reaching the ‘mandis’. Postponing purchase of paddy will spell a doom for the state’s economy and will result in harassment of farmers,” said former deputy chief minister.Former minister Daljit Singh Cheema also accompanied him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/start-paddy-procurement-as-per-previous-schedule-sukhbir-badal-to-punjab-government-101633117597408.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Air quality panel asks Delhi, NCR states to set up monitoring portal||The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) directed the governments of Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan on Friday to develop an online mechanism to monitor construction agencies’ dust mitigation measures in the national Capital region (NCR) and adjoining areas.In a statement, CAQM said that the introduction of a robust online mechanism for monitoring dust mitigation measures was necessary to ensure strict implementation of construction and demolition waste management rules.“As per the directions of CAQM, all construction projects ongoing on plot area equal to or greater than 500 square metres in the NCR have to mandatorily register on the web portal. Along with this, provision for video fencing equipped with remote connectivity technology will have to be incorporated on the web portal for effective and round-the-clock monitoring of compliance of dust mitigation measures by the project proponents,” the statement read.It added, “Further, the project proponents are required to install reliable and low-cost PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) and PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) sensors at construction sites.”The air quality monitoring body said this move will help agencies self-audit and certify their compliance with the stipulated dust control measures and will also strengthen the monitoring of dust control measures at construction and demolition sites.“The project proponents will have to upload the self-declaration on a fortnightly basis. Further, directions have been issued to Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and other state pollution control boards (SPCB) of NCR to strictly monitor compliance of dust mitigation measures by project proponents,” they said.Rai says CP smog tower cut pollution by 80%The Delhi government’s first smog tower installed at Connaught Place has reduced air pollution in the vicinity by up to 80%, environment minister Gopal Rai claimed on Friday.While inspecting the smog tower installed at Baba Kharak Singh Marg in CP on Friday, Rai said the preliminary reports of the filtered air quality shows that the smog tower was cleaning up to 80% of the polluted air in the area around it.“We have constituted a 16-member committee today (Friday) to closely monitor the smog tower. The committee will submit three reports to the Delhi government, at an interval of three months each... On the basis of the report, the government will decide whether to install more smog towers,” said Rai.“The committee will have five members from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC). Apart from this, five members from IIT-Bombay, three from NBCC (India), and three from Tata Project Limited will join the panel,” he said.Rai said that according to the sensors installed around the smog tower, around 8am on Friday, the PM2.5 level fell from 151µg/m3 fell to 38µg/m3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/web-portal-to-monitor-dust-mitigation-in-ncr-must-caqm-to-states-101633117417263.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy starts arriving in Punjab mandis, farmers sell below MSP amid postponement of procurement||LUDHIANA/BATHINDA/PATIALA
02-10-2021||Delhi||Anti-smog tower in Delhi’s CP reduced pollution by 80%: Env min Gopal Rai||The Delhi government’s first smog tower installed at Connaught Place has reduced air pollution in the vicinity by up to 80%, environment minister Gopal Rai claimed on Friday. While inspecting the smog tower installed at Baba Kharak Singh Marg in CP on Friday, Rai said the preliminary reports of the filtered air quality shows that the smog tower was cleaning up to 80% of the polluted air in the area around it. “We have constituted a 16-member committee today (Friday) to closely monitor the smog tower. The committee will submit three reports to the Delhi government, at an interval of three months each, which will give a clearer assessment of the performance of the smog tower. On the basis of the report, the government will decide whether to install smog towers at other places,” said Rai.“The committee will have five members from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC). Apart from this, five members from IIT-Bombay, three from NBCC (India), and three from Tata Project Limited will join the panel,” he said. Rai said that according to the sensors installed around the smog tower, around 8am on Friday, the PM 2.5 (particulate matter of diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) level of 151µg/m3 (microgram per metre cube) fell to 38µg/m3. The level of PM 10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) of 166µg/m3 was also brought down to 41ug/m3 after purification, he claimed. Experts have, however, expressed apprehension about effectiveness of smog towers. “The measurements reported to substantiate the effectiveness of the smog tower seem to be capturing the difference between the quality at the inlet and outlet. However, to truly determine if the device has any impact on a substantive area in the surrounding, measurements must be made at various distances from the device in different directions to assess how far its impact zone is. This is anyway slated to happen over the coming months. What would be useful would be to mount measuring devices and display monitors to create public evidence,” said Karthik Ganesan, Fellow and Research Director, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated the smog tower, which was set up on the directions of the Supreme Court, on August 23. The government had ordered a one-month trial to assess if the tower is beneficial. The government said that about 10,000 filters and 40 fans are installed in the smog tower, which is designed to clean polluted air in a one kilometre radius, at a rate of about 1,000 cubic metres per second.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/antismog-tower-in-delhi-s-cp-reduced-pollution-by-80-env-min-gopal-rai-101633117057422.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Security guard mowed down in Delhi’s Vikaspuri||A 55-year-old security guard was mowed down by a car while on duty at a colony in west Delhi’s Vikaspuri. The incident happened on September and police are on the lookout for the accused.DCP west, Urvija Goel, said that they got a PCR call regarding an accident in Vikaspuri, soon after which a team was rushed to the spot. An eyewitness told the police team that the security guard, Mahender Sharma, was hit by a white Kia Seltos car.Sharma, who was admitted to a hospital, died during treatment on Thursday, following which his family members took the body to the Ordinance Apartments in Vikaspuri and demanded compensation from the residents welfare association. They returned after police intervened.Police said they are scanning the CCTV cameras installed in the area to ascertain where the accused could have gone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/security-guard-mowed-down-in-delhi-s-vikaspuri-101633116757524.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Imported liquor racket: Kingpin, 8 others booked in Mohali||A day after a team of the excise department, along with Mohali police, seized a pick-up truck smuggling 201 cartons of imported beer into Punjab, the two arrested men were produced in a Dera Bassi court and sent to three-day police remand. The police on Friday also booked the gang’s kingpin Antar Preet Singh Sidhu, his two accomplices, Jaspal Singh and Som, and six unidentified people.According to police sources, four more boxes of foreign beer were recovered from Sidhu’s houses in Chandigarh’s Sectors 9 and 35. Police are investigating the destination of this liquor.On Thursday, police had arrested the pick-up truck driver, Somu, and Vishavjeet Singh Dhindsa of Malerkotla, who was escorting the truck in a Mahindra Scorpio. Apart from the 201 cartons in the truck, 1,400 more were recovered from the gang’s godowns in Mohali district.The gang had been smuggling in liquor from Spain and Romania, and stored it in Mohali, before distributing it further in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Telengana, and Karnataka.Joint excise commissioner Naresh Dubey said more raids were being conducted in Punjab and outside. Apart from the Excise Act, all accused have been booked under Sections 420, 468 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/imported-liquor-racket-kingpin-8-others-booked-101633116037393.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Baner-Pashan residents to move court against PMC over incomplete link road||The Baner Pashan Link Road Welfare Trust (BPLRW), representing residents of the area, has approached the Bombay High Court, seeking action against the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for failing to complete the Bane-Pashan link road in the area.“The connectivity has been severely hampered due to incomplete roads with the most important being the 36- metre Baner-Pashan link road, from Wakeshwar chowk on Sus Pashan road to Rolling Hills chowk, as per the development plan (DP) of 1993. This road is pending due to a delay in land acquisition by the PMC. We have decided to knock on the doors of the High Court for justice,” said Rajendra Chuttar, president of the trust.Protests have been going on demanding completion of the link road since 2014. HT reported this issue in 2017 and in 2019.Seema Agrawal, vice-president of the trust and a resident of Baner Pashan link road, said, “In 2005 when we booked a flat in the area we envisioned this place being close to Pashan and Baner, via the link road. It’s been over 10 years that we are staying here and still there is no progress on the link road.” Speaking on behalf of the petitioners, advocate Satya Muley, who will move the motion before the Bombay High Court next week, said “The fundamental Right to Life under Article 21 of the Constitution of India guarantees full enjoyment of life, which includes the right of enjoyment of proper roads, streets. The Supreme Court has held - right to life, includes civic amenities like roads. The residents of the region have exhausted all other remedies. They are moving the Bombay High Court to enforce their fundamental rights”Dinkar Gojare, PMC’s road department official said, “I just got to know about the PIL through a message, but PMC has been working on acquiring land through TDR, FSI with many properties on that link road. The stretch is a total of 1200 metres and we are now facing a problem with three property holders. They are not cooperating with the authorities. Three years ago, the land acquisition department was informed to begin procedures, but it takes time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/banerpashan-residents-to-move-court-against-pmc-over-incomplete-link-road-101633115977411.html
02-10-2021||Other||Farmers to campaign against BJP-JJP nominee in Ellenabad||Farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws on Friday announced that they will campaign against the BJP-JJP candidate in Ellenabad bypoll, which is scheduled on October 30.The seat fell vacant after Indian National Lok Dal’s lone MLA Abhay Singh Chautala had resigned from the Haryana assembly on January 27 in support of the ongoing agitation against the farm laws.The decision to campaign against the BJP-JJP nominee in the bypoll was taken by farmers protesting under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) at Jind’s Khatkar toll plaza.Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Jind district president Azad Palwan said the khaps and SKM leaders have decided to campaign against the BJP-JJP candidate in the Ellenabad bypoll.“We will not allow the BJP-JJP nominee and other party leaders to enter the villages in Ellenabad. We will not campaign in favour of anyone but will protest against the ruling government’s candidate. We will protest against the BJP-JJP nominees in zila parishad and block samiti elections,” he added.Another farm leader Captain Randhir Singh said farmers from across Haryana will visit the villages in Ellenabad constituency and will show black flags to the BJP-JJP leaders if they try to enter the villages.“We want the BJP-JJP nominee to lose the election. Until the Centre’s three farm laws are repealed, we will continue to campaign against the BJP in elections anywhere in the country,” he added.INLD leader Abhay Chautala also stated that the voters of Ellenabad will not allow entry of BJP-JJP leaders in their villages.“People are waiting for the BJP-JJP leaders to teach them a lesson if they enter their villages. Farmers have been protesting against three black laws for a year and are waiting to forfeit the security deposit of their candidate,” he added.Reacting over Abhay Chautala’s comment, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said the BJP-JJP joint nominee will be declared soon and will campaign in the Ellenabad constituency to ensure INLD candidate’s defeat.According to the schedule announced by the EC, a notification will be issued for the bypoll on October 1 and the nomination process will start on the same day. The last date for filing nominations is October 8.The nominations will be scrutinised on October 11 and the last date for withdrawing it is October 16.The Ellenabad seat in Sirsa has been considered a stronghold of the INLD and had been represented by former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala and his son Abhay Singh Chautala.A few days ago, Pawan Beniwal, who was runner-up in the 2019 assembly elections from Ellenabad, switched sides from the BJP to the Congress in the presence of Congress state chief Kumari Selja.INLD supremo OP Chautala had been accusing the state government of delaying the bypoll due to the fear of losing security deposit.Congress seeks applications for assembly bypollThe Haryana Congress on Friday sought applications from party leaders and worker who want to be considered for a party ticket for contesting the Ellenabad assembly bypoll. The decision was taken during a meeting of party leaders in New Delhi on Friday. In-charge of party affairs in Haryana, Vivek Bansal, said the last date for applying is October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-to-campaign-against-bjp-jjp-nominee-in-ellenabad-101633115922721.html
02-10-2021||Pune||PMC fines Swach for “uncleanliness” in Aundh-Balewadi-Baner||Swach, the collective of waste-pickers providing waste collection services in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) area, has been fined by the PMC for “uncleanliness” in the Aundh-Balewadi-Baner smart city area, specifically near the Kapil-Malhar society.Sandip Khalate, ward officer of Aundh-Baner ward, said, “As per local residents, we visited the spot and we found Swach workers were separating garbage by the roadside. They have a segregation point in the Kapil-Malhar society area. Despite that, they were using an open area. We imposed a fine of Rs1,000.”Harshad Barde, director, Swach, said, “PMC fined waste pickers for the PMCs own fault. The PMC ward office fails to collect over two tonnes of waste from this location daily. It inconveniences waste pickers and the citizens. How can they fine the collectors?”He added, “We have proof of complaints ranging for over two years. This is an attempt to malign the image of waste pickers in Pune. We will rally and protest at the highest level and demand an inquiry into this unfair oppression.”Swach covers around 850,000 properties in the city and is paid between ₹4.5 crore to ₹5 crore every month.Swach operates as an extension of the PMC’s solid waste management (SWM) department. Established by the PMC in 2007, after a line was laid down by the state government in 2002, to integrate informal waste-pickers and pull them out of poverty, and promote sustainable waste management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-fines-swach-for-uncleanliness-in-aundhbalewadibaner-101633115797461.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man arrested for forcibly entering Chandigarh air force station||A Manimajra resident, suspected to be under the influence of liquor, was arrested for forcibly trying to enter the 3 BRD air force station, the police said on Friday.The accused was identified as Harsh Pathak, 30, of Subhash Nagar in Manimajra. On September 30 when he was caught, the accused was in an inebriated state, said the police, adding that the accused works with a private company in IT Park.Pathak was arrested on the complaint of Group Captain Devinder Singh Saini, who is the station security officer at 3 BRD. In his complaint, Saini told the police that the accused first attempted to forcibly enter the station without any permission from the main gate. When he was stopped, he argued with the personnel on duty and even tried to rough them up, insisting on getting in while repeatedly saying he wanted to see the campus from inside.When he was turned away, he allegedly entered the campus from the other gate by driving his car at speed, but was stopped by security personnel and handed over to the police.A case under Sections 353 and 186 of the IPC was registered. The accused was produced before a court on Friday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-arrested-for-forcibly-entering-chandigarh-air-force-station-101633115738668.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Temporary power connections: PVVNL’s six teams to probe status in 18 districts||The Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (PVVNL) on Friday constituted special teams to probe the status of temporary power connections issued in 18 districts under the discom asking the officials leading the teams to submit their findings to the headquarters within two working days.This comes after the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) recently found gross irregularities in giving temporary power connections in Noida and Greater Noida. The UPPCL has issued charge sheets to 23 engineers and three clerks in the matter. According to an office memorandum issued by PVVNL director (commercial) IP Singh, six teams will probe the status of temporary power connections in as many zones namely Noida, Ghaziabad, Moradabad, Meerut, Bulandshahr and Saharanpur.“It will be the responsibility of the teams to investigate issues related to status of online ledgerisation of temporary power connections, validity of such connections, status of dues against each temporary connection, status of reading and billing and purpose of the connection,” says the memorandum.Earlier, UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman Avadhesh Kumar Verma filed a petition in the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC), urging it to order a statewide probe into the status of temporary power connections in all the main cities, including Lucknow, Noida, Ghaziabad, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Agra.The commission issued a notice to the UPPCL asking it to file a detailed report on Verma’s demand for a statewide inquiry to check the status of temporary power connections. “What has been found in the three divisions of Noida may just be a proverbial tip of iceberg and a statewide independent probe under the UPERC’s supervision is must to get to the bottom of the scam,” Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/temporary-power-connections-pvvnl-s-six-teams-to-probe-status-in-18-districts-101633115737307.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjeet Singh murder case: HC reserve plea for final order||The Punjab and Haryana high court bench on Friday reserved its judgment on a plea seeking transfer of trial against former Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim in the murder case of one Ranjeet Singh.After hearing all the parties, the HC bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan reserved the order.Ranjit Singh’s son Jagseer Singh had approached the HC in August seeking directions for transfer of the case to any other court in the region. The murder was committed in 2002.As per the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Ranjit Singh was murdered as Ram Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter on sexual exploitation of female disciples on Dera premises.The son had questioned adjournments granted by the CBI judge a number of times since joining and levelled allegations against a CBI public prosecutor for “interfering” in the “administration of justice” and “influencing” the proceedings. The CBI has denied allegations against its public prosecutor.Acting on the plea, on August 24 the HC had restrained the special CBI court, Panchkula, from pronouncing the final verdict, two days before the final order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ranjeet-singh-murder-case-hc-reserve-plea-for-final-order-101633115677578.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress slams BJP government for postponing paddy procurement||Slamming the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in Haryana for delaying the procurement of paddy, the Congress on Friday said postponement of procurement will prove detrimental to farmers’ interests.Addressing a press conference, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala also demanded relaxation in moisture parameters for government procurement.Attacking the BJP government’s decision to postpone procurement of paddy till October 11, Surjewala said the anti-farmer face of the Modi-Khattar governments has been exposed once again.“The state government had announced to start paddy procurement from September 25 but the government is deferring it time and again. It is tormenting the farmers by announcing a new date every other week. Consequently, about 20 lakh quintal paddy is lying under the open skies in Haryana mandis,” Surjewala said.The former minister said paddy had started arriving in mandis from September 20. “But 11 days have passed and not a grain of the crop at minimum support price (MSP) has been procured in Haryana. This is a clear conspiracy to end paddy procurement at MSP and leave farmers at the mercy of open markets,” he said.Former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda in a statement described the new government order on paddy procurement as a cruel joke on farmers.“The government itself had fixed September 25 for start of procurement. Later, it was shifted to October 1 and now the purchase has been postponed till October 11,” Hooda said.He said the farmers are bearing the brunt of the weather on one hand and the government’s shifting policies on the other.Former minister Sampat Singh in a statement said the anti-farmer policies of the central and state governments are causing untold misery to the peasants. He said there will be utter chaos in the mandis if the crop is not lifted immediately.The former minister said the government had set a target of procuring 60 lakh tonne of paddy. But the way procurement is being delayed, it might not even touch the half-way mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-slams-bjp-government-for-postponing-paddy-procurement-101633115437020.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Two sandalwood trees stolen from defence bungalow area in Camp, Pune||Two sandalwood trees were found stolen from bungalow number 13 on Coyaji road in Camp on September 13. It is the fourth case since June and 28 trees have been stolen in the city this year. According to assistant police inspector (API) Harish Shilimkar, the two trees were chopped off from the bungalow premises by unidentified persons. The police have filed a case under IPC 379 (theft) against the accused after a woman complainant lodged the complaint. According to the police, the accused took advantage of the secluded nature of the place and carried out theft during night. Around 11 sandalwood trees were stolen by unidentified persons from the premises of the high security National Chemical Laboratory (NCL) Pashan on August 21. The police booked the culprits under IPC 379 (punishment for theft) and Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Preservation and Protection of Trees Act, 1975 Act-Section 8 and Section 21. On June 27, seven sandalwood trees located at Boat Club road inside Ammunition Factory Khadki (AFK) were found hacked by unidentified persons. No arrest has been made so far. On June 19, eight sandalwood trees were stolen from the open premises of AFK. No breakthrough has been made in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-sandalwood-trees-stolen-from-defence-bungalow-area-in-camp-pune-101633115377275.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU: Protests erupt outside V-C office over FIR against students||Three days after a case was registered against four members of Panjab University’s student parties and others, the Joint Students Action Committee of PU held a protest outside the office of the vice-chancellor on Friday.The station house officer of Sector 11 police station was also present to maintain order and the protest was carried out peacefully. The joint action committee comprises various parties including Students for Students (SFS), National Students Union of India (NSUI) and PSU (Lalkaar) among others.Amandeep Singh of PSU (Lalkaar), one of the students who was named in the FIR and who convened the protest, said, “We will not be intimidated by such petty actions. Already we are facing trial in the case filed in 2017 regarding the fee-hike struggle. But police cases can’t stop us from fighting for our rights. We will continue to challenge anti-student agendas of the authorities and the BJP-RSS stooges on campus. We will not let authorities use false police cases against students anymore. We will not go to court for bail or trial. This time we will struggle till we get the case quashed by our unity.”PU wardens also reached the protest site and a memorandum was submitted for cancelling of the FIRs. President of SFS Sandeep said, “This was a one-day protest for now, but we have given the authorities one week to get the FIR cancelled. We will intensify the protest if that is not done.”He also added that rather than target students for exercising their freedom of speech, the authorities need to look into the complaints submitted against the dean student welfare (women), which the authorities are not investigating.Over a month after the V-C was heckled in a video that had gone viral, a case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (wrongful restraint) was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-protests-erupt-outside-v-c-office-over-fir-against-students-101633115257365.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Hospital ransacked in Dehu road area||Angry relatives of a deceased woman attacked doctors and ransacked a hospital on Dehu road following her death. The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have registered an FIR against them. According to the FIR, the grandmother of accused, identified as Tushar Chavan, was brought to Unicare Hospital in Dehugaon in an unconscious state. The elderly woman died while undergoing treatment around 8 pm on September 27. Angered by the incident, Chavan rushed to the hospital and allegedly attacked the doctors, staff and vandalised the hospital. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera. Later, Dr Suhas Joshi lodged a police complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hospital-ransacked-in-dehu-road-area-101633115197585.html
02-10-2021||Other||Farmers protest delay in paddy procurement, threaten to intensify agitation||Upset over delay in procurement by government agencies, paddy growers from across Haryana held protests at the grain mandis on Friday.The protesters threatened to intensify their agitation if the government fails to start procurement within the next 24 hours.In Karnal, thousands of farmers and mandi labourers gathered at the local market committee office and staged protest against the government’s decision to postpone procurement to October 11.The agitators also locked the gate of the market committee office and raised slogans against the BJP-JJP government.Earlier, the government had announced to start the procurement from September 25 and later it was deferred to October 1.But late on Thursday, the Union government wrote to the state governments of Punjab and Haryana to start procurement of Parmal varieties of paddy to October 11.The protest was led by BKU (Charuni) district president Jagdeep Singh Aulakh and Karnal Arhtiya Association president Rajneesh Chaudhary.The protesting farmers said paddy is ready to harvest and thousands of quintals of paddy have arrived at grain mandis across state. They said farmers cannot afford another 10 days’ delay in harvesting as this will cause huge losses to them.They alleged that the government is intentionally delaying procurement so that private traders can purchase paddy below the minimum support price (MSP).Aulakh announced that farmers will gherao the CM’s residence in Karnal on Saturday.Similar protests were reported from Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Panipat districts as farmers locked the gates of market committees to express their resentment.In Kaithal, BKU (Charuni) leader Hoshiar Singh Gill demanded resignation of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala as he had announced that procurement will start from September 25 but he did not have any say in this coalition government.Even the arhtiya association has demanded the government to start procurement without any further delays. The association’s Karnal district president Rajneesh Chaudhary said thousands of quintals of paddy have already arrived at various grain mandis in district as this may cause a glut situation in the mandis.BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni has already announced to gherao houses of all MPs and MLAs of the ruling parties on October 2 if the procurement is not started.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-protest-delay-in-paddy-procurement-threaten-to-intensify-agitation-101633115137518.html
02-10-2021||Noida||Residents of Gautam Budh Nagar go green to make city garbage free||From advocating against single-use plastics to starting a crockery bank to replacing everyday plastic products with its sustainable alternatives, residents of Gautam Buddh Nagar have been on a mission to ensure a cleaner and greener city. On October 1, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the phase 2 of the Swachh Bharat Mission aiming to make all cities garbage free, HT brings you a list of green initiatives initiated by residents of Gautam Budh Nagar aspiring to achieve the same dream. Since the past three months, at least 100 households in Noida’s Arun Vihar have been recycling their dry waste and about 30 of them are composting their wet waste, essentially moving closer to zero-waste homes. The initiative was started by Arun Vihar residents’ group ‘Saaph’ (Sustainable Alternatives and Awareness against Plastics and Household waste), led by seven women. “We have registered with an organization, about which we got to know about a year ago, that recycles dry waste and takes it from us every fortnight. The minimum requirement for a locality to get registered for pick up of dry waste was 30 households and we had only seven such interested households. We took it as a challenge and encouraged more households in the neighbourhood to get registered and start recycling dry waste. Today, 100 households from Arun Vihar are a part of the initiative,” said Radhika Gulati, a resident of Arun Vihar and a member of SAAPH.“Not all households registered for dry waste are composting wet waste at home as of now. We continue to create awareness and encourage people to create home compost using wet waste. As of now, 30 households in the locality are actively using home compost kits for their wet waste and we hope more people join in,” said Supriya Sardana, another resident of Arun Vihar and a member of SAAPH who also runs a ‘crockery bank’ to cut the use of disposable plastic utensils.A ‘crockery bank’ lets people borrow steel utensils for free on different occasions like birthdays or festivals. People can then wash and return the utensils, reducing their dependency on disposable plastic plates, spoons or glasses.A similar initiative is run by Madhu Mittal, a resident of Sector 50, who has been actively advocating against the use of single-use plastic for over four years now. “I have over 800 units of steel utensils which are often rented out free of cost across the city for community lunches, religious gatherings or birthdays,” said Mittal, who runs the initiative Jan Jagran Sangathan, under which underprivileged children from nearby settlements also create awareness against single-use plastic by conducting marches and performing street plays. Jan Jagran Sangathan is a group of over 50 residents from Noida actively working towards promoting sanitation and cleanliness. “We are holding a cleanliness campaign in Sector 50 on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on Saturday, where we will carry out a march from 7am to 9am to educate and inform people about the importance of sanitation,” said Mittal.Shail Mathur, a resident of Sector 55, has also been advocating against the use of single-use plastic for the past six years. Mathur has created a residents group ‘TREE’ (taking responsibility for earth and environment) that works on distributing cloth bags.“Under TREE, we have been mobilizing local children to confiscate any polythene or polybags found with any shopowner or vendor in the sector and in turn provide them with free cloth bags provided by us. With our continuous efforts, the weekly market in Sector 55 has become plastic-free now. Moreover, in the last six years, we have collected over 3,000kg of polythene from weekly markets,” said Mathur.In March this year, the Noida Authority had recognised Sector 55-56 market as ‘plastic free’. “We hope such initiatives of residents continue to make our city cleaner. Moreover, Noida Authoruty has always encouraged environment-friendly activities,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO of Noida Authority. Meanwhile, with more people across NCR taking interest in environment-friendly products, Noida’s Sector 37 residents Sumit Khanna and Paramveer Khosa started a venture to replace everyday plastic products with its sustainable alternatives two years ago.“While people want to avoid using plastic, they struggle with finding its alternatives. That is how we came up with the concept of making products out of bamboo under the name Indibam. Here we sell bamboo toothbrushes, bottles, straws, serving trays, tongue cleaners and more. The market for sustainable products has been expanding and we are trying to do our bit,” said Khanna, who was earlier working as an international business manager with a private firm. He added that 10% of their profit goes to feed underprivileged children.In a similar initiative, Sector 51 resident Tarunima Bajpai provides and promotes sustainable lifestyle alternatives to customers under her social enterprise Ecoswop Solutions.“From recycled paper pens, bamboo and stainless steel straws to coconut shell soap stands and coconut coir dishwash scrubs, all the sustainable products are made by women from self-help groups located in small villages of western Uttar Pradesh. The raw material is sourced from northeast and south India. With this initiative, we hope people can move towards a zero-waste future,” said Bajpai, who is a lawyer by profession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-of-gautam-budh-nagar-go-green-to-make-city-garbage-free-101633115017277.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Police sub-inspector booked for raping 25-year-old beautician||The Kothrud police have booked a police sub-inspector (PSI) attached to the Yerawada traffic branch on charges of allegedly raping a twenty-five-year-old beautician on the pretext of false promise of marriage and later threatened to chop her into pieces when she demanded to tie the knot. According to the police, the accused has been identified as Praveen Nagesh Jarde, a resident of Shantiban Society in Kothrud. The FIR complaint states that while attached to Kothrud police station in 2018, he lured the complainant on the pretext of marriage and raped her. The FIR adds that he raped her at Gandharva Lodge Bhugaon and The One Society in Bhugaon against her wishes. When she asked for marriage as promised, he threatened to kill her by chopping her to pieces. He told her that he was a policeman and nothing can happen to him, the complaint stated. Later, the victim approached the police for protection and registration of a case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-sub-inspector-booked-for-raping-25-year-old-beautician-101633114957187.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||SC declines plea to keep private liquor vends in Delhi open till November 16||The Supreme Court on Friday closed the doors on 260 private liquor vends in the Capital seeking a last-minute approval to remain operational beyond September 30, the cut-off date prescribed under the Delhi Government’s new excise Policy for private vends to shut shop for 46 days, before the new regime liquor regime kicks off from November 17.According to the new policy, the Delhi government required all existing liquor vends to close by September 30. For the period from October 1 till November 16, only government liquor vends will stay open to cater to the festive season rush. The government will exit the retail sale of liquor in Delhi from November 17, and all its vends will shut.In all, there are 849 liquor stores in Delhi of which more than 260 are privately-run, holding L7 and L10 licenses. Around 408 liquor vends in Delhi will be operational till November 17, as the city transitions to a new excise regime.Demanding parity with government liquor vends to operate till November 16, the private liquor vends, mostly operating in malls, told the Supreme Court that there will be chaos at the government liquor vends during Diwali, and to avoid this, it will be “fair and just in the public interest” for private liquor vends to meet the Capital’s liquor demands.The court was hearing separate appeals filed by Radinton Tradex Private Limited and one Harish Chauhan against interim orders passed by the Delhi high court, which refused to stall the roll-out of the new excise policy. The Delhi Liquor Traders Association approached the high court against the excise policy, a matter that is still under consideration.The bench of Supreme Court justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said, “We are not inclined to entertain these petitions” and asked, “What larger public interest will be served if the private liquor vends are allowed to operate till November 16”.Senior advocates Vikas Singh and Sidharth Luthra appearing for the private liquor vends told the Court, “The rush outside government liquor vends is huge and this can be avoided if we are allowed to operate. Also, the state will earn revenue as we sell top quality liquor for which the customers in the Capital will go to neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.”The Delhi Government appeared on caveat and was represented by senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi who argued that the old policy was meant to expire on September 30 to ensure a smooth, seamless transfer to the new excise policy. Singhvi said that the state had power to bring the new excise policy under the Delhi Excise Act 2009 and the corresponding Rules and this challenge was pending before the Delhi High Court.The Delhi government had earlier stated that the new policy was introduced to usher in reforms to boost revenues, give a better experience to customers, and crack down on the liquor mafia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/scdeclines-plea-to-keep-private-liquor-vends-in-delhi-open-till-november-16-101633114777382.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Hinjewadi residential society office-bearers booked for voyeurism||The Hinjewadi police have lodged a molestation case against the chairperson, secretary and treasurer of a housing society in Hinjewadi-Wakad road on charges of voyeurism. The accused have been charged for installing CCTV camera near the bedroom window of the woman resident and recording her private life for almost one month. According to the police, the offence took place between September 5 and September 28 at the society wherein the trio fixed the CCTV camera facing the bedroom window to record her private life. When the victim came to know about the incident, she objected to the camera and asked for its immediate removal. The society members refused and continued with their voyeurism which was later recorded by the victim and given to the police. Police inspector (crime) Sunil Dahiphale said that that the society chairperson identified as Ganesh Shankar Aute, secretary Sagar Shinde and treasurer Devendra Sarangdhar have been booked in the case. “A case under IPC Section 354 (D) which means one who follows a woman and contacts, or attempts to contact such woman to foster personal interaction repeatedly despite a clear indication of disinterest by such woman; or monitors the use by a woman of the internet, email or any other form of electronic communication, commits the offence of stalking has been lodged against the accused. The investigation is on and no arrest has been made so far,” said Dahiphale. The police have also booked them under relevant sections of the IT Act and IPC 34 (common intention).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hinjewadi-residential-society-office-bearers-booked-for-voyeurism-101633114719482.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Restrictions on Chhath celebrations have hurt community, says Manoj Tiwari||North East Delhi member of Parliament Manoj Tiwari on Friday said chief minister Arvind Kejriwal should allow Chhath Puja celebrations in the Capital, a day after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) disallowed residents of the city from marking festivities in public places.Tiwari, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Purvanchali face in Delhi, said the decision to disallow celebrations hurt the sentiments of the community.The former Delhi BJP chief met members of Chhath Puja committees on Friday to discuss the DDMA’s ban on celebrations.Addressing the gathering, Tiwari questioned the ban and said that the situation has returned to almost normal (the number of Covid-19 cases in the Capital is low) and all services are being reopened, including weekly markets, and large gatherings are being allowed.He later tweeted, “1.8 crore people have got vaccinated…weekly markets, Metro, buses, theatre, liquor vends etc. are all open, then why can’t people celebrate Chhath while following Covid-19 restrictions, @ArvindKejriwal? Please meet and provide a solution.”In a recent order, DDMA banned Chhath Puja celebrations, even as it allowed Ramleela and Dussehra, Durga Puja celebrations, with restrictions.Chhath Puja, a three-day festival, will be celebrated between November 8 and 10 this year. It is popular in states such as Bihar, eastern Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and parts of Madhya Pradesh. There is a significant presence of the Purvanchal community in Delhi.Spokespersons from the Delhi government and the Lieutenant Governor’s office did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/restrictions-on-chhath-celebrations-have-hurt-community-says-manoj-tiwari-101633114289851.html
02-10-2021||Pune||FYJC admissions: 51,609 seats still vacant in Pune||After the completion of three regular rounds and one special round of admissions to Class 11 (first year junior college - FYJC), the education department has now started its first come first served (FCFS) round of admissions. On Friday, a second round of admissions closed with 61,596 admissions completed and 51,609 seats still vacant in Pune and Pimpri- Chinchwad. From Saturday, a third round of FCFS admissions will start. Now students with marks between 350 and 300 in Class 10 are eligible for admission. Accordingly, further FCFS rounds will be held and will finish on October 14. There are seven categories in the FCFS admission process, under the first category students with more than 90 per cent marks are considered, then 80 per cent marks, and accordingly 70, 60, and 50 per cent or lower,In the last category, students with 35 per cent or above will also be considered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fyjc-admissions-51-609-seats-still-vacant-in-pune-101633114417250.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 748 new Covid cases, 3 deaths||PUNE According to the state health department, Pune district has reported 748 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths due to the infection, on Friday. This took the progressive count to 1.14 million, out of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,796 deaths reported and 9,021 are active cases or patients who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 456 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 359,077 and the death toll stood at 6,790.Pune city reported 161 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 517,455 and the death toll went up to 9,158 as two more deaths were reported.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 131 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 266,567 and the toll stood at 3,499 as one death was reported on Friday.Pune also saw 88,922 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-Win dashboard and to date 1,06,34,328. Out of which 71,93,982 are first doses and 34,40,346 are second doses. A total of 737 sites saw vaccination, out of which 472 were government centres and 265 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-748-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-101633114298663.html
02-10-2021||Other||PAU scientist felicitated at 4th Int’l Conference on Food and Nutrition in Singapore||Mohammed Shafiq Alam, principal scientist, department of processing and food engineering, Punjab Agricultural University, has won the first prize in oral presentation for his research paper on ‘Development and evaluation of percussion-based machine for non-chemical disinfestation of milled products’ at the fourth International Conference on Food and Nutrition organised by the Universal Society of Food and Nutrition (USFN), Bioleagues Worldwide, at Singapore.A total of 157 research papers on food processing and technology, immunity and infection, food safety and security, nutrition education, good nutrition to prevent Covid-19, public health nutrition, etc., were presented.Anirudh Tewari, PAU vice-chancellor and chief secretary, the government of Punjab; Ashok Kumar dean, college of agricultural engineering and technology; NS Bains, director of research and Mahesh Kumar, head, department of processing and food engineering, congratulated Alam for the achievement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-scientist-felicitated-at-conference-in-singapore-101633114253142.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Humanities subjects stay popular, two courses feature 100% cut-offs in DU||Four out of the 11 eleven undergraduate courses with a 100% cut-off this year are from the humanities stream maintaining the trend of political science, English, history and psychology emerging as popular subjects, with the highest cut-offs across colleges.Out of the 46 and 11 colleges offering political science (honours) and psychology (honours) respectively, around 19 and eight colleges retained cut-offs between 98-100% for the two subjects.Last year, these two subjects saw the highest cut-off in the university, set by Lady Shri Ram College For Women at 100%.This year, Ramjas College and Hindu College set 100% cut-offs in these two courses. Hindu College principal Anju Srivastava said that last year, the college admitted double the number of students across courses in the unreserved category under the first cut-off, despite the college setting the highest cut-off at 99.5%.“Over-admissions burden infrastructure, and disrupt the teacher-student ratio in colleges. Under the sanctioned strength, we only need to have one section, but most popular subjects in our college have two to three sections,” she said. Most colleges, including Kamala Nehru College, Rajdhani College, Aryabhatta College and Deshbandhu College saw a jump of up to four percentage points in the political science course this year. North campus colleges such as Miranda House, Kirori Mal College, and Daulat Ram College have set cut-offs over 99%.Tanvir Aeijaz, who teaches political science at Ramjas College, said it has emerged as an in-demand subject. “Most students want to know about politics and understand the social situation. The subject too has evolved over the years to include multidisciplinary papers such as feminism, citizenship, and public policy. It also helps students prepare for the civil services, to join research institutes, or to work in the development sector. Public policy has also emerged as an interesting discipline.” According to Aeijaz, who has analysed the admissions data, around 4,500 students of Humanities background got around 100% in their class 12 results this year.In English too, the cut-offs have increased from between 0.50 and three percentage points in institutes such as Gargi College, Ramanujan College and Shivaji College, ranging between 96-99.75%. Top DU colleges such as Miranda House, Hindu College, LSR and Hansraj have also set English cut-off at 99% and above. For History, most of the colleges have set cut-offs ranging between 95-99.75% including Hansraj College (99%) and Hindu College (99.50%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/humanities-subjects-stay-popular-two-courses-feature-100-cut-offs-in-du-101633114251702.html
02-10-2021||Kolkata||Why protest if you’ve come to court: Supreme Court to farm unions||There cannot be protests by farmer unions when the validity of the farm laws is pending judicial consideration, the Supreme Court said on Friday, expressing its anguish over the manner in which the present stir by the farmer unions has “strangulated” Delhi by choking traffic on the Capital’s borders.Expressing its angst in response to a petition by Kisan Mahapanchayat seeking permission to hold a peaceful protest against the farm laws at Jantar Mantar, the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar said, “There is no question of holding protests when you have come to the courts.”Lawyer Ajay Chaudhary, who represented the Mahapanchayat, told the court that Delhi Police granted permission to some 200 farmers of Samyukta Kisan Morcha to hold protests in the Capital in July this year, but denied them similar permission despite repeated requests.The bench said, “You have strangulated the entire city and now you want to enter the city and hold protests.”“You are freely and without fear holding protests. You block trains and highways, and you say your protest is peaceful. This business should stop. You are heckling security personnel and stopping businesspersons going for work. Have you considered if citizens are happy with this kind of protest?”Chaudhary told the Court that Kisan Mahapanchayat is not part of the protesting farmer groups and is in favour of peaceful, non-violent mode of protest by staging a satyagraha. He also claimed that it was the police that are blocking highways, not farmers.“You cannot isolate yourself from the protests,” the bench said. “You file an affidavit declaring that you are not part of the protests being carried out in blocking national highways at the borders leading to the Capital.” Based on this conditionality, the bench agreed to hear the matter next Monday and directed Chaudhary to supply a copy of the petition to the office of Attorney General and the Centre through the Central Agency office.The Court was clear that protests and litigation cannot go hand in hand. “Once you have made up your mind to approach this court, have faith in us and trust in the system. How do you say we will still hold protests and satyagraha? The entire public transport system has been affected by your protests,” the justices observed.Since November, farmers have been protesting three farm laws enacted last year, Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.The government says these will make it easier for farmers to sell their produce, and free them from the clutches of middlemen; farmers fear that the laws will simply replace middlemen with large companies and also crimp sales through the government channel.The validity of the farm laws have been challenged in multiple petitions before the Supreme Court by MPs, farmer bodies and private individuals. Among those who have challenged the farm laws are MPs Tiruchi Siva from Tamil Nadu’s Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and Manoj Kumar Jha from Bihar’s Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), lawyer Manohar Lal Sharma, farmer unions, and individual farmers.While the top court is yet to examine the validity of these laws, in January, it stayed their implementation and constituted an expert committee to hear the grievances of the farmers and address the same by suggesting suitable amendments to the law.This committee submitted its report in a sealed cover in March. The matter has not come up for hearing since.Kisan Mahapanchayat is a party to the proceedings pending in the top court. In addition, this union, through its president Rampal Jat , approached the Rajasthan High Court challenging the validity of the three farm laws where the matter is still under consideration.The Mahapanchayat first requested the Delhi Police in March this year for permission to stage a protest at Jantar Mantar. This request was later renewed in April and June. On June 30, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, New Delhi refused permission citing Covid guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority.On July 2, DDMA relaxed restriction following which the Mahapanchayat farmers, numbering 15, entered the Capital and sat on satyagraha on July 5. They were later detained by the police.They renewed their request for continuing with their peaceful protest but received no response. On learning that the Delhi Police granted permission for protest to another farmer union on July 21, the Mahapanchayat moved the apex court on July 26 to allow space at Jantar Mantar for at least 200 farmers to hold a peaceful protest.The petition relied on an order passed by the Supreme Court in December last year in the proceedings challenging the farm laws. The court then said: “The right to protest is a fundamental right and can, as a matter of fact, be exercised, subject to public order. There can certainly be no impediment in the exercise of such rights as long as it is non-violent and does not result in damage to the life and properties of other citizens and is in accordance with law.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/why-protest-if-you-ve-come-to-court-supreme-court-to-farm-unions-101633113335640.html
02-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Four full-grown trees axed, environmentalists blame former mayor||At least four full grown trees were chopped illegally outside the house of former mayor Ashu Verma in Sector 9, Raj Nagar. Although forest department officials have registered a case in this regard, they did not disclose any names, saying they were not authorised to speak to the media. Meanwhile, environmentalists who visited the spot alleged that the tree-felling took place at Verma’s behest. According to the forest department, it is an offence to fell full-grown trees without department approval. Officials of the department said the four trees belonged to the alstonia genus and were growing outside a sealed house adjacent to Verma’s home in Sector 9 of Raj Nagar, a prime locality. Ashutosh Pandey, the sub divisional officer from the district forest department, confirmed that the department registered a case. “The incident came to our knowledge on Friday morning, and we have registered a case. No permission was taken from the forest department for chopping the trees,” he said, while declining to reveal names of the suspects. Officiating range forest officer Ashok Gupta added, “The name of the former city mayor has cropped up... I cannot tell the names of persons against whom a case has been registered under provisions of the Tree Protection Act, 1976,” he added. City-based environmentalist Akash Vashishtha, who lives nearby, said he rushed to the spot after receiving information about the logs of the fallen trees lying on the road. “I received information from a source in the horticulture department of the municipal corporation that the trees were felled on the behest of the former city mayor and that some staff of the horticulture department carried out the activity. Moreover, the forest department detained some of the staff in this connection and the former mayor played a crucial role in their release,” said Vashishtha. “Moreover, the civic staff was also told to immediately clear the felled wood logs... The forest department officials said they have registered a case in connection with the incident but are not revealing any names. Hence, I have raised complaints with the senior officers of the UP forest department,” added Vashishtha. Dr Anuj Singh, the horticulture department in-charge of the municipal corporation, denied any involvement of his staff. “No one from the corporation is involved in the incident. We have issued clear instructions to our staff that they will not get involved in any such activity which is done without the permission of the forest department,” he added. Former city mayor Ashu Verma said he did not order the trees to be chopped. “The alstonia trees were 25-30 foot high and were right outside a house adjacent to my home. The adjacent house is sealed, and we park our cars just outside it. The trunk of the alstonia trees developed cracks and posed a risk to commuters. Moreover, the trees had more foliage after the monsoon. The trees have not been felled but only pruned, leaving 10-12 feet of the trunk. I did not order any such activity... it could have been done by someone else,” said Verma. Ganga Prasad, conservator of forests (Meerut division), said he was aware of the chopping of trees. “I have directed the district officials to investigate and registered a case. I will direct them to reveal the names,” he added. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-four-full-grown-trees-axed-environmentalists-blame-former-mayor-101633114177257.html
02-10-2021||Pune||‘Z’ bridge closed for all pedestrian movement due to Pune Metro construction||Pune traffic police, on Friday, closed the ‘Z’ bridge, that connects Jungli Maharaj road to Sadashiv peth across the river for any pedestrian movement.Cars will not be able to access the bridge due to a temporary bamboo barricade constructed and the Puneri habit of stopping a two-wheeler on the bridge just to hang out, will not be allowed.The Pune Metro work is the reason for the shutdown and signs have been put up at both ends of the bridge, and also on the Deccan Gymkhana roadside. “The metro work is going on in full swing and although all safety arrangements are in place, it is still risky for the public to halt and stand below an area that is under construction. So it was decided to ban pedestrian movement, walking and halting on the bridge, as it is too risky. Action will be taken against people found on the bridge,” said a senior Metro official, requesting anonymity. The Z bridge is favourite hangout for youth and Punekars out for an evening walk. “We regularly go for a walk to the bridge in the night with the family, but from we have stopped due to the ongoing Metro work. We feel afraid to pass through the construction,” said Samarth Gokhale, a resident who lives in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/z-bridge-closed-for-all-pedestrian-movement-due-to-pune-metro-construction-101633114117506.html
02-10-2021||Pune||SPPU exams: 1,100 students found cheating, half from engineering stream||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) examination department has caught over 1,100 students cheating in the online format conducted for various undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the second semester. Students were found using wrongful ways like asking answers from others, leaving computer screen and opening another window by the proctored monitoring method used by the varsity. The maximum number of students who used unfair means belonged to the engineering department. SPPU has imposed fine on these students and cancelled their exam paper. As per the proctored method used by the SPPU examination department, students can appear for the test from anywhere by using smartphone, tablet, laptop or desktop computers. The minute movements of the students are captured and monitored by the system and those found using unfair means is given warning three times before they are disqualified for the exam. As per the information given by the SPPU examination department, around 6,05,000 students appeared for 4,200 different subjects for various courses under SPPU. The results were declared within 48 hours after the student had appeared for the exam. Similar to first semester’s examination, the exams were conducted in online mode with multiple-choice questions (MCQs) method. “A total of 1,100 students from different departments were found cheating in the examinations. They have been fined and will have to reappear for the paper. Those found cheating in more than one paper will find their semester cancelled,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head. “Taking screenshots of the examination paper and sharing it on social media are considered as malpractices,” said Kakade. Kakade said, “In the second semester exams, of the 1,100 students found cheating, over 650 students were from the engineering stream,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-exams-1-100-students-found-cheating-half-from-engineering-stream-101633113879702.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Covid vaccination drive: PMC floats tenders to get syringes amidst shortage||Pune: Since the past few days, the state government has stopped the supply of syringes along with the Covid vaccines. Hence, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is looking out to buy syringes to ensure that the Covid vaccination drive is not affected. The civic body has floated tenders to ensure continuous supply of syringes to match the regular supply of doses. PMC has vaccinated about 4,550,043 vaccines since January in the city, including both first and second doses. Until now, the state was providing the vaccines along with syringes in proportion and also accounting for the possible wastage. However, now as the dose supply has been streamlined, the supply of syringes has become a problem for the local administration. Dr Suryakant Deokar, immunisation officer, PMC, said, “The state has stopped sending syringes along with Covid vaccine doses unlike earlier since the past five-six days and we used PMC’s syringes to fill the gap. On Thursday, we even purchased one lakh syringes to ensure that the drive runs smoothly. We have also floated tenders to get more syringes. On Monday, we received 0.1 million vaccine doses from Bajaj group who also gave us 0.110 million syringes considering the wastage buffer. As of now I have over 60,000 doses of Covid vaccines and about 65,000 syringes. We need about 50,000 syringes and about 40-45,000 doses daily.” Deokar said that despite using PMC syringes for Covid immunization drive, the routine drive would not be affected. The shortage of syringes has begun a political war of words as Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol accused the state of stopping supply of needles without informing while opposition party Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), an alliance at the state government, said that the BJP has proved to be inefficient in managing the drive. Mohol said, “Since the beginning, both needles and doses were being supplied by the state government and then few days ago the state stopped the supply of syringes without prior intimation. Moreover, this needle is unavailable in the open market. This naturally had an effect on vaccination drives and we had to immediately purchase 0.1 million alternative needles to continue the vaccination drive. The people in Pune know that PMC has handled both the waves competently.” Prashant Jagtap, NCP Pune city president, said, “While the citizens are trying their best to get the vaccine, PMC has failed to provide syringes (needles) required for vaccination. It is a great tragedy that the civic body which has a budget of Rs8,500 crores is not able to provide syringes to vaccinate its citizens. The fact that the BJP is a disruptive organisation is being underlined once again. While many distributors in Pune city have the capacity to supply syringes from manufacturing units across the country, these distributors do not even have the confidence in BJP leaders that they can provide syringes to the city in case of emergency. So, it has been proved once again that the BJP cannot handle the municipal corporation.” PCMC’s 75-hr Covid vaccination drive The PCMC administration announced to keep their vaccination centres open for 75 hours non-stop from September 30 to October 3. The drive would be called “Aazadi ka Amrut Mohatsav” wherein three vaccination centres run by PCMC would be kept open for more than three days so that residents can visit the centre at any time, even during night hours, and get themselves vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-vaccination-drive-pmc-floats-tenders-to-get-syringes-amidst-shortage-101633113877197.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Congress, NCP back down on opposing three-member ward system||PUNE The Shiv Sena’s partners at the state-level in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), seem all set to reprise the alliance in Pune for the municipal elections slated for February 2022.Two senior leaders from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress backed down from opposing the two-member ward decision taken by the Sena for all civic bodies going to the polls in the state.The NCP and the Congress were in favour of three-member ward councils.Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat, also state revenue minister was in the city on Friday and clearly signalled an alliance with the Sena and the NCP for the Pune civic polls was imminent. Thorat said, “There were differences over panel structure. Some are in favour of two seats and some three, and some are in favour of the existing four-member panel. Chief minister given the nod for three and it has been accepted by the cabinet.”The NCP’s Ajit Pawar, also in the city on Friday, backed the state government’s decision on two-member wards. Ajit Pawar said, “ Cabinet took the decision on three members in a ward. As chief minister had made the decision now elections will held as per the decision taken by the state government.”Pune voters not happy with three-member wardsParivartan, a Pune-based NGO has filed a public interest litigation (PIL) against the state government’s decision to have three -member wards.Civic activist Qaneez Sukhrani has also challenged this decision. In her letter to the state government, Sukhrani said, “State government’s decision is creating confusion among voters. Every election there are different panel structures. Ideally the principle is to decentralise power, but by creating multi-member wards, no elected member remains answerable to the citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/congress-ncp-back-down-on-opposing-three-member-ward-system-101633113638693.html
02-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana DC flags off awareness vans to sensitise farmers against stubble burning||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma flagged off awareness vans that will cover maximum villages of the district to spread the awareness among farmers against paddy straw burning.Flagging off the vans from the District Administrative Complex, the DC said these ultra-modern vehicles will be instrumental in awakening the farmers about the need for paddy straw management.He added that paddy stubble is useful for the farmers and should not be burnt as crop residue can play an important role in enhancing the fertility of the soil if harvested in the field with the help of ultra-modern equipment.He said the burning of stubble poses a danger to the environment and must be avoided at every cost.He also asked the agriculture department, PPCB, department of co-operative societies, rural development and panchayats, education, and others to intensify awareness activities in villages through public meetings, seminars, public announcements, etc.The DC said that apart from creating awareness through audio messages, the staff in the vans will also disseminate information to the farmers through pamphlets and posters.He said the state government has already provided more than 5,500 ultra-modern equipment to Ludhiana farmers that can be useful in effective paddy straw management. He also appealed to them to use the I-Khet app to book these machines.Chief agriculture officer Narinder Singh Benipal and DDPO Sanjiv Kumar were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-dc-flags-off-awareness-vans-to-sensitise-farmers-against-stubble-burning-101633113637153.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal directs PWD to clear all potholes in Delhi by October 20||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday issued directions to officials in the public works department (PWD) to clear all potholes on roads under its jurisdiction by October 20.Chairing a review meeting on Delhi’s roads, which was also attended by Delhi PWD minister Satyendar Jain, Kejriwal asked officials to focus on roads that are frequently damaged during monsoon. The PWD has around 1,260 km of roads in Delhi, most of them over 100-feet wide.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday took cognisance of the grievances faced by the people of Delhi while commuting on roads. The CM informed that a massive drive will be taken up by the Delhi government to revamp the PWD roads. He directed the officials to deploy maintenance vans in large numbers so that every area is covered under the special drive. The CM has given the PWD a deadline of October 20... The work of repairing all the potholes will be done within the next 10 days and patch repairs sites within the next 20 days,” said a statement issued by Kejriwal’s office.It further said, “In the meeting, PWD officials presented a master plan to overhaul the city’s 1,260 km length of roads that fall under PWD. The aim of this drive is to improve the conditions of roads which deteriorate during the rainy season due to high-intensity rainfall”.A separate statement issued by the Delhi government said that the Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC), a think tank of the Delhi government, will organise a workshop on road redesigns on October 5.“The purpose of the virtual workshop is to understand international best practices in street design and development. DDC vice-chairperson Jasmine Shah said the central idea of the workshop is to learn from the journeys of top cities...,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-directs-pwd-to-clear-all-potholes-in-the-capital-by-october-20-101633113577135.html
02-10-2021||Pune||Each tehsil to have only one dedicated Covid hospital, rest for other cases: Ajit Pawar||Pune: With Covid cases declining in the district, authorities and people’s representatives discussed the necessity of dedicated Covid hospitals at the weekly Covid review meeting held on Friday. Post the meeting, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar announced that there would be only one dedicated Covid hospital in every tehsil and other facilities would be used to treat non-Covid patients. Pawar said that the requirement of dedicated facilities in cities would be decided upon the number of Covid cases. He said that a 75-hour non-stop special vaccination drive would be conducted in Pune city and rural parts. “Non-Covid patients also need hospitals for treatment. Though there is no binding on private hospitals, for government and corporation hospitals, it has been decided to keep one Covid hospital and rest for non-Covid cases considering the number of patients,” said Pawar. He also informed about the special vaccination drive on the occasion of the 75 years of independence. “Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation is already conducting the continuous vaccination drive for 75 hours. I have instructed Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and rural administration to conduct the drive,” said Pawar. On the surge in Covid cases in Ahmednagar district, Pawar said, “I was informed that almost 40% of patients in Sassoon hospital are from Ahmednagar district. I have spoken to authorities from Ahmednagar and assured them of help from Pune and also instructed them to undertake strict steps to bring the infection under control. An analysis of rest of the 60% of patients in Sassoon would be done in order to take precautionary steps in related areas,” said Pawar. Pawar said the positivity rate in PMC, PCMC and rural parts has come down as compared to last week and there has been decline in number of active patients as well. “We conducted a survey about the number of infections after the vaccine doses. It turned out that after the first dose 0.19% people were infected and 0.25% after the second dose. Experts said it is because after being fully vaccinated, people stop to follow the Covid prevention protocols. So, everyone should not behave recklessly,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/each-tehsil-to-have-only-one-dedicated-covid-hospital-rest-for-other-cases-ajit-pawar-101633113397133.html
02-10-2021||Noida||Advocate wanted in Mihir Bhoj case missing from Lucknow; 2 arrested||An advocate, wanted in connection with damage to the Samrat Mihir Bhoj plaque in Dadri, allegedly escaped custody of the Lucknow Police custody on Thursday evening and went missing. Lawyers in Surajpur court abstained from work on Friday in solidarity with him. Shyam Singh Bhati, president of Akhil Bharatiya Veer Gurjar Mahasabha (Gautam Budh Nagar chapter), and vice-president of Samajwadi Party in Gautam Budh Nagar, was on his way to Lucknow on Thursday with four supporters to meet party leaders. Lucknow’s Kakori police stopped them on the way and were taking the men to the local police station when Bhati allegedly jumped off the moving police vehicle and went on the run. Advocate Seema Bhati, Shyam Singh Bhati’s wife, tweeted on Friday, “There is no whereabouts of my husband.... Dadri police has been harassing Shyam Singh Bhati and his family members. We request you to help us trace him.” Harendra Mavi, general secretary of the district bar association, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the association called a meeting on Friday to discuss the issue. “We took notice of Seema Bhati’s tweet and held a meeting. We found that Noida Police are harassing his family and conducting frequent searches at his home. Bhati is an advocate and not an absconder. If he is wanted in a case, the police should operate in a more professional manner. Advocates abstained from work on Friday in solidarity with Bhati,” he said.Ashutosh Kumar, deputy commissioner of police, Kakori, Lucknow, said that Noida Police had shared information with them about the “movement of some suspects in Lucknow”. “Kakori police stopped the suspects’ car at Agra-Lucknow Expressway on Thursday evening. There were five persons, including Bhati, in the car. The police team was bringing them to the local police station but Bhati jumped off the vehicle and fled,” he said. Abhishek, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that Bhati is not in police custody. “Of the four persons arrested in Lucknow, only two persons – Mohit Nagar and Prashant Bhati - are wanted in a case in Dadri. The Gautam Budh Nagar Police brought the two suspects back to the district and produced them before a court. They were sent to judicial custody,” he said. The controversy over a statue of ninth-century king Mihir Bhoj started on September 20 after some posters were put up welcoming Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to the district for the unveiling for the statue on September 22. A group of men from the Gurjar community allegedly pulled down several posters claiming Bhoj was a Gurjar king but the word ‘Gurjar’ was missing from all posters. On September 22, the Adityanath unveiled the statue. While organisers of the programme had told the Gurjar community that the word ‘Gurjar’ would be added to the plaque, it was allegedly missing on the day of the programme. On September 28, unknown persons, allegedly from the Gurjar community, smeared the names of the UP CM and other Bharatiya Janata Party leaders on the plaque with black paint. Ramchandra Verma, secretary of Gurjar Vidya Sabha, a trust which manages the Dadri college, filed a complaint against unknown persons after the incident and police booked 150 persons in connection with the case. Dadri police confirmed that advocate Shyam Singh Bhati is wanted in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/advocate-wanted-in-mihir-bhoj-case-missing-from-lucknow-2-arrested-101633113338416.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi court frames charges against 7 in 3 riots cases||A Delhi court has framed charges against seven accused in three northeast Delhi riots cases involving rioting, unlawful assembly, arson and other relevant offences.While two FIRs pertain to incidents in Karawal Nagar, the third is related to incidents in Gokulpuri.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav framed charges against Sandeep Bhati in (FIR 98/2020) for attempt to murder, rioting, arson, unlawful assembly etc. The police had alleged that Bhati had caused gunshot injuries to one Shahrukh merely due to the fact that he belonged to a different community.In FIR 63/2020, charges were framed against two persons, both named Imran, for attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy, rioting, unlawful assembly, assault or use of criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty.In the third FIR 106/2020, charges were framed against Dinesh Yadav, Babu, Sandeep and Tinku for arson, criminal trespass, theft and vandalising shop and house.Police said the number of riots cases where charges have been framed has gone up to 51.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hcframes-charges-against-seven-in-three-northeast-delhi-riots-cases-101633113337193.html
02-10-2021||Other||BJP seeks waiver of pending property tax interest||Former Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor and in-charge of BJP local bodies cell Inder Aggarwal submitted a memorandum with mayor Balkar Sandhu at MC Zone A office on Friday and sought a complete waiver of penalty and interest on pending property tax under the one-time settlement (OTS) policy floated by local bodies department.Notifying the OTS policy on September 15, the local bodies department had earlier announced a 10% rebate on payment of pending tax since the year 2013-14 by November 30. However, penalty and interest waivers were announced only for the defaulters pertaining to the year 2020-21. The defaulters pertaining to the period starting from 2013-14 to 2019-20 were provided a 10% rebate on the outstanding amount including penalty and interest. Citing the financial crisis being faced by the residents due to the ongoing pandemic, Aggarwal demanded that penalty and interest waiver should also be announced for those whose payment was pending since 2013-14. As per the MC officials, the officials stated that over 92,000 property owners had failed to pay tax since 2013-14. Out of these, over 23,700 defaulters pertain to the year 2019-20. In total, the defaulters have to pay around ₹14 crore (excluding interest and penalty) to the MC. Aggarwal demanded that the matter should be taken up at the state level.Mayor Sandhu said, “We will table the demand in front of the local bodies department. The final decision will be taken at the state level.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-seeks-waiver-of-pending-property-tax-interest-101633113277068.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh health dept discontinues services of 81 contractual health workers||The outsourced healthcare workers, who were recruited by the UT health department to handle the Covid-19 outbreak, protested on Friday after the department decided to discontinue the services of 81 of them due to unavailability of funds.The UT health department had outsourced as many as 351 healthcare workers, including nurses, sweepers, data entry operators, security guards and others, to handle the outbreak.“Keeping in view the ebbing Covid-19 cases and financial situation of the National Health Mission (NHM), Chandigarh, the UT health department has decided to discontinue the services of 81 additional workers. Due to unavailability of funds, the department cannot pay salaries to the staff after September. The contracts of staff will not be renewed in a phased manner,” said the director, health services, in a letter to the staff on September 30.The letter further read that, “In the first phase, the services of the staff of PU International Hostel (converted into Covid care centre) will be discontinued. In the next phase, services of 20% more staff will be terminated. If need arises, the situation will be assessed every 15 days and decisions will be made accordingly.”After receiving the letters, the outsourced staff staged a protest at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. The healthcare workers, who are demanding renewal of their contracts, will continue their protest on October 2.“The staff was hired during an emergency situation. Each and every healthcare worker has worked around the clock to provide medical services during the Covid-19 surge, especially during the peak of the second wave in May this year. Now, the UT health department is terminating our services. The Covid warriors must be respected and their contacts should be renewed,” said one of the protesters.UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said, “During the Covid crisis, the healthcare workers were outsourced for a short period of time, three or six months. The department is facing financial issues and we cannot pay salaries to employees. Also, we do not have any vacant posts available for regularising their jobs. Since the employees were told in advance about their temporary hiring, there is no point in protesting. We will outsource them again, if need arises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-health-dept-terminates-services-of-81-contractual-health-workers-101633113220578.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Warring advises Captain Amarinder against quitting Congress||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Friday urged former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh not to quit the Congress. Stating that people in the state were already unhappy because of some “unfulfilled promises” during Captain’s decade-long regime, Warring said any “wrong step” at this time will invite the citizens’ ire.Captain had stepped down as the chief minister (CM) two weeks back, leading to a political turmoil in the state. On Thursday, after returning from Delhi, where he met Union home minister Amit Shah, Captain had said that he will end his 52-year-long association with the Congress. Even as the former CM had denied that he was joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the announcement and his meeting with Shah further fuelled the rumours.“There are rumours that the BJP will make Capt Amarinder Singh agriculture minister and farm laws could be repealed. Why were the laws not scrapped earlier? I advise Amarinder Singh that he should not take any step that he ends up regretting,” said the transport minister, who was in Sangrur to inspect the bus stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/warring-advises-captain-amarinder-against-quitting-congress-101633112917056.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||RS Bains to represent Punjab govt in courts over sacrilege violence||Human rights lawyer, senior advocate Rajwinder Singh Bains, has been named as special public prosecutor by the Punjab government to appear before trial courts and the Punjab & Haryana high court in the politically sensitive sacrilege violence cases of 2015, according to a government notification on Friday.The move appears to be part of the steps being taken to assuage state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi because it effectively keeps the state’s advocate general, APS Deol, out of the sacrilege cases.On September 27, Sidhu objected to the appointment of Deol because the senior advocate had in the past appeared for some of the accused in the matter, including former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini. Sidhu cited Deol’s appointment as one of the reasons for his sudden decision to quit as Punjab Congress president on September 28, only to change his mind after a meeting with CM Channi on Thursday.To be sure, Deol could not have represented the state in the matter in any case because of his previous appearances for some of the accused.Bains, son of former Punjab and Haryana high court judge Ajit Singh Bains, is a well-known criminal and constitutional lawyer and has appeared in cases from across the political spectrum, including cases of human rights violation in Punjab’s terrorism days in the 1980s.However, former SIT member and AAP leader Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh questioned the appointment. “Another big fraud with Punjab and Punjabis by Congress government. Appointment of Special Public Prosecutor in Kotkapura -Behbal Kalan cases is only an eyewash. The intention of the government is very clear, to continue with the present advocate general.”In 2015, three incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, the holy scripture of Sikhs, were reported from Punjab’s Faridkot. Days later protesters broke out in Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan, where two people were killed in police firing. The incident is one of the issues driving the feud between former chief minister Amarinder Singh and Navjot Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ropes-in-human-rights-lawyer-rs-bains-as-special-public-prosecutor-101633112862618.html
02-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow’s KGMU first medical institute in India to have pathogen reduction technology||LUCKNOW Pathogen reduction technology (PRT), a proactive approach for improving blood transfusion safety, will soon be available at the King George’s Medical University, which will be the first medical institute in the country to introduce this technology. Prof Tulika Chandra, HoD, transfusion medicine at the KGMU made an announcement to this effect on Friday during a programme on National Voluntary Blood Donation Day. Governor Anandiben Patel, the chief guest of the function, felicitated 43 individuals and organisations for their contribution in the field of voluntary blood and plasma donation. Medical education minister Suresh Khanna and law minister Brijesh Pathak were also present on the occasion. “Even if one per cent of UP’s population does voluntary blood donation, there will be no shortage of blood for patients in the state,” said the governor. “PRT is currently in use in Europe and US, and the KGMU will be the first in India to use this technology, which can kill viruses that we currently may not even be aware of,” said Chandra. She said the use of this technology will ensure higher safety levels for patients undergoing blood transfusion with blood issued from the KGMU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kgmu-first-in-india-to-have-pathogen-reduction-technology-101633105900875.html
02-10-2021||Mumbai||NMMC starts food bank for homeless and needy in Navi Mumbai||On the International Day of Awareness of Food Loss and Waste, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) started a food bank with a Vashi-based NGO at Sector 9A behind Vashi depot by providing a fridge that will be meant for the people to donate their leftovers.The NGO will test the quality of the leftovers, repack them and provide them to the needy and homeless.Deputy municipal commissioner, Babasaheb Rajale, said, “The NGO, ‘Lets Celebrate Fitness’ (LCF) has been providing food to the needy people throughout the pandemic. They used to cook and provide. So, when we came to know, we suggested that instead of cooking, they can look at getting the leftover food as well. The city generates a lot of food waste from banquet halls, restaurants and parties. Instead of throwing them, they could be reused for the needy. So, NMMC provided a refrigerator that will be used to store the food that people donate. The NGO will continue to distribute the food by doing a quality check and then making packets for individuals.”Richa Sameet from LCF said, “The initiative was inaugurated on Wednesday and on Thursday we had donated food for almost 150 people. The donation can be done from 12.30pm to 2.30pm and from 7pm to 9pm. We have informed about the initiative to all restaurants and banquet halls in the vicinity and have asked them to donate the leftover food. We had been distributing food packets to around 300 people daily earlier and with the help of the donations, we are able to reach half of the target.”They also have an initiative to encourage people to give food to beggars instead of money. “We sell food coupons that people can buy and give them to the homeless and the needy. They can come here with the coupons and we will provide them dosas that we make here. Every time the needy come here with the coupon, we encourage them to demand food coupons from people instead of money and encourage children to take up education instead of begging,” Sameet said. Rajale appealed that every resident of Navi Mumbai, who has leftovers, be it for one person or 10 persons, should not throw it and instead donate to the ‘food bank’ and reach out to the needy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmmc-starts-food-bank-for-homeless-and-needy-in-navi-mumbai-101633098342829.html
02-10-2021||Delhi||Domestic help found dead in employer’s southeast Delhi home||The body of a 19-year-old domestic help was found with burn injuries at a house where she worked in southeast Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar on Friday morning.Police said the woman, a resident of Madrasi Camp, and her mother worked as domestic helps at the house in Lajpat Nagar-II.Police said that on Friday morning, they got a call saying a woman had died due to electrocution in the Lajpat Nagar area, following which a team was rushed to the spot. Police said the woman’s body had burn injuries.According to the preliminary investigation, police said, the woman came to work at the house at around 7am and died there around an hour later.Police said forensic experts have inspected the spot, and the body was sent for a post-mortem examination. Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Esha Pandey said they are awaiting the post-mortem to take further legal action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/womans-body-found-with-burn-injuries-in-delhi-s-lajpat-nagar-101633085916100.html
02-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police use water cannons to disperse farmers in Jhajjar||Police used water cannons to disperse protesting farmers when they forcibly tried to enter the Government Post-Graduate Nehru College in Jhajjar, where Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala attended a programme on Friday afternoon.The farmers, including women, marched towards Nehru College and clashed with cops. The policemen used water cannons to disperse them.They protesters showed black flags to Dushyant when he reached the protest site and raised anti-government slogans. The district administration has allowed a group of 15 protesters to lodge their protest peacefully after the clashes.Chautala distributed biomedical instruments to self-help groups of women at a function on campus. Addressing the self-help group, Chautala urged them to make jute bags and print their village name on it.“I urge the district administration to use jute bags instead of plastic bags,” he added.Protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws, the protesters gathered outside the college and tried to remove the police barricades to enter the campus. They police used water cannons to disperse them.Later, Bharatiya Kisan Union activists said they would continue with their peaceful ‘social boycott’ of BJP and its ally Jannayak Janata party leaders.Jhajjar superintendent of police Rajesh Duggal and deputy commissioner Shyam Lal Punia reached the venue to oversee law and order.“We are also your children and doing our duty as government officers. You have a right to hold a peaceful protest but not to cross limits by throwing barricades. The programme has been organised by social organisations and if you start protesting against the organisations, where will society move? I urge you not to take the law into your hands,” Punia told the protesters.After attending the programme at the college, Chautala visited Jharli village power plant followed by unveiling the statue of soldier Ajit Singh at Jhamri village.Amid farmers’ protest, BJP leaders give Ambala meet a miss
