03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Moga beats Ludhiana by five wickets||Moga registered a five-wicket victory over Ludhiana in the opening match of the Punjab state Under-25 inter-district senior one-day tournament in Moga on Sunday.Batting first, the Ludhiana team collapsed for 72 runs in just 24.2 overs. Harshit Thakkar was the top scorer with 23 runs in 21 balls, hitting three boundaries and a six. Dipin Chitkara shined with the ball as he took seven wickets while giving away just 21 runs. Gurmehar took two wickets and conceded 18 runsMoga lost some early wickets, before Gurjot Singh and Dipin Chitkara steadied the ship, scoring 31 and 23 runs, respectively. Moga achieved the target in 17.3 overs after losing five wickets. Siddhant Om Tiwari of Ludhiana took four wickets while conceding 32 runs.Gurjot started slow, but ended up hitting three sixes and a boundary in his innings while Dipin scored quick runs facing 18 deliveries, hitting four boundaries and a six.Moga’s Dipin was declared the man of the match..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cricket-moga-beats-ludhiana-by-five-wickets-101633285440367.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav: Cycle rally, walkathon held in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana district administration and the municipal corporation organised an awareness walk and cycle rally to mark Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav on Sunday.Speaking during the event, Punjab minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said that the event aims to make people aware of the freedom movement and the sacrifices made by revolutionaries.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said the lives and sacrifices of martyrs should inspire us to selflessly serve the community, society, state and country. They said with the cooperation of the residents, Ludhiana will emerge as a clean, green and pollution-free district.Meanwhile, the 10.2-km cyclothon was flagged off from Water Front in Phase 2, where hundreds of cycling enthusiasts from various clubs participated. A 2-km walkathon followed the cycling event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-cycle-rally-walkathon-held-in-ludhiana-101633285260789.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya’s futuristic 3D model to hog limelight at UP Urban Conclave||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to watch the Ayodhya masterplan and futuristic 3D model of the temple town, envisioned as a global spiritual and tourism destination by 2047, at the three-day Urban Conclave being hosted by the Uttar Pradesh’s (UP) urban development department from Tuesday. The Ayodhya model, that would also include the upcoming Ram temple, foundation stone of which was laid by Modi in 2020, would be the star attraction at the UP pavilion. The pavilion would also showcase the upcoming Jewar international airport in Noida, billed among the country’s biggest, besides several other best practices followed in urban development across the state. However, the highlight would be the centrally placed installation theme of Ayodhya. It would showcase multiple amenities that have been developed on 30 acres of tourism department land near Naya Ghat, known as the Ram Katha Park Parisar. These include a ‘Ram Katha museum, Yatri Niwas, open air theatre, Queen Heo park, tourist facilitation centre and digital museum. The Ayodhya model would also showcase the proposed Greenfield Township aimed at promoting tourism and pilgrim facilities in Ayodhya. “The Greenfield Township is based on the Vedic City planning principles, where the city is oriented in the cardinal directions. The township will also have state of the art transport system and have clean energy. The layout of the Greenfield Township would be integrated with the Maryada Purushottam International Airport, existing by-pass and the railway station. It would also have the Saryu riverside promenade that would be integrated with the ghats,” said state’s urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon ‘Gopal.’ All the buildings shall be certified through Green Building Rating System ‘GRIHA’. “The idea is to create a clean township with waste water recycling,” he added. The senior minister in Yogi Adityanath government said that it was expected that by 2047 Ayodhya would receive more than 100 million visitors annually. “Towards this mission the Modi government at the centre and the Yogi government in UP are in the process of developing numerous infrastructure and other development projects. Apart from the expected 100 million annual visitors, all planning is being done factoring in 25 lakh residents of the Ayodhya Development Authority area,” he added. The Ayodhya model will also project the new-look Ayodhya with its six approach roads widened, development of approach road leading towards the Ram temple and pilgrim-friendly parikrama marg (circumambulation routes). There are plans to host an investors’ summit in Ayodhya in November. Both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath have taken keen interest in the development of Ayodhya, with both leaders regularly monitoring the temple town’s development. The Modi government has already approved a ₹100 crore modernization plan of the Ayodhya railway station. There were plans to build huge gates at the entry points all over the temple town, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhyas-futuristic-3d-model-to-hog-limelight-at-up-urban-conclave-101633285200503.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Narendra Giri death: Mahant’s car accident in July under CBI scanner now||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), probing the death of Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) chief Mahant Narendra Giri, is also looking into the July road mishap in Pratapgarh in which the priest had escaped unhurt, an official familiar with the development said. A team of CBI sleuths is expected to question the Mahant’s driver and the technical team of police that had examined his vehicle then, to ascertain if the incident was a mishap or a conspiracy to kill him, the official cited above said on condition of anonymity. While CBI officials probing the case in Prayagraj refused to comment on the issue, secretary, Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani, Swami Ravindra Puri said seers and workers of the Math were extending full cooperation to the investigation.Giri was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room in Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on September 20. A purported suicde by the chief priest of Bade Hanuman Temple named his disciple and the Math’s de-facto number 2 till recently, Anand Giri, Bade Hanuman Temple priest Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep of harassing him. All three were arrested in connection with the case. During the course of interrogation into the Mahant’s death, the CBI team learnt that he was on his way to Lucknow to meet Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on July 8 when a two-wheeler appeared in front of his vehicle, which was subsequently rammed by a third vehicle behind it. No one was injured but his vehicle was damaged in the incident, the official said. Meanwhile, the CBI team on Sunday continued to probe the three accused at the Police Lines. The team also recovered Anand Giri’s mobile and laptop from Haridwar. The probe agency, the official said, also chalked out a list of people with whom the Mahant was in regular contact and spoke to within 48 hours of his death. Several businessmen, builders, contractors, politicians and seers have been questioned so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/narendra-giri-death-mahant-s-car-accident-in-july-under-cbi-scanner-now-101633285141361.html
03-10-2021||Gurugram||Dengue: 21 cases reported in a week in Gurugram, 13 hotspots identified||Over the past week, 21 cases of dengue were reported from across the district that took the total tally to 53 cases this year, with over 50% of the total cases reported from Wazirabad, officials of the health department said.With this, the total number of dengue cases has exceeded the count of 52 reported in 2020 and 22 reported in 2019, amid the health department raising concerns over a possible spike in the diseases during the festive season. Officials said that cases are likely to increase due to an influx of migratory population over the next few weeks and increased social interactions. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Cases of dengue will continue to increase this year and we are likely to reach the peak by early November. Usually, around this time of the year, many people from different states come to Gurugram for pregnancy deliveries, treatment and routine immunisation. We are keeping a close watch on such population along with focal spray and residual spray in areas along the border.”Officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said they are complying with directions issued by the health department for conducting anti-larval activities.“The entire supervision for anti vector-borne operations, including fogging, is carried out by the health department. Based on their directions, MCG teams are sent to different parts of the city for such activities,” a senior MCG official privy to the matter.The health department has asked the local agencies to ensure that fogging is being done on a regular basis at the hotspots identified, along with rest of the city. So far, Gurugram has reported two cases of malaria. No cases of chikungunya have been reported this year till now. Yadav said that the district task force would be meeting next week to assess the situation and identify more hotspots for increased surveillance. So far, the health department has identified 13 hotspots in the city, from where dengue cases have been reported. According to the health department, almost 50% of the dengue cases this year have been reported from Wazirabad, with Palam Vihar, Basai, Jharsa village and Kanhai Colony, among others, also identified as hotspots.On September 15, the state health department asked all the districts to step up the surveillance by increasing sample collection for dengue and malaria at outpatient departments (OPDs) and flu corners at primary health centres and community health centres and conduct testing on the people daily to avert an outbreak. All multi-purpose health workers have also been instructed to carry out source reduction and anti-larval measures in both, urban and peri-urban areas, especially in districts adjoining the National Capital Region (NCR).Officials of the district health department said they have increased surveillance for dengue and malaria over the past few weeks. The district health department has also started screening in areas located at borders with other states and districts.Yadav also urged people exhibiting symptoms to consult doctors immediately and not self-medicate, which could lead to further complications.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dengue-21-cases-reported-in-a-week-in-gurugram-13-hotspots-identified-101633284905808.html
03-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG Ward 34 polls: Rama Rathee is new area councillor||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Rama Rathee won the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram’s (MCG) Ward 34 elections held on Sunday securing over 61.5% of the votes and in the process, becoming a two-time councillor.Rama won 5,342 votes of the total 8,680 votes cast, finishing ahead of the three independent candidates, Zile Singh, who secured 2,646 votes, Jagmohan, who secured 573 votes, and Mohit Yadav, who secured 66 votes. Barring Yadav, the other candidates had all contested in MCG elections before.Fifty-three voters opted for the None Of The Above (NOTA) option.The total number of eligible voters for the elections was 28,668, and the overall turnout was 30.27%, as per a district administration release.The MCG by-poll was held to fill the Ward 34 seat after the incumbent councillor, RS Rathee, Rama Rathee’s husband, died of Covid-19 on May 30.Before her late husband’s tenure, Rama had served as the councillor of Ward 34 from 2011 to 2016 as an independent candidate.Rama attributed her win to her recent affiliation with the BJP, since the last month.“Residents of Ward 34 have seen me working as a councillor before, and remembered the work I had achieved during my tenure, which was carried forward afterwards by my late husband. The victory is a sign that residents of Ward 34 continue to show faith and believe in my family’s contribution to the area,” Rama said.She said that she will resume work on all the projects and other initiatives that her husband had been working on before his death. She said that among her top priorities are de-silting sewerage lines, installing sewage treatment plants (STPs), and widening the water supply and drainage lines to meet the present as well as future demands of the ward.Areas of DLF Phases 1, 2, sectors 28, 42, Sikanderpur, Chakkarpur, and the Mall Mile fall under Ward 34, which has a population of around 125,000.Voting for the elections started at 8am and continued till 4.30pm, following which the counting of votes started. The results of the elections were declared around 8.30pm by the district administration.There were 12 polling stations for the elections, located at Chakkarpur, Sikanderpur, Sushant Lok-1, Maruti Vihar, DLF Phase-1, DLF Phase-2, Sector 27, and at societies of Essel Towers, Garden Estate, and Heritage City.The turnout at the stations remained scarce throughout the day and there were no instances of rush or queues forming at any of the locations.Residents of the ward expressed relief of getting a representative and said that they will now take up issues of civic amenities in their area with the newly elected councillor.“Two projects in our area have been left midway due to the absence of a councillor who could take up the matter on the residents’ behalf with the MCG for redressal. One of these was completing the construction of a common sewerage line, and a stretch of arterial road that needs to be broken and reconstructed so that it is aligned with the stormwater line passing parallel to it,” said Vijay Bharadwaj, a resident of Maruti Vihar.In DLF Phases 1 and 2, a large number of residents said that they will now ask their councillor to expedite the MCG’s takeover of the townships.“The takeover of our colony was announced way back in February 2016. It is more than five years but the transfer is nowhere in sight. I, hence, voted for a local candidate who is familiar with the matter, with the hope that they will take up the issue on priority,” Gaurav Bansal, a resident of DLF Phase-1, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-ward-34-polls-rama-rathee-is-new-area-councillor-101633284904207.html
03-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram to get two animal treatment centres||The Gurugram district is set to get two animal treatment centres in the city, officials of the wildlife department said on Sunday, after the state wildlife department approved the construction of two such centres in the district. MS Malik, the chief conservator of forests (wildlife) for the Gurugram circle, said, “Two animal treatment centres will be built in Gurugram, one at Sohna and another at Sultanpur villages. These will be the first such centres in the district, where wild and rescued animals can be treated. At present, the budget has been approved and construction is likely to be completed within one year.” The officials said that until now, animals rescued in the district were treated at private treatment centres run by different non-governmental organisations or were referred to other districts. In Gurugram and nearby region, several cases of injuries to animals, such as monkeys, hyenas and leopards, have been reported in the past. Officials said that these animals were treated at the private facilities, which may or may not have had the best facilities. “Now, we will be able to treat these rescued animals in a better manner, with more facilities,” Malik said. A study published in January found that the Aravallis in Gurugram, Faridabad and Delhi can support rich biodiversity and wildlife if protected from further habitat fragmentation. The study found a total of 1,327 signs of 13 mammal species during two seasons — winter and summer — of the survey in 2019. Two species of large carnivores, leopards and striped hyena, four species of herbivores, two primate species and seven species of mesocarnivores (fox, civets, mongoose, etc) were found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-to-get-two-animal-treatment-centres-101633284902463.html
03-10-2021||Gurugram||Lockdown extended in Haryana, ITIs allowed to resume classes with 100% physical attendance||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the partial Covid-19 lockdown till October 18, allowing industrial training institutes (ITIs) to resume in-person classes with 100% attendance. The government, however, withdrew the permissions allowing resumption of in-person classes in residential universities within hours of issuing a notification in this regard on Sunday. The order to extend the partial lockdown was issued by state chief secretary, Vijai Vardhan, who also heads the state executive committee of the State Disaster Management Authority.According to the order issued by Vardhan, all relaxations announced earlier will remain in force while the decision to allow resumption of classes in residential universities would be taken on a later date, after holding a meeting with the stakeholders concerned. The chief secretary also directed the deputy commissioners, in view of the upcoming festive season, to ensure Covid-19 safeguards are followed as it is a critical period and there may be a tendency among people to gather in large numbers and violate Covid-19 norms. “Adherence to guidelines to allow festivities in a safe and Covid-appropriate manner, especially in religious places, maybe strictly enforced by the district administration,” the order statedA spokesperson for the Gurugram district administration said that new directions would be implemented in letter and spirit. “All efforts would be made to ensure Covid protocols are followed during the festive season,” the spokesperson said. The state administration, in the first order issued on Sunday, had allowed residential universities to conduct in-person classes but the order was revised later in the evening. According to the latest order, ITIs are allowed to operate with 100% physical attendance, while following the Covid-19 safeguards strictly. It further stated that the Department of Skill Development and Industrial Training, Haryana, will release guidelines for implementation of these orders immediately. All hostel students will also be given priority for getting fully vaccinated, it said. The second order issued by the chief secretary in the evening stated, “Fully residential universities in the state are directed to continue conducting classes online till further orders. The matter will be reviewed after some time to decide whether classes in the physical mode will be allowed. In the meanwhile, the administration of the fully residential universities may endeavour to get all students, faculty members and staff (including the outsourced ones) fully vaccinated and share the progress with the Departments of Higher Education, Technical Education and Medical Education and Research as the case may be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lockdown-extended-in-haryana-itis-allowed-to-resume-classes-with-100-physical-attendance-101633284900615.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Gujarat-based company to carry out sanitation work in Ayodhya||Om Swachtha Corporation, a Gujarat-based solid waste management company, will carry out sanitation work in 15 wards of Ayodhya dham (old Ayodhya). In rest of the city (old Faizabad), the company will carry out mechanised sweeping and will look after streetlights. Giving this information, Vishal Singh, Municipal Commissioner, Ayodhya Municipal Corporation, said following directives of the state government, sanitation work was being outsourced. On the directives of the state authorities, the Ayodhya administration outsourced sanitation work through a tender process. Seven companies had participated in the tender process invited by the Ayodhya administration. After scrutiny of financial and technical bids, Om Swachtha Corporation emerged as the top contender for the job. Among seven companies, top three were selected on basis of their financial bids. In these top three, Om Swachtha Corporation’s financial bids were lowest, said an official of the Ayodhya Municipal Corporation.The municipal corporation will upload details of all three companies on its website. Company’s focus will be on door-to-door garbage collection in 15 wards of the Ayodhya dham (old Ayodhya). According to sources, the state government will directly make payment to the company. Garbage collection is a major issue in Ayodhya dham. With flow of tourists increasing in Ayodhya due to ongoing construction of Ram Mandir, sanitation problem is all set to pose a major challenge to the civic body there. Around 1900 sanitation workers of the Ayodhya Municipal Corporation have failed to keep the town clean, says an official of the Ayodhya administration. Foundation work of Ram Mandir is over and second stage of the construction work is going on. The LEA Associates South Asia Private Limited has prepared the Ayodhya vision document with the help of Ayodhya Development Authority (ADA). The LEA Associates is an international consultant hired by the state government for preparing Ayodhya’s vision document for overall development of the temple town. According to ADA officials, the document was finalised after several rounds of meeting between the development authority and the consultant. Before finalising the plan, the consultant had taken opinion of around 5000 locals, prominent seers and people of Ayodhya. The development plan has incorporated 18 big projects. Apart from this, the vision document also includes creation of employment opportunities, branding of local products and promotion of religious tourism. Projects proposed for AyodhyaAyodhya main road, road leading to Ram Mandir, Panchkoshi parikrama, Ayodhya greenfield township, entry gates at all entry points of the city, rest houses for devotees at entry points, Sri Ram international airport, tourist centre and an international museum are some of the projects proposed to come up in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/gujaratbased-company-to-carry-out-sanitation-work-in-ayodhya-101633284726670.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Two cops hurt in villagers’ attack in Prayagraj||Two police constables were injured when they came under attack allegedly by a group of villagers at Jawain village of Prayagraj district where they had gone after receiving information about a clash between two groups on Saturday night, police said on Sunday. The incident occurred under Koraon police in trans-Yamuna area.The injured constables were admitted to a health facility, they said and added that a case had been lodged against three named and some unidentified people in this connection. Some people threw a stick towards the constables which resulted in injuries to them. Raids were being carried out to arrest the assailants, said station house officer, Koraon police station, Ravindra Pratap Singh.According to reports, some youths were scuffling over some issue at Jawain village on Saturday night. In the meanwhile, two constables Akhilesh Yadav, 30, and Virendra Vikram, 33, in civvies reached the spot and asked the youth to go home. However, they attacked the policemen in a fit of rage.The attackers fled when other villagers reached the spot and identified the constables. Koraon police also reached the spot and took the injured constables to the nearest community health centres (CHC). Constable Virendra, who suffered major injuries, was referred to SRN Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-cops-hurt-in-villagers-attack-in-prayagraj-101633284600329.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Various schemes underway for farmers’ uplift, says UP deputy CM||Agra Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said here on Sunday that the basis of the state’s growth was a prosperous farmer. He claimed that various schemes for uplift of farmers were underway and the BJP governments at the centre and in the state were committed to doubling the income of farmers. Sharma was addressing the ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ organised by the Bhanu faction of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) at Imalia Umargarh village in Tundla block of Firozabad district on Sunday. The deputy CM was accompanied by UP agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi. Bhanu Pratap Singh, the leader of Bhanu faction of BKU was also present. Addressing the farmers, Sharma said that ₹32572 crore had been transferred in accounts of 2.50 crore farmers in Uttar Pradesh under Kisan Samman Nidhi. “Previous governments in the state had harassed the sugarcane farmers but chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath enhanced cane price and now 45.44 lakh cane farmers will receive ₹4,000 crore extra. We have already ensured payment of ₹1.44 crore to sugarcane farmer in four and a half years. The government has also decided to exempt interest on due amount in electricity bills of farmers,” he said. “After coming to power in the state, the BJP first waived off loan amount of ₹36,000 crores due on 86 lakh farmers. In purchase of wheat on MSP, the previous government had paid ₹12,808 crore to 19,02,098 farmers but our regime in four and a half years paid ₹36,405 crore to 43,75,574 farmers,” said the deputy chief minister. Agriculture minister of Uttar Pradesh Surya Pratap Shahi assured farmers that they would not face problems in procuring fertilizers and urea for their crops, unlike during the past regime. “Compensation of Rs. 2613 crore has been paid to farmers under Crop Insurance Scheme of the Prime Minister. The ‘mandi shulk’ has been reduced by one per cent, 220 new mandis have been created and 27 have been modernized. Health Cards of 3.76 lakh farmers have been prepared and more than 4000 centres have been set up for purchase of rice,” said Shahi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/various-schemes-underway-for-farmers-uplift-says-up-deputy-cm-101633284063000.html
03-10-2021||Other||Cong MLA faces farmers’ wrath in Gurdaspur||Gurdaspur Congress MLA from Sri Hargobindpur, in Gurdaspur district, Balwinder Singh Ladi faced the wrath of protesting farmers during a religious function (mela) being held at Gurdwara Bhai Manjh Sahib. Locals had gathered at the gurdwara in large numbers.Ladi was present on stage at the annual event, when, without warning, farmers carrying black flags got up from their seats and raised slogans against him. Soon, stones were pelted at him and his aides, with locals also joining the farmers, source said. Finally, Ladi fled and took shelter inside the gurdwara. No one was hurt in the stone pelting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-mla-faces-farmers-wrath-in-gurdaspur-101633284000695.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Notices to 18 industrial units for violating pollution control norms||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) on Saturday issued notices to 18 industrial units of Lucknow and nearby districts for allegedly violating air pollution control norms. This is the third time that the board has issued notices to various industrial units since August this year.The notices are part of the board’s decision to implement graded response action plan (GRAP) across the state to reduce air pollution in the state as per the directions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The GRAP refers to strict curbs on activities causing air pollution and measures to improve air quality.“These industrial units were found to be conducting industrial work without adhering to guidelines. The units have also been asked to explain their action or face monetary fines,” said Ram Karan, regional officer, UPPCB. Most of these units are in Lucknow while the rest are in Sitapur and Barabanki districts. “In September, we issued notices to 22 other industries in the region. We have received a response from 15 of these units. The responses are being looked into. A 30-day period is usually provided to submit a response,” he added.The action is in line with the efforts of UPPCB to contain the worsening air quality of Lucknow and nearby districts in coming months. The air quality index (AQI) of Lucknow reaches hazardous levels after monsoon.“Particulate pollution caused by illegal industrial work is a major contributor to worsening AQI. We are trying to limit this so that the air quality remains good even after monsoon,” said the officer.The air quality usually begins deteriorating from September onwards and continues till late February. The AQI in Lucknow during this period may even cross 400-mark which is considered severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/notices-to-18-industrial-units-for-violating-pollution-control-norms-101633283888032.html
03-10-2021||Bhopal||Monkey steals towel carrying ₹1 lakh cash from autorickshaw in Madhya Pradesh||Money rained over passersby after a wild monkey snatched a wrapped towel containing ₹1 lakh cash from an autorickshaw that was stuck in a traffic jam on a narrow road in Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur district, police said on Sunday. The incident took place on September 30 in Katav Ghat area in broad daylight when the man carrying the cash was traveling in an autorickshaw along with two others, the police said. "When the three came out of the vehicle to peer ahead and find out what was causing the traffic jam, a monkey took away a towel in which ₹1 lakh cash was wrapped. It shook the towel after climbing up a tree, spreading currency notes all around. The owner managed to collect ₹56,000, while the rest got lost," explained Majholi police station in charge Sachin Singh, as quoted by PTI. There were no CCTV cameras in the area to identify who stole the rest of the money that was scattered everywhere, the police said. As a result, no case was registered in connection with the incident as only monkeys were involved in the act. The official further said that people often feed monkeys in the area and often times they even enter vehicles. Singrampur police station in charge Dharmendra Upadhyay said complainant Mohammad Ali, a resident of Katangi, had come there first but was directed to Majholi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/monkey-steals-towel-carrying-rs-1-lakh-cash-from-autorickshaw-in-madhya-pradesh-101633281521229.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||JEE Advanced 2021: Students find paper 2 tricky, maths hardest||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced 2021 was conducted by IIT Kharagpur across the country on Sunday. The students aspiring to get into the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) appeared in the exam that comprised two papers. Paper 1 was held from 9am to 12 noon and paper 2 was conducted from 2:30pm to 5:30pm.The candidates, who have cleared JEE (mains) examinations, were to appear for both the papers. Many students who took the exam in the state capital said paper 2 was tricky and that maths was quite tough.“Paper 2 was much more difficult as compared to paper 1. Although there were no errors in the questions, the pattern was different. Paragraph questions were introduced in paper 2 and there were also STEM questions of 2 marks each. It is the first time that questions carrying two marks were asked in the paper,” said Aryan Sinha, who got an all India ranking of 4464 in JEE mains.“Mathematics section was the toughest followed by chemistry and physics. Another slight difference in the pattern was the fact that we had to answer 57 questions instead of 54 last year,” added Aryan.“Paper 2 was definitely trickier and more exhausting than paper 1. We were surprised by the new pattern of questions carrying two marks each. Mathematics section in paper 2 was the hardest,” said Syed Adeel Ahmad who had an all India ranking of 4698 in JEE mains. “We had to follow exam day guidelines and other standard operating procedures issued by the exam conducting authority,” said Adeel.Pal Aggarwal, who had scored 100 percentile in JEE mains, said, “I feel that maths section was the most difficult this time. Physics was the easiest while chemistry was moderate.”JEE Advanced is the gateway to admission to 23 IITs in addition to 07 Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research, the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, and a few other eminent institutions like the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram. Due to Covid, there were no exam centres available abroad this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jee-advanced-2021-students-find-paper-2-tricky-maths-hardest-101633283400700.html
03-10-2021||Other||British historian, Indian scholar to receive Sir Syed Excellence Award at AMU on October 17||British historian and professor of history of South Asia at the University of London, Dr Francis Christopher Rowland Robinson will receive the International Sir Syed Excellence Award 2021 while former president of the Sahitya Academy, prof Gopi Chand Narang will be given the National Sir Syed Excellence Award during the virtual Sir Syed Day Commemoration ceremony of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on October 17.Vice chancellor prof Tariq Mansoor on the recommendation of a jury comprising prof Asghar Abbas, prof Ishtiaq Ahmad Zilli, prof A R Kidwai, prof Ali Mohammad Naqvi, Dr Mohammad Shahid, Tariq Hasan and prof M Shafey Kidwai selected the awardees.These International and National Sir Syed Excellence Awards carry cash award ₹2,00,000 and ₹1,00,000 respectively are given to scholars for outstanding works in areas including Sir Syed studies, South Asian studies, Muslim issues, literature, medieval history, social reform, communal harmony, journalism and inter-faith dialogue. Professor Robinson’s research has been focused on the Muslim world. He has explored the great movement of revival and reform in the Muslim world among other things. Prof Francis is a visiting professor at Oxford University and the University of Washington.He has served as president of the Royal Asiatic Society from 1997-2000 and 2003-06 and was the vice-principal of Royal Holloway College, University of London, from 1997-2004. He also served as the head of the History Department at the college from 1990-96.Prof Gopi Chand Narang, the recipient of the National Sir Syed Excellence Award is a literary critic who writes in Urdu and English with a range of modern theoretical frameworks including stylistics, structuralism, post-structuralism and eastern poetics.His recent books on Ghalib (Oxford University Press), Urdu Ghazal (Oxford University Press) and Mir Taqi Mir (Penguin) have got widespread acclaim across the globe. He has published more than 60 scholarly and critical books on language, literature, poetics and cultural studies; many have been translated into other Indian languages.He has been bestowed with the Padma Bhushan (2004), Padma Shri (1990), Sahitya Akademi Award (1995), Ghalib Award (1985), Urdu Academy’s Bahadur Shah Zafar Award (2010), Bharatiya Bhasha Parishad Award (2010), Madhya Pradesh Iqbal Samman (2011) and the Bharatiya Jananpith Moorti Devi Award (2012). The Sahitya Akademi conferred on Dr Narang its highest honour, the Fellowship, in 2009.
03-10-2021||Ranchi||4.1 magnitude earthquake hits Jharkhand's Singhbhum||An earthquake of magnitude 4.1 on the Richter scale shook Singhbhum in Jharkhand on Sunday. The National Center for Seismology, which watches over earthquakes in India, confirmed that tremor occurred at 2.22pm and lasted for about three seconds. The epicenter was located at a depth of 10 kilometres in the Singhbhum district of Jharkhand, roughly 110 km away from Jamshedpur and 185 km from state capital Ranchi."Earthquake of Magnitude:4.1, Occurred on 03-10-2021, 14:22:28 IST, Lat: 22.28 & Long: 85.63, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: District Singhbhum, Jharkhand," NCS tweeted.No damages or loss of life was reported.Meanwhile, tremors were felt in central Assam's Sonitpur district where an earthquake of magnitude 3.8 struck at 2:40 pm today, according to the data shared by National Center for Seismology (NCS). The tremor was at a depth 5 km. However, there has been no report of any damage or casualty so far, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/41-magnitude-earthquake-hits-jharkhand-s-singhbhum-101633281617422.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Parents of 60% kids in BMC schools say yes to physical classes in Mumbai||Parents of around 60% of over 67,000 children studying in Class 8 to 10 at 781 civic-run schools of the city have given consent for sending their child to the school starting Monday for offline classes. Starting today, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has given permission to reopen both private and public schools for Class 8 to 12. According to BMC officials, 781 civic-run secondary high schools in Mumbai have 67,361 students in Class 8-10 who are eligible to attend school from Monday. A BMC official from the education department said, “The overall picture is that around 60% of the parents are ready to give their consent in writing to the school that will make their children eligible for offline classes. The written consent is at a different stage and the system is expected to streamline within the next 15 days, considering it is a soft start from Monday.” The BMC official added, “Several parents are not ready to send their children as festivals are coming and maybe they have gone to their native place due to online classes. However, we will continue ensuring maximum students take advantage of offline classes.” The BMC had in its SOP on Thursday told all schools that 100% attendance is not mandatory, and parents’ consent is necessary for students to attend school. The SOP details guidelines across nine parameters, including attendance, safety and Covid-19 hygiene, teaching, seating arrangements in classrooms, for school managements, teachers, students, and parents. The BMC has mandated that school managements should link their schools with the nearest primary health centres before restarting classes, to better deal with health emergencies among students and staff. According to BMC officials, of the total 781 secondary high schools, 21 schools will not be able to operate starting Monday. BMC education officer Raju Tadvi said, “A few of our schools have quarantine facilities and vaccination centres inside their premises. Hence, they will take time to start. These centres will be first shifted out of the schools and later there will be disinfection posts in which we will resume classes in these schools.” Tadvi added, “The estimated number of schools starting from Monday is 760 and the estimated number of teachers and non-teaching staff is 3,600 followed by an estimated number of students to attend is 38,000.” BMC officials are also going to railway authorities to issue passes to students travelling by local train and also have requested the BEST to allow students to travel for free as per the earlier arrangement. Further, as schools restart, a maximum of 15-20 students will be allowed per classroom at a time. If there are more students, the school can conduct classes in two batches, by dividing students in two groups, and calling them on alternative days. Actual classrooms will operate for not more than three-four hours, and there will be no lunch breaks. Air-conditioning will not be operated in classrooms. Meanwhile, schools have also been instructed not to give out certificates or awards for 100% attendance owing to the Covid-19 situation. On campus, masks are mandatory. All teachers attending school for teaching classes 8 to 12 need to be vaccinated with both doses or need to take an RT-PCR test 48 hours prior, and the school management is required to verify such reports with the laboratory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parents-of-60-kids-in-bmc-schools-say-yes-to-physical-classes-in-mumbai-101633282260357.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Ram Mandir Trust chairman takes ill, admitted to Lucknow hospital||Chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das was rushed to Medanta Hospital in Lucknow from Ayodhya as his oxygen level dipped suddenly causing breathing issues.Nritya Gopal Das, 83, who is also head of Mani Ram Das Chhavni, has not been keeping well for the past several days.On Sunday, Das’s oxygen level fluctuated and he also reported breathing problem, the Ayodhya administration rushed him to the Medanta Hospital in Lucknow. “Mahant Nritya Gopal Das has been admitted to intensive care unit (ICU). He was having problem in passing urine and was complaining of pain in lower abdomen. He had urology and respiratory issues,” said medical director Medanta Hospital Dr Rakesh Kapoor.A team of doctors from urology department and respiratory medicine department are keeping a close watch on his condition. His condition is stable, Dr Kapoor said.The Mahant had tested positive for COVID-19 in August last year when he was in Mathura to preside over Krishna Janmashtami celebrations. Das, who is also chairman of Krishna Janmabhoomi Nyas, was staying at Sitaram temple in Mathura. From there, he was shifted to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram, Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ram-mandir-trust-chairman-takes-ill-admitted-to-lucknow-hospital-101633282140095.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||150K IIT aspirants appear for JEE-Advanced online, say test was moderately difficult||Over 150,000 aspirants appeared for the Joint Entrance Examination-Advanced (JEE-Adv) – a one-way entry to the premier Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) on Sunday. The exam was conducted in two sessions in the online mode across the country and majority students found the paper moderately difficult, with the maths section being the most difficult.“There were tricky questions asked in the Maths section and maximum questions were asked from the Class 9 syllabus,” said Vishesh Rane, a student. This year the JEE-Advanced exam has been conducted by IIT-Kharagpur.Last year, JEE-Mains was held in two sessions in order to give students a chance to better their score. This year, the National Testing Agency (NTA) decided to hold JEE-Mains in four sessions. While the February and March sessions were held as per schedule, the April and May sessions were deferred due to the increasing Covid-19 cases and were finally held in July, August and September. A total of 1,048,000 students had registered for the exams over four sessions and 939,000 appeared for the tests. The top 250,000 students who cleared JEE-Mains were eligible to appear for JEE-Advanced but only 160,000 registered for the same this year.“IIT-Kharagpur has maintained the difficulty level of JEE-Advanced paper. Both Maths and Chemistry sections were difficult this year in both sessions. Top scores will be lower as compared to the past two years so students shouldn’t be disheartened,” said Vinay Kumar, managing director and chief executive officer (CEO) or Rao Academy, a coaching centre.While the date of results is still unclear, candidates can expect the copy of their responses to be uploaded on the official website on October 5. A provisional answer key to the exam will be made available on October 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/150k-iit-aspirants-appear-for-jee-advanced-online-say-test-was-moderately-difficult-101633282020145.html
03-10-2021||Other||Paddy procurement begins in Punjab, over 23,000 tonne purchased on Day 1||Chandigarh The opening day of paddy procurement in Punjab on Sunday saw arrival of 53,500 tonne of grain, taking crop arrival this kharif season to 76,000 tonne. At least 23,700 tonne was procured on Day 1. Paddy arrival started from September 20, with formal procurement starting from Sunday. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi launched paddy procurement operations for the state from the Morinda Grain Market on Sunday. Patiala, Ludhiana, Mohali Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Hoshiarpur and Tarn Taran districts have seen crop arrival. The Centre has allowed 17% moisture in the freshly harvested crop. Punjab food and civil supplies department officials said that the moisture in the crop reaching grain markets was well within permissible norms. “We have made arrangements (for procurement), and the staff of the food department and four procurement agencies have reached mandis,” said a senior officer of the Punjab food and civil supplies department, adding that adequate availability of gunny bags had also been ensured.The Punjab government has set up 3,000 mandis for buying the crop. The state agriculture department estimates that 190 lakh tonne of paddy is expected to reach grain markets for procurement. The Centre is offering the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of ₹1,960 a quintal for A-grade paddy; the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has released a Cash Credit Limit (CCL) of ₹35,700 crore. The state’s four agencies, namely the Pungrain, the Markfed, the Warehousing Corporation and Punsup, besides the Centre’s Food Corporation of India (FCI), will buy the paddy. HITCH BEFORE PROCUREMENT SEASONThe procurement process had to be postponed for 10 days on September 30 this year, a day before it usually starts on October 1. This decision of postponement was based on an FCI report, which stated that due to delayed spell of rain this time, there was high moisture content in the crop, and it might take a week to 10 days to be ready. However, after pressure by farmers, the state government and the opposition parties, including the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Union agriculture ministry reviewed its decision. “In the interest of farmers, it has been decided to start procurement of paddy from October 3,” a communication, released on Saturday evening, from the Centre’s ministry of food and public distribution said. Chief minister Channi had also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, seeking the start of procurement as paddy has started arriving in mandis and any delay could lead to harassment of farmers. FLYING SQUADS FORMED TO CHECK ILLEGAL SALE To stop the illegal practice of mixing or recycling of paddy and rice brought from nearby states at a cheaper rates into freshly procured paddy, Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu has asked deputy commissioners to constitute flying squads at the market committee level.A spokesperson said the flying squad will comprise a representative each of the DC, the mandi board, the excise and taxation (the GST wing) and the police department. The spokesperson added that committees will submit a daily report to the deputy commissioners on the checking of unauthorised paddy and rice, impounding of trucks, sealing of godowns and seizures of paddy and rice brought from the outside states. In Jalandhar district, 78 purchase centres were set up with 3,610 tonne paddy arriving for procurement. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori said officials had been asked to ensure timely procurement, lifting and procurement. In Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, more than 1,500 tonne of paddy arrived, with Kapurthala at 3,200 tonne; of this, government agencies purchased 70% (2,226 tonne).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/paddy-procurement-begins-in-punjab-over-23-000-tonne-purchased-on-day-1-101633281960184.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Why is Maharashtra govt silent on claim that Marathis are minority in Belgaum?’||Continuing its aggressive stance on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday questioned the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s silence over Karnataka governments’ attempt to show that the Marathi-speaking population in Belgaum region has reduced. The Sena Member of Parliament said MVA ministers, who are appointed as coordinators over the dispute, must visit Karnataka and take up the issue. The Sena chief spokesperson said the Karnataka government has shown a decreasing number of Marathi-speaking people in the border areas for their political gains. He said he will speak to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray over the issue. According to a recent report, the Karnataka government had logged the Marathi population in the border areas, including Belgaum, Karwar, Nipani, at about 15%, which is a lie. “The Maharashtra government must take a stand in this matter. I don’t understand why it has remained silent on this. The state government has appointed two ministers — Eknath Shinde and Chhagan Bhujbal — as coordinators over the border dispute. They must immediately go there (Karnataka) and engage with leaders in the border area. If the Maharashtra government does not feel the need to take any steps in this matter, then it is unfortunate. I will definitely take up this matter with CM,” Raut said. The Shiv Sena has been aggressive with the border dispute as it is in line with its Marathi manoos ideology and helps the party to corner the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state. Raut said that over 65 villages in the border areas had about 60% Marathi natives when the state was carved out in 1960. “Even today, the Marathi population is around the same. The Karnataka government has converted the entire region to Kannada-speaking by making it the second capital and by buying lands belonging to the Marathi people. By doing such things, they have tried to show a lower percentage of Marathi-speaking population in these areas for their political gains... If they are saying that [Marathis] are in minority with 15% [of the population] then this is a lie. This report is completely untrue and there has to be some conspiracy behind it,” he said. The Sena, which had backed the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti in the recently concluded Belgaum municipal elections, said Marathis are in majority in border areas. The Belgaum municipal corporation polls showed that Marathi candidates got more votes than BJP candidates. The Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti candidates got 67,000 votes, while BJP got around 44,000 votes, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-is-maharashtra-govt-silent-on-claim-that-marathis-are-minority-in-belgaum-101633281780125.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC polls: BJP may need to relook at ‘Mission 2022’ to wrest power from Shiv Sena||A year after losing power in Maharashtra to its erstwhile ally Shiv Sena, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2020 had launched an ambitious ‘Mission 2022’, which aimed to oust the Uddhav Thackeray-led party from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The Sena has held power in BMC for several decades (1985-1992 and 1997-present). BJP aims to wrest control of BMC, which has been Sena’s source of clout and resources for three decades, and set the stage for the Thackeray-led Maharashtra government’s defeat in the next elections or even the collapse of the three-party ruling coalition before that. BMC, with its budget of ₹39,038.83 crore last year, is the richest civic body in India, and has played a major role in the growth of the Shiv Sena. However in the past 10 months, BJP leaders feel that there is confusion over the way forward and that they would need a course correction. The local leadership is not effective enough to take the Sena head-on, there is flip-flop on part of the party over the issue of alliance with the Raj Thackeray-led Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and moreover, some controversies created by the party leaders have given the Sena leaders an ammunition to charge up the party workers and even BJP’s loyal support base. The situation is different as compared to the 2017 civic elections when the party had launched a spirited campaign to oust the Sena, though the two parties were running a government in the state together. Many workers pointed out that one of the major factors is the local leadership in Mumbai, which is not effective. Currently, Mumbai BJP is led by senior legislator Mangal Prabhat Lodha. Former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis, who has taken up the responsibility to deliver BMC to the party, has backed BJP legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar to handle the party affairs for effectively kick-starting the BJP poll machine. A senior Mumbai BJP leader said: “We need to have a proper plan to take on the Sena step-by-step. If there is one [plan], then we have not been told about it yet. We have multiple issues to corner the Shiv Sena but then we need someone to lead us headstrong. As it has shown in [Union minister] Narayan Rane’s case, the Sena will resort to strong arm tactics and we need to match it,” said the leader. A senior BJP corporator, on the condition of anonymity, said, “We have 16 legislators in Mumbai, but most of them are occupied in winning BMC tickets for their kin. Many don’t even want us to win the seats as they are afraid that the winners may later stake claim for Assembly tickets from their areas.” Political analyst Hemant Desai said that the current BJP leadership in the city lacks the aggression to take on the Shiv Sena. “It is difficult for Lodha and Bhatkhalkar to take on the aggressive Sena machinery which has a grassroot-level network in Mumbai through its shakhas (units). In the 2017 elections, the party had spared no efforts to oust the Sena from BMC. That kind of campaign is not visible as of now,” said Desai. “Last time, the BJP government headed by Fadnavis had also played a major role in providing resources to the party campaign, which is absent this time. Today, the Sena heads the state government and will spare no efforts to retain BMC, which has been its citadel for decades,” he added. Analysts said that three incidents have played a major role in bringing the Sena back to the streets and put BJP in the defensive. In June, clashes broke out between Shiv Sena and BJP workers as the latter’s youth wing took out a protest march towards the Sena Bhavan after Sena mouthpiece Saamana made ‘offensive remarks’ on the Ayodhya land deal controversy. Later, BJP leader Prasad Lad’s remarks – that party workers would destroy Sena Bhavan – evoked a strong reaction from the Sena cadre as well as the party’s support base, which is the Marathi-speaking population. Lad retracted his comment, stating that it was taken out of context, however, it galvanised the grassroot Sena workers in Mumbai. The final nail in the coffin was in August when Rane, BJP’s Union minister, sparked off a row with his remark about slapping the CM. Rane had claimed that Thackeray was unaware of the year of India’s Independence. Three first information reports (FIR) were registered and Rane was arrested over his remarks. Though he was granted bail within hours, the incident infused the Sena workers, who took to the streets against the Union minister. There were Sena agitations across Maharashtra, condemning Rane. One of the agitations was held by the Yuva Sena – the youth wing of Shiv Sena – outside Rane’s Juhu residence in Mumbai. Another political analyst, Surendra Jondhale, blamed BJP for invigorating the Sena. “The Sena workers were in limbo from the past one-and-half years, ever since they had a government in the state. But these incidents, especially [the one related to Rane] put life into them and they were back to the streets. This could cost BJP very dearly as now even Thackeray has realised that these workers cannot remain quiet and he is discreetly supporting them. The Sena network is still influential to win BMC polls,” said Jondhale. Meanwhile, Desai pointed out that an “enemy” like Rane campaigning aggressively would charge up the Sena workers. Besides, the Sena’s efforts to mobilise the Marathi vote bank will also have an effect on the polls. In 2017, BJP had contested alone on the plank of bringing transparency in Asia’s richest civic body and “freeing them from the clutches of the Shiv Sena”. The party surprised everyone by bagging 82 seats, which was a whisker away from wresting power from the Shiv Sena, which had bagged just two seats more to regain power. The BJP campaign is being spear-headed by Fadnavis, for whom BJP workers have high regard. However, many of them think that he has given preference to defectors from other parties instead of loyalists. “The loyal workers who have slogged for decades have to make way for defectors from other parties. Today, Lad (who defected from Sena’s current ally in state Nationalist Congress Party) and Pravin Darekar (from MNS) have more influence in city BJP,” a party veteran, who has been currently sidelined, said. “Top leaders such as Vinod Tawde, Raj Purohit and Prakash Mehta, who know the city at the back of their hands and were denied tickets in the last Assembly elections, have been fully sidelined and are hardly contributing to the campaign,” he added. Dismissing these claims, the BJP has called reports of demoralisation of cadres as misleading. “All our workers are ready to face the elections and it is only the Shiv Sena which is afraid and trying to postpone it. We are confident of a landslide victory,” said Bhatkalkar. He also dismissed any factionalism in BJP, saying that the party will win more seats this time from 2017. “The factionalism and leadership issues are a figment of imagination of the media. This time, we are fully prepared to contest all the 227 seats unlike last time, when we were still unsure of having an alliance with the Shiv Sena,” said Bhatkalkar. “People have seen how the Thackeray government has stopped major projects started by the Fadnavis regime and made their lives miserable. They are witness to the corruption in BMC and the ruining of the civic services. Citizens will vote Shiv Sena out of BMC,” said Bhatkalkar. Responding to the issue of new entrants to the party, Bhatkalkar added: “We in BJP assimilate outsiders and they contribute to the growth of our party. There is no dissatisfaction over them.”Former BJP chief Ashish Shelar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will continue to be a major factor in the upcoming BMC election. “Modiji will play a major factor, considering the manner in which he is handling the whole country and even Fadnavis’ developmental work will influence the whole campaign,” said Shelar. Another factor causing anxiety in the party ranks is the party’s equation with Raj Thackeray’s MNS. The visit of BJP’s Maharashtra president Chandrakant Patil to Raj Thackeray’s house has not gone well with the ranks. “Our leaders need to realise that any truck with MNS will alienate our North Indian votebank. In addition, the Marathi voters will support the Shiv Sena in large numbers as they will see MNS as the spoiler and this will in fact help in consolidating the Sena’s vote bank,” said a North Indian BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-polls-bjp-may-need-to-relook-at-mission-2022-to-wrest-power-from-shiv-sena-101633281660141.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena maintains silence over claims that Ramdas Kadam leaked info against state min||A day after Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader Vaibhav Khedekar alleged that information against state transport minister Anil Parab was leaked by Ramdas Kadam – his colleague in the Shiv Sena – through Prasad Karve, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party has maintained silence on the issue. Party insiders said that the issue consists of personal enmity between Kadam and Parab.On Saturday, Khedekar – chairman of Khed nagar panchayat in Ratnagiri – in a press conference with Nationalist Congress Party leader Sanjay Kadam had produced eight audio clips that were purportedly between Shiv Sena leader Ramdas Kadam and a Right to Information (RTI) activist. Khedekar alleged that the information related to the irregularities in a resort and an office on a Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) plot linked to Parab was provided by Kadam. Parab has earlier maintained that he has no links with these two constructions.Party insiders said Kadam’s brother Sadanand is one of Parab’s business partners. The duo have been associates since the time Parab was involved in the cable network wing in Mumbai and parts of the state. Senior functionaries said Kadam did not appreciate that the party overlooked him while forming the government under Thackeray. It is also believed that Kadam was close to Bharatiya Janata Party leaders during the Devendra Fadnavis government. In 2017, when Parab was made the leader of the party in the legislative Council, Kadam had reportedly expressed his unhappiness to the party chief. Kadam’s term in the upper house of the state legislature ends in January 2022.“This issue is not directly related to the party. There has been personal enmity between Ramdas Bhai and Parab for the past 30 years. Kadam’s brother has been Parab’s a long-term associate and has been helping him, which doesn’t go well with him (Kadam),” a senior party functionary said, on the condition of anonymity. Parab was not available for comment.In the audio clips, Kadam is reportedly speaking to Prasad Karve, who had lodged an official complaint over the irregularities of a resort in Dapoli. Kadam is also heard responding “very good” to Karve’s information that the district collector has formed a committee to probe the alleged coastal regulation zone (CRZ) violations. Sadanand Gangaram Kadam, according to the allegations of BJP leader Kirit Somaiya, was reportedly the owner of the plot on which Sai Resort in Dapoli was constructed.Ramdas Kadam, however, dismissed reports of personal enmity between him, his brother and Parab. He maintained that it was an opposition party’s (MNS) campaign to defame him. “I have already spoken enough on this issue on Saturday. This is nothing but a campaign to defame me. I do not pay heed to these things. I am seeking advice from my lawyers over this and will pursue legal action,” Kadam said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-maintains-silence-over-claims-that-ramdas-kadam-leaked-info-against-state-min-101633281600451.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai colleges start prep to reopen||At a time when schools across the state are all set to welcome students back on campus after nearly 19 months of online classes, city colleges too are starting preparations for a similar move in the near future. They have started to draw up lists of fully vaccinated staff and students, assessing total classrooms available and sanitisation schedule to avoid last-minute decisions. “The state announced reopening of schools last week and ordered all schools to implement the move within a week. We don’t want to be caught unawares, so want to ensure all necessary work is done in advance,” said the vice-principal of a management institute in suburban Mumbai. Last week, state minister for school education Varsha Gaikwad announced that after a 19-month break, schools in the state will reopen starting October 4. In a series of tweets, Gaikwad mentioned that in rural areas, physical classes for Class 5 to 12 will resume, while in urban areas, physical classes for class 8 to 12 will resume. The schools will be reopened in phased manner, she added. While this was not the first time that schools in the state were asked to work towards re-opening physical classes in a phased manner, this has been the first time that the local municipal body has approved the move. In August, Gaikwad announced that offline classes will restart for Classes 5 to 8 in rural areas and Classes 8 to 12 in urban cities, following Covid-19 protocols starting August 17. This decision was not approved by the BMC. Similarly in November last year, the school education department had released a similar circular announcing re-opening of schools for classes 9 to 12 in a phased manner. By January 2021, another circular was released directing students from classes 5 to 8 be brought back to school in groups and maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour on campus. Both these circulars, however, were revoked once Covid cases started to rise and the state called for another complete lockdown starting mid-April. “As per the latest decision, we have to start physical classes for students from Class 11 and 12 and since we are still unsure of how this will work out, we’ve only called Class 12 students as a pilot and then assess the situation. For degree college students, we have already started drawing up lists of vaccinated people, because government officials have hinted at physical classes for all students post Diwali holidays,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra. Some colleges have also suggested holding a vaccination camp on their premises to ensure staff, both teaching and non-teaching, as well as their respective families are vaccinated soon. “We started calling our staff back to college since August last year on a rotational basis and that has worked for us. We’ve been encouraging staff to get vaccinated and at present all our teachers are fully vaccinated. Preps to restart physical classes for degree students has been on but we won’t take any step before the government orders the same,” said Anju Kapoor, principal, UPG College, Vile Parle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-colleges-start-prep-to-reopen-101633281480245.html
03-10-2021||Jaipur||BJP MP reiterates demand for REET cancellation, alleges paper leaked before exam||BJP's Rajya Sabha MP Kirodi Lal Meena on Sunday reiterated his demand for the cancellation of the recently held Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers, alleging that the paper had been leaked before the examination. He alleged that not only the question papers but the answer sheets too were leaked before the exam in Sawai Madhopur district. Meena said question papers can be leaked from the exam centres but the leaking of the answer sheet is not possible without the involvement of the secrecy wing officials of the Board of Secondary Education which conducted the exam last Sunday across the state. “There is evidence that both the papers and answer sheets were leaked before the exam started. The answer sheets cannot be there at the exam centres and it can be leaked only with the involvement of secrecy wing official,” he told reporters here. Meena said it is REET candidates’ demand that the exam should be cancelled and a CBI inquiry should be ordered. After several irregularities and negligence came to light in the conduct of the exam, the state government suspended one RAS officer, two RPS officers, one head constable, two constables and over a dozen personnel of the Education Department. The exam, for which 16.51 lakh candidates had enrolled, was held for the recruitment of over 30,000 teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-mp-reiterates-demand-for-reet-cancellation-alleges-paper-leaked-before-exam-101633277701602.html
03-10-2021||Other||Punjab CM Channi launches paddy procurement from Morinda||Morinda Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi launched paddy procurement operations for the state from the Morinda Grain Market on Sunday. On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, acceding to the request of Channi, had allowed paddy procurement to start from October 3, instead of October 11“All necessary arrangements for smooth, prompt and seamless procurement, lifting and storage of paddy have been made by the state government,” the CM said, while interacting with farmers, commission agents and labourers at the grain market. Reiterating his government’s commitment, Channi added that every single grain of the farmers’ produce would be lifted from the market and strict adherence to the prescribed norms of timely payment to farmers would be ensured. He also requested farmers to bring their produce within the norms and specification laid down by Centre on moisture content etc. The CM also directed food and civil supplies secretary Gurkirat Kirpal Singh to ensure smooth and hassle-free procurement of paddy during the current Kharif Marketing Season. Special principal secretary to the CM Rahul Tiwari; Rupnagar DC Sonali Giri and Rupnagar SSP Vivek Sheel Soni, were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-channi-launches-paddy-procurement-from-morinda-101633280640089.html
03-10-2021||Other||Lucknow reports over 40 dengue cases in last three days; notices issued to 16 house owners||LUCKNOW: State capital has reported over 40 dengue cases in the past three days, including seven fresh cases on Sunday, according to a press statement issued from the office of chief medical officer, Lucknow. The fresh cases during the day were reported from Indira Nagar, Aliganj and Chinhat areas. Health department teams also inspected houses in different localities and issued notices to 16 house owners for not removing sources of mosquito breeding. “Notices were issued after teams spotted conditions favourable for mosquito breeding at these houses, including stagnant water,” said a health official. Teams inspected 1178 houses in different areas, including Ashiyana, Kanpur Road, Triveni Nagar, Fazullaganj, Jankipuram, Rajajipuram and Gomti Nagar. In all, 41 cases have been reported in past three days with 15 cases on Saturday and 19 on Friday. Till now, Lucknow has reported over 325 dengue cases, he said. Experts said that extended monsoon was playing spoilsport. “With extended monsoon rains are occurring every second day in Lucknow and this is making conditions favourable for mosquito breeding. Apart from the authorities, the residents also have the responsibility to reduce the sources of mosquito breeding in their homes and surrounding,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. “Using mosquito net is an optimum method to prevent mosquito bite inside homes. Whether you live in a big house or on 7th floor of an apartment make sure you remove all sources of mosquito breeding,” said Dr Shukla. “Our teams are disseminating information among people on how to reduce sources of mosquito breeding. They should remove water from the water tank of air coolers and wiping it with cloth at a gap of few days, besides wearing full sleeve clothes that cover the whole body while going out and use of repellent creams,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, health education officer, Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-reports-over-40-dengue-cases-in-last-three-days-notices-issued-to-16-house-owners-101633278899936.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||A podium finish at 2022 Asian Games on athlete Harmilan Bains’s mind||Harmilan Kaur Bains, the 1,500m national record holder, was felicitated by PlayWrite Foundation in Chandigarh on Sunday.Harmilan had last month won the women’s 1,500m race by clocking 4:05 in the 60th National Open Athletics Championships in Warangal. She broke Sunita Rani’s long standing record of 4:06.03 set at 2002 Asian Games in Busan. She had also won gold in the women’s 800m race.Lauding Bains for her recent achievement, Chitranjan Agarwal and Vivek Atray, co-founders of PlayWrite Foundation, said that the ace athlete by setting a new record has made us all proud and will surely go a long way with success coming her way in more athletic championships.Bains grew as an athlete at school and then at Punjabi University, Patiala. In 2019, she broke the university’s 1,500m record clocking 4:16.68. Her mother Madhuri Saxena, who comes from Uttar Pradesh, is a 800m silver medallist at the 2002 Asian Games. Her father Amandeep Bains of Punjab is a 1,500m medallist at the South Asian Games.Giving details about her career, she said, “My first-ever race was a zonal meet when I was in Class 3. I was a class topper in academics, but I finished second in that race. I wanted to quit sports because of that, but I won the next race and my photo was published in the paper. From then onwards it has been only sports for me.” Bains now wants to go one step further and is targeting a podium finish at the 2022 Asian Games.“I have set a new national record, but I think I can push myself even further. I am sure with extensive practise and training I will be able to bring a medal in Paris 2024,” said the star athlete, who also pointed out that the number of tracks in Punjab were inadequate, and every district needed to have at least three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-podium-finish-at-2022-asian-games-on-athlete-harmilan-bains-s-mind-101633278479850.html
03-10-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: RJD to contest both seats, ‘humiliated’ Cong mulls over fielding its candidates||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has decided to field its candidates from both Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur in the by-election, which is scheduled to be held on October 30. Following the nod by RJD chief Lalu Prasad, the party’s state president Jagdanand Singh Sunday announced the names of Arun Shah and Ganesh Bharati from Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan, respectively.The death of lawmakers representing the two seats necessitated the bypolls.Meanwhile, close on the heels of the RJD’s listing of its candidates, the Congress on Sunday said that it was also contemplating fielding its nominees for both the seats.Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) president Madan Mohan Jha said that the party has almost finalised its candidate for the Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seat in Darbhanga reserved for the scheduled caste, while the consultations were underway to decide the candidate for Tarapur constituency in Munger. “However, the final decision on naming the candidates would be taken by the party high command, who has been apprised about the developments, post the RJD’s decision to field its nominees on both the seats,” said Jha. All India Congress Committee (AICC) in charge, Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, could not be contacted for his comments. Leaders close to him said that Das, who is currently in Manipur, would make the formal announcement about the next course of action upon consultations with AICC chief Sonia Gandhi in a couple of days. Meanwhile, the RJD chief took the Congress by surprise with the announcement of the names of the nominees. “The announcement came as shock to the party, as we were following the coalition dharma and was preparing for the Kusheshwar Asthan seat, which was allocated to the Congress under the seat adjustment among the opposition alliance during the 2020 assembly elections,” said Jha. Former Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ashok Kumar had contested from Kusheshwar Asthan and lost the elections to the Janata Dal (United) leader Shashi Bhushan Hazari by a margin of little over 7,000 votes in the last assembly polls. RJD’s candidate Divya Prakash was also defeated by the JD(U)’s candidate Mewalal Chaudhary at Tarapur constituency by almost an equal margin. Ashok Kumar said the party has been watching the developments and if required, would contest both the seats going to bypolls. “I have been the claimant, as I have nurtured the seat. It is like humiliating the Congress. Our party vice president Rahul Gandhi’s decision will be final in this regard and we are preparing for both seats,” he said.Senior Congress leader Kishore Kumar Jha also said that the party must assert its position and contest both the seats to give a message among the cadres that it would not compromise on its self-respect. “Ashok Kumar is a popular leader and he lost the polls due to malpractices resorted to by the ruling alliance. The Congress is at the crossroads and it must decide what to do now, as the RJD has stabbed in its back,” said Kishore Jha. A section of the senior party leaders, including a former BPCC chief, said that being a national party with a presence in all villages across the state had no dearth of capable leaders. “But cadres of the party have been lying low owing to its propensity for the alliance politics in Bihar. The party’s tally in the assembly declined, as it was not offered to the seats of its choice and had to contest those areas that were not familiar to the contestants,” said another senior leader. Meanwhile, RJD state president Singh said both the candidates of the party were nominees of the grand alliance, insisting that the party has a strong base in both the seats and would win. “Our objective is to win. The grand alliance is intact, there are no differences of any kind,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-rjd-to-contest-both-seats-humiliated-cong-mulls-over-fielding-its-candidates-101633278419913.html
03-10-2021||Indore||Woman killed, 15 passengers injured as two buses collide in Madhya Pradesh||A woman was killed and 15 other passengers injured when two buses collided in Indore district of Madhya Pradesh on Sunday, police said. The passenger bus going from Indore to Khandwa collided with another such vehicle coming from the opposite side at Bherughat on Indore-Ichhapur highway, Simrol police station in charge Dharmendra Shivhare told PTI."An unidentified woman, who was travelling alone, died on the spot, while a total of 15 passengers from both the buses were injured," he said, adding that all injured were rushed to Mhow civil hospital, where they are undergoing treatment and all of them are out of danger. The accident led to a traffic snarl on the route for about an hour, he said. Investigation into the mishap was underway., Shivhare said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/woman-killed-15-passengers-injured-as-two-buses-collide-in-madhya-pradesh-101633276765144.html
03-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest 4 sharpshooters of slain gangster Jitender Gogi’s gang||The Delhi Police have arrested four sharpshooters of slain gangster Jitender Gogi’s gang, who allegedly arrived in Delhi to kill the leader of their rival gang Tillu Tajpuriya, officials privy of the matter told news agency PTI on Sunday. Both Gogi and Tillu gangs have been at war with each other for many yearsThree of the accused- Anuj alias Mohit (23), Sagar Rana (24) and Sumit (26) are residents of Haryana’s Jhajjar district while the fourth sharpshooter Harsh alias Mithun (22), is a resident of Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, officials added.Sunday’s arrests come days after Jitendra Gogi, who was one of the most wanted gangsters in Delhi, was shot dead inside the Rohini court on September 24 by two assailants who were dressed as lawyers. The assailants, who were killed in retaliatory fire by the police, were given orders by Tajpuriya- who was the mastermind behind Gogi’s murder.On Wednesday, Tajpuriya was interrogated by police in the Mandoli jail. A senior police officer, on the condition of anonymity, told Hindustan Times that he was actively in touch with gunmen and other accomplices for over a week before the shootout on September 24.Given the recent gang-related violence in Delhi, the police said that a team of the special cell was formed at the behest of commissioner Rakesh Asthana to trace gangsters and criminals as part of an inter-state operation. Another senior police officer told PTI on Sunday that through surveillance, it was learnt on Friday that the sharpshooters were supposed to go to Prahaladpur and Khera village to murder members of their rival gangs.The police team spotted their SUV and blocked their way, the official said, adding, the accused opened fire at the police as they were surrounded. “Two other members of the Gogi gang, who were in another car, managed to escape, leaving behind the vehicle,” he said.Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav, meanwhile, said that nine sophisticated semi-automatic pistols along with 123 live cartridges among other items were recovered from the Gogi gang sharpshooters. They also had plans to kill Tillu Tajpuriya when he was being produced in court or being taken to a hospital for medical examination.“After the murder of gangster Gogi, the accused had also (received) directions to kill active gang members of Neeraj Bawana and Naveen Bali gangs, including Monu Bajitpuriya, Vishal Maan and Naresh Tajpuriya, who were on their hit list since they were associated with Tillu gang,” Yadav further told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-4-sharpshooters-of-slain-gangster-jitender-gogi-s-gang-101633277983842.html
03-10-2021||Other||UP Board improvement examinations 2021: Evaluation of answer sheets to start from Oct 9||PRAYAGRAJ: Evaluation of answer sheets of the improvement examinations being conducted by Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UPMSP), formally known as the UP Board, would start from October 9 at 15 centers spread across the state and it would end on October 12, informed board officials. The high school and intermediate marks improvement examinations would end on October 4 and 6, respectively. The board has decided to set up three evaluation centers each under its five regional offices in the districts of Prayagraj, Varanasi, Meerut, Bareilly and Gorakhpur. UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla said that the practical exams of the ongoing improvement examinations would be held on October 7 and 8. Preparations for the evaluation process are already underway, he added. For the practical exams, the board would be designating select government and government-aided schools only, and the students who could not appear in the practical exams last time, would be allowed to appear at these centres which would be set up at the district headquarters, Shukla said. Officials said, instructions are being dispatched to the in-charges of the evaluation centres by the board. A total of 37,931 high school students and 41,355 intermediate students have applied for the improvement exams this time. The UP Board, in August 2021 announcing the improvement exam dates, had made it clear that students who wish to appear in the exam for improving their marks awarded to them while being promoted sans exams this year, would be given an opportunity to appear in this exam in any number of subjects and attempts to better their scores. The UP Board had cancelled the proposed high school and intermediate examinations this year due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. The students were promoted based on a formula for award of marks decided by the board. As per the time table for the improvement exams, class 10 exams are being held in 12 working days ending on October 4 while the class 12 exams in 15 working days ending on October 6. The duration of the exam too has been cut short to two hours instead of three hours. Those students who are appearing for the exams have also not been charged any examination fee. As per the order issued by additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla, students would be allowed to appear in one or all subjects and their results would be considered only for 2021. Candidates who were unhappy with the marks awarded to them, those whose results were shown withheld or even absent and wished to appear in the improvement exams are allowed to appear in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-board-improvement-examinations-2021-evaluation-of-answer-sheets-to-start-from-oct-9-101633278239941.html
03-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj: 83,167 candidates appear for nursing exam conducted by UPPSC||PRAYAGRAJ: Nearly 83,167 candidates appeared for the nursing staff recruitment examination conducted by the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) on behalf of the department of medical education and training; medical and health services, and King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, on Sunday. The UPPSC conducted the written test for 3,012 posts of nurses, including 341 posts of staff nurse/sister grade-2 (male) and 2,671 posts of staff nurse/sister grade-2 (female). The recruitment exam was aimed at filling up existing vacancies in government medical colleges, hospitals and community health centres (CHCs) across the state. Out of the 1,02,041 candidates registered, 83,167 (81.50 percent) appeared in the exam held between 11 am and 1pm in five districts of the state, informed UPPSC officials. “Around 80.54% candidates appeared in the recruitment exam at 40 centers in Prayagraj, 74.84% at 38 centers in Ghaziabad, 85.69% at 43 centres in Gorakhpur, 84.70% at 57 centres in Lucknow and 79.72% at 41 centers in Meerut,” informed UPPSC secretary Jagdish. The age limit for applicants was fixed between 21 and 40 years as on July 1, 2021 with relaxations as per the government norms. The nurses would be recruited in group ‘B’ non-gazetted pay scale of ₹9300-34800, grade pay ₹4600 (revised pay scale level-7 pay matrix ₹44900-142400).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-83-167-candidates-appear-for-nursing-exam-conducted-by-uppsc-101633277639782.html
03-10-2021||Patna||Patna to see smaller idols this Durga Puja||With just two weeks left for Durga Puja celebrations, artisans in the city are busy erecting pandals and crafting idols of Goddess Durga, which will likely be smaller in size this year to prevent huge gatherings owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The 10-day festival is set to begin on October 7 and conclude on October 15. The state government has allowed Durga Puja celebration following Covid-19 safety measures under Unlock 7.For keeping visitors safe, local Puja organisers are making arrangements for pandemic-appropriate festival celebrations, which include provisions for thermal screening, sanitisation and vaccination of volunteers involved in puja celebration. Majority of them have also scaled down the size of pandals and idols to prevent huge gathering of devotees.Shri Navyuvak Sangh Puja Committee, which attracts lakhs of devotees near Dak Bungalow, has decided to go for low-key celebration. “There will be traditional puja with Kalash Sthapna. We are not establishing idols of the Goddess or life-size pandals, as handling crowd would be difficult for us,” said Ranjan Kumar, vice-president of the committee.Govind Mitra Road Puja Committee too has decided to erect smaller idols. “Pandal erection has already started. Instead of 14 feet high idols, we have placed order for eight feet high idols. Flower decoration on the pandal will be the centre of attraction”, said Arjun Yadav, president of the committee.Bengali Akhara, known for celebrating Durga Puja with authentic Bengali tradition since 1893, has opted for open-sky pandal theme this year. “We have called craftsmen from West Bengal to craft six feet tall idols. We will also arrange for sanitisers and social distancing inside temple premises. Prasad distribution will be less to avoid gathering,” said secretary of the committee Amit Sinha.Meanwhile, the Dussehra Committee Trust has commenced preparations for Ravan Vadh programme, which will be held at Kalidas Rangalaya on October 14.Kamal Nopani, chairperson of the trust, said, “Artisans have started crafting 15 feet-tall effigies of Ravana along with Kumbhakarna (13 feet) and Meghanada (11 feet). Another 10 feet-tall Covid-19 effigy, red in colour and having spikes, is being prepared. We are likely to complete all preparations by October 12.”A maximum of 300 visitors will be allowed to attend the event in view of Covid-19 guidelines, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-to-see-smaller-idols-this-durga-puja-101633276139715.html
03-10-2021||Patna||Bihar poised to complete 6 crore Covid jabs in Oct||Bihar made a giant leap, the second biggest in the last fortnight, by administering 27,96,173 Covid-19 doses on Saturday alone during the third mega vaccination camp, even as it was poised to meet the target of administering six crore jabs this month itself, two months before the six-month deadline set by chief minister Nitish Kumar in June. With this, the state, by Sunday afternoon, administered a total of 5,74,66,441 doses--of which 4,51,77,329 were first dose and 1,22,89,112 were second dose, as per data on CoWIN portalBihar has an eligible population of 7.22 crore to vaccinate against Covid-19.The state has achieved 62% first dose vaccination of the eligible population and 27% of the second dose against the first dose administered to those eligible. Capital city Patna, which topped in the state with 1,92,465 inoculations on Saturday, achieved 75% first dose vaccinations and 55% second dose against the first dose. Besides, 11 of the 38 districts in the state achieved over one lakh inoculations on Saturday. Purnia administered 1,32,062 jabs, Bhagalpur 1,27,338, Samastipur 1,26,314, Darbhanga 1,19,087, Gopalganj 1,18,940, Nalanda 1,08,452, Muzaffarpur achieved 1,07,775, Saran 1,05,266, East Champaran 1,04,864 and Vaishali 1,03,107, as per data on CoWIN portal. Madhubani and Gaya districts, however, narrowly missed the single-day one lakh dose vaccination-mark by giving 98,018 and 95,928 doses, respectively.Among the poor performing districts were Sheohar, which administered 10,945 doses, Arwal 13,589, Sheikhpura 17,406, Munger 26,993 and Lakhisarai 27,315 shots on Saturday. The health department set up 14,887 vaccination sites across the state for the mega camp against an average 2,000 to 3,000 on other days. Vaccinators reached out to people on boats at several places that were flooded. Earlier on September 17, on which Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday falls, the state achieved the feat of completing country’s highest single-day inoculations of 33,39,879. Prior to that, it administered 27,57,931 doses on August 31 and 9.26 lakh doses on August 5. Its previous best vaccination scores are 2,02,137 doses on March 8 and 1,35,575 jabs on March 12. Bihar’s performance on the vaccination front has improved with the availability of vaccines. The state’s allotment of Covid-19 vaccines from the Centre has increased over the last few months. Bihar received around 1.4 crore doses last month, surpassing the 1.3 crore doses it received in August. The state received 11 lakh doses in January this year, when the country-wide Covid-19 vaccination drive began on January 16. It received 12 lakh vaccine doses in February, 14 lakh doses in March, 40 lakh doses in April, 35 lakh doses in May, 57 lakh doses in June and 79 lakh doses in July. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, during a review meeting with health officials on June 11, set a deadline to administer six crore jabs in six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-poised-to-complete-6-crore-covid-jabs-in-oct-101633275899503.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees marginal spike in Covid-19 cases in a month||The city has 4,713 active Covid-19 cases, a rise from the nearly 3,000 last month this time. Of the total 4,713 active cases, 45% are asymptomatic, according to the data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The number of active cases was around 3,000 since mid-August, however, by mid-September, the Mumbai witnessed a marginal spike in the number of cases due to which the number of active infections also went up. In August, the city was reporting between 250 and 350 cases, that went up to 400-500 being reported daily in September, as per the data.As of October 2, of the total 4,713, 2,121 cases were asymptomatic, 2,300 cases were symptomatic, and 292 cases were critical. Owing to substantiating the number of asymptomatic cases, maximum patients are recovering at home. As of Saturday, around 70,000 citizens were under home quarantine considering they either tested positive or are high-risk contacts of patients.Further, 573 cases were reported on Sunday, followed by three deaths. This took the tally to 744,389 and toll to 16,125. The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 720,412 recoveries. The mortality rate in the city is 2.16%.According to BMC officials, the reason behind giving relaxations for opening of schools, temples and theatres has been undertaken, considering the case tally stabilising in the city. However, the BMC has maintained that it will monitor the situation till Tuesday to understand the impact of the Ganeshotsav.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, had earlier last week told HT, ‘I will not call in a safe position, but we are in a comfortable position as we are able to control the spike that has been reported till now. We will continue to monitor the situation up to October 5.”Meanwhile, the BMC is in a comfortable position and one indication of that is the bed availability in the city. The city’s bed availability ratio is 88%. Further, the vacancy ratio in ICU beds is 76%, 91% in oxygen beds and 71% when it comes to availability of ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-marginal-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-a-month-101633274462781.html
03-10-2021||Other||Alleged fake encounters: SC dismisses 41 Punjab cops’ plea on CBI jurisdiction to probe cases||Amritsar The Supreme Court has dismissed the petition of 41 Punjab cops (mostly retired) questioning the jurisdiction of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI’s) Jammu branch in probing the alleged abduction and killing of more than 20 innocent youths of the state from 1992-1994.The case was listed for hearing before a bench of justice AM Khanwilkar and justice CT Ravi Kumar on Friday. The petitioners, who were deployed as inspectors, sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors across police stations of Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts, had filed their application in the apex court on September 21.The apex court’s decision comes a month after the Punjab and Haryana high court had dismissed the retired cops’ plea. On September 2, justice Arvind Singh Sangwan upheld the jurisdiction of CBI Jammu to probe the cases of disappearance of the youths, most of whom were from Amritsar, Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur districts.With this, most of the police officials indicted by the CBI in their charge-sheets, would face trial in the case before the special CBI court in Mohali. One of the cops Bhupinderjeet Singh Virk is serving as senior superintendent of police (SSP) in Bathinda.CASE REGISTERED IN 1997The case against these police officials was registered in 1997 after the direction of the apex court to the CBI. In 1999, the CBI had filed charge-sheets against most of the cops, but the trial could not start, with accused moving the HC and obtaining stay orders.The main plea of the accused was that the CBI didn’t have any territorial jurisdiction to register the case in Jammu, for incidents related to Punjab. The CBI counsel had, however, submitted that the case was registered on the direction of the apex court and, therefore, the jurisdiction of the Jammu branch was extended to probe these cases.Senior advocate RS Bains, who represents families of the victims in the case, said, “With the Supreme Court dismissing the plea, a ray of hope for justice has emerged after 30 years. The accused had been delaying the trial since the CBI had registered the case. Most victims were kidnapped, killed and bodies cremated as unclaimed. The CBI probe had found that these men were killed in fake encounters.”He said many of the cops are retired while some are still serving on higher posts, and some are already in jails in other cases. “On July 22, 1993, my brother Gulshan Kumar along with Jarnail Singh and his brother Karnail Singh of Zira, and Harjinder Singh of Tarn Taran were killed by Tarn Taran police near Palasaur village drain in a fake encounter. Before their encounter, they were brought to Tarn Taran city police station and tortured. Their bodies were cremated unceremoniously in front of my father Chaman Lal, who has also recorded his statement with the CBI,” said Parveen Kumar of Tarn Taran, adding, “Finally, we hope to get justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/alleged-fake-encounters-sc-dismisses-41-punjab-cops-plea-on-cbi-jurisdiction-to-probe-cases-101633273799426.html
03-10-2021||Other||Punjab focuses on increasing use of paddy stubble in power generation||Chandigarh With paddy harvest on since a fortnight, the Centre has pushed Punjab to focus on ex-situ management of the crop stubble. Ongoing schemes of in-situ management will continue. The ex-situ management of paddy stubble means adopting methods in which the stubble is moved from its original place. The most common way is to tie the stubble in bundles and supply it as fuel in biomass-based power generation plants, industrial boilers and in coal based-super critical power generating units. In in-situ, stubble is managing without moving it.The Centre’s Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas’ had asked Pnjab to do this, with experts claiming that ex-situ management involves lower cost. Subsequently, the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has asked the state’s three thermal power plants to use paddy stubble as fuel to the extent of 10% of total annual coal use. Two of these plants are with the state government; together the three consume 70 lakh tonne of coal a year.“Trials have shown that biomass pellets can be used as thermal power plant fuels, as it give matching calorific value. Boilers can also handle this fuel in limited quantity,” said PPCB member Krunesh Garg, adding that a target of using 50,000 tonne stubble has been fixed for these power plants. STATE TOLD TO INVOLVE NATIONAL REMOTE SENSING CENTREA total of 220 lakh tonne of stubble is produced along with the paddy. The biomass power generating plants in the state consume 50 lakh tonne of stubble. Of the remaining 170 lakh tonne, 100 lakh tonne (45% of total) is not managed under any technique and majority of the farmers prefer to burn it. Due to high silica content paddy straw is not used as dry fodder, like wheat straw. During paddy harvest in October-November, stubble burning causes the formation of a smog jacket over the national capital region and adjoining states, posing a serious health hazard. As a special effort, the state government was also told to involve the National Remote Sensing Centre and measure aerosols, the amount of stubble burnt and the release of harmful gases in the ambient air. The state has also been told to involve the Indian Agricultural Research Institute for data analysis. 228 STUBBLE BURNING CASES BY OCT 2By October 2, Punjab had recorded 228 cases of stubble burning with Amritsar topping the list at 157, followed by followed by Tarn Taran (31), Patiala (10) and Faridkot (9). This year, the cases have been recorded since September 15. At least ₹2 lakh fine has been imposed on farmers as environment compensation, and 81 cases registered. In the current paddy harvest, Punjab agriculture department plans to give at least 30,000 machines for in-situ management with a total subsidy of ₹250 crore. To date, 10,000 machines have been delivered, as work started early. The machines are Super SMS, Happy Seeder, Paddy Straw Chopper, Shredder, Mulcher, Hydraulic reversible mould board plough and zero till drill. The number of machines (76,590) given to farmers over the past three years from 2018-20 are insufficient to deal with stubble burning menace, department officials said. The Centre has provided a subsidy of ₹666 crore to Punjab over the past three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-focuses-on-increasing-use-of-paddy-stubble-in-power-generation-101633273379867.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: LESA to increase load of consumers overdrawing power||The Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (LESA) plans to increase the sanctioned load of those power consumers who have been overdrawing electricity for more than three months. The step is likely to affect more than 2.3 lakh power consumers of the state capital.LESA has already sent notices to these power consumers in Lucknow for getting their load increased or the department will do so on its own.LESA chief engineer (cis-Gomti) Madhukar Varma said, “If a consumer has sanctioned load of three kilowatt, but he is using more power than that for three consecutive months then his load has to be increased according to the rules. Such consumers have been sent notices. They can visit the website or Jhatpat portal for increasing the load. Or they can visit the substation nearby. If any consumer is not willing to pay the charges for increasing the load immediately then he can get the amount adjusted in the next bill.”“It’s important for customers to disclose and pay for the correct load so that power infrastructure in Lucknow can be updated. Many transformers get damaged because consumers draw more power. It’s in the interest of consumers and LESA both to get the correct figures of load on each transformer, so that power supply is not hampered,” he said.Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Samiti chairman Avadhesh Kumar Verma said, “LESA will get ₹110 fixed charge from each consumer per month, besides ₹100 processing fee and ₹300 security fee. It’s the duty of LESA to give uninterrupted power supply to its consumers , which is not happening. Those consumers who have used more power than the sanctioned load for more than three months regularly will find this added amount adjusted in the next bill. Ideally, LESA can organise special camps for consumers for increasing the load at the substation level instead of unilaterally increasing the load, it’s always better to take consumers into confidence before increasing the load.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-lesa-to-increase-load-of-consumers-overdrawing-power-101633273139738.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath for withdrawal of all Epidemic Act cases||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asked for withdrawal of all cases filed under the Epidemic Act over violation of Covid-19 protocols in the larger public interest.He also asked the officials concerned to soon submit a list of police personnel involved in unauthorised activities, those having poor service records, and the tainted ones. He said they will face stringent action.Chairing a Covid-19 review meeting, Yogi Adityanath asked the home department to act on both the instructions, including , taking all necessary action for withdrawal of all cases filed for violation of the Epidemic Act.Regarding Covid-19 and vaccination, Yogi said that the state administered a total of 10.91 crore Covid vaccination doses so far. He also said 31 districts of the state had no active Covid case while 21 had only one active case each.In the last 24 hours, 1.73 lakh Covid tests were done and 66 districts did not report any fresh case. Thirteen Covid cases were reported from the remaining nine districts. The state currently has 159 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-for-withdrawal-of-all-epidemic-act-cases-101633273019431.html
03-10-2021||Delhi||PM Modi's Uttarakhand visit a 'good sign': CM Pushkar Singh Dhami||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday termed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the state a "good sign" and said he was eagerly waiting for this moment.Speaking to reporters here, Dhami said the prime minister has a special attachment to the state, and it has seen unprecedented progress under the present dispensation at the Center."Prime Minister Modi is the world's tallest leader today. His coming to the 'land of gods' (devbhoomi) is a good sign. We had been waiting for this very moment," said Dhami whose state will go to polls next year.Modi is scheduled to visit the state on October 7 and inaugurate an oxygen plant at the AIIMS in Rishikesh.Asked what he felt on being praised by Modi and Defense Minister Rajnath Singh, Dhami said they are a source of inspiration to him and it only encourages him to take on more responsibility.Modi had on Saturday called Dhami "hard working" during an interaction with water committee members from a village near Mussoorie, while Singh called him a "strong batsman" on Friday and likened him to a T-20 pinch hitter sent in the death overs.Dhami said the people of Uttarakhand are "nationalist" and they are aware of the prestige the country has earned globally under Modi’s leadership.He said in his three-month long tenure he has striven to give something to people living in remote areas of the state and that he will keep on doing it.Dhami was made Uttarakhand chief minister in July after abrupt removal of his predecessors Trivendra Singh Rawat and Tirath Singh Rawat in a span of four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pm-modi-s-uttarakhand-visit-a-good-sign-cm-pushkar-singh-dhami-101633266100065.html
03-10-2021||Gurugram||Victory of farmers, failure of govt: Deepender Singh Hooda on paddy procurement||Congress leader Deepender Singh Hooda on Sunday termed the commencement of the procurement of Kharif crops in Punjab and Haryana from today as the "victory of farmers" and said that the government has failed as they kept postponing the date of procurement.Speaking to ANI here, Hooda said: "Government kept changing the date of procurement of Kharif crops. But when farmers started agitating against the postponement of the government's decision, it decided the date in haste.""It is a victory of farmers and they are being paid for their hard work. The government failed as they kept postponing the date of procurement," the Congress leader said.Earlier, the Centre government had postponed the purchase of paddy in Punjab and Haryana from October 1 to October 11.But amid protests in Punjab and Haryana over the delay in paddy procurement, MoS Ashwini Kumar Choubey on Saturday informed that the procurement will start from today in both states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/victory-of-farmers-failure-of-govt-deepender-singh-hooda-on-paddy-procurement-101633262563810.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Raid on cruise ship attempt to divert attention from Mundra port seizure: Cong||The Congress said on Sunday that the previous night’s raid conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on a cruise ship in Mumbai and the ensuing action taken is an attempt to divert attention from the ‘real issue’ seizure of drugs at the Mundra port in Gujarat.The NCB on Saturday night carried out a raid at a Goa-bound cruise ship in Mumbai after drugs were recovered from there. Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan, along with seven other people, was detained by the bureau early on Sunday. Later in the day, the NCB arrested Aryan Khan under Section 8C, 20B, 27 read with 35 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.Also Read| SRK's son Aryan Khan arrested in rave party case: Here's what happenedSpeaking to reporters on Sunday, Congress spokesperson Shama Moham said, “There is news that a Bollywood actor’s son has been arrested. Where did this drug come from? The NCB has come out and all of sudden saying that it has caught drugs from a cruise ship,” according to news agency PTI.Pointing out that the real issue includes the Mundra port drug seizure, drug cartels in India and the drugs being smuggled from Afghanistan, Moham asked, “They (NCB) catch some people here and there so that the media will show that case, (that will) divert the attention. But I want you all to write about Mundra port, why is it not investigated? What is happening there? Why is it ignored?.”Last month, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence had detained two containers that arrived from the Mundra Port from Kandahar, Afghanistan via Bandar Abbas, Iran for examination. Upon examination of the containers, the DRI seized a total of 2,988.21 kilograms of Afghan heroin. As per the agency’s estimate, the consignment was worth ₹21,000 crores.Congress spokesperson Shama Moham also questioned the silence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah on the seizure of drugs at the port, which is situated in their home state of Gujarat. Moham told reporters that Gujarat is becoming a hub of drug smuggling and expressed fears that privatisation of ports will lead to such activities.Also Read| DRI sleuths seize over 3,000kg of heroin at Mundra port; 8 held during raidThe Maharashtra Congress, meanwhile, welcomed the NCB’s raid on the cruise ship in Mumbai but at the same time raised suspicion that whether the raid was done to suppress the drugs seizure at the Mundra Port.“We welcome it. But at the same time, it has to be noted that there has been no action or discussion on the seizure of drugs worth ₹21,000 crore at the Mundra port in Gujarat. There is room for doubt if such raids are being conducted to shift focus from last month’s seizure,” Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe told PTI.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raid-on-cruise-ship-attempt-to-divert-attention-from-mundra-port-seizure-cong-101633262749440.html
03-10-2021||Pune||Your Space: Covid vaccine drives helped check virus spread in Pune||Pune has reported a fall in Covid cases after Ganeshotsav, unlike last year. Apart from massive Covid vaccination drives and strict monitoring of safety measures, readers cite the areas where the authorities have fared well and what more needs to be done to curb the virus spread... PMC should share Covid statistics daily The well-managed Covid vaccination drives in Pune apart from the safety measures such as restricted timings have effectively reduced the Covid spread in the city. The people understood the gravity of the situation during the second wave and have behaved responsibly as well. One thing that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) could have done better is reporting daily Covid data with graphs, including daily new cases and deaths on their online web page dedicated to the virus. On multiple occasions we found the need to have statistics on Pune city Covid numbers and those were unavailable. Sometimes, the media reported some snapshots. For corporate citizens like me, we need a better view in order to plan office measures like how many and who should work from office and the reopening plans. Numbers coming from authentic sources like PMC will help better in taking these decisions. Ashutosh Diwanji Residents casual about Covid safety norms It has been observed that residents are now taking the Covid situation casually and many are seen not wearing masks and following safety precautions. People are partying, visiting malls and restaurants without any caution. We are forgetting that kids are not yet vaccinated and this casual approach can be dangerous. It’s a matter of self-discipline to follow the prescribed normal. It has been scientifically proved that humming can increase nitric oxide produced naturally in our nose that could help strengthen our immunity to fight the virus. Anupriya Ingole Admn unlocks markets in cautious manner Fortunately, Covid cases did not spike after Ganeshotsav and we are hoping the same after Navratri, Dusshera and Diwali as well. Apart from vaccination and other safety measures, the administration did very well on unlocking the city cautiously. It seems that everyone learned from the first and second wave and took measures accordingly. The unlocking was done with a lot of planning. Even after a lot of pressure from various sectors, the authorities took a scientific approach in reopening markets to effectively tackle the virus. The administration was leading from the front. While driving, you will come across police wearing masks. And people saw this and followed suit. City’s scientific and gradual approach to tackle and unlock the city helped citizens to witness a fall in Covid cases and, hopefully, it will continue in this direction. Ankit Rungta Strict adherence to safety protocols must Even as the city sees a fall in daily coronavirus infectious, people are neglecting to wear mask and use sanitiser. The main reason behind this casual approach is the massive vaccination drives. But vaccination is not the only option to stop the infection and people should strictly follow the guidelines and be aware about safety. We should stop public gatherings for coming month and hotels should take care of their customers, because these are some “spots” that could trigger the virus spread. Schools are going to reopen from October 4 and more awareness is important to eradicate the deadly virus. Amol Patil Follow preventions measures As compared to last year, the Covid numbers has dropped in the last few months. Vaccination drives have been successfully conducted across Pune and it is a commendable move. However, to curb the virus spread, a few things should be followed: Wearing mask is undoubtedly a priority along with social distancing at all places. Some people face problems in scheduling an appointment for vaccination due to lack of internet or smartphone. To overcome this problem, the procedure should be relaxed to its simplest. Family functions should be conducted online or with bare minimum guests Since the government plans to reopen educational institutes, only those students who have taken two vaccine doses and undergone RT-PCR test should be permitted on campus To uphold the spirit of our city, online awareness programmes should be conducted to help spread information about the virus. Suvarna Deolankar Cops set example in fight against Covid What was impressive about the measures taken to curb the virus spread was the dedication shown by the city’s police personnel. I remember seeing them on roads for hours at a stretch, urging people to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Not reopening schools and colleges has been another thoughtful decision because we all know how vulnerable children and young adults are to getting floundered about basic rules to be followed to curb the spread of the virus. But also, there needs to be stricter regulations on people meeting in cafes and restaurants so that Covid measures are strictly followed. Shagufta Khan Pay attention on contact tracing Apart from the massive vaccination drives and strict monitoring of safety measures, various awareness programmes undertaken by government and non-government organisations have been a major reason for decline in Covid cases. Many companies have continued the “work from home” policy, which has reduced the number of people stepping out. Another reason is the development of herd immunity by the majority of population. However, more attention should be paid to contact tracing. It should be done quickly to prevent the spread of the virus. Furthermore, sanitation of houses of infected people should also be done on a priority basis. Tressa Antony Guidelines helped check virus spread Considering the fact that Ganeshotsav has emotions attached to every Punekar, it was a challenge for civic authorities to manage the festival this time along with the vaccination camps and Covid protocols. With Pune taking the Covid heat for close to two years, Bappa came this year with newfound hope and passion in Pune. Massive vaccination drives before the festival helped in raising awareness among the masses. The government also devised prompt guidelines three months prior to the 11-day festival, in June. The guidelines clearly stated the term and conditions - use only 2-4 feet long idols for the festival and not to immerse shadu idols in rivers but in tanks arranged by the municipal authorities. These prior guidelines had prepared the idol manufacturers beforehand, thus reducing any loss in their business. All public gatherings were monitored duly by the civic officials. Fortunately, the citizens followed the given guidelines. Social distancing norms were followed during the aarti, while sanitisation of hands and thermal screening at mandals was also included. Geeta Rajan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-covid-vaccine-drives-helped-check-virus-spread-in-pune-101633258798210.html
03-10-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Fondest memory of theatre experience as an audience||With theatres and cinema halls reopening, I hope that the culture of going to watch something resumes as well. Though it is wishful thinking, I hope the culture is much more disciplined. By that, I don’t mean just following Covid protocols (which should be followed by the way) but following certain practices which are even more basic. Apart from a few venues in India, almost every theatre allows a late entry of audience. Even if it is a disturbance for everyone, especially the live performers. In fact, while directing plays at the commercial level, it is a common practice to not have anything important during the first five minutes of the play and after the interval too because that time is given for the audience to “settle down”! I have always laughed at these suggestions and even tried to restrict entry to latecomers. But so far, it hasn’t worked as the venues don’t follow that policy. I experienced a way around this, and it turned out to be a pleasant surprise! Two weekends earlier, I had written about the experience of performing at a venue in London’s coveted Westend. We were going to be there for nearly eight days and had some technical and managerial work a few days before the actual show. After a few hours of work, the rest of the day used to be free. I had decided to watch as many plays as I can and had kept a schedule of all the running productions and the venues. My wife had accompanied and we watched a comedy together first, titled “The play that goes wrong”. It was a hilarious play and both of us enjoyed a lot. Fortunately, she agreed to watch more plays too. That approval was important because watching plays there is a very expensive affair, especially because of the exchange rate! And we decided to spend most of our money on plays instead of buying things. We made a list of plays and ranked them in order of preference. Some were sold out months back, some were too expensive. But we had decided to watch one play daily, come what may and we thoroughly enjoyed watching new plays like “The curious incident of the dog in the night-time” to all-time classics like “The Lion King”. We had kept the day on which we had our own performance free, of course. Our performance went smoothly. We helped in packing and loading of the set and later, went and had lunch and met with audience members for an informal meet and greet. After all that, we looked at the time and realised that there was a slight possibility that we could watch one more play before coming back to India! I quickly scanned through the nearby theatres and zeroed in on a production of “The comedy about a bank robbery”. It was being performed by the same group that had performed “The play that goes wrong” and we had heard that even this was a superb comedy. The venue was a kilometre away and we only had a few minutes. We rushed through the crowds, almost running at some points and reached the theatre huffing and puffing. Usually, we used to pre-book the tickets, but for this play we had decided to purchase directly at the box-office. When we reached, the person at the box-office informed us that the performance had already begun and we were late by three minutes. We cursed our luck and decided to just roam about when the person noticed our disappointment and offered two tickets. But he told us that we will only be able to enter after the first scene gets over, during the blackout. We agreed, and it seemed fair. To make the experience even sweeter, the person gave us the best seats in the house at half-price! He then gave us brochures of the play which explained what the play is and who the characters are so that we had a fair idea of what must have happened in the first scene. We were assigned an usher who took us to the door. The usher loved plays too and seeing that we were reading our brochures diligently, he took it upon himself to explain what the first scene is! So, at the door, in a very low voice, he narrated the story of the entire first scene, while we could hear the sounds of the dialogues and the audience laughter from inside. It was a wonderful experience and he was very good at it! He then heard some music and audience applauding and immediately opened the door. He knew the venue really well and guided us to our seats in a flash. He ensured we were comfortable and before the stage lights came on, he had disappeared! The second scene started and it felt like we hadn’t missed anything. This remains one of my fondest theatre experiences as an audience member. Usually, I remember plays based on their performance. But this was the first time I remembered it for the experience. The discipline that was followed, along with such care for the art made it really special! Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-fondest-memory-of-theatre-experience-as-an-audience-101633258438368.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi orders withdrawal of all cases of Pandemic Act in UP||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday instructed for withdrawal of all cases filed in the state under the Pandemic Act for violation of Covid-19 containment protocols and said it was in the larger public interest. He also sought a list of tainted police personnel such as those involved in irregular activities or with poor service records, saying they will also face stringent action. Yogi asked the home department to act on both the instructions during a Covid-19 review meeting on Sunday.Yogi said the state has administered a total of 100.91 million Covid vaccination doses so far and there was no active case of infection in 31 districts of the state, while 21 had only one active case each. In the 173,000 tests done in the last 24 hours, a total of 66 districts did not report any fresh cases of Covid-19, while a total of 13 cases were recorded in the rest of the nine districts. The state currently has 159 active Covid cases.The chief minister’s instruction to identify tainted police officers comes in the backdrop of the sensational case of alleged murder of a Kanpur businessman in Gorakhpur by a group of policemen. The incident has invited widespread criticism of the state’s police force. In a related development on Saturday, CM Yogi Adityanath sought an explanation from 31 district magistrates (DM) and 24 district police chiefs, who were reportedly found absent in their offices or public hearing programmes, a news agency quoted a senior government official as saying. On the instructions of the chief minister, a reality check was carried out between 10 am and 12 noon on Friday, during which the district magistrates and police chiefs were found absent. The chief minister, who held a review meeting with senior officials on Saturday, warned that strict action will be taken if such a situation recurs in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-orders-withdrawal-of-all-cases-of-pandemic-act-in-up-101633257537216.html
03-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi metro and PWD come together to construct integrated engineering marvel||A three-lane flyover and Metro viaduct will run parallel on a common structure that is being constructed by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) along with Delhi Public Works Department (PWD) at Soorghat in north Delhi.The integrated elevated structure will be constructed parallel to an existing single flyover on the Outer Ring Road. An underpass will be constructed under the integrated structure for vehicular traffic going towards Signature bridge, said DMRC officials.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “In this first-of-its-kind engineering marvel, integrated portals (structure) will be erected on which a flyover as well as a Metro viaduct will be placed. On these portals, the road flyover and the Metro viaduct will rest and run parallel to each other for a length of (approx.) 450 m.”The integrated structure is part of DMRC’s 12km-long under-construction Majlis Park-Maujpur corridor, which is being constructed under Phase-IV expansion plan. The corridor is part of the Pink line--Majlis park-Shiv Vihar corridor. As per the plan, a total of 21 portals--with each portal having two piers-- with average width of 26m and at a height of 10m will be constructed. The Metro viaduct and three-lane flyover will be 10.5m and 10m wide respectively. The flyover will run adjacent to the existing single flyover between Wazirabad to ISBT Kashmere Gate near Soorghat.“Delhi Metro will construct the portals and the Metro viaduct over it and PWD will erect the superstructure for flyover on the already constructed portals in future,” said Dayal.In a bid to provide smooth passage to vehicular traffic coming from north Delhi towards Signature bridge, DMRC has decided to construct the underpass. The underpass will merge with the road on the other side of Najafgarh drain on the Outer Ring Road.The Delhi PWD has been planning to construct another single flyover near the existing one to ease congestion on the Outer Ring Road. The DMRC and Delhi PWD decided to integrate the project to expedite the construction work and also address construction related issues, said a DMRC official.Also Read: Delhi to get ₹18 cr as ‘green’ funds to fight air pollutionThis is not the first time Delhi PWD and DMRC have collaborated on engineering projects. As part of Phase-4, DMRC is already constructing two integrated double decker flyover-cum-metro viaduct projects. In these two projects, the Metro viaduct and flyover will be constructed on single piers at two different levels. A 2.4km long flyover-cum-viaduct will be constructed on Mehrauli Badarpur road as part of the Aerocity -Tughlaqabad corridor.But at Soorghat, the two modes of transport will run parallel to each other. DMRC officials said that they plan to complete the project by December 2023. Once the construction of this corridor is complete, the Pink Line will be the first ever ring corridor in India with a length of about 70 km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-and-pwd-come-together-to-construct-integrated-engineering-marvel-101633256397777.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Congress Central Manifesto Committee holds meeting in Lucknow||The meeting of Central Manifesto Committee formed by the Congress party for the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections has started in Lucknow.The meeting is presided over by the committee president and the former union minister Salman Khurshid. It is also being attended by the Rajya Sabha member PL Punia, Supriya Shrinate, Amitabh Dubey and Rohit Chaudhary.State spokesperson Ashok Singh and the member of communication department, Omkar Singh, are also present in the meeting.This time the Congress party is planning to prepare different manifestos for each Mandal to target local problems.The Committee is expected to meet 30 different delegations today. So far the committee has held meetings in 6 different mandals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-central-manifesto-committee-holds-meeting-in-lucknow-101633253654112.html
03-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi to get ₹18 cr as 'green' funds to fight air pollution||The national capital will get over ₹18 crore from the Centre under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) this year to cater to critical gaps in air pollution management, according to officials.This is the first time Delhi will get funds under NCAP, a national-level strategy for a 20 per cent to 30 per cent reduction in PM2.5 and PM10 concentration by 2024, with 2017 as the base year for comparison."Delhi will get ₹18.74 crore under NCAP. This is the first time it will be receiving funds under the programme since it started in 2019," an official told PTI.NCAP covers 132 non-attainment cities, which do not meet the prescribed national ambient air quality standards (NAAQS).These cities have been identified based on the ambient air quality data obtained during the 2011-2015 period under the National Air Monitoring Programme.The acceptable annual standard for PM 10 and PM2.5 is 60 micrograms per cubic metre and 40 micrograms per cubic metre, respectively.In 2017, Delhi's annual PM10 average stood at 240 micrograms per cubic metre. The targeted PM10 concentration by 2024 is 168 micrograms per cubic metre."The national capital did not get any funds under NCAP for two years because it had other resources available -- a green cess levied on diesel vehicles above 2,000 cc -- which is deposited with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and a pollution tax on commercial vehicles entering Delhi," an official in the Union Environment Ministry said.This time, fund availability under NCAP has improved."Fifty cities are already getting a good amount ( ₹4,400 in 2020-21 and ₹2,217 crore in 2021-22) for pollution management from the Finance Commission. Therefore, the availability of funds for the remaining 82 cities under NCAP has improved. So, we decided to give some funds to Delhi, too," the official said.A total of 290 crore is available for these 82 cities this year.The NCAP fund will be utilised to cater to critical gaps -- wherever there is any inadequacy of funds available from other resources. The rest of the funding is to be mobilised through convergence of schemes, the official explained.Funds for bigger projects such as management of construction and demolition waste are allocated under the Swachh Bharat Urban programme and other schemes of the central government.The Delhi government has prepared a "Winter Action Plan" to tackle air pollution in the capital and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is expected to announce it soon.The plan focuses on 10 key issues, including stubble burning, pollution hotspots, working of smog tower and vehicular and dust pollution.The city government has already imposed a complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers till January 1, 2022, and has issued detailed guidelines to control dust pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-get-rs-18-cr-as-green-funds-to-fight-air-pollution-101633251169903.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||‘Salt on wounds of victims...’: Sidhu again calls for removal of new Punjab advocate general, DGP||Former Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday again called for the removal of the newly-appointed state advocate general and DGP, Amar Preet Singh Deol and Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota, respectively, calling their appointments “salt on the wounds of the victims” of the 2015 sacrilege cases.Also Read | RS Bains to represent Punjab govt in courts over sacrilege violence“Demand for justice in the sacrilege cases and those for the arrest of the main culprits behind the drug trade brought our government in 2017. However, due to its failure, people removed the previous CM. Now AG/DG appointments rub salt on the wounds of the victims. They must be replaced or we will have no face!!” Sidhu, who resigned from his post on September 28, said in a tweet. Demand for Justice in Sacrilege cases and for arrest of main culprits behind the drug trade brought our Govt in 2017 & Due to his failure, People removed the last CM. Now, AG / DG appointments rub salt on wounds of victims, they must be replaced or we will have No face !! pic.twitter.com/Bdczzv2vgzThe appointments of Deol and Sahota to their respective top posts were reportedly among the factors that led to the former cricketer-turned-politician suddenly putting in his papers as the state unit president of the ruling Congress after holding the post for just 72 days. Sidhu’s objection to Deol and Sahota’s elevation stems from the former’s role as a lawyer of former police chief Sumedh Singh Saini who was the head of the Punjab Police when the sacrilege incidents took place, while the latter was the first chief of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) which probed these incidents.Also Read | ‘Sahota-led SIT never gave clean chit to Ram Rahim in sacrilege case’Deol recently secured bail for Saini from the Punjab and Haryana high court over the Kotkapura firing case, in which police opened fire at protesters agitating against the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib, in Faridpur, killing two.Also Read | Will ensure justice in 2015 sacrilege cases, says new Punjab CM ChanniIncidents of theft and sacrilege of the Sikh holy book were reported from across Punjab in October 2015 when the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alliance was in power. The coalition was defeated by the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress in the 2017 assembly elections in which the desecration was a major poll issue. However, the alleged failure of the Congress government under Singh in ensuring justice for the victims was seen as one of the reasons behind his resignation on September 18.Punjab is likely to vote for its next government in early 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/salt-on-wounds-on-victims-sidhu-again-calls-for-removal-of-new-punjab-ag-dgp-101633248369308.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, 7 others detained. How NCB busted rave party||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and seven others, including women, were detained by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for questioning after it busted a drugs party on a cruise ship off Mumbai coast, according to a senior official on Sunday. “Bollybood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, is being questioned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in its Ballard Estate office in south Mumbai. He was on the cruise ship where agency raided in the night and busted a rave party,” NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said.Apart from the 23-year-old Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sarika, Ismeet Singh, Mohak Jaswal, Vikrant Chhoker, Gomit Chopra and Arbaaz Merchant have also been detained, the NCB official said. “It’s a result of a painstaking investigation that went on for two weeks. We acted on specific intelligence inputs. The involvement of some Bollywood links has come to light,” NCB chief SN Pradhan told ANI.Here’s what we know so far about the NCB's raid:1. An NCB team, led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, raided the Goa-bound Cordelia cruise ship on Saturday evening based on a tip-off that a party was scheduled on board.2. An official said that the NCB officials booked tickets and boarded the cruise ship posing as passengers.3. The NCB team recovered drugs like MDMA, ecstasy, cocaine, MD (mephedrone) and charas from some of the passengers during the raid.4. The suspects had hidden the drugs in their clothes, undergarments and purses, during the operation.Also read | Mumbai cruise rave party raid result of painstaking two-week probe: NCB chief5. Crew members, several event organisers and some foreign nationals are also under NCB's scanner.6. A Delhi-based event company is believed to have organised the parties on passenger cruises on October 2, 3 and 4.7. The anti-drug agency has registered a first information report (FIR) in connection with the rave party on the cruise ship.8. Those detained by the NCB will be produced in court later in the day after they complete the legal formalities.9. The cruise ship was scheduled to go to Goa on Saturday night and return to Mumbai by Monday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shah-rukh-khan-s-son-aryan-7-others-detained-how-ncb-busted-rave-party-101633243776742.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Row erupts after Punjab CM Channi's son seen at official meeting with father||The ruling Congress in Punjab is staring at yet another controversy after new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi's son was seen present at an official meeting. The meeting was chaired by DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota at which the chief minister himself was present.According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Live Hindustan, DGP Sahota, himself recently elevated to the top post, was, on Thursday, chairing a briefing with officials over the law and order situation in the border state. While Channi himself attended the meet, his son, Rhythmjit Singh, too, is seen in photos that have since gone viral on social media. Rhythymjit is seen in the background, sitting behind the state police chief.Journalist Man Aman Singh Chhina, who tracks Punjab, tweeted, “The BJP has objected to CM Channi's son sitting in a law and order meeting with the DGP and other officers and ministers. He can be seen sitting in the back. Interestingly, these pictures were released by the Punjab Government Directorate of Public Relations.” BJP has objected to Chief Minister Charanjeet Singh Channi’s son sitting in a law and order meeting with DGP and other officers and ministers. He can be seen in these pics sitting in the back.Interestingly these pics were released by Punjab Govt Directorate of Public Relations. pic.twitter.com/R8pBK5gmCEAttacking the CM, Ashwini Sharma, the Punjab unit president of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said that as a three-term legislator, Channi should have been aware of rules and regulations. “It is unfortunate that senior bureaucrats allowed this despite being aware of the norms,” Sharma said, according to Live Hindustan.Cabinet minister Pargat Singh, who holds the sports portfolio, was among the attendees.The presence of a family member of the chief minister or that of any minister is in violation of the Rules of Business of the state government, Times of India noted, citing retired bureaucrats and legal experts. According to them, such a scenario also violates the Official Secrets Act, as sensitive matters, which the CM and ministers take oath to keep confidential, are taken up in official interactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-erupts-after-punjab-cm-channi-s-son-seen-at-official-meeting-with-father-101633239761282.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab begins paddy procurement, 3,000 mandis set up to buy crop||Paddy procurement began in Punjab on Sunday with the Centre allowing 17% moisture in the freshly harvested crop and officials in the state food and civil supplies department saying that moisture in the crop reaching the grain markets was well within permissible purchase norms. Also read: Pak drone drops arms, ammo at Sohanjana in Jammu“We have made all arrangements (for procurement), and the staff of the food department and four (procurement) agencies has reached the mandis to facilitate procurement,” said a senior officer of the Punjab food and civil supplies department. He said that there was adequate availability of gunny bags. The Punjab government has set up 3,000 mandis for buying the crop and according to estimates of the state agriculture department 190 lakh tonnes of paddy is expected to reach the grain markets in the state for procurement. The Centre is offering a minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1,960 a quintal for A-grade paddy and a cash credit limit of ₹35,700 crore was released by the Reserve Bank of India. The state’s four agencies, namely Pungrain, Markfed, warehousing corporation and Punsup, besides the Centre’s Food Corporation of India will buy the paddy. CM, ministers to be in field today According to agriculture department sources, freshly harvested crop started reaching the grain markets on September 20 in Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Khanna, Ropar and Mohali districts. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi will formally launch the procurement in Morinda, while food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu will be at the Khanna grain market along with state cabinet minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli. “All ministers and MLAs have been requested to be in the field today to start the procurement operations,” said Ashu. Hitch before buying due to rain The procurement process was postponed for 10 days by the Centre on September 30, a day before it was scheduled to start. The postponement was ordered owing to a report by Food Corporation of India that due to delayed spells of rain this time, there was high moisture content in the crop, and it might take a week to 10 days to be ready. However, after pressure by farmers, the state government and the opposition parties, including the Shiromani Akali Dal, the Union agriculture ministry renewed its decision. “In the interest of farmers, it has been decided to start procurement of paddy from October 3,” read the communication from the Centre’s ministry of food and public distribution on Saturday evening. Chief minister Channi also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, seeking timely start of procurement as paddy has started arriving in mandis and any delay could lead to harassment of farmers. Two cases of recycled rice from BiharPunjab Police registered two cases on Saturday after huge stocks of recycled rice illegally transported from Bihar were seized from godowns in Kapurthala and Tarn Taran.At Ratta Gudda in Tarn Taran, 4,000 quintals of rice were recovered and at a godown in Kapurthala, 12,000 bags of rice were confiscated. The entire rice stocks were confiscated and FIRs were registered under the Indian Penal Code. So far, no arrest has been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-begins-paddy-procurement-3-000-mandis-set-up-to-buy-crop-101633240916637.html
03-10-2021||City||Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan being questioned after cruise ship raid: NCB official||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, is being questioned by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after the agency raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and busted a party onboard where drugs were being used, a senior official said on Sunday. “He was on the cruise ship where the agency raided in the night and busted a rave party,” NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said.Aryan Khan, Shah Rukh Khan and Gauri Khan’s eldest son, is being questioned by the NCB at its Ballard Estate office in south Mumbai. The NCB has arrested eight people and detained several others for questioning in connection with the rave party on the cruise ship. NCB officials said that they received information about the rave party and booked tickets and boarded the cruise ship posing as passengers. There were hundreds of passengers on the Goa-bound ship, an official said.People familiar with the matter said this was the first time that NCB raided a rave party on a cruise ship. The operation went on past midnight. NCB officials found several drugs like cocaine, MDMA, Mephedrone and charas from those who have been detained after the raid.Two women, who are residents of Delhi, were on Sunday brought to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office in Mumbai for questioning in connection with the raid. NCB officers could not interrogate the women at night and brought them to the agency's Mumbai office in the morning. An NCB official said that their role is still not clear.  Crew members, several event organisers and some foreign nationals are also under NCB's scanner. A Delhi-based event company is believed to have organised the parties on passenger cruises on October 2, 3 and 4. The cruise ship was scheduled to go to Goa on Saturday night and return to Mumbai by Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/shah-rukh-khan-s-son-aryan-being-questioned-after-cruise-ship-raid-ncb-official-101633234273562.html
03-10-2021||Kolkata||Bhabanipur by-poll: BJP’s Priyanka Tibrewal writes to HC over fear of violence||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate Priyanka Tibrewal has written to the Chief Justice of the Calcutta High Court ahead of the counting of votes for the by-election to Bhabanipur, the high profile seat in West Bengal. Priyanka Tibrewal has sought measures to prevent possible violence after the results are declared, according to a report by HT sister publication. Live Hindustan reported that Priyanka Tibrewal has sought strict orders to Kolkata Police to take all precautionary measures to prevent any kind of violence after the Bhabanipur bypoll results are declared.Live Hindustan reported that in her letter Tibrewal referred to the incidents of violence in West Bengal after the results of the last assembly elections were declared. “I am a candidate for this by-election. I humbly request you to issue a strict order to all government enforcement departments to take extreme precautionary measures, so that no innocent is killed, no sexual offence takes place, no one becomes homeless and no incident of arson takes place. Let us live in a peaceful environment,” she said, according to Live Hindustan.Counting of votes begins. Catch live updates hereTibrewal, a vice-president of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), the BJP’s youth wing, in West Bengal, has played a pivotal role in the BJP’s legal battle in the Calcutta high court on post-poll violence. This ultimately led a five-judge bench to order for a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation.Also read | Why BJP fielded Priyanka Tibrewal against Bengal CM for Bhabanipur bypollThe Bhabanipur by-poll has become a prestige battle for West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is presently not an MLA and has to win in order to retain her post. The rules stipulate that a candidate must be re-elected within six months to retain the chair.Priyanka Tibrewal from the BJP and Srijib Biswas of the CPI(M) are in the fray in the Bhabanipur by-election to the traditional seat of Mamata Banerjee. Mamata Banerjee, who contested from the Bhawanipur assembly seat in 2011 and 2016, moved to Nandigram for the 2021 West Bengal assembly elections. She lost the election to the BJP’s Shubhendu Adhikari. After Mamata lost from Nandigram, the Bhabanipur assembly seat was vacated by the West Bengal agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May, making way for her to contest from the seat as a move to continue to hold her post.Also read | TMC predicts big victory for Mamata Banerjee despite lower voter turnoutThe Mamata Banerjee-led TMC registered a landslide victory in polls winning 213 seats in the 294-member West Bengal assembly. The BJP lost the polls but emerged as the second-largest party with 77 seats.Along with the Bhabanipur assembly constituency, votes will also be counted for two other seats in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bhabanipur-by-poll-bjp-s-priyanka-tibrewal-writes-to-hc-over-fear-of-violence-101633228257983.html
03-10-2021||Kolkata||Will Mamata retain her CM chair? Counting of votes to Bhabanipur by-poll today||The counting of votes to the crucial by-poll to the Bhabanipur seat in south Kolkata where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting to continue as the chief minister will take place on Sunday amid heavy security deployment. Votes will also be counted for the by-polls held in Jangipur and Samserganj assembly constituencies in the Murshidabad district of the state and one constituency in Odisha.The West Bengal assembly by-polls to the three seats were held on Thursday without any untoward incident. Officials of the Election Commission of India will begin counting the votes at 8am and the results will likely come in by the afternoon. The counting will be held in 21 rounds for the Bhabanipur constituency, which witnessed only a 57.09 per cent turnout.Twenty four companies of central forces have been deployed at the counting centres and the entire area will be put under CCTV surveillance. Officials will only be allowed pen and paper and only the returning officer and observer are allowed to use phones, officials have said.Candidates against MamataBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded 41-year-old Priyanka Tibrewal, a lawyer, against Mamata Banerjee from Bhabanipur. The CPI(M)’s Srijib Biswas, who is also a lawyer, is also in the fray. Congress did not contest the seat.Also read | At 53.32%, Bhabanipur bypoll sees low voter turnoutThe voter turnout in Bhabanipur was 61.79 per cent in April when the elections were held and Chattopadhyay won the seat with 57.71 per cent votes and his BJP rival secured 35.16 per cent. The Trinamool Congress registered a landslide victory in the assembly polls winning 213 of 294 seats in the West Bengal assembly. The BJP won 77 seats.Crucial for MamataBhabanipur was Mamata Banerjee’s old seat and Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated it when she lost in Nandigram to the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari, who is now the leader of opposition in the West Bengal assembly, in the assembly elections held earlier this year. She lost to Adhikari—a former TMC leader—by a margin of 1,956 votes. Mamata Banerjee retained the Bhabanipur seat in the 2016 assembly polls.Banerjee has to be elected to the West Bengal assembly by winning this bypoll before November 5 to retain the chair. She has to become a member of the state assembly within six months of her assuming office as chief minister, according to the rules of the Constitution.Bhabanipur constituencyThe Bhabanipur constituency was formed in 2011 after delimitation and has been a bastion of the ruling Trinamool Congress since its inception. Mamata Banerjee’s home in Kalighat comes under this constituency and has been elected twice from the seat in 2011 and 2016.Also read | TMC, BJP workers clash in Bhabanipur during assembly bypollThe Election Commission’s data shows that the TMC won the 2011 West Bengal assembly elections on 184 seats and ended the 34-year-old Left Front rule. Banerjee did not contest the polls that year and TMC MLA and then minister Subrata Bakshi quit the seat to make way for Banerjee. She later won the bypolls.There are 20,64,56 voters in Bhabanipur—111,243 are men and 95,209 are women. There were 287 booths in Bhabanipur, of which the number of main booths were be 269.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/will-mamata-retain-her-cm-chair-counting-of-votes-to-bhabanipur-by-poll-today-101633222378508.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Actor’s son among 10 detained as NCB busts cruise party||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) late on Saturday raided a party on board a cruise ship and detained 10 people for allegedly possessing banned substances, officials familiar with the matter said.According to people aware of the matter, an actor’s son was among those detained for questioning.Speaking on condition of anonymity, officials said the NCB received inputs about the party a few days ago, after which the agency’s officials booked tickets on the cruise ship posing as passengers. According to the officials cited above, a Delhi-based event company had organized the cruise, which was scheduled to travel to Goa and return to the Maharashtra capital on Monday.At the time of going to press the central anti-narcotics agency had started the process of registering a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, officials said. The passengers suspected to have consumed drugs would be sent to hospitals for medical examination, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/actors-son-among-10-detained-as-ncb-busts-cruise-party-101633221915452.html
03-10-2021||Kolkata||Met department projects light to moderate rainfall in 3 districts of Bengal today||The Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC), Kolkata, has projected light to moderate rainfall for Alipurduar, Malda and Birbhum districts for Sunday, October 3. “Thunderstorm with lightning and light to moderate rainfall likely to affect over some parts of Alipurduar, Malda and Birbhum districts of West Bengal during next 2-3 hours from 3am today,” the RMC, which comes under the India Meteorological Department (IMD), noted on its website.Since the showers are projected to begin at 3am, the weather body is likely to issue an updated bulletin once the three-hour period ends, or soon after that.The RMC’s forecast comes in the backdrop of orange and yellow alerts issued by the IMD for north Bengal, predicting heavy rainfall at most places over all districts in north Bengal during October 2-4. For October 2, the department issued a yellow alert for Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Alipurduar, North Dijnapur and South Dijnapur, while for October 3, such an alert is for Coochbehar, North Dijnapur, South Dijnapur, Malda and Murshidabad.For October 4, meanwhile, the alert has been sounded for Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Jalapiguri.The department has similarly issued an orange alert for Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar (October 3) and Coochbehar and Alipurduar (October 4).While a yellow alert forecasts heavy rain (7 to 11 centimetres), an orange alert warning is for heavy to very heavy rain (7 to 20 centimetres).Additionally, south Bengal is likely to see an increase in thunderstorms with lightning activity on October 3 and 4, the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/weather-department-projects-light-to-heavy-rainfall-in-3-districts-of-bengal-today-101633219648045.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Several detained after NCB raid on cruise ship party in Mumbai||At least 10 people were detained by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday after a raid on a high profile party on a cruise in Mumbai, reports have said. According to news agency ANI, banned substances, including cocaine, ganja, MD and other intoxicants, were recovered from the cruise ship."So far no arrest has been made by us. We have intercepted some persons. The probe is underway. Drugs have been recovered. We are investigating 8-10 persons," Sameer Wankhede, NCB zonal director, told the reporters. "I can't comment on it," Wankhede said when asked if any celebrity was present at the party.
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bhagwat in Jammu: Despite diversities, we are united||Stating that the system has changed in Jammu and Kashmir following the abrogation of Article 370, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Saturday said despite diversities, we are united. “We are one, though we may have different systems as per regions, religions and beliefs. We have different gods and goddesses, but all these diversities don’t change our unity. The moment we think on the lines insider and outsider, we go wrong,” he said while addressing a gathering here on the last day of his four-day visit to Jammu. Bhagwat talked at length about ancient history of India vis-à-vis European and African cultures. He also talked about socialism, communism, individualism, emergence of new left and how confrontations within the societies and countries kept spiraling. “India has had democracy since ages and the nation believes in sustainable development and eco-friendly lifestyle. The European countries coined these terms now, but they have been here in India since ages. Now, the world looks up to India,” he said. “For 6,000 years, we did farming on our land in India and they are still fertile unlike Africa,” he added. Talking about system of governance within the country, he said, “The system changed, like here (in J&K). Article 370 is not anymore but has it gone away from the heart…why states fight against each other, like Cauvery water issue. The river is drying up, but blood was spilled over its water.” “What good would be done by changing the system? It’s the mentality that has to change,” he said. “We all must work jointly to protect the national interests and for the welfare of society at large,” he added. “The main focus must be to keep ourselves happy and satisfied and we all must work for the internal peace, which is possible only through social service and thinking about others,” Bhagwat said. On Friday, the RSS chief had discussed about expansion of organisational work in new areas and further setting up the network of RSS shakhas in every nook and corner of Jammu and Kashmir to inculcate patriotism among the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhagwat-in-jammu-despite-diversities-we-are-united-101633217633992.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Civilian gunned down in Srinagar||Unidentified gunmen killed a civilian at Karan Nagar locality Srinagar on Saturday evening, police said.It was at 5.30pm when the police were alerted about the incident near Madina Complex in Karan Nagar area where suspected militants had opened fire on a civilian.A police spokesperson identified the victim as Majid Ahmad Gojri of Chattabal.“He had received grievous gunshot injuries in this incident. Although the victim was immediately rushed to a nearby hospital, he succumbed to his injuries,” he added. A case has been registered. The area has been cordoned and search is going on, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/civilian-gunned-down-in-srinagar-101633217334879.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Former PDP leader joins People’s Conference||The People’s Conference led by Sajjad Lone on Saturday received a shot in the arm after two-time former legislator and PDP general secretary Nizam-ud-din Bhat joined the party.Bhat had represented Bandipore assembly segment and speculations were rife for the last few months about his plans to leave the PDP.Bhat was earlier associated with the People’s Conference and used to be considered a close confidant of Abdul Gani Lone, founder of the party. He, however, joined the PDP soon after it was founded in late 90s.Sajjad termed the Bhat’s inclusion into the party fold a remarkable moment. “There is a certain level of emotion in welcoming Bhat back. He was one of the founding members of the People’s Conference. He took a hiatus from the politics and joined journalism. This is how he exited the People’s Conference,” he added. “We at the People’s Conference believe that exiting changelessness is a big challenge and an even bigger challenge is navigating a dignified way out of the web of disempowerment. The people of J&K have been trapped post-August 5, 2019. And the current administration, which we is a selected administration and not an elected one, is indulging in economic persecution of the people of J&K as a sequel to political persecution. We at the People’s Conference reiterate that economic empowerment is essential for political empowerment,” Sajjad said. Bhat said that rejoining the People’s Conference was nothing but a homecoming for him as he had played a crucial role in its formation at the very onset. “And today, based on my decades of experience, I can tell you with utmost certainty that Sajjad Lone is the only political leader who can honestly, sincerely and without any paradoxes lead the people of Jammu and Kashmir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-pdp-leader-joins-people-s-conference-101633217154045.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: L-G inaugurates Retreat Ceremony on Internation Border||Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir, Manoj Sinha, on Saturday inaugurated the retreat ceremony at the octroi border outpost of the BSF along the International Border in RS Pura sector of Jammu. The retreat ceremony will be held twice a week by the BSF men on the Indian side on Saturdays and Sundays at 5.15pm, said a senior BSF officer. “It is a historic occasion for all of us,” he said and added that “a structured parade by BSF personnel will be a regular feature and the allied infrastructure will come up in due course of time”. A local resident and a progressive farmer Rohit Choudhary, 30, of Suchetgarh said, “Though it is going to be a one-sided affair in absence of Pakistan Rangers, it is a big development for us in the border area.” Another resident Surjeet Singh, 47, said, “Being farmers, we are now hopeful that tourists coming here to witness retreat ceremony will also take home our basmati rice with them. We also hope to see more restaurants and water parks coming up here.” He added, “However, a lot needs to be done. The road has to be expanded to four lanes. There is no infrastructure at the border post for those who would like to witness the ceremony.” Suchetgarh is about 27km from Jammu and served as a route to Sialkot (now in Pakistan) during the pre-Partition era. On July 4, 2016, the then Jammu and Kashmir government had launched border tourism at the octroi border out post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-l-g-inaugurates-retreat-ceremony-on-internation-border-101633216973840.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||J&K saw least Covid deaths in 17 months, maximum vaccination in September||In September, Jammu and Kashmir recorded least Covid-related fatalities in the last 17 months. According to the government’s figures, the month witnessed only 10 deaths due to coronavirus – lowest since the pandemic started in March and April last year wherein eight deaths were reported. In August, 2021 , J&K had logged 30 deaths.In terms of monthly cases, 4,011 people were infected in September, almost equal to August when 3,957 cases were reported. “We are not seeing any major spike. It may be because of two reasons — first, the infectivity rate in the community is already high which the sero-survey has revealed and second, the immunisation rate is also high. Hence, these two factors have made more people immune to the virus,” said Dr Muhammad Salim Khan, head of the community medicine department and Covid in-charge at the Srinagar government medical college.There has, however, been a slight increase in this month’s test positivity rate (TPR) – the percentage of tests turning positive in a particular time period out of the total tests conducted during the period. If it is below 5%, it indicates that the infection is under control in the community.The month of September recorded a TPR of 0.270% against 0.239% which, owing to the equal number of cases, can be attributed to lower tests this month. The data reveals that average 49,374 tests were conducted daily in September as against 53,359 daily tests in August.Overall, the union territory conducted 14.81 lakh tests in September, witnessing a fall of over 10% in comparison to August when 16.54 lakh tests were done. In the second Covid wave which started in March 2021, the month of September again has been the least affected one. The UT saw 37 deaths in March, 289 in April, 1,625 in May, 416 in June, 55 in July, 30 in August and just 10 in September. September, meanwhile, also saw the highest vaccine doses administered in the past six months.About 33.78 lakh doses were given in September, 18.5 lakh in August, 16.76 lakh in July, 12.36 lakh in June and 9.49 lakh in May.The UT has administered total 1.14 crore vaccine doses till September 30 of which, over 29% or 33.78 lakh were in the month of September. Experts say that they don’t expect any major third wave, unless there is the entry of any virulent strain. “Looking at how the first and second wave behaved, this time we feel it is not that serious and the situation is stable,” Khan said.“I hope this continues like this. The high infection in the community and high vaccination rate won’t allow it to go out of control unless there is a new virulent strain,” he said. 124 new Covid cases emerge in UTJammu and Kashmir recorded 124 fresh coronavirus infections while a person died due to the disease on Saturday. Of the total, 92 cases were reported in Kashmir valley and the Jammu division saw 32 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 168 with active cases reaching 1,294. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 551 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 157 and 100 such cases, respectively.Officials said with 52 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 10 cases in Doda district. As many as 18 districts had no or single-digit cases.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,23,969, prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.26%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,29,687 and the death toll stands at 4,424.The officials said that 49,801 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,144 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 840 deaths.89 test positive in HimachalHimachal Pradesh logged 89 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,19,333 while the death toll mounted to 3,665 after two patients died of the contagion. The active cases have come down to 1,559 while recoveries reached 2,14,093 after 222 people recuperated. Kangra is still the worst-hit district with a total of 49,054 cases reported till date, followed by 30,983 in Mandi and 27,239 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-saw-least-covid-deaths-in-17-months-maximum-vaccination-in-september-101633216622683.html
03-10-2021||Kolkata||Counting of votes for Bengal bypolls to begin today amid heavy security deployment||The counting of votes for the West Bengal bypolls will begin in Kolkata at 8 am on Sunday amid heavy security deployment.The polling was held in Bhabanipur, Jangipur and Samserganj assembly constituencies of the state on September 30.Twenty four companies of central forces have been deployed at the counting centres, and the entire area will be put under CCTV surveillance. Officials will only be allowed pen and paper and only the returning officer and observer are allowed to use phones, officials informed.The counting will be held in 21 rounds for the Bhabanipur constituency, 26 rounds for Samserganj and 24 rounds for the Jangipur constituency at the Sakhawat Memorial School of Kolkata.Bhabanipur assembly seat in West Bengal, from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is in the fray, recorded a voter turnout of 57.09 per cent during voting on Thursday, according to the state election commission. While Samserganj recorded a voter turnout of 79.92 per cent, Jangipur recorded 77.63 per cent voting.The bypolls were held for Bhabanipur in South Kolkata and Jangipur and Samserganj seats in the Murshidabad district of the state.As per the election commission, three constituencies have a total electorate of 6,97,164. The total number of voters in Bhabanipur is 20,64,56; of which 1,11,243 are male and 95, 209 are women. There were 287 booths in Bhabanipur, of which the number of main booths were be 269.Mamata Banerjee had lost to BJP's Suvendu Adhikari in the Nandigram constituency in the assembly elections held earlier this year. The Bhabanipur assembly seat was vacated by the West Bengal Agriculture Minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay in May, paving the way for Mamata Banerjee to contest the bypoll.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded 41-year-old Priyanka Tibrewal, a lawyer, against the TMC chief. CPI(M) has fielded Srijib Biswas, who is also a lawyer. Congress did not contest the seat.Trinamool Congress had registered a landslide victory in assembly polls winning 213 of 294 seats in the West Bengal assembly. The BJP won 77 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/counting-of-votes-for-bengal-bypolls-to-begin-today-amid-heavy-security-deployment-101633215634756.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress high command to decide party candidates for HP bypolls||The state Congress on Saturday decided to authorise the party high command to choose candidates for the bypolls to three assembly segments and one parliamentary seat in Himachal. The members of the state election committee gathered at the party’s headquarters Rajiv Bhawan to deliberate on the selection of candidates for the bypolls. The party passed a single-line resolution authorising the Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi to decide on the candidates. AICC co-incharge for party affairs in Himachal, Sanjay Dutt, too was present in the meeting The 15-member committee met in Shimla. The members included state party chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, Congress deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma, Dalhousie legislator Asha Kumari, former health minister Kaul Singh Thakur, Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, former transport minister GS Bali, Naina Devi Lal Thakur, former urban development minister and AICC secretary Sudhir Sharma, AICC secretary Rajesh Dharmani, and former minister Harsh Mahajan. Most of the members of the state election committee were not present. “The resolution was passed in the meeting, authorising the party high command to take the final call on the ticket allocation. We all are moving to Delhi,” said Kuldeep Singh Rathore. Two-time legislator Rohit Thakur, who is also former chief parliamentary secretary, is the lone contender from Jubbal-Kotkhai – the seat that fell vacant after the death of former horticulture minister Narendra Bragta. Bhawani Singh Pathania, son of former transport minister and prominent Rajput leader Sujan Singh Pathania, is likely to be a candidate from Fatehpur, while Sanjay Awasthi and Rajendra Thakur are vying for ticket from Arki, the seat that had fallen vacant after the death of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh. The party is keen to allocate the ticket to former Lok Sabha member and Virbhadra Singh’s wife Pratibha Singh from Mandi. She had lost to Ramswaroop Sharma. Ashray Sharma, grandson of former Union minister Sukhram, too is lobbying for ticket. He had also lost to Ramswaroop in the last elections. Youth Congress president Nigam Bhandhari is also seeking a ticket from Mandi Lok Sabha seat. Former health minister Kaul Singh Thakur’s name was doing the rounds, but he has expressed reluctance to contest elections citing lack of resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-high-command-to-decide-party-candidates-for-hp-bypolls-101633215162301.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU math professor IBS Passi passes away||Former dean of university instructions (DUI) and professor emeritus of the department of mathematics at Panjab University, IBS Passi, passed away on Saturday. PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar condoled his demise: “With his passing away, PU has lost a stalwart and noted mathematician. Passi was an academic par excellence.”Passi was a recipient of the Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar Award and Mahalanobis Award of Indian National Science Academy. A senator of IISER, Passi is survived by his wife and two daughters.Chhatbir zoo’s wildlife week kicks off with cycle rally Mohali The wildlife week celebrations began at Chhatbir Zoo with a cycle rally on Saturday. The zoo collaborated with various cycling clubs from the tricity for the “Ride for the Wild” rally. More than 300 cyclists participated in the event to spread awareness on wildlife conservation. A webinar was also organised in collaboration with the department of zoology, Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines, Ludhiana. The webinar series will continue everyday till October 8. Wildlife week inaugurated at Sukhna LakeChandigarh Debendra Dalai, chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden, UT, inaugurated the wildlife week at Sukhna Lake by waving a green flag to a colourful group of 100 schoolchildren dressed up as birds and animals. The children walked along the lake carrying placards about animal rights. Students also presented a “jungle dance”.DLSA holds walkathon to spread legal awarenessMohali The District Legal Services Authority organised a walkathon in Mohali on Saturday to spread awareness about free legal services. Around 150 people, including judicial officers, panel lawyers, para-legal volunteers, employees, social workers and residents participated in the walkathon. Similar events were also organised in Kharar and Dera Bassi. The “Pan India Awareness and Outreach Programme” will continue in the district from October 2 to November 14.Private school teachers honoured at Chandigarh UniversityMohali Chandigarh University organised Federation of Private Schools and Associations of Punjab (FAP) National Awards 2021 on Saturday to honour teachers of private schools. The award ceremony, hosted at the varsity’s Gharuan campus, was presided over by Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, minister of transport, Punjab. As many as 415 teachers were honoured on Day 1. Chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu appreciated private schools’ contribution to society’s upliftment.Couples resolve matrimonial disputes at police campChandigarh A special mega camp was organised at Women Police Station, Sector 17, on Saturday to resolve matrimonial issues. More than 30 couples attended the special drive organised due to delay in counsellings sessions amid the pandemic. Plants were given to the 20 couples who settled the disputes amicably. PU holds lecture on protecting kids from sexual abuseChandigarh The Centre for Police Administration, Panjab University, organised a lecture on “Role of police in protecting children from sexual offences” on Saturday. Former Haryana DGP KP Singh said police should be very careful while recording statements of the child after a crime was reported, while ensuring the presence of a parent or guardian, whom the child trusts. Centre’s chairperson Anil Monga said several studies revealed that most sex offenders were known to the child.Harnoor’s ton powers Chandigarh U-19 lads’ winChandigarh Led by a magnificent knock of unbeaten 110 runs from Harnoor Singh, Chandigarh thrashed Maharashtra by seven wickets in the Vinoo Mankad Trophy (Under-19) league match played at Jamia Millia Islamia Ground, New Delhi on Saturday. Chandigarh gathered four points from this win. Aaradhana stars in Chandigarh U-19 eves’ winChandigarh Buoyed by Bisht’s all-round performance, Chandigarh registered a 28-run win over Rajasthan in the Inter-State women’s U-19 cricket tournament match at Surat on Saturday. This was Chandigarh’s first win after the first two washed out games. Unbeaten Aaradhana Bisht (90) and Palak Rana (51) helped Chandigarh to pile up a decent total of 227 for two in stipulated 50 overs.Punjab U-19 eves log winChandigarh Punjab beat Himachal Pradesh by 70 runs through VJD method in their league match played in the Inter-State women’s U-19 cricket tournament match in Jaipur on Saturday. Batting first Punjab scored 190 for seven in 50 overs with Aishmine Kaur scoring 43 runs. Rain interrupted the game. Replying, Himachal Pradesh scored 68 for 6 in 38 overs.Gandhi Jayanti celebrationsPanjab UniversityChandigarh As part of Gandhi Jayanti celebrations at Panjab University, a cleanliness drive was organised by the NSS unit at University Institute of Engineering and Technology on Saturday. Institute of Educational Technology and vocational education department held an online event on “In a gentle way you can shake the world”. The department of Gandhian and Peace Studies, in collaboration with PU Alumni Association, Interdisciplinary Centre for Swami Vivekananda Studies and department of art history and visual arts, organised a lecture by Anamik Shah, former vice-chancellor, Gujrat Vidyapith, Ahmedabad. MCM DAV College for WomenChandigarh MCM DAV College for Women, Sector 36, celebrated Gandhi Jayanti with a host of activities on Saturday. The NSS units of the college organised a cleanliness drive. The department of Sanskrit and character building committee conducted best out of waste, slogan writing and bookmark-making competitions. Principal Nisha Bhargava recited a self-composed poem on the Father of the Nation. North Zone Chandigarh Deaf Society Chandigarh North Zone Chandigarh Deaf Society celebrated the birth anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi and Lal Bahadur Shastri on Saturday. Additional solicitor general of India Satya Pal Jain spoke on changing society’s mindset towards the hearing impaired. Musical tribute to GandhiChandigarh UT department of cultural affairs, in collaboration with the Chandigarh Sangeet Natak Akademi, presented a musical tribute to Mahatma Gandhi on Saturday. Artistes presented melodious and calming bhajans at the Sector-17 Underpass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-math-professor-ibs-passi-passes-away-101633212406177.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Third wave: Chandigarh procures 8 essential Covid drugs on Centre’s recommendation||As recommended by the Centre, the UT health department has started stocking up eight essential Covid-19 related drugs keeping in view the possible third wave.The eight essential drugs to be used for the treatment of Covid-19 patients include Enoxaparin, Methylprednisolone, Dexamethasone, Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, Liposomal amphotericin, Posaconazole and intravenous immunoglobulin. These medicines have played a key role in the treatment of Covid and post-Covid complications.For procurement of essential drugs and diagnostics, Centre had sanctioned ₹1.6 crore to UT, under the Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package. For ₹45.8 lakh, the UT health department has placed orders of over 11,000 tablets and injections with the pharmaceuticals.The purchase also includes 250 units of Liposomal amphotericin drug, which is used to treat mucormycosis (black fungus) infections, and 40,500 injections of Tocilizumab, which is the main drug available for Covid-19 treatment. “The UT health department already has a stock of around 10,000 Remdesivir doses hence no order has been placed for its procurement. We have placed orders for procuring other essential drugs. These medicines will be the buffer stock so that in case of emergency or another surge, we do not run out of essential drugs. Though Chandigarh had adequate drugs in the first and second wave of the pandemic, making prior arrangements for the third wave are necessary,” said Yashpal Garg, UT health secretary.‘Centre predicts surge after October 15’“As per the Union government, fresh Covid-19 cases can start rising in October. The period between October 15 and November 15, which can be extended till December 15, is very crucial to watch out for and any complacency among the residents can cost us. Since festival season is around the corner, people will visit crowded places and markets which can spread the infection among the community. People must follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and must get vaccinated to avert any surge,” Garg added.Other preparations for possible third waveUnder the IT-hub project, all health and wellness centres (HWCs) will be connected to civil hospitals for tele-consultation, which will further be linked with GMSH-16 and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. These two hospitals will be linked to the paediatric department of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).Meanwhile, a 32-bed dedicated paediatric ICU centre will come up at GMSH-16. Further, proposals have been approved to set up 20 additional ICU beds, each at the two civil hospitals in Sector 22 and Manimajra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/third-wave-chandigarh-procures-8-essential-covid-drugs-on-centre-s-recommendation-101633211742068.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Watering plants in rain lands NHAI staffer in a soup in Ludhiana||A National Highway Authorities employee who ironically decided to water plants in the rain on the same day the Prime Minister launched the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh found himself in neck-deep trouble on Saturday as the subdivisional magistrate caught him in the act and pulled him up for wasting water. The Prime Minister on Saturday had launched the Rashtriya Jal Jeevan Kosh (RJJK) to facilitate contributions for setting up safe drinking water supply in villages and had urged the people of the nation to conserve water. However, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) staffer did not get the memo and diligently went about performing his duty come rain or shine.Samrala subdivisional magistrate Vikramjeet Singh Panthey noticed the absurd sight on the National Highway (NH-95), while he was heading to Ludhiana on an official visit. “I was surprised to see that the man watering plants on the divider, while it was raining. When I approached the driver of the water tanker, he could not produce a licence or any other document, after which the vehicle was impounded,” said Panthey.On being questioned, the staffer said he was simply following orders as the NH-5 project manager Srikanth and project engineer Abhijeet Singh had asked him to water the plants everyday.“Even during monsoon, I could see the NH-95 staff watering plants. I have written to the Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma about it ,” said Panthey.However, the project engineer said the SDM had misunderstood the situation and that the capricious weather was to be blamed. “The weather, which had been scorching hot when our staffer started watering plants suddenly turned rainy. The official happened to drive by at that time and took notice of it.”“ We are serious about saving water and are doing our best to increase the green cover,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/watering-plants-in-rain-lands-nhai-staffer-in-a-soup-in-ludhiana-101633211624691.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: 17 protesting farmers booked for rioting, unlawful assembly||A day after several senior BJP leaders were unable to attend a party meeting in Ambala’s Barara purportedly due to farmer’s protests, the police booked 17 farmers under charges of rioting, unlawful assembly and others including district BKU (Charuni) chief Malkit Singh.As per the FIR lodged on the complaint of security agent Surendra Singh, more than 200 farmers had gathered outside Bansal Palace to show black flags and raise anti-government slogans.“Despite warnings, the protest had gone violent, where the farmers had pushed several police officers and also blocked a major road,” he said.Police used water cannons to disperse the crowd during which a farmer also got injured, DSP Rajnish Kumar had said. The case was lodged under Sections 148, 149, 186, 188, 332, 341 and 353 of the IPC at Barara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-17-protesting-farmers-booked-for-rioting-unlawful-assembly-101633211442357.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Refusing Shradh food lands Ludhiana man in hospital with stab wounds||An inebriated truck driver stabbed a 29-year-old twice for refusing to have ‘Shradh food’ at Chander Nagar on Friday. The accused, Jaswant Singh, 50, of Mohalla Chandar Nagar, has been booked for attempt to murder as the victim, Aneesh Kumar, remains in a critical condition at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). The victim’s father Ashwani Kumar Sharma, 60, said Aneesh was at the cycle repair shop of their distant relative, Raju, when the accused turned up there with a packet of food, which he said he had brought from a langar, and insisted that the two men have it. “When Aneesh refused and asked Jaswant to not force him to have the food, the accused started abusing him and then stabbed him twice – near his shoulder and in the stomach – before fleeing,” the complainant said. Aneesh was rushed to the civil hospital, from where doctors referred him to Rajendra Hospital, Patiala. Finally, he was admitted to DMCH.Assistant sub-inspector Dilbagh Singh said an FIR had been registered under Sections 307 (intention to kill) , 323 ( voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causes hurt ), 341 ( wrongful restraint) and 506 ( criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at the Haibowal police station. The accused was arrested on Friday and produced before the court on Saturday. The court remanded the accused to one-day police custody. The knife use to commit the crime has been recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/refusing-shradh-food-lands-ludhiana-man-in-hospital-with-stab-wounds-101633211321946.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Implementation of 7th Pay Commission: PUTA to continue protest on PU campus||The members of the Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) will continue to protest to implement the 7th Pay Commission inside PU campus as per a statement issued by the teachers’ body.Speaking about this, PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “For 28 days we have been protesting under the banner of Punjab Federation of University College and Teachers Association outside the PU administration building. We sit here in shifts between 9am to 5pm everyday and our talks with the Punjab government have been going well. Recently, the PU V-C told us to shift the protest from the campus to the University Grants Commission. He has no business telling us where to protest and the site doesn’t matter as the protest is symbolic. He himself is drawing his salary as per the 7th Pay Commission while he lets us teachers suffer.”The PU authorities meanwhile have issued a statement saying, “PU authorities are always concerned for the welfare of its faculty. The implementation of the 7th Pay Commission is pending for a want of notification from the Punjab government, but PUTA has set up the protest site on campus as if the varsity has to issue the notification. Such an action can be counterproductive and it fails to put any pressure on the Punjab government. On the contrary the image and perception of PU is getting affected adversely, which in turn may affect PU’s NIRF ranking as well as NAAC grading.”The authorities further added that PUTA should protest outside the Punjab Secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/implementation-of-7th-pay-commission-puta-to-continue-protest-on-pu-campus-101633211202107.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Vehicle lifters using press, police tags on stolen vehicles busted in Ludhiana||Two members of a gang of vehicle lifters who were using ‘police’ and ‘press’ tags on stolen vehicles to avoid being stopped for checking were arrested on Saturday. Seven two-wheelers were recovered from them and their pick-up jeep was seized. The accused are Raja, 19, of Raghunath Colony and Beant Singh , 42, of Guru Nanak Colony near Surjit Cinema in Dhandari Kalan. Raja was also employed as a labourer at a hosiery factory on Chandigarh Road, while Beant drove an auto rickshaw.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said that the accused used duplicate keys to lift the motorcycles. They would sell them to different people after changing the number plate and preparing fake documents of the vehicle.Raja was arrested from Raghunath Colony and Beant Singh from a T-point in Mundian Kalan on Chandigarh Road. The accused confessed to have stolen the motorcycles from Sahnewal, Salem Tabri and the Giaspura area. Beant said he had turned to crime to meet his drug habit. A case was registered under Section 379 (theft ), 411 (receiving stolen property) and 473 ( counterfeits) of the Indian Penal Code at the Jamalpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vehicle-lifters-using-press-police-tags-on-stolen-vehicles-busted-in-ludhiana-101633210602067.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||All is well with Punjab Congress, claims OP Soni||Deputy chief minister of Punjab Om Parkash Soni claimed that everything was fine within the Congress party and there was nothing to worry about.Soni was in Ludhiana to launch a new model of a car. While replying to a question regarding the present crisis in the party, what with resignation of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee head Navjot Singh Sidhu from his post and speculations about ousting of former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Soni said that such things were not serious issues and happened in every political party.Further he stated that the high command had been seriously observing the situation and things would be resolved soon.He also said that under the leadership of new CM Charanjit Singh Channi, the team was working hard: Congress has recently announced schemes for the benefit of poor and weaker sections of the society.Cabinet minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs Bharat Bhushan Ashu, MLAs Surinder Dawar and Sanjay Talwar were also present at the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-is-well-with-punjab-congress-claims-op-soni-101633210242025.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jalandhar man held for drug peddling, 35g heroin seized||The anti-narcotics cell of the Ludhiana police commissionerate have arrested a drug peddler and recovered 35g heroin from his possession.The accused was identified as Mandeep Lal, alias Kala, of Ganna village in Jalandhar district. Lal, who works as a plumber, told police that he had bought the drugs to sell them.Inspector Rajesh Kumar, in-charge of the anti-narcotics cell, said that on October 1, the accused was arrested from under the new flyover near Ladhowal toll plaza. Along with the heroin, a motorcycle was also seized as the accused failed to produce its documents, he added.The inspector added that during questioning, it was revealed that the accused was booked in another case of drug peddling at Ladhowal police station in 2018.According to the accused, he used to purchase the drugs from an unidentified person at Nurmahal in Jalandhar; the police are trying to trace him.A case under Sections 21B-61-85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jalandhar-man-held-for-drug-peddling-35g-heroin-seized-101633210002035.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administrator Banwarilal Purohit marks Gandhi Jayanti at Gandhi Smarak Nidhi||Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit extended his greetings to the people of Punjab and Chandigarh on the occasion of 152nd Gandhi Jayanti and the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister of India Lal Bahadur Shastri.Addressing a gathering at Gandhi Smarak Nidhi in Sector 16, the governor urged the people to follow the life and philosophy of Mahatma Gandhi and contribute to the nation building task. “On this day each one of us must spread the idea of non-violence which has always been the strongest weapon to solve problems of conflict and violence. Mahatma Gandhi got us the freedom from the shackles of British rule by strongly propagating truth and non violence,” he said.The governor said that the real tribute to Gandhi would be to stand firmly for simplicity and honesty and shun sinful living which is required for the complete transformation and inclusive growth of our nation. Purohit also recalled how Gandhi’s initiative of promoting khadi and cottage industry in those days went a long way in knitting economic and sentimental ties between people in the villages and in the towns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administrator-banwarilal-purohit-marks-gandhi-jayanti-at-gandhi-smarak-nidhi-101633209941905.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Contractual health workers protest non-renewal of contracts||The outsourced health workers, whose services were discontinued by the UT health department citing unavailability of funds, on Saturday protested at Matka Chowk and demanded renewal of their contracts.The UT health department had outsourced as many as 351 healthcare workers, including nurses, sweepers, data entry operators, security guards and others, to handle the Covid outbreak.As per the health department, the contracts of staff will not be renewed. In the first phase, the services of the staff of PU International Hostel (converted into Covid care centre) will be discontinued. In the next phase, services of 20% more staff will be terminated. If need arises, the situation will be assessed every 15 days and decisions will be made accordingly.Meanwhile on Saturday, the employees raised slogans against the UT administration at Government Multi-Speciality Hospital in Sector 16 and then conducted a march till Matka Chowk.“The staff was hired during an emergency situation. Each and every healthcare worker has worked around the clock to provide medical services during the Covid-19 surge, especially during the peak of the second wave in May this year. Now, the UT health department is terminating our services. The Covid warriors must be respected and their contacts should be renewed,” said one of the protesters.UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said, “During the Covid crisis, the healthcare workers were outsourced for three or six months. The department is facing financial issues and we cannot pay salaries to employees. Also, we do not have any vacant posts available for regularising their jobs. Since the employees were told in advance about their temporary hiring, there is no point in protesting. We will outsource them again, if need arises.”In a letter to director, health services, and medical superintendent of GMSH-16, Garg said, “I came to know that some outsourced staff has been recently hired during the last week of September for the same categories to which these 81 persons relate. Please provide the details of such outsourced staff which have been hired in the second half of September and the reasons as to why some of the persons of these 81 could not be adjusted against that requirement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-contractual-health-workers-protest-non-renewal-of-contracts-101633209701979.html
03-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Boy murders friend over a year-old feud||A Class 10 student of a government school stabbed to death a Class 11 student of the same school to take revenge on him for hurling abuses at his mother during a fight over cricket nearly a year ago in southeast Delhi’s Okhla, police said on Saturday.Both of them were in uniform when the incident took place on Friday, police said and added that the victim was stabbed at least thrice in his abdomen. The juvenile attacker has been apprehended, and legal action under the Juvenile Justice Act has been initiated, the police added.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Esha Pandey said on Friday, the Okhla police station received information regarding the stabbing of a boy near a government school in Tehkhand. A police team reached there and learnt that the injured 17-year-old boy was taken to a nearby government hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries. A case was registered and investigation was taken up.During the local inquiry, the police learnt that the teenager was roaming outside the school when he was stabbed three times allegedly by a 16-year-old boy of the same school following an altercation, the DCP said.“We have learnt that the 17-year-old boy abused the mother of his schoolmate. On Friday, the Class 10 student asked him to say sorry for his conduct. However, the teenager refused. Enraged, the Class 10 student took out knife out of his pocket and stabbed him after school,” the DCP said.A police officer associated with the probe said nearly an year ago, both the teenagers picked up a fight while playing cricket in the neighbourhood. The 17-year-old boy allegedly abused the mother of the other boy when she tried to intervene in their fight. The woman also received a head injury after a a brick hit her. The family members of the 17-year-old boy told the police that the altercation began when the 16-year-old boy had their son with a cricket bat. They had also taken the injured woman to a hospital for treatment, the officer said.“Prime facie, it appears that the woman’s son developed animosity against the Class 11 student and wanted him to apologise for abusing his mother. The family members of the dead teenager allege that on Friday after school, the 16-year-old boy called their son on his cell phone and asked him to meet outside the school, where he was stabbed during the altercation,” added the officer.Police have seized the knife that was used in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-boy-murders-friend-over-a-year-old-feud-101633209144133.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||RTI filed by Chandigarh cop: HC asks information commission to look into complaint||The high court has directed the Central Information Commission (CIC) to look into the plea of a Chandigarh resident seeking disciplinary action against senior police officers for alleged failure of supply of information under the RTI Act. The high court acted on the plea from one Jagjeet, a head constable with traffic wing of the police, seeking directions to CIC to act on his plea for imposition or recommendation of disciplinary proceedings against three senior cops and further that he be provided with the information in question. He had sought to have impleaded former SSP Nilambari Jagadale, former Central Public Information Officer (CPIO) and DSP Rajeev Kumar Ambasta, and incumbent CPIO Rashmi Sharma as parties in the case. As per his lawyer, Nitin Sharma, Jagjeet had sought copies of stock registers of camp offices of IPS officers of Chandigarh Police for the year 2017-2018, details of consumable items and non-consumable items of these camp offices in 2019. It was denied with various “excuses” and subsequently, when the matter went to CIC, it ordered that records be shown to him. That order, too, was not complied with.However, when he approached CIC again seeking action against these officers for violation of the RTI Act, CIC did not act, he had submitted. He demanded that CIC be directed to take action against these officers. The plea was disposed of with a direction that his application seeking action be decided expeditiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rti-filed-by-chandigarh-cop-hc-asks-information-commission-to-look-into-complaint-101633209342418.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Document forgery for job: HC denies bail to Panchkula ASI hired 22 years ago||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed the bail plea of a Panchkula assistant sub-inspector (ASI) who was booked for allegedly submitting fake certificates during his recruitment 22 years ago.ASI Dharampal was booked in February following a complaint by his own brother. An inquiry had revealed that when appointed as a constable in 1989, Dharampal had submitted that he had passed Class 10 from the Haryana Board of School Education, Bhiwani, whereas during the probe, he switched the board to Delhi Open School. While seeking bail, the ASI had told the court that he had an unblemished record and was presently at the fag end of his career. He claimed that he had been falsely implicated by his brothers due to a property dispute. Denying any forgery, he submitted that he had lost the certificates.Not agreeing with the arguments, the bench of justice GS Gill observed,“This court is not to be influenced solely by the fact as to why the FIR has been lodged, but is expected to examine the allegations levelled therein and as to whether the same prima facie have any semblance of truth or not.” The court added that in case the ASI had actually passed Class 10 from the Haryana Board of School Education, Bhiwani, he would certainly have a supporting document. Even if it is assumed that he had lost the certificate, still, being a cop, he can be expected to be smart enough to get a duplicate certificate issued, the bench said, taking note of the fact that he did not present any such certificate which would compel the court to believe that there is an element of truth in his argument.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/document-forgery-for-job-hc-denies-bail-to-panchkula-asi-hired-22-years-ago-101633208748282.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||75-year-old loses battle to Covid in Mohali; 10 test positive in tricity||A 75-year-old man succumbed to Covid-19 in Mohali on Saturday, the third virus-related casualty in the district in the past three days.Health officials said the Dera Bassi resident also had comorbidities.On a positive note, Panchkula did not log any fresh infection for the third straight day.However, tricity’s daily tally rose to 10 from three the day before, which was the lowest in over 18 months. Mohali clocked seven cases, while three people were found infected in Chandigarh.The cases in Mohali were reported from Mohali city, Dera Bassi, Dhakoli, Kharar and Gharuan, and those in Chandigarh from Sectors 15 and 35, and PGIMER campus.Tricity’s active cases dropped further over the past 24 hours – from 89 to 83. Mohali has 35 positive patients, Chandigarh 33 and Panchkula 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/75yearold-loses-battle-to-covid-in-mohali-10-test-positive-in-tricity-101633208747072.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Farmers protesting delay in paddy procurement face police lathicharge||Farmers marching towards the residence of Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta were lathicharged near the Chandimandir toll plaza on Saturday, as they tried to break the barricades with tractors. Some farmers and around four policemen were injured in the clash. The protesters had gathered near the toll plaza in response to farmer unions’ state-level call to gherao offices of local MLAs to protest delay in procurement of paddy. Soon after the incident, Bharatiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Charuni reached the spot and through a video message asked farmers to reach the Chandimandir toll plaza in large numbers. He said, “The police have resorted to a brutal lathicharge in Panchkula, in which many protesters have suffered injuries. Protesters have also been taken into custody from two to three spots. I urge farmers who are nearby to immediately gather at Chandimandir toll plaza in large numbers.”Asserting that the farmers had been protesting peacefully, the farm leader demanded an inquiry. However, the police said far from protesting peacefully, a few farmers had tried to run over cops with tractors in an attempt to break the barricades, which left a few policemen injured. “To stop them from causing more damage, police used minimal force,” they said in a statement. In the evening, Karam Singh, unit president, BKU (Tikait) announced that the government had agreed to procure rice. The police released the detained farmers soon after, and the protesters, accompanied by Charuni, also vacated the site.Panchkula commissioner of police Saurabh Singh said, “An FIR has been registered under relevant sections against the protesters who broke the barricades with tractors. A few policemen got injured as well. We have visuals of the incident and will take proper action against those involved.”Farmers protest outside Punjab CM’s house in MohaliIn Mohali, protesting farmers held a protest outside Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s house in Kharar and also gheraoed the house of Congress MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu. Heavy police force was deployed to stop them from gathering outside the CM’s house. Later, farmers handed over a memorandum to the naib tehsildar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkulafarmers-protesting-delay-in-paddy-procurement-face-police-lathicharge-101633208745937.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Unusual September rain spells drive vegetables prices up in Chandigarh||The higher than normal rain in the region this September has pushed the prices of several vegetables up. With the recent fuel rate hike, these may rise further.Satbir Singh, a mandi supervisor with the Punjab Mandi Board, said, “We don’t expect much rain in September. But some heavy rain spells in Punjab in the past few weeks spoiled vegetable crops, causing their prices to spike.” While a month back, tomatoes were available at apni mandis for ₹25 per kg, their rate is now ₹45 per kg and up. Even the wholesale rate has risen to ₹30 per kg.Price of onion, which remained stable over the summer, has also started to climb. Red onion, the cheaper variety, which comes from Rajasthan, is being sold for ₹35 per kg, compared to ₹25 last month. Chandigarh Transport Association general secretary BL Sharma said if transportation cost kept increasing due to more expensive fuel, vegetables will get even more costlier in a month or so. Meanwhile, Singh said vegetable prices might stabilise as large quantities of cauliflower and carrot enter the market after Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/unusual-september-rain-spells-drive-vegetables-prices-up-in-chandigarh-101633208744039.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Mahal appointed as new Mohali SSP||Navjot Singh Mahal has been appointed as the new senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali.He replaced Satinder Singh, who has been posted as SSP Jalandhar (Rural). Satinder’s transfer comes a year after he joined Mohali as SSP on September 29, 2020.A Punjab Police Service (PPS) officer, Mahal was previously posted as commandant of the 7th Battalion, Punjab Armed Police, Jalandhar, and was also holding additional charge of AIG, special task force, Jalandhar.He has also served as the SSP of Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar Rural and Khanna in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-singh-mahal-appointed-as-new-mohali-ssp-101633208741854.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Security guard who stole ₹6 lakh from doctor’s house nabbed||The 27-year-old security guard, who was on the run for a week after stealing ₹6.12 lakh cash and gold jewellery from a doctor’s house in Sector 19, has landed in police net.The accused, Rinku, alias Rinku Khan, had spiked the tea of the doctor’s wife with sedatives before decamping with the cash and valuables, police said on Saturday.He was arrested by a team of the Chandigarh Police crime branch from Aurangabad, Bihar. ₹4 lakh of the stolen cash was recovered from him.According to police, to avoid being caught, Rinku had switched off his mobile phone. But the crime branch tracked him down with the help of human intelligence. Police teams were despatched to Bihar where he was traced after interviewing various people known to him.Was trusted by familyIn his theft complaint on September 27, Dr Rajesh Rana, who is posted at the Manimajra civil hospital, had stated that he met Rinku at an eatery around 14 years ago.A teenager back then, Rinku had confided in him that he had escaped from an orphanage in Bihar. Therefore, he brought him home, took care of his education and also got him employed as a security guard at the civil hospital.Though he maintained a rented accommodation in Manimajra, Rinku often stayed over at the couple’s house and helped them with their household tasks.Executed crime while doctor was awayInvestigators said on September 25, Dr Rana was away at Goa for a conference, while his wife was home alone.After his night duty, Rinku visited the doctor’s house, which was nothing out of the ordinary. Sharing that he will soon be leaving to meet a friend, he offered his wife a sandwich and tea laced with sedatives, as part of a well thought-out plan.As she fell asleep, he switched off the CCTV cameras, and stole ₹6.12 lakh and three gold rings, besides a ₹1.5 lakh fixed deposit certificate from an almirah.Before leaving, he restored the almirah keys to their original place. The theft came to light on September 26, when Dr Rana’s wife reopened the almirah locker and found the cash and valuables missing.She alerted her husband over the phone, while sharing that Rinku had not returned since the day before.Dr Rana filed a police complaint the next day and a case of theft was registered at the Sector 19 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhsecurity-guard-who-stole-6-lakh-from-doctor-s-house-nabbed-101633208682343.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||14 more down with dengue in Ludhiana, 3 with Covid||As many as 14 cases of dengue were reported in Ludhiana on Saturday, taking the total patient count to 209.On the other hand, three cases of Covid were reported in the district, taking the total cases to 87,543. As per the health department 29,41308 doses have been administered in the district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/14-more-down-with-dengue-in-ludhiana-3-with-covid-101633207541751.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amid frequent transfers, reforms brought in by Ludhiana police chiefs get junked||Even as there are no brakes on the revolving chair of the Ludhiana police commissioner, with the city seeing as many as 18 incumbents in 11 years, the unwillingness of the officials to continue with the schemes and plans introduced by the predecessors have added to the disarray. The ‘know-your-case’ scheme and reshuffling of police jurisdictions, introduced by former top cop Rakesh Agrawal who served in the city for two years, was discontinued after his successor Naunihal Singh took over. And after Naunihal’s transfer, the Saturday parades and other initiatives started by him have been abandoned. The know-your-case scheme was started with the motive of helping complainants and respondents know the progress of their case. Special camp used to be organised at every police station and other wings on rotation. Agrawal had also started a competition among police stations, in which the buildings were to be judged on cleanliness, beautification and provision of basic facilities for visitors. The SHOs and police post in-charges invested a lot of time and effort in the hope of bagging a prize, but after Agrawal’s transfer on August 20, they haven’t heard a single word about it. Aggarwal’s successor Naunihal Singh took over with the hope of infusing fresh energy into the cadres. Naunihal started weekly parades and 3am meetings. He had also abolished at least 15 police posts to shift its personnel to police stations. But before he could fully implement the plan, he was transferred from the city on September 21, following the change of guard in the state leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-frequent-transfers-reforms-brought-in-by-ludhiana-police-chiefs-get-junked-101633207061811.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena leader gave out info on irregularities in Anil Parab’s resort: MNS||The infighting within the Shiv Sena has believably come to the fore following allegations by a Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) leader from Khed, Ratnagiri. MNS general secretary and Khed Nagar panchayat chairman Vaibhav Khedekar has alleged that the information related to the alleged irregularities in a resort owned by Shiv Sena leader and state transport minister Anil Parab was provided by another party leader, Ramdas Kadam. Khedekar, in a press conference with former Nationalist Congress Party legislator Sanjay Kadam in Khed on Saturday, produced eight audio clips to establish his claim. In the audio clips, Kadam is reportedly speaking to his close aide Prasad Karve on the information about Parab’s alleged illegal structure at Dapoli. In some of the clips, Karve is heard speaking to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya, giving him more information about the construction. Two months ago, Somaiya had lodged complaints with the Union environment ministry against the construction of the resort on the sea shore at Dapoli by Parab. The minister had allegedly violated the Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) norms while constructing the resort. Similar complaints were lodged by Somaiya against a construction by another Shiv Sena leader, Milind Narvekar, in the same vicinity. After the complaints, Narvekar had himself pulled down the illegal part of the structure last month. Both, Parab and Narvekar, are considered close confidants of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Kadam has rubbished the allegations and said that the voice in the audio clips is not his. “I can swear on Goddess Tulaja Bhavani. The allegations are false and I never contacted Somaiya. Both Khedekar and Kadam had worked under me while in Shiv Sena and have ditched the party by defecting to other parties. Kadam is levelling allegations owing to grudges as he was defeated by my son in the last Assembly election. Khedekar is against me as his corruption in the nagar panchayat has been exposed by me. I have filed suits against Khedekar and Kadam in earlier allegations. There is no rift within our party. Parab helps my son a lot,” Kadam said.Khedekar said Karve was a link between Kadam and Somaiya and had obtained the information against Parab under Right to Information Act (RTI). “Karve was acting on behalf of Kadam and had gathered information against Parab and Narvekar. Karve provided all the details and documents to Somaiya. Kadam has said he will move the court against me. We are ready to face it and all the documents will be provided in the court,” he said.Kadam is believably unhappy with the Shiv Sena because he was not inducted in the Thackeray government’s cabinet in 2019. Kadam was the environment minister in the Devendra Fadnavis government till October 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-leader-gave-out-info-on-irregularities-in-anil-parab-s-resort-mns-101633205621607.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Sindhudurg airport: Tickets’ sale on for 2022 Ganeshotsav||After Sindhudhurg’s Chipi airport received Aerodrome Licence from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) last month, flights bookings from Mumbai have begun. Air India, via its portal, has opened bookings between the two airports for Ganeshotsav next year even before the airport is operational. Commencing flight operations from Chipi airport is one of the targets highlighted by civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. Air India’s regional arm, Alliance Air, will operate daily direct air services to the newly-constructed Sindhudurg airport from Mumbai, starting October 9, making it the first domestic carrier to launch operations to the greenfield airport in the Konkan region. A one-way lowest air ticket fare from Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to Chipi airport for August 18, 2022, costs ₹1,890. The airline, however, has announced an all-inclusive inaugural fare of ₹2,520 for the Mumbai-Sindhudurg flight and ₹2,621 for Sindhudurg-Mumbai services.Mumbai sees a good number of travellers visiting Konkan before or during the 10-day Ganesh Chaturthi festival and it is expected that the route will bloom during this period. Alliance Air flight 9I661 that is said to depart from Mumbai at 11.35am will arrive at Sindhudurg at 1pm and the return flight, 9I662, will depart from Sindhudurg at 1.25pm and arrive in Mumbai at 2.50pm.“Operations from Chipi airport have been delayed for years. Though the government has announced to commence the operations from this month and the airline too has begun advance bookings, it is important to stick to this deadline and begin operations, unlike previous several occasions,” said an industry expert who did not wish to be named. “Taking advance booking for next year’s festive season is a positive sign, however, people might be sceptical about booking tickets for that period this early.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sindhudurg-airport-tickets-sale-on-for-2022-ganeshotsav-101633205448407.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Witerati | Navratri notes for new normal||There was a time when Navratri, Dashami or Durga Pujo were heralded by the blink-blink. The blinking and batting of eyelids at the bedecking of marketplaces and mela grounds. The blink-blink at the rolling out of Ravanas and Durga idols by the fabled potters of Kumartuli from Bengal at the Parade Grounds or Pujo pandals.Come the digital age, and one comes to know that the fall festivals are round the corner thanks to the bleep-bleep. The alerts that begin to beep ‘n’ bleat on one’s smartphones and iPhones. At most times, phoney alerts. At most times, annoying alerts. So far so good, until along came the pandemic, and it changed much of that. The Pujo and Navratri revelry “migrated” from Shastri Market or Sarojini Nagar, Chandini Chowk or Connaught Place hysteria to Cyberia. Navratri virtual became the new real.Come Unlock, and it now spells the return of mall pottering as much as the potters. It unlocks a reverse migration, from Pujo e-shopping to Pandal hopping.Back from virtual is the new real.Come unlock, and for us tweeple, it may also be a time to unlock another newness called the nine-fold new normal Navratri wish-list. Thank less and Tharoorisms: How one wishes to be spared Tharoorisms, simply because it might not be a good idea for Shashi ji to eat his own words in the season of fasting. Notifications, naught needed: Wish this Navratri heralds less of notifications.Less of Notifications Unlimited flashing to announce the flash Flipkart Navratri sale or midnight mela on Amazon. Less of Notifications Unwanted alerting one to Home Centre or Haldiram, Big Bazaar or Biba discounts for the bibis, beejis to bhabhi jis. Less of Notifications Unsolicited landing for Purple Chillis to Pepper Fry preview Pujo sales. Never mind that they all come riding only one hidden sub text – Bheja Fry.Navratri Selfie-ism in new normal: One wishes too that Tweeple won’t post farzi festive selfies with masks. For, they’re more fake than fake news or fake sinews. The moment the camera shuts its eyes, off goes the mask, let’s face it.To twin or not to twin: Wish A-Listers of B-town won’t flood Twitterverse with enviable selfies of twinning in Pujo pret. For, twinning is tough on lesser mortals, We the C-listers, from cities that have either to do with a “C” or cities that are hard to on a Google Map see.For, twinning with us in pink pyjamas or purple palazzos may not come easily to our north Indian Tier 2 male partners who at the mention of ‘twinning’ tend more to see red. Perils of pandal hopping: How one wishes not to see that spate of status updates of pandal hopping.For, it might be tad tough on Tweeple staying home so as to play it safe than “saree”.Navratri thaalis vs Pujo platters: Those fasting in the Navratras can only wish not to be getting a taste of too many FB foodie posts. A wish born not only from the challenges of fasting in the time of fellow feasting, but also from the fact that oftentimes it’s hard to figure out what’s more overdressed – the Pujo platters or the Pujo populace.Chaaniya Cholis refashioned: An item high on new normal’s wishlist will be the cholis of BFFs and Biradri. To be eyed not so much for sizzle quotient, but for recycle value. For recycling into masks, post navratri.More bare the backs, more the mask value.High on Hashtagism: How one wishes to see wackier hashtags than the humdrum #NavratriVibes #PujoFever and all that.How about #DandiyaRaaz #CholiKePeecheKyaHaiMask?Fixated on fastingWhen Pujo comes, can our Duo be far behind! Lollita voices her Wishlist to Lambaji, “Honey, how about fasting, on your consumption of Netflix! How about more of work of home, less of Enola Holmes!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/witerati-navratri-notes-for-new-normal-101633205262961.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices at all-time high in Mumbai; petrol crosses ₹108-mark||Fuel prices were at an all-time high in Mumbai on Saturday with petrol and diesel crossing ₹108 and ₹98, respectively. Fuel prices have been on an increase in the city for the third consecutive day.A litre of petrol was priced at ₹108.19, while diesel was available for ₹98.16 on Saturday after witnessing a surge of 24 and 32 paise, respectively.Thane, too, saw hike in fuel prices with one litre of petrol costing ₹108.33 and diesel being priced at ₹98.29. The price of petrol was the costliest in the state in Parbhani at ₹110.75, while diesel was the most expensive in Amravati at ₹99.70 per litre.Citizens expressed their anger on the rising fuel prices and have asked the government to take immediate steps to control the hike.“The pandemic has already drained us out financially and the government is not even showing basic human courtesy and is going on increasing the fuel prices. People do not have money to spend. The government should immediately lower the prices,” said Mazagaon resident Aadi Jain.“Fuel prices in Mumbai have been on the rise for more than four months. Neither the state government nor the Centre has done anything to cap them. It is really sad that the governments do not think of the common citizens. How will citizens afford even a two-wheeler with the constant rise in fuel prices,” Ghatkopar resident Deepika Singh said. Transporters have stated that the government should consider including fuel under the Goods and Service Tax (GST) and stop the price hike.“Petrol and diesel prices have touched record highs on Saturday. The government is totally callous to the plight of the common citizens and the road transport sector which is always at the receiving end with even small surge in prices. It has been experienced that the government, during election season, puts a freeze on any price hikes and it should redo that now when inflation is at an all-time high, squeezing the household budgets and putting acute pressure on the economic viability of small operators. The government should seriously consider including the [fuel] products under GST,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC). Fuel prices in the city have been on an increase since May 3 and on May 29, petrol crossed the ₹100-mark.On Friday, a litre of petrol was priced at ₹107.95, while one litre of diesel was available at ₹97.84 after witnessing a surge of 24 and 32 paise, respectively.On Thursday, petrol was priced at ₹107.71 per litre while one litre of diesel was available at ₹97.52 in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-at-all-time-high-in-mumbai-petrol-crosses-108mark-101633205261757.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Heavy vehicles can’t ply on new flyover between Ghatkopar, Mankhurd for 2 more months||Two months since it was inaugurated by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on August 1, the Ghatkopar-Mankhurd flyover has still not been opened for heavy vehicles. It will take up to two more months before heavy vehicles are allowed to use the flyover, civic authorities from the bridges department said.According to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), a high-tension wire runs overhead the bridge, and until it is shifted, height restrictions for vehicles on the bridge cannot be revoked. BMC needs to construct a pier at an alternate location to shift the high-tension wire over the bridge, and will require 225 square metres of land, which falls under the jurisdiction of the collector. Additional municipal commissioner P Velarasu, who is overseeing the project, said, “We need to basically move the pylon that is carrying the wires away from the bridge, which will serve our purpose. We have requested the state government for permission to use the collector-owned land. It will be allotted to BMC and we will have to pay whatever charges are assessed for this.”A senior civic official from the bridges department said, “On Friday, we received a letter from the government. BMC will have to shell out around ₹60 lakh for the land. The process for this transaction will be initiated soon. It may take up to two months for us to complete the shifting of the high-tension wire, and allow heavy vehicles to use the bridge.”The route sees considerable traffic of heavy vehicles, especially garbage trucks carrying waste to Deonar dumping ground.The opposition has raised questions over the delay in opening the bridge for heavy vehicles since its inauguration two months ago. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Prabhakar Shinde said, “How did the administration not realise at the time of issuing the work order to the contractor or during the construction of the bridge that high-tension wires were running overhead which would hamper access to heavy vehicles, that are tall, such as a truck? The bridge was inaugurated by CM, and despite this, BMC did not undertake due diligence during its construction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-vehicles-can-t-ply-on-new-flyover-between-ghatkopar-mankhurd-for-2-more-months-101633205148814.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Covid may accelerate the loss of kidney function in some patients||A 63-year-old businessman from south Mumbai, who has been suffering from diabetes and kidney disease, had a gradual deterioration in his kidney function over the years. His kidney’s filtration rate, known as the estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), had dropped from 60 in 2017 to 50 in 2020. Last August, the businessman contracted Covid-19 and his two-week-long battle with the infection led to his kidney function dropping speedily to 35. He was eventually put on dialysis two months ago.Doctors said kidneys have borne the most impact during the pandemic –patients with chronic kidney diseases suffered as dialysis units shut down at the beginning of the pandemic, patients with existing kidney diseases were at higher risk of getting the Covid-19 infection, and patients like this south Mumbai businessman, who contracted the infection, had kidney functions worsening at a much faster rate.“On an average, kidney patients have 3% to 5% loss of kidney function every year,” said Dr Hemal Shah, a nephrologist from Bhatia Hospital, who has been treating the south Mumbai businessman. “When these patients get Covid-19, their kidney function deteriorates much faster, at a double speed,” he added.Kidneys are two bean-shaped organs that filter the blood in the body by removing waste and extra water to make urine. The filtration function of the kidneys is crucial to remove the toxins and ensure a normal body function. The rate of a kidney’s filtration or eGFR is calculated by measuring the levels of creatinine, which is the waste produced during the normal wear and tear of the body muscles.Patients with kidney diseases are staged according to their eGFR. An eGFR slightly higher than 90 is considered stage 1; eGFR between 89 and 60 is stage 2; 59 to 30 is stage 3; 29 to 15 is stage 4 and an eGFR less than 15 is considered stage 5. When patients reach stage 5, they are put on dialysis and are recommended transplants. Until then, they are managed with a combination of treatment and a restricted diet, which includes a lower quantity of proteins.Medical experts say that any kind of severe infection can have an impact on the kidneys. For instance, if someone has severe pneumonia or typhoid, the body typically activates its immune system to fight the disease and it may lead to inflammation.“In Covid-19, too, as the body attempts to fight the infection, a systemic inflammation may occur,” said nephrologist Dr Bharat Shah from Global Hospital. “Systemic inflammation is a state when the whole body is inflamed. During this, the kidneys are also inflamed and their function gets affected. However, we have seen such reaction only in moderate to severe Covid-19 patients,” he added.How exactly does the virus impact the kidneys? The kidneys are made of lakhs of filtering units called nephrons. Each nephron consists of a filter called the glomerulus and a small tube known as a tubule.According to Dr Shah, any organism enters the human body by binding to a receptor – a molecule that receives signals for a cell. “The Sars-CoV-2 is known to bind with the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor. These receptors are present on the tubules of the kidney, which perhaps makes it easier for the virus to impact the kidneys in an infected patient,” he said.A study from Brazil, published last month in the peer-reviewed journal Frontiers in Physiology, stated that the “impairment of ACE2’s biological functions can lead to a drop in renal blood flow and a reduced glomerular filtration rate (GFR), altering the capacity of the kidneys to eliminate substances (metabolites) that are toxic in excessive quantities. It can also increase vasoconstriction (narrowing of blood vessels) in the kidneys, leading to renal function deterioration.”The researchers highlighted that there is no available information on the impact of Covid-19 on long-term kidney function, but Covid-related acute kidney injury seems to contribute to a faster decline in GFR, higher rate of kidney replacement therapy requirement, and slower complete kidney function recovery. They also highlighted the importance of monitoring kidney function in Covid-19 survivors who presented acute kidney injury or kidney abnormalities.Dr Shah from Bhatia Hospital cited another case of a 43-year-old carpenter who did not have any existing history of kidney disease but was admitted with a very high creatinine level when he contracted Covid-19 last September. At the time of discharge from the hospital, his eGFR had dropped to 20, meaning he was in the stage-3 category of chronic kidney disease. “He somehow pulled off over the past several months, but we had to eventually put him on dialysis last week,” said Dr Shah, adding that the patient is also likely to undergo a kidney transplant soon as one of his close relatives is willing to donate the organ.A senior doctor from a civic-run hospital in Mumbai said that Covid-19 mortality among kidney patients is likely to be higher. “We need quick, large-scale, detailed studies from all institutions to understand the impact of Covid-19 on kidneys and introduce mitigation measures, mainly in the non-urban pockets where medical services are already compromised,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-may-accelerate-the-loss-of-kidney-function-in-some-patients-101633204902956.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 2,696 new Covid cases; logs 2,400-3,800 infections in past 21 days||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 2,696 new Covid-19 cases even as the state continues to log in the range of 2,400-3,800 cases from the past 21 days.Right from September 11, the state has been witnessing the cases in this range.Though the cases have come down, five districts – Mumbai, Pune, Ahmednagar, Thane and Satara – dominate with 75.29% of total cases.The state government is concentrating on these districts to bring down the cases.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said it was the case of endemicity.“Though the virus has been brought under control, we will witness some parts of the regions where there will be sporadic cases,” said Dr Gilada. “Our only option is to boost the vaccination drive and adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he added. He cited the recent infections coming in clusters like the recent one in King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital where 29 MBBS students were infected with Covid-19 infection.Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 2,696 Covid-19 new cases with 49 deaths.Mumbai’s tally of new cases was 408 and six deaths, bringing its total toll to 16,122.The total number of Covid-19 patients from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,556,657. There were 164,096 tests done on Saturday, while the number of recoveries clocked 3,062.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 35,955 while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 139,166.Pune tops the list of active patients with 9,096 patients, followed by Thane with 6,158 active patients and Mumbai with 5,586.The toll has now reached 139,166 with Pune leading with 19,451 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,122 and Thane with 11,376.On Saturday, 746,412 vaccine doses were administered, bringing the total number of doses to 83,507,977 since the time started in January.A total of 104,318 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai on Saturday. Out of these 49,987 were given their first dose and 54,331 were given their second dose. So far 8,255,309 beneficiaries have received their first dose and 4,298,041 beneficiaries have received their second dose. On Saturday, there were a total 464 active vaccination centres of which 304 were municipal centres, 20 were state/Central government centres, and 140 private centres. There will be no vaccination drive on Sunday, it will be held on Monday from 9am to 5pm at all centres.  (With inputs from Eeshanpriya MS)Actor Sean Penn, Milind Deora join hands to administer 100K doses in Mumbai, PuneHollywood actor Sean Penn and former Union minister Milind Deora have joined hands to administer 100,000 vaccine doses to the marginalised population in Mumbai and Pune.“On Gandhi Jayanti, Villoo Poonawalla Foundation, @CoreResponse, Hollywood actor @SeanPenn & I have joined hands to administer 100,000 free vaccine doses to Mumbai & Pune’s most needy (sic), “tweeted Deora on Saturday. “We have already begun this mission in Pune and have launched it today in Mumbai. So far, 15,000 doses have been administered in Pune and 2,000 at BMC’s (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) Murli Deora Eye Hospital in Mumbai,” Deora added. The Villoo Poonawala Foundation has donated the vaccine doses for the drive.The volunteers of Sean Penn’s non-governmental organisation (NGO) Community Organised Relief Effort’s (CORE) are facilitating the drive. The volunteers are combing the slum pockets, spreading awareness, encouraging the people and also helping those with no identity documents to get vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-2-696-new-covid-cases-logs-2-400-3-800-infections-in-past-21-days-101633204601716.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Making peace with the fragility of life||Death gets a bad reputation. Most people would rather focus on life and the positive things associated with it, knowing well that one must start waiting in the queue as soon as one is born. Growing older is a privilege denied to many but the young and old must march towards death all the same. Life changes like the seasons of the year till it comes to an end. Therefore, it is not possible to talk about life without talking about death as well. After all, life is just the interval between birth and death.Most of us try not to dwell on our mortality, till the angel of death suddenly kisses one of our friends, relatives or acquaintances, giving us a rude jolt. In the last two years, many of us have lost someone dear to us. The sudden shock, which is most painful to the human mind, has made each one of us ponder on the uncertainty and fragility of life. Principal Bhupinder Singh was one such friend who recently left the earthly abode to meet his maker. Having known him myself and after reading about the man who was respected and adored by many, I feel it is important to discuss death more openly and prepare ourselves well in time for the final trip. As the years pass, we learn to bid goodbye to our friends, relatives and other near and dear ones and acceptance sets in the due course of time. However, when it is our turn to say the final goodbye and take the last step into oblivion, acceptance takes relatively more time.Accepting the death of one’s immediate family member is very difficult . It involves overcoming shock, pain, sadness, tears and the misery generated by the loss. Thus, one should make it easier for their family by helping them accept the loss and mourn gracefully.All of us have good, bad and ugly sides and nobody likes to be seen in a bad light even after one is gone. If you do not want your spouse, children and others to know certain aspects of your personality, erase such records from diaries, laptops or mobile phones.One also knows, which of their belongings will be useful to certain family members and should gift these items to the right persons. One should also take a decision about possessions to be donated such as books and clothes. Of course, preparing a will is very important to simplify matters for one’s heirs. Donating one’s body or organs is another important decision, which can only be taken by the person concerned as religious and cultural beliefs are to be considered. While preparing for the end, one should loosen the strings of one’s purse to experience the sheer joy of giving, not to religious institutions and NGOs where it may be misused, but to those who genuinely need it. Perhaps, one should start working on fulfilling the dreams that had to be abandoned earlier due to a variety of reasons such as time and resources. And lastly, this is the time to write about oneself in a journal, as honestly as possible. It may not get printed, but your children, or grandchildren may one day find some useful life lessons in it. colcheema1942@gmail.com(The writer is a Panchkula-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-making-peace-with-the-fragility-of-life-101633204542854.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC spent at least ₹1K-crore on Mumbai roads annually in past 10 years||While there has been uproar over the poor quality of roads in Mumbai with potholes mushrooming across the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) spends at least ₹1,000 crore annually on the road department that is involved in the construction, repair and maintenance of the city’s 2,000-km road network, civic body data has revealed. Moreover, the expenditure has doubled in the past 10 years. BMC has spent over ₹15,000 crore on the road department in the past nine financial years or two election terms, according to the data.BMC claims that in the current fiscal, the expenditure on road works will be around ₹2,000 crore. It has maintained that the current works of converting all major roads into cement and concrete is the ultimate solution to have good quality of roads and will result in resolving problems relating to potholes.According to the data, the expenditure on roads has significantly increased from 2012-13. The data stated that BMC’s expenditure rose dramatically in the 2012-2017 election term, as compared to the past two election terms between 2002 and 2012. As per the data, ₹1,002 crore was spent between 2002 and 2007 by BMC on construction and repair-maintenance of roads in the city, which increased to ₹3,992 crore between 2007 and 2012.However, after this, the expenditure has significantly increased. Between 2012 and 2017, BMC spent ₹8,305 crore – double the money spent in the previous five years. Further, between 2017 and January 2021, BMC had spent over ₹7,298 crore on the roads department. This indicates that the expenditure in the ongoing election term that will end in March is expected to be more than that of the previous term of 2012-17. However, BMC’s above data is considering the financial year.This does not include the western and eastern express highways as they are maintained by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). There are several other agencies, including the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) that maintains several flyovers, Mumbai Port Trust, that maintaining the city roads. In 2015, ₹350-crore road scam was discovered in BMC in which 38 people – 22 site engineers and 16 third-party quality auditors – were held responsible. The civic body ordered a probe into repairs of 34 roads, after then mayor Snehal Ambekar wrote to former municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta about the inferior quality and corruption. The inquiry found that the contractors had not used the amount of material needed to build or repair the roads, thus reducing its thickness and pocketing the remaining amount.But despite the above expenditure and the road scam resulting in scrutiny, BMC remains at the receiving end over potholes every year during monsoon. Borivli resident Viraj Mamania said, “Every year during monsoon, we have potholes despite crores of rupees being spent by BMC. Since the past two years, several roads in my area, which were earlier smooth, have developed potholes. In the name of Covid-19 duty, there is no quick response to the potholes. We have to do continuous follow-ups to ensure the potholes are fixed.”Mulund resident Nishit Modi, “Everywhere in the city, be it LBS Road, SV Road and Linking Road, there are potholes. The reason for this is the ongoing Metro construction work. But how long can we take this? The Metro work has been going on for over the past three years and will go on for 3 more years. So is BMC expecting citizens to travel on potholes for six years while it continues to spend crores of rupees on road maintenance?”Meanwhile, BMC has said that the quality of roads will undergo a major transformation in the next seven-eight years. Additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said, “Asphalt and bitumen are not going to help when it comes to road surface in the city. The vehicle load and rainfall pattern both have contributed in degrading road quality, resulting in potholes. Hence, our policy decision to have cement and concrete roads is the ultimate answer to give Mumbai better roads.” Velrasu added, “The current ratio of cement and concrete roads in the city out of total 2,000 km roads under BMC is around 25-30% and we plan to take it up to around 80%. This change will come in around seven-eight years and it will be a major solution to potholes. We can do it faster but we have to ensure our capacity and quality of roads.”Dhawal Ashar, head of Urban Transport and Road Safety at World Resources Institute (WRI), said, “Concrete roads could largely address the problem of potholes in the city. However, it is critical to carefully design each element of our street. Concrete pavements are rigid. Once we make them, it will be hard to turn back. Ultimately, the true experience of a city is in its detail. People-friendly streets are safe, accessible and beautiful. There is undeniable evidence that designing for pedestrians will not just improve safety but also increase traffic efficiency.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-spent-at-least-1k-crore-on-mumbai-roads-annually-in-past-10-years-101633204361765.html
03-10-2021||Mumbai||Fadnavis tours areas hit by floods, Pankaja Munde keeps away||Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday began a tour of the districts affected by floods in Marathwada (central Maharashtra) to meet the affected farmers. The tour also came under focus as senior BJP leader Pankaja Munde kept away, citing health reasons. Eyebrows were raised in the political circles over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pankaja Munde’s conspicuous sulking from the scene when leader of opposition in legislative Assembly Fandavis and key party leaders are touring flood-affected central Maharashtra, the political home turf for the former. Munde has tweeted to announce that she is unwell and would not be able to take calls or meet in person for two to four days.After beginning the tour from Washim in Vidarbha, Fadnavis is touring Hingoli and Nanded on Saturday and will visit other districts of central Maharashtra on Sunday.Being a senior party leader from the region, Munde was expected to join the tour of the senior party leaders. She, however, avoided to join the tour reportedly to show her discontent. The leader is reportedly unhappy with the treatment meted out to her and her family over the past few years. More recently, Munde had openly expressed her anger against Fadnavis and Maharashtra unit chief of party Chandrakant Patil. She had indulged in a show of strength after her sister and Beed MP Pritam was not given a ministerial berth during the Modi government expansion in July this year.Pankaja tweeted on Saturday, “Unwell..tonsillitis n blisters in my throat advised strict voice rest for 2 to 4 days ... can’t take calls or meet in person…(sic)”“She believes that party’s state leaders like Fadnavis and Patil have been deliberately cutting her to size. She is under the impression that her defeat in 2019 Assembly polls was engineered by her rivals within the party. Other OBC leaders in the party are being given lift to undermine her importance despite she being the OBC face of the party. Denying the claim of her younger sister, party inducted Bhagwat Karad, another OBC leader from the region, as union minister and it had been like rubbing salt on the wound for Mundes. Karad was brought in politics by Pankaja’s father Gopinathji,” said a leader close to Pankaja.Pankaja had kept away from an OBC rally convened by the party in Mumbai in July. She had led a show of strength and announced a Yatra in central Maharashtra as part of the revolt within the party after her defeat in Assembly poll. When asked about the buzz, Fadnavis said that the issue should not be politicised. “I will speak to her. She is not well and it could happen with anybody. I think nobody should give it a political colour,” he said. Political analyst Hemand Desai said, “Question here is if she was invited or intimated by a party about the tour, asking her to join. Pankaja is keeping away from the party activities of late. As a national secretary Pankaja is co-incharge of Madhya Pradesh for party activities, but she is hardly seen on national canvas”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-tours-areas-hit-by-floods-pankaja-munde-keeps-away-101633204122254.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab deputy CM Randhawa directs police to check illegal paddy inflow into state||Ahead of the paddy procurement season, Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has issued strict instructions to the police department to not allow the illegal “import” of produce from other parts of the country into the state. Randhawa directed all senior superintendents of police (SSPs) to put up nakas on all main roads and link roads and strictly check vehicles to stop the inflow of paddy into Punjab from the borders of adjoining states, an official statement said.The deputy chief minister also wrote to the principal secretary, home, and the director general of police asking them to deploy additional police personnel in different districts by Saturday evening. Randhawa directed all SSPs to ensure that these orders are strictly followed, especially in districts bordering other states like Fazilka, Sri Muktsar Sahib, Bathinda, Mansa, Sangrur, Patiala, SAS Nagar, Rupnagar, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur and Pathankot. Meanwhile, on the directions of the deputy CM, officiating director general of police Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota has directed all police commissioners and SSPs to provide adequate police force to general managers (GM) of the Punjab Roadways and PRTC, to help them in the removal of encroachments at all bus stands. The order further says that the police force is to be provided under the command of a gazetted officer to the GMs of the transport department on their request. GMs of transport department (Punjab Roadways and PRTC) will be the nodal officers, who will liaise with the CP/SSPs concerned, the order reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-deputy-cm-randhawa-directs-police-to-check-illegal-paddy-inflow-into-state-101633203463491.html
03-10-2021||Pune||Fuel retailer to offer sports training to Yerawada jail inmates in Pune||PUNE: The prison departments from multiple states in the country inaugurated a sports training initiative with the government oil distributor Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) for inmates on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti on Saturday. Yerawada Central Jail, the only prison that participated in the initial phase of the initiative from Maharashtra, announced 60 players who will train with three coaches of IOCL next month. The three sports include chess, carrom and volleyball with 20 players each. Carrom coach will be Yogesh Pardeshi (46), a three-time world champion, and chess coach will be Eesha Karavade (33), the 2005 woman grandmaster. The initiative, however, has not been introduced in the women’s prison of Yerawada. West Bengal’s Alipore Women’s Correctional Home was one of the few jails which launched the initiative for women. “As per the Bombay High Court directive, men - even coaches - cannot be allowed inside the women’s prison. We have asked for female coaches. Once we get them, the coaching will begin there as well,” said Atulchandra Kulkarni, additional director general of police (ADGP) for Maharashtra Prisons. “We will provide the equipment, instalation and coaching. We had proposed a three-month programme. So far, we have received information for one month. The schedule will be provided by the jail administration as per the security protocol,” said Rajesh Jadhav, general manager, human resource, IOCL. The coaches that work with IOCL are players who represented the country. IOCL holds annual training for children in Konkan, Maharashtra which provides a hands-on experience in coaching for the players. “There are three levels - beginner, mid-level, and professional. The beginner and mid-level coaching is done by others whom I train. I train the professional level players. These players are generally under 14 or under 18 as these trainings are held with students of either schools or junior colleges that approach IOCL,” said Pardeshi. When asked about the difference between the training strategy for training children and jail inmates, the coaches had varied strategies. “I have been teaching with IOCL for 17-18 years. From experience, now I know who has the aptitude for it when I see them play. We have now been given a name of the 20 players, I hope they turn into players,” said Pardeshi. “I have not coached much. But looking at it from an outside perspective, they are adults and with very little distraction inside the jail. There are multiple distractions and commitments from outside. So, I think that maybe it will be easier to concentrate and learn,” said Karavade. Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, chairman, IOCL and ADGP of various states’ prison departments, including ADGP Kulkarni of Maharashtra and Anirban Ghosh of IOCL attended the inaugural event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fuel-retailer-to-offer-sports-training-to-yerawada-jail-inmates-in-pune-101633203462400.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column | Mahatma Gandhi: A leader for the ages||As an Indian on foreign soil, I would inevitably be asked, “Have you heard of Gandhi? Do you know of him?” It didn’t matter where I was - Brazil, Colombia or Ecuador - everybody was in awe of him. Sure, as an Indian, I was well-versed with Mahatma Gandhi’s role in India’s freedom struggle. However, I was amazed to see his fan following in distant countries, especially after Richard Attenborough’s Academy Award-winning film Gandhi. The film, which won eight Oscars took Gandhi to the far corners of the world. However, I was tickled by the fact that a Britisher had made a film on the man who had dedicated his life to fighting his countrymen. Gandhi is revered all over the world as the messiah of non-violence. His message of non-violence is as relevant today, as it was in the 1930s and 1940s, when he led India’s fight against colonial rule. To Gandhi, the means were as important as the ends, to Gandhi. While advocating for swaraj (self-rule), Gandhi had requested all freedom fighters to peacefully resist the colonial forces, and never resort to violence against the police. In fact, he would call off large-scale satyagraha (civil disobedience) movements, in case violence was perpetrated by the protesters. An appeal to the conscience Every human life was precious for the Mahatma, even the lives of those who opposed India’s quest for freedom. Those who respect human life, never indulge in violence. By following a policy of non-violence, Gandhi appealed to the conscience of his opponents. As the great physicist Albert Einstein succinctly put it, “Generations to come will scarce believe that such a one as this ever in flesh and blood walked upon this earth.” Gandhi’s teachings have influenced numerous global leaders. Martin Luther King and Nelson Mandela were both followers of the Mahatma’s non-violence philosophy and imbibed his teachings in their own struggles. Gandhi’s vision for India was that of a country where people of all religions lived harmoniously. He would often proclaim that he was not just a Hindu. He was a Hindu, Muslim, Christian and Jew, all rolled into one. Gandhi practiced, what he preached. In his ashrams, all residents were responsible for cleaning the toilets, a role traditionally consigned to a group of people who were considered “untouchables.” He was against all discrimination and respected all forms of work. So, at his ashrams people cleaned toilets by rotation as Gandhi believed that one must be the change they wanted to see in the world. He also prescribed being truthful in both relationships and politics, proclaiming, “Truth is as old as the hills.” Role model for the youth Gandhi’s autobiography My Experiments With Truth, has been written with candour and in elementary English, which can be understood by everybody. It should be made mandatory reading for the youth. It is important to expose youngsters to leaders, who ushered significant changes in our world, without any violence or firing a single shot. Younger generations would also benefit by reading American author Louis Fischer’s The Life of Mahatma Gandhi. The book was my Bible in my younger days. Fischer spent seven days with Gandhi at the Sevagram Ashram in Wardha. The author was surprised to see that the Mahatma only kept a black and white photograph of Jesus Christ, in his bare room. While the world has paid homage to Mahatma Gandhi through statues and postage stamps, his message of non-violence has been largely ignored. The world is overflowing with armed struggles as seen in Afghanistan, Palestine, Syria, and Lebanon. Armed militancy movements such as the Al Qaeda, and ISIS in the Middle East and rebel groups in Colombia and Peru have caused the death of thousands of people in the name of ideological struggles. Many of the embattled people may not even have heard the name of Mahatma Gandhi. Should they choose to struggle nonviolently, perhaps it would draw more global attention to their cause. The world needs to subordinate religion to economics. We need to provide more money, food and medicines to about 36% of the global population, which lives below the poverty line. We need to rediscover Mahatma Gandhi. Feeding, clothing and housing the destitute of the world, is the highest religious duty, we can perform. As Martin Luther King wrote, Mahatma Gandhi “belonged to the ages.” rkaneja@anejamanagement.com (The author is a Mumbai-based management consultant)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mahatma-gandhi-a-leader-for-the-ages-101633202921697.html
03-10-2021||Other||Dalit girl’s killers still at large in UP’s Bulandshahr||The police are yet to make any breakthrough in the murder of a Dalit girl, who was a high school student, and whose body was found outside her Kirra village of Khurja area in Bulandshahr’s district in wee hours of Friday. Six police teams have been set up to arrest the unidentified assailants and though some suspects are being interrogated, the main culprits were still at large. Police admitted that the postmortem report established death caused due to injury on forehead and strangulation. Villagers told the police that women had to bear with lewd remarks passed at them by hooligans and said many girl students had even stopped going to school because of such things. “Teams were working on all angles and hopefully perpetrators of crime would soon be arrested,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP), Bulandshahr, SK Singh while confirming the postmortem report. Singh said police with the help of locals, had picked up a suspect who was being interrogated. “This and other suspects would help us nab the assailants”, Singh said. Police said the student had left her home to attend her tuition classes in a neighbouring village on Thursday evening. However, when she didn’t return her family and locals started looking for her and later her body was found in the outskirts of Kirra village, police said. After the postmortem examination, the victim’s body was brought to her village on Friday where villagers refused to perform the last rites until the police and local administration agreed to their demand of providing a safe and secure atmosphere for women. They also demanded financial aid to the vicim’s family and setting up of an inter college in the village named after the victim. They also sought prompt arrest of the assailants. The last rites of the victim were later performed after the police agreed to the demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dalit-girl-s-killers-still-at-large-in-up-s-bulandshahr-101633202742503.html
03-10-2021||Pune||Four booked in currency exchange fraud in Pune||PUNE: The Pune police have booked four men in the third known case of cheating by giving soap bars disguised as UAE Dirhams by luring people into rates lower than foreign exchange rates. The theft and cheating happened on September 8 around 2:45pm near Upper bus depot in Bibwewadi. A complaint was lodged by Vinod Pandit (40) of Kondhwa Budrukh. The four men had approached Pandit with an offer to sell Dirham at a cheaper rate in exchange of cash. As pre-decided, Pandit arrived at the spot with ₹60,000 cash and one of the accused arrived with what looked like a wad of Dirhams but were soap bars wrapped in newspaper and cloth layers. The man then thrusted the package in Pandit’s hand and forcefully grabbed the plastic bag with Indian currency in it. The man then allegedly pushed Pandit on the ground and fled from the spot. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of peace), 420 (cheating), 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bibwewadi police station. The same modus operandi has been used in one case in Kondhwa and the second was registered at Lonikand police station in the past one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-booked-in-currency-exchange-fraud-in-pune-101633202741455.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Officiating DGP takes stock of internal security||In wake of the recent recovery of grenades and RDX-laden tiffin boxes in Punjab, officiating director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota chaired a high-level meeting at police intelligence headquarters in Mohali on Saturday.The DGP, who was accompanied by ADGP (intelligence) Varinder Kumar, ADGP (internal security) RN Dhoke and ADGP (counter intelligence and organised crime control unit) Amit Prasad took stock of the internal security arrangements. After a briefing with senior officers, the DGP expressed the satisfaction over the efforts being taken on the counter-terrorism front. “The situation in the state is peaceful and Punjab Police is ready for any challenges,” he said.The acting DGP also stressed on the need to intensify vigil, in view of the upcoming festive season.He instructed the officers to not let anyone take law into their hands and deal firmly with those found indulging in violent activities.DGP Sahota also cautioned the people of Punjab to remain on alert and immediately inform the police if they find any suspicious thing lying abandoned or unclaimed anywhere, including in trains, buses or restaurants etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-officiating-dgp-takes-stock-of-internal-security-101633202501582.html
03-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 572 new Covid cases, 4 deaths||Pune: As of Saturday, Pune district has reported 572 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.14 million of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,800 deaths and 9,096 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 95,000 doses vaccinated on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 294 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 359,371 and the death toll stood at 6,792 as two more deaths were reported on the day. Pune city reported 183 new cases which took the progressive count to 517,638 and the death toll went up to 9,160 as two more deaths were reported on the day. PCMC reported 95 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 266,662 and the toll stood at 3,499 as no more deaths were reported. Pune also saw 95,318 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Saturday and in total 10,733,810. Out of which 7,235,162 are first doses and 3,498,648 are second doses. A total of 603 sites saw vaccination of which 349 were govt centres and 254 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-572-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-101633202261568.html
03-10-2021||Other||Farmers turning to fish farming using barren, saline land in Haryana’s Sirsa||Saline land and saline water, which is considered a curse for agriculture, is proving to be a boon for farmers of Sirsa district in Haryana, officials said on Saturday.There is a lot of land in Haryana, which was often left barren due to rise in saline water level, but farmers have started earning more money by doing business of shrimp fisheries through crop diversification as compared to what they used to earn from other crops, state agriculture minister JP Dalal said.Fish farming is now being done in 785 acre land in Haryana, of which 400 acre is in Sirsa, he said.Sirsa adjoining the border of Rajasthan and Punjab at the last end of Haryana has the highest number of cultivators in state.In Sirsa, farmers have mainly been cultivating narma, cotton, guar, paddy and wheat since the beginning. Due to adoption of traditional farming, where groundwater went down considerably in some places, thousands of acres became saline, while the water level came up farmers’ production stopped on such land. The economic condition of the farmers was also disturbed due to non-fertility of the land.Keeping in view the condition of farmers, the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana was implemented to promote the Blue Revolution, Dalal said.Farmers of Sirsa took up this scheme and it is proving to be effective in strengthening the economic base of farmers, the minister said.District fisheries officer Jagdish Chandra said there is immense potential for fish farming in saline water and saline land. Under the scheme, there is a provision of grant of maximum 40% of the unit cost by the government for the general category and 60% of the unit cost for the SC/ST/women category, he said.At present, the scheme of the department of fisheries is proving to be beneficial for fish farmers. Farmers interested in fisheries can apply for grants to buy vehicles (motorcycles, cycles and three-wheelers) for making ponds on land, fish farming in salt water, shrimp farming and selling fish, he said.He said white prawn rearing is also being done on about 400 acre in district.Of these, 35 acre is in Chormar Kheda village, 32 acre in Gudiya Kheda, 16 acre in Mithdi including Bhangu, Jhordwali, Phoolo, Odhan, Darba Kalan, Manak Dewan, Asha Kheda, Karmshana, Chautala village, etc.Buyers from Telangana and West Bengal are coming in to buy white shrimp being produced in Sirsa. From here, the fish is exported to various countries, including China.Dalal reviewed the fish farming business in a state-level meeting, in which he has given a target of 600 acre of fisheries business. He said soon, Sirsa will emerge as a pilot project in fisheries across country.Meanwhile, farmers have demanded the state government to set up a water testing laboratory in Sirsa to support the business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-turning-to-fish-farming-using-barren-saline-land-in-haryana-s-sirsa-101633202145810.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Hanuman temple priests booked for contractor’s murder||Six people including four priests of a Hanuman temple in Gosaiganj in Lucknow were booked for murder of a contractor on Friday night, senior police officials said on Saturday. Police said the murder was over a dispute about construction of a building on the temple trust premises. Lucknow’s deputy commissioner of police (DCP), north, GK Chowdhary said the body of the private contractor Nirmal Agnihorti was found lying in bushes by the roadside, little distance from Mahavir ji temple in Gosaiganj town area on Friday. He said the postmortem report revealed multiple injuries on the contractor’s body that apparently caused his death. He said Agnihotri’s family members have accused four priests of Mahavir Ji temple and two others of murdering him in dispute over construction of commercial complex at a portion of the property owned by the temple trust. The priests were opposing the construction. The DCP said the contractor was carrying out the construction on behalf of one Lala Ganesh Prasad. Another police official explained that there were two groups among the temple trust members, one of which allowed Lala Ganesh Prasad to construct the complex and to rent it to a bank to raise the temple trust’s income. The other group was opposing this. The DCP said the contractor’s son Prateek got a named FIR against four priests: Chanderpal alias Bablu, Om Prakash alias Sattu, Bheesma alis Pintu and Pappu. Named FIR was also made against two of their aides Ravindra Kumar and Dharam Raj. Prateek, in his complaint, has accused them of attacking his father and beating him to death. The police official said all the accused were on the run and three teams had been constituted to arrest them. Three family members of the accused have been taken into custody for further interrogation, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-hanuman-temple-priests-booked-for-contractor-s-murder-101633202142648.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Channi seeks withdrawal of railway cases against farmers||Punjab chief minister (CM) Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday urged the chairman of the Railway Board to withdraw cases registered by the Railway Protection Force (RPF) against members of farmers’ organisations.As part of the ongoing agitation against three farm laws enacted by the Centre last year, members of different farmers’ organisations and unions had staged sit-ins on railway tracks in Punjab during 2020 and this year. The CM has impressed upon the Railway Board chairman to take a sympathetic view of the matter and consider the withdrawal of cases against members of various farmer bodies, a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.The RPF has registered as many as 30 cases against them, an official statement said.CM waives income limit in Aashirwaad schemeAcceding to the proposal of the social security, women and child development department, Channi ordered to either exempt or waive off the annual income limit of ₹32,790 in respect of girl beneficiaries of Aashirwaad scheme, who have lost both their parents during the Covid-19 pandemic. A spokesperson of the CMO said that now irrespective of the income, girl beneficiaries hailing from scheduled caste/Christian community, backward categories/caste, economically weaker categories, widows of any caste and divorcees/widows of SC category can avail the financial benefit under the said scheme on re-marriage. However, other norms of the scheme would remain unchanged, added Channi.Nod for family pension for employees under NPSThe CM also gave nod to allow benefits of family pension in case of death-in-harness to employees covered under National Pension Scheme (NPS). This was done in accordance to the family pension guidelines of 2009 and subsequent instructions released in 2019. These rules will be applicable with suitable state government modifications in respect of employees covered under NPS as applicable to similarly placed employees in Government of India, as per the provisions under the Punjab civil services rules- Volume II.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-seeks-withdrawal-of-railway-cases-against-farmers-101633202082152.html
03-10-2021||Pune||Syringe shortage may hit PMC-rural Pune plan of 75-hour marathon vaccination drive||Pune: After the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) began its 75 hours marathon of Covid-19 vaccination, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and rural Pune also plan to follow suit. However, even as the administration has enough doses with them, the shortage of syringes has emerged as a new worry for the administration. The state government has been supplying Covid vaccine doses but has stopped giving syringes as the Centre has stopped the supply of syringes, said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar during a press meet on Friday. Pune zilla parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “The shortage of syringes is primarily because of corporate donors who gave us only vaccines and no syringes. While Bajaj group donated both syringes and vaccine doses, we had to use up our syringes to continue the drives. This caused a temporary shortage. We are planning to start the 75 hours marathon vaccination drive at a selected larger location where there would be a continuous flow of beneficiaries and we will have at least nine nurses to provide service.” On Saturday, the state provided syringes to the district but they would only suffice for the next few days. PMC is also facing a similar problem. Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer said, “We have received over 41,000 syringes on Saturday and for the 75-hour marathon vaccination drive we would plan for the same on Monday and most likely the drive would begin on Tuesday and will continue till Friday. Regarding shortage of syringes if required we would buy more at our end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/syringe-shortage-may-hit-pmc-rural-pune-plan-of-75-hour-marathon-vaccination-drive-101633201962855.html
03-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Residents protest against demolition drives, officials defend move||Around 1,000 residents of New Palam Vihar and its adjoining areas, under the aegis of Jan Adhikar Sangathan, congregated at Shaheed Major Vinod Rana park on Saturday to protest against the demolition drive being carried out by the civic agencies. While locals said that the civic authorities are not providing amenities despite them paying property tax and development charges, officials of the town and country planning department said demolitions are being carried out in illegal colonies and against constructions which are not part of the approved building plans. Bir Singh, former sarpanch of Bajghera, who is spearheading the Sangathan , said demolition drives are being carried out arbitrarily and without any reason. “The demolition drives were stopped in New Palam Vihar in 2005. After that, no such action was taken. It is surprising that suddenly, such actions are being carried out despite the fact that the local MLA Rakesh Daulatabad is from this area,” said Singh. Rakesh Rana, president of Sai Kunj RWA, said the government agencies have failed in bringing development and were engaged in seeking taxes only. A spokesperson for Rakesh Daulatabad, the Badshahpur MLA, said the issue of demolitions is being given a political colour by people, who have political interests and ambitions. “These are baseless allegations being levelled against the MLA, who has played key role in the development of colonies and is dedicated to work for the betterment of people of Badshahpur and Gurugram,” he said. R S Bhath, district town planner said that demolitions are being carried out only if illegal constructions have been made. “New construction without permission is not allowed. We will take action against illegal colonies and buildings according to rules. We also appeal to people to avoid buying properties in illegal colonies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-residents-protest-against-demolition-drives-officials-defend-move-101633201961638.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amid farmers’ protests in Haryana, govt agrees to start paddy procurement from today||Amid state-wide protests by farmers on Saturday, the Union government has now agreed to start procurement of paddy in Haryana from October 3.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar made this announcement after a meeting with Union minister of state for food and public distribution, Ashwani Kumar Choubey, in Delhi.Khattar meets Union minister Ashwani Kumar Choubey“We raised the issue with the Union minister and requested him to resolve the matter and it was decided that procurement of paddy will start from October 3 instead of October 11,” Khattar told the media after the meeting in New Delhi.He said paddy arrival in mandis and the concerns of farmers are valid, thus, it was decided that procurement will begin from Sunday. Khattar said, “We hope farmers who held protests demanding that procurement be started immediately will stop their protest.”The decision has come as a major relief for thousands of farmers, arhtiyas and mandi labourers as huge stocks of unprocured paddy is lying in the mandis for past couple of days. Directions have been issued to district-level officials to start procurement from Sunday.Earlier, procurement in around 200 mandis and purchase centres of Haryana was to start from September 25 and later it was delayed to October 1. But late on September 30, the Union government had directed the procurement agencies of Punjab and Haryana to defer the procurement to October 11 citing higher moisture content in paddy and delay in harvest due to recent rains.The move had evoked severe criticism from farm unions and they had threatened to gherao residences of all MLAs and MPs and start indefinite protests if government fails to start procurement immediately.Day of protests across stateOn Saturday, as per directions of senior farm leaders including Gurnam Singh Charuni, farmers associated with different farm unions held meetings, took out protest marches, broke barricades and managed to reach the residences of leaders of the ruling parties.In Karnal, the administration had made elaborate security arrangements around the CM’s residence in Prem Nagar but the agitators broke the barricades with a tractor-trailer and reached the residence to start an indefinite protest.The farmers also installed a flag of farm union on a wall of the CM’s residence. Farmers even pitched a tent outside the CM house for a long haul if procurement is not started soon.In Kaithal, farmers also got support of anganwadi workers and helpers’ union. They breached the barricades and reached the residence of minister of state Kamlesh Dhanda.Similar protests were reported from Kurukshetra’s Shahbad as farmers carrying trolleys laden with paddy reached the residence of sports minister Sandeep Kumar and JJP MLA Ram Karan Kala.Farmers protested outside the houses of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa, minister of state Anoop Dhanak and BJP MLA Kamal Gupta in Hisar to register their protest.They also laid siege outside the residences of Sirsa MP Sunita Duggal, Sonepat MP Ramresh Kaushik, Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh and state agriculture minister JP Dalal’s residence in Bhiwani.The farmers burnt plants of bajra, cotton and paddy outside the ruling party leaders’ houses and raised slogans against them.Farmers vacate protest sites in Ambala, YamunanagarHours after the government announced to re-schedule paddy procurement in the state, farmers in Ambala and Yamunanagar vacated the protest sites outside the residences of MLAs on Saturday.Earlier, the farm activists, under the banner of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), had pushed barricades in both districts to stage a sit-in outside the residence of state education minister Kanwar Pal and Ambala city MLA Aseem Goel.Despite multiple face-offs, the protests remained peaceful in both places. A farmer received minor injuries in Ambala after a barricade fell on him. He was taken to civil hospital for treatment.In Yamunanagar, BKU (Charuni) district director Mandeep Ror Chhappar had a run-in with BJP state president of OBC Morcha and former minister Karandev Kamboj, for calling names to the farming community.‘Victory of farmers’Reacting to the government’s decision to start procurement from October 3, farm leader Jagdeep Singh Aulakh said, “It is a victory of farmers. They have forced the government to start paddy procurement from Sunday.”Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala has also termed it a resounding victory of the farmers. “Farmers have forced the Modi government to withdraw its decision of postponing the procurement to October 11. The government will also have to repeal the Centre’s three farm laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-farmers-protests-in-haryana-govt-agrees-to-start-paddy-procurement-from-today-101633201664367.html
03-10-2021||Gurugram||DHBVN launches surcharge waiver scheme for electricity consumers||The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) has launched a surcharge waiver scheme for all consumers whose electricity connections were snapped after June 30 for non-payment of dues. The DHBVN will waive the entire surcharge of the outstanding bill if consumers pay the principle amount in lump sum, said a spokesperson of the power utility. Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh on Friday said the scheme will be available till November 30. “The first and second wave of Covid 19 has badly affected both people and the economy. The DHBVN will waive off the entire surcharge of the outstanding bill on payment of the principal amount in lump sum,” said Singh. Meanwhile, DHBVN said consumer can also avail of this scheme by depositing only 25% of the original amount and pay the remaining balance in six instalments. This way, all surcharges till June 30 will be waived on deposit of the entire principal amount. The order issued by DHBVN said, “Reconnection will be made on payment of 25% of principal outstanding amount.”In rural areas, panchayats who have given consent for the implementation of Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon Yojana and even residents of those villages, where the Yojana has been launched, will be able to avail of the surcharge waiver scheme. However, those consumers whose cases are pending in the court cannot avail the scheme. The minister said the scheme will only be applicable once the court cases are withdrawn. A DHBVN official in Gurugran said information regarding the surcharge waive scheme is available on the website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dhbvn-launches-surcharge-waiver-scheme-for-electricity-consumers-101633201540808.html
03-10-2021||Pune||Reopening of Pune schools: Staff in a fix over mandatory RT-PCR||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given its nod to reopening of schools from October 4 and the educational institutes have to follow Covid protocols to ensure safety of students. Teachers from across the city expressed unhappiness over the last moment order. Schools will reopen at Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and Pune rural from Monday (October 4). Many schools and teachers were enthusiastic about reopening of offline classes after almost one and a half years. However, the enthusiasm was short-lived. The official order by PMC clearly states that all teaching and non-teaching staff have to get an RT-PCR test done before the reopening of schools. Speaking about the order, Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune District Principals’ Association, questioned how the staff can get the RT-PCR result in less than a day. “The order clearly states that RT-PCR has to be done before reopening of schools. Majority staff are vaccinated. Moreover, this order is issued on Saturday and schools are expected to start from Monday. In such a short notice, how can all the staff be tested and results be submitted at the respective schools?” said Gaikwad. He said that because of the announcement, many schools may not reopen on Monday as all staff may not get their RT-PCR results by then. “Schools, teachers and students were very enthusiastic about reopening of schools. However, it is likely that all schools may reopen by mid-week as results of all staff members would be made available by them. PMC should have informed us at least a few days prior,” said Gaikwad. He said that all Covid protocols are important to ensure the safety of students, however, local authorities should have issued the official statement earlier this week. In September last week, the state government announced that all schools in urban areas are to be reopened from October 4 for classes 8 to 12 and from classes 5 onwards in rural parts. However, PMC waited until the very last moment on Saturday to issue a formal order on the same. Speaking about the order, Dnyaneshwar Molak, PMC joint municipal commissioner, said that testing centres near the schools are allocated for special testing of teaching and non-teaching staff. “Most staff are vaccinated with both doses. RT-PCR are an additional measure to ensure safety of the student. Teachers and non-teaching staff are giving priority while testing and their results will be made readily available,” said Molak. Safety measures The Covid safety protocol that should be followed by schools:Thermal scanning, thermometer, pulse oximeter should be used at school premises School transport should be sanitised Compulsory RT-PCR test should be done by teaching and non-teaching staff within 48 hours before reopening of schools. The test result should be submitted at the schools. Every 15 days, the staff should be tested again Teachers should be completely vaccinated before reopening of schools Physical distance should be maintained in classrooms and staff rooms Markings should be made to ensure students are standing at least six feet apart. Covid protocols signboards and notices should be put up across the campus Written consent by parents School premises should be sanitised at least twice a day. School transport should also be sanitised at least twice a day||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/reopening-of-pune-schools-staff-in-a-fix-over-mandatory-rtpcr-101633201361536.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi reviews arrangements ahead of PM Modi’s Lucknow visit||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday reviewed arrangements for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Tuesday visit to Lucknow. Yogi Adityanath visited the Indira Gandhi Pratishthaan, the venue for the three-day urban conclave in which Modi would participate. Later, he held a review meet in his office, directing officers to complete all stipulated tasks and preparations related to the event on time. During his nearly two-hour stay at the venue on Tuesday, Modi was expected virtually interact with the beneficiaries of the PM Awas Yojana, give away keys to poor beneficiaries and flag off 150 electric buses meant for 7 different cities of the state, besides launching several other schemes, officials said. “This is an important event and all the departments associated with it have their task cut out. Each and everything from traffic arrangements to logistics should be planned out in detail,” Yogi said. The chief minister said back-up arrangement for power supply should be ensured to deal with any emergency. He also directed that all illegal hoardings in and around the event venue be removed. Yogi also said that proper lighting arrangements at important government buildings be made for the event. The review meeting was attended by urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon, chief secretary RK Tiwari, director general of police Mukul Goel, additional chief secretaries Awanish Awasthi, (home) Rajnish Dubey, (urban development), Navneet Sehgal, (MSME), Arvind Kumar, (tourism development) Mukesh Meshram, principal secretary (tourism), SP Goyal, (additional chief secretary to chief minister), Alok Kumar, secretary to chief minister and Anurag Yadav, secretary, urban development, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-reviews-arrangements-ahead-of-pm-modi-s-lucknow-visit-101633201302403.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||HSSC exam for selecting cops under cloud, needs to be probed, says Surjewala||Picking holes in the examination process adopted by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) for selecting Haryana Police sub-inspector (SI), Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala on Saturday said examination conducted by the Commission is under a cloud.He demanded that the HSSC should be disbanded and a judicial probe be conducted into the matter.The former minister, who addressed a press conference, said three different sets of question papers were distributed to candidates appearing for the SI examination.“Why question papers were changed at certain examination centres in a span of 15-20 minutes? This puts the entire examination process under suspicion. It seems fairness and transparency has been given a go by the Commission,” Surjewala said.“It has been eight days since the examination took place and the Commission is yet to issue the answer key for the test. This is because the Commission has to deal with three sets of papers and is clueless about releasing the answer key,” Surjewala said.Also, the questions asked in the three sets of papers were completely different in terms of the scope of the subject and did not provide level playing field to the candidates, he said.Questioning the availability of large number of OMR sheets at examination centres in Gurugram and Rewari, the Congress leader said this raises suspicion about malpractice in the examination process.“Many questions asked in the examination about BJP leaders were quite out of place. It seems that the HSSC was not taking an exam to select police sub-inspectors but BJP workers,” Surjewala said.The Congress leader said the Commission on Friday ordered a re-examination in three centres only despite the fact that anomalies have been reported from other exam centres also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hssc-exam-for-selecting-cops-under-cloud-needs-to-be-probed-says-surjewala-101633201181350.html
03-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: 4 candidates in fray for bypolls to ward 34||The bypolls to elect the next councillor for ward 34 of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will be held on Sunday, with results of the elections likely to be announced later in the day. Areas in DLF Phases 1, 2, parts of DLF 5 and MG Road fall in the jurisdiction of ward 34 , which roughly has a population of around 1.25 lakh. The seat has been vacant since the death of R S Rathee, the incumbent councillor who died of Covid-19 on May 30.Four candidates will be contesting for the seat — BJP candidate Rama Rathee, a former councillor of Ward 34 and the wife of the late R S Rathee; Jagmohan, an independent candidate and resident of Sikanderpur; Zile Singh, the president of Saraswati Vihar residents’ welfare association (RWA), and Mohit Yadav, an advocate from Sikanderpur.On Friday, deputy commissioner Dr Yash Garg imposed Section 144 of The Code of Criminal Procedure in a radius of 200 metres around all the polling stations in view of the by-elections. The order will remain in effect till the election results are declared.“The imposition of Section 144 at the polling stations has been done to maintain law and order and conduct the by-elections peacefully. There will be a complete ban on the gathering of four or more people within a radius of 200 metres around the polling stations,” said an official spokesperson for the district administration.According to the order issued by the deputy commissioner, no person can carry weapons such as firearms, swords, sticks, spears, axes, knives near the premises of the polling stations.Action will be taken against anyone found violating the rules under Section 188 of the IPC for disobeying orders duly promulgated by a public servant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-4-candidates-in-fray-for-bypolls-to-ward-34-101633200701506.html
03-10-2021||Pune||Sassoon as doctors’ body goes on strike, non-emergency services hit||Two organisations, one working for resident doctors and another for medical officers have declared to go on an indefinite strike against the government and the administration to meet the unmet demands. The strike has been declared statewide by the respective organisation’s chapter in different districts in the state which will likely affect the non-emergency services at Sassoon General hospital, Pune city’s largest government hospital which also includes the planned surgeries and the daily OPD services at the hospital. Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) that covers doctors studying postgraduate course at BJ Medical College is protesting against fees collection by the medical education department for their courses as the students state that the academics at the colleges were completely affected last year due to Covid and that the students participated in Covid duties at all government hospitals during both the peaks. On Friday, over 427 residents went on a strike which affected the non-emergency services at the Sassoon General hospital like daily OPDs, routine laboratory work, routine department work and also planned surgeries. Only emergency work, covid wards and non-covid ICU continued to function with limited staff. Dr Vijay Yadav, president, Pune MARD at BJ Medical College said, “It has been two days but despite our discussions there has been no positive response from the medical education minister. It feels like we are being ignored and so the central MARD has decided to further intensify the strike till we get a positive dialogue from the government. The first year batch is yet to join but there are more than 400 resident doctors in second and third year who have worked for more than a year in Covid wards and we hardly had any academics in that year and so we are requesting the government to waive off the college fees.” Medical College Medical Officers Association (MCMOA) has declared to go on an indefinite strike if there is no positive response for their demands. MCMOA had reached out to the medical education minister Amit Deshmukh. Resident medical officer Dr Bharti Gajanan said, “We have received a positive response from the minister on Saturday who has promised to take a decision in favour of our demands and so we have called off the strike as of now for 15 days. The organisation has demanded permanent jobs for those who have worked in government hospitals for more than two years and also to ensure salaries for the medical officers who are also gazetted officers as per the seventh pay commission instead of a fixed amount. No work was affected at the hospital on Saturday and now for another 15 days we continue to wait for the government’s positive response.” With both the organisations planning to go on strike at the same time, the hospital is running at a limited staff which is affecting the routine services at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sassoon-as-doctors-body-goes-on-strike-non-emergency-services-hit-101633200521475.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt sends IPS officer Duggal back to Telangana||The Punjab government on Saturday sent back Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Vikram Jeet Duggal to his parent cadre of Telangana. A 2007-batch officer of the deputy inspector general (DIG) rank, Duggal was brought to Punjab through inter-cadre deputation by the previous government under Captain Amarinder Singh. As per orders issued on September 30, he has been asked to report immediately to the Telangana government. Duggal, who belongs to Punjab, was considered close to director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta, who has gone on a one-month leave after the change in dispensation in the state. The IPS officer held the post of senior superintendent of police (SSP) in Sangrur, Amritsar Rural and Patiala, and posted as the Amritsar police commissioner a couple of months back. After Charanjit Singh Channi took over as the chief minister, he was immediately removed from that post. Four senior cops transferredThe state government on Saturday also transferred four senior police officers, including two SSPs.The orders state that Punjab Police Service (PPS) officer Navjot Mahal will now be the SSP, Mohali. The incumbent, Satinder Singh, has been posted as the SSP, Jalandhar Rural, removing Naveen Singla. Meanwhile, Inderbir Singh has been posted as the DIG, Ferozepur, in place of Shive Verma. The orders regarding postings of Singla and Verma will be issued separately, the Saturday order states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-sends-ips-officer-duggal-back-to-telangana-101633199921329.html
03-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Cleanliness drive initiated ahead of state transport minister’s visit||A day before the visit of the newly appointed state transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, the local transport officials initiated a cleanliness drive at the Ludhiana bus stand on Saturday.As per officials, the transport minister is expected to reach the bus stand at around 8 am on Sunday to check the status of cleanliness and operations.“We have been on our toes since we got to know that the minister will be here on Sunday morning and have been working hard to clean the bus stand,” said a senior transport officer.Warring had recently directed the transport authorities in the state to perform their duties sincerely and warned them of his frequent surprise checks in the concerned offices in the state.In his meeting with the department officials at Punjab Bhawan, Chandigarh, on September 29, the minister had directed the officials to remain present at work and ensure the cleanliness of the buses and bus stands in the state.Following the instructions issued by Warring, Rashpal Singh, general manager of Punjab roadways, Ludhiana, took a meeting of the local officials at the bus stand on Saturday.“I conveyed the minister’s message to all the employees and told them that negligence at work won’t be tolerated. I directed the staff to reach the office on time and told them that surprise checks can be held anytime now. Moreover, I have asked them to keep the buses and the bus stand clean all the time,” stated Rashpal.Bus permits for unemployed youthWarring also directed the state transport authorities to issue bus route permits to the unemployed youth to generate employment among them.Confirming the same, Rashpal Singh said, “We have been asked to inform the local public so that maximum youth can avail the benefit of the initiative.”According to him, permits will be issued for a total of 248 different routes in Punjab.Permits for 864 state buses will be issued including, 502 road permits for national highway routes and 362 for state highways.“The state transport department will also issue permits for minivans to connect villages with urban areas and generate employment. We have already initiated awareness programmes regarding the same here,” said Tarsem Singh, in-charge, Ludhiana bus stand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianacleanliness-drive-initiated-ahead-of-state-transport-minister-s-visit-101633199741618.html
03-10-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati accuses SP, BJP of renaming, closing schemes of her government||LUCKNOW: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday accused the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) as well as the present Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) governments in Uttar Pradesh (UP) of renaming or cancelling pro-poor schemes launched by her as chief minister. Mayawati was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh (UP) in 1995, 1997, 2002 and 2007, the last term (2007-2012) being as head of a majority government that completed its full five-year term. Though she didn’t specify which of her four tenures she was referring to, her party leaders said majorly the BSP chief would be hinting at her five-year tenure, as in her previous tenures she shared power with the Samajwadi Party and later with the BJP. “During BSP government, houses for the poor were built all over UP, including Agra. This had elicited widespread praise. But due to regime change, several such welfare schemes that remained unfinished were not completed by the Samajwadi Party government . Now, the BJP government too has carried on with the same partial approach,” Mayawati tweeted. “The state and the country have witnessed how due to hugely narrow political gains, the SP and the BJP governments not only changed the names of various schemes that were launched by the BSP government but also closed them,” she alleged. “This act of these governments would remain etched as a dark chatper in history,” she tweeted. Mayawati didn’t name those schemes that she felt were renamed and stopped by the SP and BJP governments. Accused by the Samajwadi and the Congress of being ‘BJP’s B team’, Mayawati has of late been targeting the BJP government. On Friday, Mayawati had accused the BJP government over the poor condition of roads across the state as well as the state capital. On Thursday, she had hit out at the BJP government over the controversial death of a Kanpur-based realtor, claiming that he died due to police torture after he had checked in at a Gorakhpur hotel. The UP government has since recommended a CBI probe into the realtor’s death and ordered stern action, including dismissal of policemen found guilty of highhandedness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-accuses-sp-bjp-of-renaming-closing-schemes-of-her-government-101633199561286.html
03-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad admin allows Ramlila and Durga Puja celebrations with restrictions||The Ghaziabad administration has decided to allow Ramlila and Durga Puja celebrations this year in public places, but with a set of restrictions. Officials said that any such event can be organised only after permission is granted by the district administration, and no stalls and kiosks will be allowed at the event.The Durga Puja celebrations have remained curtailed due to the Covid-19 pandemic since 2020.  “All the Covid-19 protocols should be put in place at an event site once the permission is granted. In case, the permission is for enclosed space, there should be a gathering of not more than 100 people at a single point of time while in open areas the permission would be for not more than 50% capacity of the ground,” said Vipin Kumar, additional district magistrate (city). “During an event, Covid help desk should be put up at the entrance and no visitor would be allowed without face mask. Besides, people should be following social distancing norms. For the permission, organisers will have to fill up a form and submit the same to the office of district magistrate. They will also have to get other required approvals like the one from department of electrical safety,” the ADM added. Organisers said that they are happy with the relaxations given by the UP government. “This year the UP government has given relaxations. We were asked to follow the guidelines during a joint meeting of district officials with various organisers,” said Abhijit Roy, founder member of Prantic Cultural Society, Indirapuram. “We have planned puja celebrations in a banquet hall. Our theme this year will be ‘Jeevan Utsav -- Let’s celebrate life’, which signifies that people are coming out and celebrating life after the issues they faced during the pandemic. This year, we will bring in artistes from West Bengal,” he added. The staging of Ramlila was held regularly at Raj Nagar, but it could not be held in 2020 due to the Covid situation. “This year too, Ramlila will not be held in our area. The guidelines issued with regard to the event will not suffice holding of Ramlila at a grand scale,” said Rajendra Tyagi, councillor from Raj Nagar. The district administration officials said that the guidelines have been issued in accordance with the September 19 directions issued by the state government. In the directions, the government increased the capacity for events in open and closed areas from previous 50 persons to 100 persons at a single point of time while observing all Covid-19 protocols. “There was another order in which relaxation was given for gathering in open spaces. So, we have decided that it should not be more than 50% of the capacity of the ground. We also held meetings with different organisers on Friday and briefed them about the guidelines,” the ADM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-admin-allows-ramlila-and-durga-puja-celebrations-with-restrictions-101633199501717.html
03-10-2021||Delhi||Child rights body identifies 59 begging hot spots in Delhi||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) on Saturday said it has identified 59 “child-begging hot spots” in the national capital where it has started necessary interventions, including rescue operations, to ensure a normal life for such street children.Addressing a press conference on Saturday, DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu said the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent large scale unemployment and job losses increased the population of urban poor under the poverty line in Delhi. He did not give any figures to support the claim.“We are conducting a survey to identify street children and so far we have zeroed in on 59 hot spots where children are either used as a front to sell random items on the streets or are forced into it by their families or are abandoned. Those who are abandoned will be sent to children’s homes, while those who are being used as a front for criminal or illegal activities will be rescued by our teams. Those who are pushed into it by their families will be counselled and monitored,” he said.Among the 59 “child-begging hot spots” identified include ITO, below IIT flyover, GTB Nagar, Majnu Ka Tila, Zakir Nagar and Rajouri Garden.Kundu said that as part of the drive, they have carried out eight rescue operations in the hot spots in which 56 children were rescued.Kundu also hailed the Delhi high court order on October 1, closing 1,108 cases of petty crimes allegedly committed by juveniles and ordering their immediate release as the enquiry in the cases were pending for over a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-child-rights-body-identifies-59-begging-hot-spots-starts-rescue-drive-101633192482699.html
03-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to unveil action plan for winter pollution on Monday||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will announce the city’s action plan to combat winter pollution on Monday, environment minister Gopal Rai said on Saturday.Addressing the media, after inaugurating the wildlife conservation week at south Delhi’s Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary, Rai said, “On October 4, Delhi CM will be announcing the winter action plan to keep pollution-creating activities in check-in Delhi.”The Delhi government has formulated a detailed winter action plan which will act as a guiding document for the city this winter to control the annual increase in the air pollution levels during the season.All the government agencies in the city, including the three municipalities (north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations), the Delhi traffic police, the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) and Public Works Department (PWD) have submitted their individual action plans based on which comprehensive strategy has been prepared.Rai also said that in order to increase public participation to make Delhi a greener city, the government has provisioned that people visiting the Asola Bhatti Sanctuary will now be provided with electric cars and guides through an online booking system.The government will also be organising competitions and campaigns to encourage people to take part in making Delhi a greener place.“In the last six years, ever since we have come to power in Delhi, a mission for tree plantations was started. The horticulture department, forest department, and environment department have worked hard in making it a success. This resulted in millions of plants being planted in different areas of the city,” said the environment minister.He added, “Pollution in Delhi seems like a crisis in the winter season. The green belt that you see, with plants and forests, are automatic machines that will protect us 24x7. To purify the environment, along with plants, animals also have an important role.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-unveil-action-plan-for-winter-pollution-on-monday-101633192000825.html
03-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: To avert gang war, inmates being relocated in city jails||Prisons officers at Delhi’s three jail complexes- -Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli – have begun the process of transferring inmates within the jails, and are working to ensuring more surveillance on specific prisoners to prevent a gang war in the backdrop of last week’s court shootout in which top gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi was killed.At least two prisoners -- Rahul Kala and Sunil Rathi – known to be trouble makers in the Mandoli prison, according to jail officers – have been transferred. The jail officers did not share the places where they were transferred within the jail, citing security reasons.Since the afternoon of September 24, when Gogi was murdered by two gunmen of the gang of his arch-rival Tiilu Tajpuriya inside the Rohini court, jail officers have been asked to maintain a high alert within the prisons.Until his arrest in March 2020, Gogi, a resident of Alipur in outer Delhi, was the most wanted gangster in Delhi. He had at least 19 cases of murder, robbery, extortion and Arms act.The two transferred prisoners Rahul Kala and Sunil Rathi are both known for their allegiance to the Tillu gang.Kala, known to be the “hot-headed” one in the gang, is also the brother of top gangster Naveen Bali(also in jail). Bali and Neeraj Bawana, another top gangster of Delhi, work together. Rathi, on the other hand, was a top Uttar Pradesh(UP) gangster. He had allegedly shot dead another UP gangster Munna Bajrangi inside the Baghpat jail on July 9, 2018. Bajrangi was shot at least 10 time in his head inside the jail.Police suspect that all these people coordinated virtually, between Tihar, Mandoli and the Baghpat jail and arranged the contract killers to help Tillu finish his rivalry with Gogi.Across the three jail complexes, there are at least 20-25 alleged members of Gogi gang, and about 15-20 of the Tillu gang. Delhi Police have said that Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuriya is their prime suspect. A Delhi police team on Thursday visited Mandoli jail, where Tillu was lodged and took him to the crime branch office in Rohini to interrogate him.Over the last one week, prison officers conducted an audit and checked the affiliation of all gangsters, who are lodged behind bars.“We coordinate with the police and also interview the prisoners to check for their affiliation. Though members of same gangs are not lodged together, we still conducted an audit and are now in the process of transferring them. Some will be transferred to high security, where they will be guarded round-the-clock and be under surveillance of the CCTV cameras,” a prison officer, who asked not to be named, said.In the last ten years, over two dozen people have died in the gang war between the Gogi and Tillu gangs. The arrested members of the two gangs are involved in cases of extortion, robbery, car jackings, and contract killings, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rohini-court-shootout-to-avert-gang-war-inmates-being-relocated-in-city-jails-101633191762347.html
03-10-2021||Delhi||Woman shot at, fights off robbers who barged into her northeast Delhi home||A 32-year-old woman put up a spirited fight despite being shot at by one of the two robbers who barged into her house in northeast Delhi, forcing the two assailants to flee, police said. The incident took place in Kardampuri, near Jyoti Nagar in northeast Delhi on Thursday afternoon. The robbers fired at least two bullets at the woman, one of which hit her in the waist while the other missed, police said on Saturday.In her statement filed at Jyoti Nagar police station, the injured woman, Shayma, said she was alone at home on Thursday when the two masked men entered the house. She claimed one of them had a knife and the other carried a gun. The first intruder overpowered Shayma and in the ensuing melee his mask came off and knife fell on the floor. Seeing this, the other intruder fired at Shayma with the bullet hitting her in the waist, a police officer said quoting the victim’s statement.He fired a second time but missed, and the woman pushed him aside and ran down the stairs shouting for help, the officer said. The attackers immediately fled the building without taking anything from the house.Shayma was taken to GTB hospital by her husband and is out of danger.Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Sanjay Kumar Sain said, “We have certain leads about the suspects and our teams are working on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-shot-at-fights-off-robbers-who-barged-into-her-northeast-delhi-home-101633191400909.html
03-10-2021||Delhi||Three arrested over ruckus at real estate dealers offices in Aya Nagar||Three men were arrested for allegedly creating a ruckus, firing, assaulting a man, and vandalising property at the office of two property dealers in south Delhi’s Aya Nagar near Fatehpur Beri on Friday evening, police said.DCP (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said the incident was reported to the Fatehpur Beri police station around 7pm on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-arrested-over-ruckus-at-real-estate-dealers-offices-in-aya-nagar-101633191340935.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man stabbed to death by his father in Amritsar||A 35-year-old man was allegedly stabbed to death by his father over a minor domestic quarrel in Raja Sansi town of Amritsar, police said on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Lovely Singh. His father, Santokh Singh, 55, is currently on the run.The victim’s wife, Pinki, who is the complainant in the case, said that she had recently been gifted a car by her aunt, as she had been taking care of her during her illness. “My father-in-law was envious of the gift and used to taunt me by saying that I would elope with someone in that car. On Friday evening, he came home in a drunken state and again started taunting me. When my husband intervened, my father-in-law stabbed him with a knife and fled,” she said.Based on her complaint, police have booked Santok Singh under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh of Rajasansi police station said, “Raids are on to nab the accused.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-stabbed-to-death-by-his-father-in-amritsar-101633186420019.html
03-10-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | How birds figure out things||The imperative of finding daily food and catering to the demands of raucous chicks leads birds to adapt fast and figure out things. Hawks in the US have learnt to zero in on garden bird feeders as they realise their prey, small birds, are bound to make regular forays. Nesting Black ibises in Udaipur not only made an improvised nest on an electricity tower. Faced with a paucity of their traditional wetland foods, the ibises started stealing pigeon chicks from nearby houses for their own chicks, a food source not known to be associated with the ibis. The ibis parents even discovered a nearby point where the Jains fed pigeons. Very innocently, the ibises would park themselves there and make off with adult pigeons. In a similar adaptation, Dusky eagle owls observed a nesting colony of Woolly-necked storks. Once the storks were done with breeding, the owls promptly occupied the empty stork nests and hatched their chicks as the nests suited them. The clever owls had obviated the need to make their own nests. Closer home at the Mote Majra pond near Banur, an Indian Pond heron speedily self-corrected its faulty “catch practises”. Perched on a lotus leaf in the water, the heron was trying to snap up Red-veined Darter dragonflies buzzing over it by thrusting upwards. The dragonflies were too fast and the heron incurred a dozen failed hunts. “However, the cravings of an empty stomach forced the heron to observe the dragonfly flight more carefully and modify tactics. Having observed that there were brief interludes in the dragonfly’s swift flights in which the insect either slowed down or hovered, the heron seized upon those particular moments as the widow of opportunity. The heron finally caught one during a slowed-down flight and then snapped up three more in quick succession by keeping a sharp eye on speed variations,” Chandigarh-based photographer, Vikas Salil Sharma, told this writer. Creepy to cryptic beautyThe Sukhna Lake Nature Trail that darts off delightfully opposite Nagar Van is frequented by a host of notables and humble folk. Chief justices, diplomats, editors, advisers, officers, lovers, politicians, and even the once-regular Aroosa Alam, Pakistani “friend” of then Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, have been spotted walking on this trail which meanders through scrubland forest. Sambars, peacocks, wild boars and umpteen birds are frequently encountered here. However, one creature has spooked all species of walkers, especially during humid months when they spawn in the hundreds. These are caterpillars hanging down on thin white threads from the invasive, alien species of Prosopis juliflora trees/shrubs flanking the trail. Caterpillars get attached to the clothes of unsuspecting walkers. Upon reaching home, these walkers find the creepy-crawlies all over them, leading to shrieks from awaiting kin and threats to disinfect and outcast them. However, back at the trail, the caterpillars that did not “go home” eventually metamorphosed into enigmatic Geometridae moths.During the day, these moths remain as still as mannequins and cling to tree barks in cryptic camouflage to avoid predator birds. Moths shed their stillness when the sun has safely slipped between the night’s sheets. They are like nightjar birds that perch perfectly still during the day, feathers merging with tree foliage or ground cover. Walkers certainly cannot miss the spectacle of caterpillars and larvae dangling over them like a veritable minefield. However, there is every chance of them missing out on the caterpillars’ subsequent manifestation: as moths right there, besides the trail, within an arm’s length, on the trees...and strictly non-sticky. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-figuring-out-things-101633172739550.html
