05-10-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to give free tablets, smartphones to youths||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday gave its approval to the Yogi government’s proposal for distribution of free tablets and smartphones to the youth in the urban and rural areas of the state.In a press statement, the state government said smartphones/tablets free of cost will be distributed among the youth enrolled in various teaching/training programmes like graduation, postgraduation, diploma, skill development, paramedical and nursing etc in the state. The youth enrolled in the higher education, technical education, health education, skill development training, ITI and “Seva Mitra” portal of the state will get the benefit.Terming the distribution of tablets and smartphones a scheme for technical empowerment of the youth, the state government said the scheme will put a burden of ₹3,000 crore on the state government. Not only the youth will be able to complete their educational courses successfully but also after completing their education they can use the gadgets to work in various government /non-government organisations or self-reliance schemes.“During the pandemic, various educational institutions continued with their educational activities through online means. The inevitable need of digital empowerment of students and the youth had been felt at every level. Digital mediums are also being used more and more for the youth to apply in various government and non-government jobs, get coaching/training for them or apply in any other employment,” the statement said.“The technical and educational institutions are also distributing and disseminating teaching materials, tutorial lectures to the students through online mediums. The facility of data access through internet connectivity can also be availed at affordable rates. The smart phones/tablets will make the youth residing in the urban and rural areas of the state educated, trained and self-reliant,” the state government said.“Seva Mitra” portal is an important initiative of the skill development department through which various skill services like those of plumber, carpenter, nurse, electrician, AC mechanic etc are trained. They will be provided tablets/smartphones so that they can earn their living by providing better services to the citizens.In the proposed beneficiary category under the scheme, the youth of other categories can also be included from time to time with the approval of the chief minister.The decision of which beneficiary category is to be provided and to whom smartphones are to be provided will be decided at the level of chief minister in due course. Determination of priority of the beneficiary class for distribution of tablets/smartphones and also regarding phased purchase will be taken from the level of chief minister in due course, the state government’s statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-to-give-free-tablets-smartphones-to-youths-101633458195655.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kurali hit-and-run: SUV driver held for killing 49-year-old||A 49-year-old man was killed on Tuesday near Kurali bypass after a speeding SUV hit his two-wheeler. The driver of the speeding vehicle, however, was later arrested.The victim was identified as Surinder Singh of Dubali village in Kharar, who was riding home on his scooter when the speeding Mahindra XUV hit him from the rear. Surinder, who was being followed by his son Manjit Singh on another two-wheeler, was rushed to the Kharar civil hospital where he succumbed to injuries, said the police.The investigating officer, sub-inspector Gurdev Singh, said that the accused had fled the spot but was later arrested. Identified as Ajit Singh of Bhatnura village in Kapurthala, he was later bailed out.Manjit Singh in his statement to the police alleged that on NH-21 near Kurali, the speeding Mahindra XUV while overtaking had negligently hit his father after which he fell down and sustained serious head injuries.Ajit was held under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 427 (Mischief causing damage) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kurali-hit-and-run-suv-driver-held-for-killing-49yearold-101633458077124.html
05-10-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party workers protesting in Agra cane-charged||Agra Samajwadi Party workers staged protest at the office of Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (DVVNL) on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum stating their demands. The Samajwadi Party workers were cane-charged when they forced their entry inside the gates of the DVVNL office. The protest was led by national general secretary of Samajwadi Party Ramji Lal Suman, district president Madhusudan Sharma, former MLA Dharampal Singh, city unit president Wazid Nisar and vice president of city unit Rizwan Raisuddin “Prince’. Party workers gathered at gate of DVVNL office at about 11 am. “The charter of demands included 20-hour electricity to water connection of farmers, withdrawal of GST on new water connection, immediate withdrawal of FIR against farmers and withdrawal of electricity bill charged at higher rates,” said Madhusudan Sharma. “We were staging a peaceful agitation in support of our demand when for no valid reasons, the Samajwadi party leaders and workers were cane-charged, leaving many injured,” alleged Wajid Nisar, SP city unit president who claimed that he too suffered injury in his shoulder. General secretary Ramji Lal Suman condemned the attack on party workers and alleged that this was an ‘undeclared emergency’. He alleged further that recovery certificates were being issued in the name of farmers who had no outstanding dues to be paid. “Farmers are already under pressure because of inflation but their agonies are being multiplied by lodging FIR against them and creating additional burden of GST,” alleged Dr Dharam Pal, former MLA. “ The vvoice of SP workers cannot be subdued by use of force,” he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/samajwadi-party-workers-protesting-in-agra-canecharged-101633457956617.html
05-10-2021||Lucknow||Congress sit-ins, protests a political stunt: UP BJP chief||A day after making a veiled attack on the opposition parties while comparing them to “vultures”, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh targeted the Congress leadership on Tuesday. “From day one these leaders tried to make the situation worse instead of improving. This is the reason why instead of helping the government in bringing the situation under control, they started conspiring to make the situation more explosive by going to the spot and now when action is being taken against the Congress leaders for breaking the law, they are crying foul,” Singh said. Singh’s statement came on a day when Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra released a video and a letter questioning her confinement and seeking sacking of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ and the arrest of his son Ashish against whom a named FIR has been registered in connection with the Kheri violence. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi too is expected to visit Lakhimpur Kheri. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, who had landed at the Lucknow airport on Tuesday but after being prevented from leaving for Sitapur to meet party leader Priyanka Gandhi, had staged a sit-in at the airport itself. UP BJP chief described such sit-ins and visits a “political stunt”. “At the time when the leaders of the opposition, including the Congress, were staging political stunts at the airport and elsewhere, Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji was healing lakhs of homeless families. That is the difference between the BJP leadership and that of the opposition,” Singh said. He made these comments barely a day after he had likened the opposition parties to vultures and credited the Yogi government of having successfully negotiated a crisis in Lakhimpur Kheri. “The victims’ families and farmers’ organisations are satisfied with the government’s action but the opposition parties are constantly trying to mislead them and create instability in the state,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-sit-ins-protests-a-political-stunt-up-bjp-chief-101633457656899.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi mollifies former health minister Balbir Sidhu||Strap:  A week after dropping three-time Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu from the Punjab cabinet, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi visited his house on Monday night in an apparent attempt to mollify him.It is learnt that both Channi and Sidhu, who were having strained relations for the past two decades, decided to burn the hatchet and work together for the state’s development during the three-hour informal meeting.Seen close to former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, Sidhu was among five ministers who were dropped from the cabinet on September 26 in a rejig after Channi took over the state’s reigns. The same day, the former health minister along with Gurpreet Singh Kangar, who too had been dropped, held a press conference and questioned the move.Accompanied by finance minister Manpreet Badal and senior Congress leader Harish Chaudhary, Channi went to Sidhu’s house in Phase 7, Mohali, on Monday evening. As it was undergoing renovation, they then went to his brother and Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu’s house in Sector 78, where the meeting was held from 9:30pm to 12:30am.Deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi said that during the meeting all three leaders told Sidhu that he was an important leader of the party and the Mohali constituency. “They assured him that, whether he is a minister or not, he is an integral part of the government. They all assured him of all cooperation in completing pending projects in his constituency,” he said.Talking to HT on Tuesday, Sidhu said the CM had made him a courtesy call and “we held discussions for nearly three hours on some issues”. “I am a Congressman and will remain a Congressman till my last breath,” he said.Channi and Sidhu have been engaged in a turf war for two decades, which first surfaced when the former was the Kharar MC president and latter had contested the assembly elections from Kharar in 2002. The rift only widened with time, according to party insiders.Since 2007, Sidhu has won the Mohali seat three times in a row, and after the Congress formed the government in 2017, he was awarded with a cabinet berth. His clout kept increasing under Amarinder Singh, and even his brother managed to get elected as the Mohali mayor this year. After Sidhu was dropped from the cabinet, several local Congress leaders including Deepinder Singh Dhillon, Kuljeet Singh Bedi, Amrik Singh Somal and Rajinder Singh Rana had come out in support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-mollifies-former-health-minister-balbir-sidhu-101633457535554.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||Rohini court shooting: Special police unit to guard all district courts||The city police on Tuesday informed the Delhi high court that the security of the seven district courts in the national capital has been taken over by “the security unit”, a specialised wing of the Delhi Police, and necessary arrangements are being made to prevent a recurrence of the recent firing incident at the Rohini courts, in which three persons, including gangster Jitender Gogi, were killed.In a status report filed before a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, the police said security audits of all seven district courts have been conducted and the results are being analysed to decide on the further course of action to revamp the existing security setup at these courts.The report also said security gadgets and systems on the district court premises are outdated, and they must be updated/replaced with high resolution CCTV cameras and monitors, 360-degree vehicle scanning with RF tag/bar code reader facilities, scanners for luggage and bags, scanners for explosives and narcotics, and boom barriers, among others.“District courts may be directed to provide these security gadgets and logistics at the earliest to the security unit at each court,” the police said in their affidavit.The police also recommended that technology be utilised to the maximum to conduct hearings, rather than the accused/litigant being produced before the court or being physically present. “Given the mark of technology, it would be only prudent to maximise its use. Physical presence, physical production ought to be resorted to in extreme and in compelling circumstances. This will obviate security concerns/ issues to a very substantial degree,” the police affidavit said.It further said, “It would not be out of place to mention that with the burgeoning population and the pressure on infrastructure, sheer logistical handling of the security becomes a matter of great concern. It is the plea/ suggestion of the Delhi Police that this court may be pleased to sensitise the entire judicial setup to maximise the use of technology.” The police reply came on a petition that the court had initiated suo motu, to ascertain the safety and security of litigants and other stakeholders following the shooting at Rohini courts. On the last date of hearing, the bench asked the city police and all stakeholders, including bar associations, to suggest ways to improve the courts’ security.Police also told the court that the parking area in city courts is insufficient for lawyers; thus vehicles are parked inside the premises and also all along the boundary wall, posing a great security risk.“Similarly clients/litigants do not have earmarked parking at all in any court. They are parking vehicles on the road and traffic gets jammed. This is a matter of concern and new infrastructure needs to be developed in nearby places with multilevel parking facilities for advocates and clients,” the police affidavit read.Police said an automatic entry system for advocates and court staff by way of issuing non-clonable smart ID cards should be considered.“Entry gates for visitors, lawyer and court staff, including police, should be segregated to ensure proper access control,” the police said, while also suggesting that the lawyers’ chambers on court premises should not be allowed to remain open till late night and that respective district courts may issue an order in this regard.“In all the seven district courts, there should be proper facilities of barracks, women’s rest room with basic amenities, offices and sentry posts, so that security staff can perform duty more effectively...To handle any untoward incident/causality, an ambulance equipped with basic medical facilities should be stationed in every district court,” the police affidavit said.On Tuesday, the court asked the other stakeholders, including the Centre, the Delhi government and various bar associations to also give their suggestions so that they could be incorporated in the final order. The matter would next be heard on October 12.Central government standing counsel Ajay Digpaul, representing the Centre and Delhi Police, said the police have filed their suggestions on the issue.On September 24, jailed gangster Jitendra Maan Gogi, who was produced before the Rohini courts in connection with a case trial, was gunned down inside the courtroom by two men posing as lawyers. The two assailants were killed in the retaliatory firing by the police. Police later said the gunmen were suspected to be members of the Tillu gang, Gogi’s rival outfit.Video footage of the incident showed policemen and lawyers rushing out in panic as gunshots rang out inside courtroom number 207. A woman lawyer was also injured in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rohini-court-shooting-special-police-unit-to-guard-all-district-courts-101633457176031.html
05-10-2021||Other||Senior Assam IPS officer arrested for possessing assets disproportionate to income||A senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer was arrested on Tuesday by the Assam chief minister’s special vigilance cell for allegedly possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income, officials said. Rounak Ali Hazarika, deputy inspector general of police (border) was arrested from his residence in Hengrabari area of Guwahati under sections 13(1)(a)(b) and 13(2) of Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018. According to a police statement, Hazarika amassed movable and immovable property disproportionate to his income between the period 1992 and 2021 and spent over ₹1.74 crore in the education of his two children. Details of the international travel history of the senior police officer revealed that he has made nine foreign trips without obtaining permission from competent authority as required by service rules. It was also found that besides his salary account, Hazarika and his family members have several other accounts in different banks which showed large deposits in cash made between 2019 and 2021 when he was posted in Bongaigaon district. “The above facts and circumstances are sufficient evidence against Rounak Ali Hazarika for intentionally enriching himself illicitly during the period of his office which is in contravention to Section 2 (c) of the Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act, 2018,” said the police release. “He was unable to satisfactorily account for how he could amass the pecuniary resources (cash deposits/cheque deposits in his bank accounts from unknown sources during the period 2019-2020) which is disproportionate to his known sources of income,” it added. Police informed that Hazarika has several properties in Guwahati as well as a resort in Shimla, Himachal Pradesh. Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/senior-assam-ips-officer-arrested-for-possessing-assets-disproportionate-to-income-101633457116731.html
05-10-2021||Lucknow||Kheri violence: Baghel demands resignation of Union MoS, his son’s arrest||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Tuesday demanded resignation of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra and arrest of son Ashish Mishra while talking to media persons virtually from inside the Lucknow airport where he sat on a dharna after he was denied permission to move out of the airport. Baghel arrived at Chaudhary Charan Singh International Airport, Lucknow, to leave for Sitapur to meet Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who is under detention there. “The video released by Priyanka Gandhi clearly shows that a car mowed down farmers from behind while they were moving peacefully,” claimed Baghel while addressing media persons over Zoom App. “The Union minister of state for Home Ajay Mishra is clearly responsible for this incident. He must resign immediately. His son Ashish Mishra must be arrested as he was in the car that mowed down farmers,” Baghel said. Replying to a query, he said: “As I am not being allowed to move out of the airport, I have sat on a dharna inside the airport. I wanted to go to Sitapur where Priyanka Gandhi has been detained and not to Lakhimpur Kheri.” Attacking the UP government, Baghel dubbed it as anti-farmers. As the Chhattisgarh CM was addressing media persons virtually from inside the airport, Congress workers assembled outside the terminal and raised slogans against the BJP government. Later, Baghel returned to Chhattisgarh on his state plane.He shared a video shared from his official twitter handle in which he was seen questioning cops on duty at the Lucknow airport. “Prohibitory orders are in Lakhimpur not in Lucknow. We are not going to Lakhimpur. So what is the problem?,” questioned Baghel. Congress leaders denied entry to airport Earlier in the day, Congress leaders Pramod Tewari and Panna Lal Punia were not allowed to meet Baghel when they arrived at the airport to receive him. “We were asked by police personnel deployed at the airport to go back. We were denied entry to the airport where we had gone to receive Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel,” Pramod Tewari told media persons at the Congress office. Tewari demanded a probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday when farmer leaders were returning after holding a protest against the Centre’s three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kheri-violence-baghel-demands-resignation-of-union-mos-his-son-s-arrest-101633457056121.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Affiliated colleges: PU allows admission on merit basis against vacant seats in some PG courses||Panjab University (PU) has decided to allow admissions on merit basis in some postgraduate courses in its affiliated colleges if any seat remains vacant after exhausting the list of qualified candidates of entrance test, OCET/CET-PG.The decision comes after it was recommended by a varsity panel. A communication was issued by the varsity administration to the heads of affiliated colleges. However, this is only for students who either have not qualified or not appeared in the entrance exam.According to the recommendations of the panel, which have been approved by the varsity in anticipation of the approval of syndicate, the admission for session 2021-22 to MSc courses, MCom (BE) and MCom (entrepreneurship and family business) will be made on open merit basis after exhausting the list of qualified candidates of OCET/CET2021, if any seat remains vacant.Information on Vacant seats to be widely publicisedThe panel has said that the colleges will ensure wide publicity of vacant seats by way of notification/advertisement and the copy of that should be sent to the office of dean college development council of PU by October 21.For ME/MTech programmes, which include mechanical engineering (manufacturing technology), computer science and engineering, electronics and communication engineering and other courses at National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research (NITTTR), Chandigarh, the panel has recommended that the admission against vacant seats be made on the basis of valid GATE score and PU-CET (PG) score. If any seats remain vacant after this procedure, admissions will be given on the basis of BE/BTech score.Moreover, the panel has outlined that no such request for admissions on merit basis without OCET/CET score will be entertained for the 2022-23 academic session.Candidates request admissions in MBA at USOLMeanwhile, some interested candidates have requested PU authorities to give them a chance to take admission in the MBA course at University School of Open Learning (USOL) since many seats were still lying vacant after the entrance exam was conducted. The candidates have said that they were not able to apply for the entrance exam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/affiliated-colleges-pu-allows-admission-on-merit-basis-against-vacant-seats-in-some-pg-courses-101633456635676.html
05-10-2021||Gurugram||Banjara Market demolished, HSVP reclaims 25 acres||Around 250 makeshift shops and hutments at the popular Banjara Market, located in Sector 56, were demolished by the enforcement team of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Tuesday.The shops, most of which sold furniture and traditional handicrafts, had come up illegally over the past 15 years on land owned by the authority and despite repeated notices, the owners were not vacating the land, HSVP officials said.With the demolition, around 80% of the illegal properties on 25 acres of HSVP land was cleared, officials said. Owners of around 50 shops were given two days to vacate their premises, officials said.Satya Narain, subdivisional officer (survey), HSVP, said that the demolition drive commenced around 11am and continued till the evening. The HSVP team was supported by 200 police personnel, including 50 women police officials, he said. “Most of the shopkeepers had removed their wares from the shops using trucks while others have sought two days time to shift,” he said.HSVP officials said that action was taken after shop owners repeatedly ignored notices issued by the authority to remove their encroachments. The entire service road, along the main sector road that was also encroached by shopkeepers, was cleared, officials said.The 25-acre land plot where the market was operating is earmarked for the construction of a college, a bus stand and group housing societies. A part of the plot has also been allotted to the Income Tax department for the construction of official accommodations, HSVP officials said.The authority said that all encroachments on HSVP land and will be cleared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/banjara-market-demolished-hsvp-reclaims-25-acres-101633456578725.html
05-10-2021||Gurugram||Biodiversity management workshop held for preparing action plan||As part of preparing a state biodiversity action and strategy plan, the Haryana State Biodiversity Board conducted a workshop for all stakeholders in the city on Tuesday.Officials from forest and wildlife, fisheries, animal husbandry departments and members of NGOs and other organisations working for biodiversity management discussed biodiversity issues and possible resolutions.“With these workshops, we have identified the existing threats or pressures on biodiversity management. From different stakeholders, we learnt about different issues like pollution of water bodies, lack of treatment facilities for wildlife, lack of knowledge among locals about their regional biodiversity, due to which, many a times, important resources are lost. We will be studying all these issues and connect with the stakeholders individually to find a common solution while preparing the action plan,” Vineet Kumar Garg, the chairman of the Haryana State Biodiversity Board, said.This was the fourth workshop conducted by the board in the state, and a first in the city, ahead of preparing an action plan that will focus on preserving the biodiversity of the state for the next 10 years with available resources. The board has set a target of March 2022 for formulating the plan.According to the targets of the National Biodiversity Action Plan (NBAP), an effective, participatory and updated biodiversity action plan must be made operational at different levels of governance. In this context, various states and union territories are required to prepare their own state biodiversity action plans in alignment with the NBAP.Experts from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), who attended the workshop, said that as the next step, discussions will be held at a block level to understand more about the issues from those who handle it on the ground level.VP Uniyal, a senior scientist from WII, said, “All elements of the environment, be it birds, insects or plants, all work in sync and are essential in some or the other manner, and it is important to make people aware about these issues and work in an integrated manner. This biodiversity strategy and action plan aims to form a guidebook which will help all departments work together, while making sure that the biodiversity is not affected. From next month, we will start discussions at block level and reach out to school students also to make them aware.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/biodiversity-management-workshop-held-for-preparing-action-plan-101633456577165.html
05-10-2021||Gurugram||Aravallis: Demolition of illegal structures hits legal hurdle||The Supreme Court’s three-month-old direction to remove all unauthorised structures from Aravalli forest land has hit a legal hurdle, with the Haryana government informing the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the issue required judicial determination to ascertain if these structures have come up on forest land.The Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF), in a status report filed in compliance with the court’s orders, stated that besides the demolition of Khori Gaon situated on MCF land in Lakkarpur village, the authority has been able to demolish just nine of 129 unauthorised structures.The MCF, represented in court by senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj, informed a bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari that a group of owners, who were served show-cause notices for demolition by the forest department, filed representations before the state government claiming that their plots were not covered under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) notification of 1900, which demarcated forest land.A second group of owners claimed that in 2019, the Haryana assembly passed an amendment to the PLPA, exempting certain lands from the ambit of the PLPA, thus, allowing them to continue their operations. However, this exemption was stayed by the Supreme Court in March 2019 and the matter is pending with the top court since.A third group of affected owners have obtained orders from the Supreme Court, in the MC Mehta batch of cases, for continuing their activities.Solicitor General, Tushar Mehta, appearing for the state forest department, said, “We have decided on the representations received from the owners of unauthorised structures. We have held that they fall under forest land. But on the 2019 amendment, there is an injunction by this court, due to which it is not implemented. This amendment was necessary as after the Kant Enclave in Faridabad was ordered to be demolished in 2019 by Supreme Court; several government buildings, hospitals and state offices also faced demolition.”The bench agreed to sort out the issue and posted the matter for hearing on Friday. It asked the state to file an affidavit explaining the factual basis on which the area in question came to be notified as a forest area.Most of the properties facing demolition are farmhouses and banquet halls, while a few schools, factories, ashrams, places of worship and hotels are also included, according to the MCF status report. The properties are spread across villages of Ankhir, Mewla Maharajpur, Manger, Pali, Badkhal, Lakkarpur and Anangpur.The MCF was directed by the court on July 23 this year to clear all unauthorised structures on Aravalli forest land.The July 23 order of the court stated, “Needless to observe that the direction to remove all unauthorised structures standing on forest land applies to all unauthorised structures without any exception….after due verification of the fact whether it is unauthorised and is constructed on the forest land as such. If the structure is covered in the category of unauthorised structure on forest land, the same shall be removed within the same time.”Further on September 20, the Court directed MCF to file a chart showing demolitions carried out on forest land with justification for non-demolition.Lawyers representing affected property owners said that the area was declared forest under the Indian Forests Act of 1927, while SG Mehta claimed that the notification declaring forest was covered under the PLPA.The MCF status report further indicated to the court that as and when the forest department passes an order for demolition, requisite assistance shall be provided by the corporation in carrying out the same. Only those structures, over which no objections could be raised, were demolished. The corporation demanded eight weeks to carry out the court order to clear unauthorised structures from Aravalli forest land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/aravallisdemolition-of-illegal-structures-hits-legal-hurdle-101633456575867.html
05-10-2021||Kolkata||‘Ban on carnival, cultural programmes…’: Bengal govt issues Covid-19 guidelines ahead of Durga Puja||The West Bengal government has decided to cancel the annual Durga Puja carnival for the second year in a row owing to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, news agency PTI reported on Tuesday. The carnival involves the exhibition of the city’s top puja pandal themes before idol immersion. The decision comes with the Durga Puja being only days away.Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee-led state government has also issued a set of Covid-19 guidelines that all puja committees need to mandatorily follow in order to manage the influx of people during the six-day festival.The state government has also banned all forms of cultural programmes near the marquees in view of the coronavirus crisis.Meanwhile, Kolkata Metro has also changed its timings of train operations for three days of the Durga Puja festival – October 12, 13 and 14 — news agency ANI reported. “First trains leave from terminal stations at 10am and last trains at 11pm,” ANI reported, citing Kolkata Metro.The Calcutta high court has banned entry of visitors to puja pandals this year as well. The state government has declared relaxation in the ongoing night curfew by permitting movement between 11pm and 5am during the puja days. However, other existing restrictions pertaining to Covid-19 have been extended till October 30.The Centre has asked all states and Union territories to make sure that adherence to Covid-19 guidelines is maintained during the forthcoming festive season, without any laxity shown in enforcing rules to contain the virus spread.Also Read | ‘Many opportunities to celebrate will come later’: Centre urges people to spend festive season at homeWest Bengal on Tuesday reported 619 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the cumulative tally of the state to 15,72,460, according to the state government bulletin data. Of the recorded single-day cases, Kolkata accounted for 126, followed by North 24 Parganas at 115, and South 24 Parganas at 59. As many as 637 new recoveries were logged, which took the total number of recovered patients to 15,46,037. With 11 new fatalities, the death toll of West Bengal stands at 18,848, the bulletin data revealed.Here are the Covid-19 guidelines issued by West Bengal government:1.     Puja committees have been asked to make sure that all pandals are kept open on all sides, thereby allowing ample space to arrange for social distancing when people come for pandal hopping and idol viewing on premises.2.     All pandals must have separate entry and exit gates. There should also be floor markings and other signages in order to ensure physical distancing is maintained among people.3.     The Bengal government has asked the puja committees to encourage people to “offer anjali (prayer) with flowers brough from homes” instead of taking from the pandal to avoid congestion inside the venue.4.     Puja committees have also been directed to ensure that distribution of prasad, and sindoor khela (celebration by smearing faces with vermillion on the last day of Durga Puja festival) is organised in smaller groups and in a planned manner.5.     The state government order has stressed on keeping inaugurations of pandals, award-distribution programmes, and other celebrations, “low key.” “Ideally all visits for judging pandals should be virtual, and physical visits should be made during the lean hours, between 10am and 3pm,” the order read, according to PTI.6.     The government order has also directed puja organisers to make arrangements in advance to facilitate idol viewing from Tritiya – which is on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-government-issues-covid-19-guidelines-ahead-of-durga-puja-101633455698669.html
05-10-2021||Lucknow||Conversion racket case: UP ATS searches four places in Delhi||The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Tuesday carried out searches at the residences of Maulana Kaleem Siddiqui and his accomplice Abdul Rehman, who were arrested earlier on charges of running a mass conversion racket, and their two offices in Delhi, said UP police additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar.Kumar said the searches were carried at the residents of Siddiqui and Rehman in Jamia Nagar of Delhi’s Okhla area while the offices of their organisations Global Peace Organisation and World Peace Organisation in Shaheed Bagh were searched by six teams constituted for it.He further said the searches were carried out with the help of Delhi police during which several desktops, tablets, which apparently have details related to people whose religion conversion was done by them, and other incriminating documents were seized.He added that the seized materials will be presented before the competent court. Kumar said the searches were carried after taking permission regarding from the NIA/ATS court.He said Maulana Siddiqui, a well-known Islamic scholar from Meerut, was arrested on September 21, around three months after Delhi’s Jamia Nagar resident Mohammad Umar Gautam was apprehended on June 21. He said Gautam was allegedly running Islamic Dawah Centre, an outfit allegedly working on the ISI funding for converting deaf and mute students to Islam.The ATS has so far arrested 15 people in connection with the conversion racket. Those arrested were booked under relevant sections of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act, 2020 and the Indian Penal Code, as per officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/conversion-racket-case-up-ats-searches-four-places-in-delhi-101633456515669.html
05-10-2021||Gurugram||Rajendra Park murder spree: Main accused commits suicide in Bhondsi jail||A retired army subedar, who was lodged in Bhondsi jail for allegedly murdering his daughter-in-law and three tenants at their Rajendra Park residence in August, died by hanging himself from a grille outside his barrack, the police said on Tuesday.Sanjay Kumar, the assistant superintendent of jails, Bhondsi, said that a warden of the jail found the accused, Rao Rai Singh, hanging from a grille in the gallery outside Barrack 3A. “The warden raised the alarm and started an investigation. The deceased had used the part of a bedsheet to commit suicide. A magisterial inquiry is being conducted into the incident and proceedings under Section 176 of CrPC [Code of Criminal Procedure] have been initiated,” Kumar said.The police said that the body was discovered in the early hours of Tuesday and that it was handed over to the family members after a post-mortem examination, reports of which are awaited.Jail officials said that Singh behaved normally on Monday and did not exhibit any emotional distress. “He last met his wife on Saturday as she is also in jail for the same offence. He also used to compose songs as he visited the music centre in the jail,” Kumar said.Rao Rai Singh was arrested for allegedly murdering four persons on August 23 over suspicions of an extramarital affair between a tenant, Krishan Tiwari (42), and his daughter-in-law, Sunita (32), at their residence in Sector 105 of Rajendra Park. Singh’s wife is also lodged in the same jail.Harinder Singh, the jail superintendent, said that a team of judiciary officials visited the jail to conduct an inquiry. “We have not found any suicide note from his possession,” he said.The accused used to run a real estate business in Rajendra Park and lived in a three-storey building with his wife, son, and daughter-in-law. He was also the vice-president of the residents’ welfare association.Following the murders, Singh surrendered at the Rajendra Park police station around 6am on August 23 and confessed to having killed four people. The deceased were identified as Sunita Yadav, Krishan Tiwari, Anamika Tiwari (Krishan’s wife), and a minor girl.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that during the preliminary investigation, they ascertained that the accused murdered his daughter-in-law over suspicions of having an extramarital relationship with Tiwari. “First, he murdered his daughter-in-law, who was sleeping on the first floor and then went on the second floor and killed three family members with a sharp weapon. A minor daughter of the tenant, who was also attacked, survived,” he said.While the police did not find a suicide note on his possession, sub-inspector Krishan Kumar, who is the investigating officer in the case, said that they found a register in which Rao wrote about his life experiences. “This register was issued to him from the IGNOU study centre in the jail. We have not gone through the entries in the register,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rajendra-park-murder-spree-main-accused-commits-suicide-in-bhondsi-jail-101633456338182.html
05-10-2021||Gurugram||Rare bird sighting: Hair-crested drongo spotted in Gurugram||A hair-crested drongo, which is usually found in the foothills of the Himalayas, was sighted at Mangar on Tuesday morning. This is the third sighting of the bird in the National Capital Region (NCR) since the first sighting in April 2017.“Though it is not the first time that a hair-crested drongo has been spotted in Delhi-NCR, it is uncommon to find it in this area,” a Gurugram-based birder, who spotted the bird on Tuesday morning, said.The first sighting of the bird was at Yamuna Khadar in north Delhi, while the second sighting was at the Aravalli Biodiversity Park in the city in November 2019.Nikhil Devasar, the founder of the Delhi Bird Foundation, said, “The hair-crested drongo is usually found in the foothills of Himalayas but over the years, we have seen that birds are changing habitats. It could be a straggler or could have come down due to heavy storm in the Himalayas, but all these years, this bird has not been commonly found in the plain areas. Change in ground cover and more trees being cut could also be a driving force.”Pankaj Gupta, a birder with the Delhi Bird Group, also reiterated that despite previous sightings, it is not commonly found in this region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rare-bird-sighting-hair-crested-drongo-spotted-in-gurugram-101633456336864.html
05-10-2021||Gurugram||Water supply pending month after CM launch, claim residents of newer sectors||Over a month after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated piped water supply to residential societies in the newer sectors, many societies said that they are still awaiting clean drinking water connections, even after around 100 residents of a housing society in Sector 85 allegedly fell sick last week due to contaminated water supply. Praveen Malik, the vice-president of United Association of New Gurugram, a body of 40 housing societies located in sectors 77 to 90, said, “There are almost 50 societies from Sector 81 to 95, of which half the societies still do not have water connections due to delays in he application process. Due to this, residents are suffering as we are now scared to drink the borewell or tanker water that used to be supplied. Many residents have been purchasing bottled water since last week’s incident.” Until August, housing societies in New Gurugram sectors were dependent on groundwater, either through borewell or supply by tankers. The GMDA completed laying over 50 kilometres of pipelines for potable water supply to these sectors earlier this year, at a cost of ₹76 crores. On August 16, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had inaugurated the water supply, which was one of the prime projects of the GMDA. The water is supplied from Chandu Budhera and Basai water treatment plants. Anudeep Saxena, a resident of SS Coralwood Society in Sector 84, whose one-and-a-half-year-old son fell ill last week, said, “Basic clean drinking water supply is lacking in our housing society, even though all the infrastructure is in place. Due to this, residents are suffering; infants, children and elderly all are at risk.” Sanjay Sura, the facility manager of SS Coralwood society, said that an application has been submitted for water connection but did not share further details. Members of residents’ welfare associations and developers from some of these societies said that despite filing applications with the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), supply is yet to begin. Captain Satyaveer Shekhawat (retired), the general secretary of Sare Homes society in Sector 92, said, “We have submitted all documents for water connections to our society, but the authorities accept the application through either builders or resolution professionals. We are following up with our resolution professional and the authorities to get water connection at the earliest.” Meanwhile, officials with the infrastructure-II division of GMDA, said that 20 connections have been issued till now to societies in these sectors. “Connections are being approved as soon as complete documents are submitted by the housing societies. So far, around 20 connections have been approved. All infrastructure is ready from our end with complete pipelines laid,” an official said, requesting anonymity. This week, the Municipal Corporation of Manesar also started issuing notices to housing societies that release untreated water in open areas, after several residents fell sick.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/water-supply-pending-month-after-cm-launch-claim-residents-of-newer-sectors-101633456335783.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Haryana reports one death, 14 fresh cases||Haryana reported one Covid-related death on Tuesday as 14 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count to 7,70,938.According to the Health Department's daily bulletin, the death toll reached 9,875 after one fatality was reported from Panchkula district.Meanwhile, Gurgaon and Yamunanagar reported five and seven cases, respectively.The total active cases in the state were 110 while the overall recoveries were 7,60,780.The recovery rate was 98.68 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-haryana-reports-one-death-14-fresh-cases-101633454784660.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||As Maha reports 2,401 fresh Covid infections, Ahmednagar continues to be a cause of concern||Maharashtra recorded 2,401 fresh infections pushing the count to 6,564,915 on Tuesday. The tally of active cases further reduced to 33,159 as 2,840 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours.It also saw 39 casualties and the total number of fatalities stood at 139,272. Ahmednagar reported the highest toll with 10 deaths as its tally stood at 6,894.Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is under control as the average daily cases are on decline for the past few months. The drop in active cases has also been constant for the past two weeks. It has reached its lowest tally since February 5 when 33,936 cases were reported.However, districts such as Ahmednagar continue to be a cause for concern for the state as it has been reporting 400 to 500 cases a day. On Tuesday, it clocked 397 cases comprising both district 383 cases and city 14 cases, which is also the second highest in the state after Mumbai. In the past five days, it has clocked 2,277 cases and its average daily cases recorded at 455. The weekly positivity rate of the district is less than 5%. Last week, it was recorded at 4.28%, which was also highest among all other districts of the state.To bring the situation under control, the district administration has imposed a 10-day lockdown in 61 villages of the district starting from Monday (October 04). As per the fresh order, all shops, except essential ones will remain shut till October 13, while assembly of more than five people has also been prohibited in these villages. Even though the state has allowed physical classes in schools for limited classes, they will not open in the 61 villages of the district until October 13 at least.Rajendra Bhosale, district collector, said it is a precautionary step to ensure there will not be any spike in the cases. “The daily cases are more concerning for us even though they have become stable. As a precautionary step, I decided to impose a ten-day lockdown in the villages from where most of the cases were coming,” he said.Bhosale, however, said that they have ramped up daily testing and consequently their daily cases are reporting high. “We are taking all precautionary measures and have stepped up the daily testing and the number of daily cases is high. We are conducting around 20,000 tests a day and are looking to increase it even further,” he added.The lockdown in Ahmednagar district is likely to be further extended and the decision will be taken by the district administration after holding a review. “I will take a review of the Covid situation before October 13 and if required, the lockdown will be extended for some more days,” the district collector said.Ahmednagar has reported a total 333,222 cases till date and has 4,280 active cases at present. This has impacted the bed occupancy rate of the district as only 30% beds are left vacant.According to health experts, there was a delayed peak in the district and the state government is vigilant and alert because the daily cases there are persistently high. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the state task force, said, “Definitely there is a delayed peak in Ahmednagar and it has persisted for some time. In contrast, daily cases in Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli and Pune have come down, whereas in Mumbai and Thane they are still high but their testing numbers are also reasonably high. We are very aggressively looking at any new variant coming up in Ahmednagar district.”There are predictions that a potential third wave may hit the state by December or January next year. Officials are still worried about the upcoming festive season as there are chances of a spike in cases post Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali festivals that are falling in October and November.From Monday, schools in urban areas were reopened for Class 8 to 12. In rural areas, physical classes have also been resumed for Class 5 to 7. Physical classes in schools were shut in Maharashtra from March 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state.Apart from reopening physical classes in schools, all religious places will be reopened from October 7 and cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes from October 22.With 427 cases, Mumbai reported the highest number of cases in the entire state and its tally reached a 746,079 cases. It also recorded two fatalities taking the toll to 16,129.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 131,340 samples and had a positivity rate of 1.82%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 11.04%, according to the data issued by the state health department.The state also vaccinated 427,782 doses on Tuesday and has administered a total 84,639,659 doses till date, according to the data available on Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-maha-reports-2-401-fresh-covid-infections-ahmednagar-continues-to-be-a-cause-of-concern-101633454177707.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||More schools across Maharashtra reopen||A few more schools and junior colleges reopened on Tuesday, the second day after the Maharashtra government permitted students from classes 8 to 12 to attend schools from October 4 onwards. This decision was purely on the basis of parents’ consent. As hardly 50 to 70% parents have given consent in individual educational institutes, provisions to conduct both online as well as offline sessions are being made. “We planned to start phase-wise as many students may find it difficult to travel. Initially we will only be conducting science practicals and have formed batches of 30 students each accordingly. On the first day, barring a handful all students were present in the college, we set up a complete protocol in place and explained the same to staff and students in terms of Covid precautions,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal, KC College, Churchgate. Some schools have received a positive response on the second day with more students keen on attending classes. Kshama Valanjoo, assistant headmistress, VPM’s Vidya Mandir High School, Dahisar, said, “We have scheduled alternate offline sessions, class 10 attended on Monday and classes 8 and 9 attended on Tuesday. On the first day, from the total strength of 170, around 82 students had visited school. However, on Tuesday, 138 from around 336 attended school, which included some who came at the last minute with parents’ consent. We have adopted a hybrid model of classroom so those attending online probably noted the interactive sessions and safety measures within the classroom. Such that we have received calls from parents who did not give consent initially requesting to be able to send their kids to school as well. As online examinations are ongoing, many schools have decided to wait for a few more days or another week before starting offline classes. “We had already scheduled the online exams, to conduct the same offline or in a hybrid format will need a lot of coordination. Moreover, children get disturbed if their examination patterns are changed mid-way. So we plan to wait until the exams are over and then start school,” said Kala Gangadharan, Principal, Rajhans Vidyalaya, Andheri. Similarly, Smt Sulochanadevi Singhania School in Thane started classes for only class 12 on Monday. “We shall wait for the examinations to complete before starting offline sessions for class 8 onwards,” said Revathi Srinivasan, principal, Smt Sulochanadevi Singhania School, Thane. Meanwhile, some parents continue to be sceptical about sending their children to school. “Children have been indoors for almost two years now, they are eager to step out and meet their classmates. However, if it was a matter of a day or two we could have given it a thought but to send them regularly will be difficult. Once the children get comfortable they will let their guards down and not follow the mask, sanitiser and social distancing rules,” said Pradeep Shettye, parent of a 13-year-old boy Rudra Shetye from Airoli who has not given consent yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-schools-across-maharashtra-reopen-101633453936418.html
05-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Mortal remains of three farmers cremated||LUCKNOW/LAKHIMPUR KHERI/BAHRAICH A pall of gloom descended over the villages of Terai region near Tikunia in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday as the mortal remains of three of the farmers, who were allegedly mowed down by an SUV during a protest on Sunday, were cremated at their native places. The family of the fourth one demanded a second post-mortem examination of the body, said officials.Satnam Singh, a farmer, lit the pyre of his only son Lovepreet Singh, 18, in Palia area of Lakhimpur Kheri in the morning. Villagers helped the family clear a patch on the paddy field where the teenager’s body was kept amid the presence of senior police officers. A few kilometres away in Dhaurara area of Lakhimpur Kheri, more than 200 Sikh men assembled on a field where another deceased farmer, Nachhatar Singh, 50, was cremated. One of his two sons, Mandeep Singh, a jawan in the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSSB) performed the last rites.“We never imagined this kind of an end to my father’s life. He was killed for speaking for the cause of farmers and we will remember this,” said Mandeep. On Monday, family members of the deceased had refused to cremate the bodies and staged protest over the Lakhimpur incident. They relented after the government announced ₹45 lakh compensation to the family of deceased farmers, jobs to them and swift investigation into the violence. On Tuesday morning, family members of Lovepreet Singh of Palia and Nachhatar Singh of Dhaurara had also refused to perform the last rites, alleging that the administration may tamper with the post-mortem report post cremation. Senior police officials were rushed to the spot and the families agreed for cremation after assurances by the authorities. Cheques of the compensation amount were handed over to the family members of Lovepreet and Nacchatar Singh by the evening and a team under the additional SP was formed to investigate the case.In the adjoining Bahraich district, family members cremated Daljeet Singh amidst heavy police presence. His 14-year-old son Rajdeep lit the pyre. ASP (rural) Ashok Kumar and other local officers were present during the cremation. Singh’s wife and 20-year-old daughter also attended the funeral from a distance. Meanwhile, family members of Gurvinder SIngh, 18, of Mohraniya village in Bahraich, refused to cremate his body alleging that the farmer was shot dead and the post-mortem report did not reveal this. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait reached the spot to speak to the family members. Considering the demand of the family, the local administration agreed for a second post-mortem of the body by experts. ASP (rural), Bahraich, Ashok Kumar said a panel of doctors had been deputed for the second post-mortem examination of the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-mortal-remains-of-three-farmers-cremated-101633453635811.html
05-10-2021||Other||15 students injured after hanging bridge collapses in Assam’s Karimganj||As many as 15 students sustained injuries after a hanging bridge collapsed while the students were returning from school in Assam’s Karimganj district. The incident happened in Nivia area under Ratabari assembly constituency on Monday afternoon, officials said. The hanging bridge is over the Singla River which flows from the hills of Mizoram. The students were returning from Cheragi Vidyapith High School after finishing their classes.According to the onlookers, around a hundred students stepped on the bridge together when suddenly it collapsed. Some of the students managed to cross the bridge but most of the students fell into the river. Most of them are students of class IX and they knew swimming so they helped in rescuing each other. Around 30 students got injured, some of them had minor injuries and recovered with initial treatment. However, some students sustained severe injuries and they were taken to a nearby government health centre with the local people.A resident, Gyash Uddin said, “During the rainy season, the river is in spate. The students were fortunate enough that school was closed during the rainy days. If this incident happened at that time, we could have lost few students. This shows the poor condition of basic infrastructure in our area.”He also said that the present member of parliament from Karimganj constituency was a three-time MLA from this area. There was a long pending demand for the RCC bridge on the Singla river. However, three years back, instead of an RCC bridge, the administration constructed a hanging bridge.“We requested the government and administration to construct an RCC bridge because thousands of locals, including students, are dependent on this. Singla River becomes a high-risk area in the rainy season. The hanging bridge increases the risk for the students. After the construction of the hanging bridge, it wasn’t even maintained properly by the administration in the last 3 years. Today’s incident is a wake-up call for all of us that something bigger can happen in future if we keep ignoring this issue,” he added.The bridge connects Kashinathpur with Cheragi Bazar. A large part of the Ratabari area is connected to Ramkrishna Nagar of Karimganj district with this bridge which is used by thousands of people regularly. After the state government ordered the opening of schools recently, students in a large number started using this bridge.Deputy Commissioner of Karimganj district Khageswar Pegu has ordered an enquiry and asked the local circle officer to look into the matter. He said, “It was an unfortunate incident and we are now investigating the reason behind this. I have already involved a circle officer to look into the matter closely. Apart from investigating this matter, our officials will go through a survey to find out a permanent solution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-students-injured-after-hanging-bridge-collapses-in-assam-s-karimganj-101633453395642.html
05-10-2021||Other||Over 15% of Uttar Pradesh’s population fully vaccinated against Covid, says ACS||LUCKNOW: Over 15% people in Uttar Pradesh are now fully vaccinated against Covid-19, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (ACS), medical health, in a press conference here on Tuesday. “By 6pm, Uttar Pradesh had administered 11, 16, 78,986 doses that is highest among all states. This included the first dose to 89014213 people, which is over 60% of the eligible population and second dose to 22,6,64,773 people which is 15.13% in the state,” said Prasad. Sharing details of Covid vaccination progress, Prasad said Uttar Pradesh is leading among all states in the country with over 15% complete vaccination.“Lucknow has vaccinated over 33% of its eligible population with administering over 11.81 lakh second doses, the maximum among all districts,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general, Association of International Doctors. The UP has administered a total 11, 16, 78,986 doses of the Covid vaccine till now and Lucknow 39, 70,245 does (including first and second dose), he added. Prasad said monsoon season is still there and rains cause temporary water logging at different places which can cause mosquito borne diseases, hence people need to adhere to the Covid protocol and also keep surrounding clean and free from stagnant water, to avoid Covid infection and dengue mosquito bite. 21 fresh Covid cases in UP Uttar Pradesh reported 21 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of active cases in the state to 153 under treatment. Of them, 148 are in home isolation while 23 patients recovered in the state. “Till now, 7, 94, 14,622 Covid samples have been tested in the state, including 1, 47,886 in the past 24-hours. Over 90,000 RT PCR samples have already been sent to lab for testing in past 24-hours,” said Prasad. “Covid-19 cases are at their lowest prevalence at present but people need to adhere to the Covid protocol strictly,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-15-of-uttar-pradesh-s-population-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-says-acs-101633453095328.html
05-10-2021||Other||80-yr-old will get citizenship after 10 years. Not sure will be alive, she says||An 80-year-old lady whose name was enrolled in voters’ list of 1970 in Cachar district, has been termed as a streamlined foreigner by foreigners’ tribunal in Assam court on Monday, officials said.The tribunal in Silchar of Cachar district has asked her to register her names along with her late husband and children before the local Foreigners Regional Registration Office within 30 days. Once she registers the names, the entire family will lose their right to vote for the next ten years.Bhandari Das is a resident of Bholanathpur village under Borkhola constituency in Assam’s Cachar district. Her name appeared in the final list of the National Register of Citizens (NRC) published in August 2019. Foreigners Tribunal Court-III in Cachar district issued a notice against Bhandari Das suspecting her an illegal migrant in 2018. She was asked to appear before the court and prove her identity by producing adequate documents in support of her claim.According to the office of the Superintendent of Police (Border), Cachar district, a case was registered against Bhandari Das in 2018 alleging her to be a foreigner who came to India after March 25, 1971, from Udhopuz village under Ajmeri police station in Sylhet district of Bangladesh. She could not submit any document of her citizenship in India at that time. Almost a decade later, when she received a notice from Tribunal court, she made a prayer before the court to decide as to whether she is an illegal migrant.She appeared before the tribunal court several times in the last three years. Along with the certified copy of the 1970 voters’ list where her name appeared, she showed the Relief Eligibility Certificate issued by the Government of India to her in 1967. Though the court admitted that she has been living in India since 1967 but in the final order, the FT-III member (judge) BK Talukder termed her as a “Foreigner Of The Stream 01-01-1966 to 25/03/1971” and asked her to enrol as migrated Bangladeshi to Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO).In the final order cum opinion, member BK Talukder wrote, “I have gone through the written statement, evidence and documents submitted by the lawyer of Bhandari Das carefully. My considered opinion is that the opposite party is a foreigner of the Stream 01-01-1966 to 25/03/1971. The OP (Bhandari Das) is directed to register her name along with her husband and children before the Foreigners Regional Registration Office, Cachar, Silchar.”Bhandari Das’s lawyer Tonmoy Purkayastha has informed that a case was registered against her in 2008 but the court issued an order in 2018. The hearing started in 2020 and the final order cum opinion came on October 4 this year. Now the lady has to wait for at least ten more years to get Indian citizenship.He said, “This judgement was drawn as per provisions of the Assam Accord. Bhandari Das has proven that she has been staying in India since 1967 and the court has agreed that the documents she submitted are authentic. Now after staying in India for more than five decades, she has to register her name as a migrant. We are part of this system and cannot criticise it but in my personal opinion, these people deserve better treatment.”Clause 5 of Assam Accord says, All persons who come to Assam prior to January 1, 1966, including those amongst them whose names appeared on the electoral rolls used in 1967 elections, shall be regularised as citizens. Foreigners who came to Assam between January 1, 1966, and March 24, 1971, shall be detected in accordance with the provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946.Names of those detected foreigners will be deleted from the electoral rolls in force. Such persons will be required to register themselves before the Registration Officers of the respective districts in accordance with the provisions of the Registration of Foreigners Act and the Registration of Foreigners Rules, 1939.For this purpose, the Government of India will undertake suitable strengthening of the government machinery. On the expiry of a period of ten years following the date of detection, the names of all such persons that have been deleted from the electoral roll shall be restored.Bhandari Das submitted documents that show that she was in India in 1967 but her name was not enrolled in the voters’ list of that year. Though the tribunal court asked her to prove her identity, she was not arrested or detained somewhere during the hearings. But in the final order, the court has asked her to enrol the entire family’s name as migrants.A senior official from the Foreigners Tribunal said that the member (judge) of the FT-III has committed an error by asking Bhandari Das to enrol the names of all her family members at FRRO.He said, “In the order itself, it is said that the case was between the State of Assam and Bhandari Das. So, how can the judge ask the other family members to declare themselves as migrants? They can have their father’s legacy which is not yet challenged.”Senior advocate Soumen Choudhary called this an “extended harassment” to the common Indians by Tribunal Court. He said, “It takes years for a person to prove his identity before the court because in many cases the document they submit needs verification. Various government departments delay these verifications which keep the person waiting for long. But after facing all these processes, the Court calls the person streamlined foreigners, which in my opinion, is half citizenship. This seems a joke made by our judicial system. In my opinion, this is just extended harassment for the common people.”Social activist Kamal Chakraborty informed that there are other people who have received similar orders from Tribunal Court. He said, “It has happened to many people and in some cases, people were responsible because of their ignorance. I know a family who has a land purchasing document of 1964 but they did not submit this before the Court during the hearing. So the court declared them streamlined foreigners. Now they have to appeal again and it may take another episode to solve the issue. We have started educating people regarding the documents they need to submit before such hearings.”Bhandari Das, however, has expressed a sigh of relief even with this order. Talking to Hindustan Times she said, “My only fear was to die without proving my Indian citizenship. I don’t want to leave a bad legacy for my children. Now, the court has said that if I wait for 10 years, my family and I will be declared permanent Indian citizens. At the age of 80, I am not sure I will live for another 10 years or not but even if I die before that, my children will live a respectful life as genuine Indian citizens.”Taking about her experience of leaving her house in East Bengal (now Bangladesh) in the mid-1960s and their initial days in India, Bhandari Das said, “I got married in 1961 at our village house in Sylhet district of East Bengal. I was around 13 years old. We were being attacked from various sides because of our religious beliefs. Many of our neighbours left for India because Hindus can be safe in one country, that is India. One morning my husband decided to leave for India as well. It was the toughest time of our life which we never forget. When a few years back an order came from court, I thought before my death I have to go back to Bangladesh again, which I never wanted to.”Talking about their initial days in India, she said, “After travelling for the entire day from Sylhet, we reached a camp at midnight and did not know what to eat or where to sleep. Things started getting normal slowly and we stayed in the camp for almost 3 years. Finally, we managed to get some work in Bholanathpur village near Silchar town and shifted there. My two kids were born in that village.”Bhandari Das’s husband Rajendra Das was a farmer, he died in 2009 after struggling with illness for few years. Bhandari Das stays with her son Rajkamal Das and his family. Her daughter is married to a farmer in a nearby village and she has four kids. Rajkamal informed that Bhandari Das has developed a hearing problem with her age. She is a brave lady but the pain of partition remains in her stories.“I was born in 1971 at Bholanathpur, my younger sister was also born here. Before that our parents went through a pathetic life and they supported each other to survive in the toughest times. We have heard many stories from our father. We are a family of farmers and our father taught us to be ready to face any situation in life. When the case was filed against my mother, our father’s words helped us to be strong. The court has asked my mother to wait for 10 years to get Indian citizenship. We are not afraid or disappointed by this,” said Rajkamal.Last year, 104-year-old Chandradhar Das died in Cachar district without proving his identity after fighting for more than four years. His only wish was to die as an Indian. The Tribunal Court sent his citizenship card, which was issued in his name in 1964 in Tripura, for verification which never came back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/80yearold-assam-woman-declared-streamlined-foreigner-in-court-101633452557296.html
05-10-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati: BJP following steps initiated by BSP govt of allotting houses to poor||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Tuesday said Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was following the steps initiated by her government of allotting houses to the poor in Uttar Pradesh.The remarks came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi digitally handed over keys of PMAY-U houses to 75,000 beneficiaries at a function held in Lucknow. She also cautioned the BJP that the work of allotment of houses to the poor should not be left half-completed or done in a hurry just for fulfillment of electoral interests. “It is better if the housing schemes are properly inaugurated and allocated only after completion. Only then people will get the right benefit of it,” she said in a tweet.In a series of tweets, the BSP chief said “As the elections are approaching, there has been a wrong trend of laying foundation stones of schemes and inaugurating half-completed schemes. It creates an adverse impact on public interest and welfare. The development and welfare schemes should run continuously with the formation of the government.”The former chief minister further said the tradition of allocating various government schemes of public interest and public welfare and other economic benefits directly in the bank account of women was started on a large scale during BSP government.To note, the BSP government (2007-12) had launched Kanshiram Shahri Garib Awas Yojana in 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh in 2008. A BSP leader said: “In 2008-09 one lakh houses were allotted in various districts to the poor and homeless people. In 2009-10 50,000 and in 2010-11 75,000 houses were allotted to the poor. When Samajwadi Party came to power in 2012 the scheme was scrapped.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-bjp-following-steps-initiated-by-bsp-govt-of-allotting-houses-to-poor-101633451655456.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||Can’t rule out drastic spike in Covid cases, says Mumbai civic body||Although there has been no drastic spike in the number of Covid-19 cases reported after Ganeshotsav, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said one cannot completely rule out an alarming surge in the coming months. This comes a day after the BMC informed the Bombay high court (HC) on Monday that it doesn’t see the much-feared third wave of Covid-19 hitting the city. On Monday, reportedly the BMC’s counsel, Anil Sakhare, informed the high court that the work is on (of vaccination) very smoothly. Now, there is no shortage of vaccines too. Mumbai is safe. We do not see a third wave (of the Covid-19) coming. However, the BMC has said any spike further cannot be ruled out.According to BMC officials, the seasonal migration post monsoon and upcoming festivals are going to involve social gatherings and if Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is not followed, there is a possibility of further spike. The 15-days incubation period after Ganesh festival ended on October 5 and the BMC has maintained that the city is in a comfortable position for now.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “The situation right now in the city is very comfortable and it is maybe safe considering we are able to handle the caseload very well and there is adequate health infrastructure to handle cases. However, we cannot completely rule out any further spike. There are festivals upcoming, including Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali where there will be gatherings.”Kakani added, “We cannot make any claim that a third wave will not come. In Ahmednagar district, several villages are facing a spike and we cannot claim anything on the above lines. We have to remain cautious and continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, and get vaccinated considering it is definitely helping control the spread.”An indication of Covid-19 vaccines being effective was concluded in an analysis conducted by the BMC last month. HT had reported on September 12 that an analysis of D ward in South Mumbai had revealed that only five out of 158 fully vaccinated patients had to be hospitalised due to complications and most importantly all of them had recovered.Further, on Tuesday, the city reported 427 cases, followed by two deaths. The recovery rate of the city is 96% with 721,310 recoveries. The mortality rate is 2.16% and there are 6,161 active cases in the city. The city’s daily positivity rate has been hovering between 0.90% and 1.40% for nearly two weeks now. On Tuesday, a daily positivity rate of 1.33% was reported due to 31,969 tests. Further, 66,005 citizens were vaccinated on Tuesday, taking the total to 12,710,607. Of the total, 4,396,477 citizens are fully vaccinated in the city. The BMC aims to fully vaccinate the entire adult eligible population by February 2022.Meanwhile, experts claimed there may be a spike post festivals and seasonal migration, but the spike should be mild and not like the spike during the second wave. Dr Madhav Sathe, former professor of microbiology at Nair Hospital, said, “There will be a spike maybe after Diwali, but there cannot be something like a third wave. 95% there will not be any third wave as the virus variants currently out are unlikely to mutate, but yes we cannot completely rule it out. Hence, we will have to continue wearing a mask and following Covid-appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cant-rule-out-drastic-spike-in-covid-cases-says-mumbai-civic-body-101633451235414.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||Panvel City police book woman for murdering 2-yr-old son with poison, attempting to die by suicide||The Panvel City police have booked a 20-year-old Jharkhand woman for allegedly killing her two-year-old son and then attempting to die by suicide.On Sunday evening, the Palaspa unit of Panvel City police received information about a boy and a woman lying unconscious in the bushes near a petrol pump in Kalundre village.The duo was taken to a hospital wherein the boy was declared dead on arrival while his mother was in a critical condition. The police had also found a bottle of poison near the duo.Meanwhile, at the same time the woman’s brother-in-law had reached the police station to inform them about her and the child. He gave the phone number of her husband.“Her husband told us that he, his wife and son, and his brother came to Panvel on September 26 in search of work but in vain. Hence, he decided to return to their village while his wife decided to stay back with her brother-in-law. The husband suspected them of having an affair and thus he left for the village alone. On Sunday morning, the brother-in-law saw that the woman and her son had started vomiting, and when asked, she said that since the brother-in-law refused to marry her, she had consumed poison and also given it to her son. The duo then left the home while brother-in-law came to us,” a police officer from Panvel City police station said.Police inspector Sanjay Joshi from Panvel City police station said, “A case of murder has been registered against the mother. She is hospitalised and hence not arrested yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/panvel-city-police-book-woman-for-murdering-2-yr-old-son-with-poison-attempting-to-die-by-suicide-101633451115163.html
05-10-2021||Patna||Lalu mocks Cong’s ‘high command’ culture||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Tuesday mocked ally Congress’s “high command” culture and dismissed its allegations that his party had violated coalition principles by fielding candidates for both assembly seats in Bihar going to vote in the October 30 bypolls — Kusheshwar Asthan in Darbhanga district and Tarapur in Munger district.The former Bihar chief minister was addressing a meeting of his party’s senior leaders virtually from New Delhi, where he has been recuperating since his release from jail on bail earlier in fodder scam cases in which he was convicted. “RJD is a self-made party and it never had the culture of high command in clearances of tickets to candidates. In other parties, including Congress, people used to wait for clearances of ticket selection from the high command. In my party, I have given tickets to candidates sitting under a tree,” Prasad said. From Kusheshwar Asthan, a constituency reserved from candidates from scheduled caste (SC), RJD has fielded Ganesh Bharti, who belongs to the subcaste of mushars. “Musahars are in large numbers in Kusheshwar Asthan, along with Yadavs and other castes . During my chief ministership, I had tried hard to uplift the socio-economic condition of the community considered most backward. Bharti is our candidate from the seat,” Prasad said.In 2020 polls, Ashok Kumar of Congress had contested the seat as part of Opposition alliance led by RJD but lost to Janata Dal (United). This time, Congress has fielded Ashok Kumar’s son Atreya Kumar. Attacking chief minister Nitish Kumar, Prasad said he was just fooling the people Bihar as he had failed to get the demand for special category status for Bihar fulfilled from his ally BJP, which leads the coalition government at the Centre. In an apparent effort to dispel any misgivings that he was being held captive in Delhi at his daughter’s residence, as claimed by his elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav two days ago, Prasad said he was would come to Patna once he gets approval from his doctors. “ I will come to Patna and be with you all soon,” he said. The former union minister praised his younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who was present among the audience. “Our party did very well under Tejashwi’s leadership in the assembly polls. It emerged as the single largest party though the NDA got majority by manipulation of results in tightly contested seats,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-mocks-cong-s-high-command-culture-101633451000975.html
05-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Balbeer Giri anointed as Baghambari Math head||PRAYAGRAJ: Swami Balbeer Giri was anointed as the new head (Mahant) of the Baghambari Math on Tuesday, amid the chanting of Vedic mantras and Chadarvidhi (anointment) ceremony performed by prominent seers of Shri Panchayati Akhara Niranjani. Apart from senior seers of the Niranjani Akhara, several seers of various other akharas also offered shawl to Balbeer Giri as part of the ritual. Shawls were also offered to him on behalf of the chief minister Yogi Adtiyanath and deputy CM, Keshav Prasad Maurya. Prior to the anointment ceremony, an event was held at the Math wherein several seers and prominent officials of the district administration remembered Narendra Giri and recollected their association with the seer, whose body was found hanging from the fan of a room at the Math on September 20. The seer’s death is currently being probed by the CBI. While speaking at the event, Acharya Maha Mandaleshwar of Niranjani Akhara, Kailashanand Giri remembered Narendra Giri as a seer who courageously took decisions for the overall welfare of all the 13 recognised Akharas of the country. President of Shankaracharya Parishad, Swami Anand Swaroop said that Narendra Giri always led the cause of Akhara and the seers from the front. He remembered his close association with Narendra Giri and hoped that his successor would keep the values of the Math intact and serve the seers, as did his Guru. While paying homage to Narendra Giri, secretary of the Niranjani Akhara, Ravindra Puri raised the issue of differences between the Akharas of the country. “We are thankful to the 10 Akharas of the country, representatives of which attended the function at the Math but at the same time, it is sad to notice that three Akharas of ‘Bairagi sect’ have not attended the ceremony.” It is worth mentioning that differences had emerged between the Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) and the three Akharas, namely Nirvani, Digambhar and Nirmohi over allotment of land at Haridwar Kumbh. After paying homage to Narendra Giri, Kailashanand Giri announced the name of Balbeer Giri and invited him for the Chadarvidhi ceremony. Beginning the ceremony, Kailashanand first applied tilak to Balbeer Giri and after garlanding him, offered the first shawl. Thereafter, number of seers, starting from one each from the Giri and Puri branch (within the Niranjani Akhara), offered shawls to newly appointed Mahant of the Math. Thereafter, Balbeer Giri reached the Samadhi Sthal of his guru Narendra Giri, located within the Math and offered his homage. Then in a close-door ceremony, the Shodashi ceremony (the 16th day post-death ceremony of a seer) of Narendra Giri was also performed wherein 16 items were given to seers by the new Mahant and other senior seers and office bearers of the Niranjani Akhara. Balbeer Giri then visited various locations within the Math where seers and other invitees were seated for the bhandara. He supervised the serving and instructed the ‘sewadar’ (disciples) for various work pertaining to offering food in the bhandara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-balbeer-giri-anointed-as-baghambari-math-head-101633450999755.html
05-10-2021||Patna||Bihar writes to Centre for fertilizer stocks for rabi season||Taking a lesson from the shortage of urea during the kharif season, Bihar’s agriculture department has written to the Centre to ensure timely arrival of fertilizer stocks for the upcoming rabi season that begins from November, official said. Kharif season begins in June and ends in October.Officials said that the department, after an assessment of different types of fertilizer, has put its requirement of urea at 12 lakh metric tonners, DAP(Di-ammonium phosphate) at 4 lakh metric tonnes, MOP (muriate of phosphate) at 1.5 lakh tonnes, 2 lakh metric tonnes of complex (mixture of nitrogenous, phosphatic and potash) and 1.25 lakh metric tonnes of SSP (single super phosphate). Secretary (agriculture) N Saravana Kumar said the review of requirement of fertilizer this time was being done minutely with regular updates from the field so that there is no shortage as such of any variety of fertilizer during the upcoming rabi season. “We had faced some difficulty in availability of fertilizer during the kharif season but it was resolved immediately,” said Kumar. A month back, there was shortage of fertilizer, especially urea, leading to protests by farmers at different places during the kharif season. There were reports of farmers purchasing urea at double the standard price. Opposition parties had alleged the crisis of urea was an “artificial” one created by retailers in connivance with officials. Foodgrain productionThe state’s total food production this year has been 169 lakh metric tonnes, higher than last year’s 163 MTs.As per the fourth estimate of foodgrains production, considered to be the final assessment of total production of rice, wheat and maize and other crops in a particular year, the state produced 63 lakh metric tonnes of wheat this year while rice production stood at 68 lakh metric tonnes, In 2019-20, the foodgrains production stood at 163 lakh metric tonnes, of which rice was 69 lakh metric tonnes while wheat was 55 lakh metric tonnes. Secretary (agriculture) N Saravana Kumar said the overall the foodgrains production this year has been good, especially wheat, despite some crop damages during the rabi season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-writes-to-centre-for-fertilizer-stocks-for-rabi-season-101633450817981.html
05-10-2021||Other||Katihar: 3 killed, 1 hurt in road mishap||Three persons were killed and one seriously injured in a road mishap near a petrol pump on National Highway 31 under Kodha police station of Katihar district late Monday night, said police.“The victims were reportedly returning from election campaign of a mukhiya at Chohar Panchayat falling under Pothiya police outpost in Katihar when their car hit a truck,” station house officer (SHO) of Kodha police station Rupak Ranjan Singh. The SHO said, “The accident might have taken place after the driver of the car fell asleep and hit the stationary truck on NH 31.”The deceased have been identified as Ram Kumar, 28, Vikash Kumar alias Golu, 23 and Sunil Kumar, 29, all residents of Kodha. The driver of the car, Ravi Choudhary, is seriously injured and undergoing treatment at Purnia’s private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/katihar-3-killed-1-hurt-in-road-mishap-101633450816611.html
05-10-2021||Ranchi||Latehar: Wife of man killed in ‘encounter’ seeks FIR against security personnel||The widow of tribal youth Bramhadev Singh who was allegedly shot dead by security forces at Piri village in Latehar district earlier this year has approached the local district court seeking direction to police to immediately lodge an FIR under murder charges against the security forces personnel involved in the incident.The 23-year-old Singh was killed on June 19 this year when security forces were carrying out an anti-Maoist operation in the forests of Kuku-Piri under Garu police station in the Latehar district. In her complaint, Singh’s widow Jiramani Devi has sought a police case against eight named and dozens of unnamed security personnel, alleging that they killed her husband even after seeing Singh and his friends, who were out for hunting on the occasion of Sarhul festival, surrendering themselves while shouting that they were not Maoists. “When the security forces opened fire, Singh and his friends left their guns and shouted that they were not Maoists. But the security forces continued to fire at them. When Brahmdev Singh’s aunt reached the spot, she saw injured Singh alive. The security forces chased her away and took Singh with them. Later, he was found dead in the jungle,” Jiramani said in her complaint. She also alleged that Singh was wearing a different-coloured shirt when he went out and the security forces changed his clothes after his “encounter”. Later, while the police admitted that Singh was not a Maoist, a case was filed under Arms Act against all six youths, including the deceased. The case was later transferred to the crime investigation department (CID). The Latehar district police administration has ever since maintained that any further action would be taken after the CID files its charge sheet after the completion of the probe.On June 29, Jiramani Devi, wife of deceased Singh, had submitted a complaint with Latehar police requesting a case be filed against the security men who were involved in the killing of her husband.On July 31, the family members led by gram pradhan of Piri village Modi Singh in association with rights activists and family members of Brahmadev Singh protested for a day outside the deputy commissioner’s office, demanding action, besides granting monetary compensation. A memorandum of the gram sabha in the name of chief minister Hemant Soren was handed over to Latehar deputy commissioner regarding the demands..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/lateharwife-of-man-killed-in-encounter-seeks-fir-against-security-personnel-101633450815516.html
05-10-2021||Ranchi||Taking legal opinion on new TAC rules: J’khand Guv||Jharkhand Governor Ramesh Bais on Tuesday said that he was taking legal opinion on the amended Tribes Advisory Council (TAC) rules while underlining that the Constitution provides special powers to the Governor concerning governance in scheduled areas.“Jharkhand has Schedule V areas, which are under me. As far as the TAC goes, it should have members appointed by the government as well as the four members as Governor nominees. But now, they don’t have Governor nominees. I am yet to see the files but from whatever I have heard, I am taking legal opinion over it,” Bais told reporters in an interaction at Raj Bhawan. The Hemant Soren government on June 22 amended the Tribes Advisory Council (an advisory body that deliberates and helps the government with issues related to tribes and their development in states that have areas classified under the fifth schedule of the Constitution), transferring the power of constituting the TAC from the office of the Governor to the chief minister (CM). The state government reconstituted the TAC with the CM as ex-officio chairman and the state tribal affairs minister as the deputy chairperson. Fifteen MLAs, including three from the Opposition BJP, are also a part of TAC, besides two experts from the ST community. The Hemant Soren government has, however, maintained that the amendment has been done as per law and cited the example of Chhattisgarh where a similar exercise was done by the previous BJP government headed by Raman Singh. Bais, who is also from Chhattisgarh and a former seven-term Lok Sabha member from Raipur, said the Governor’s power has not been diluted in his state. Meanwhile, CM Hemant Soren chaired two meetings of the new TAC since it was constituted. Former Governor Draupadi Murmu, who made way for Bais on July 14, also raised a red flag over the issue. In her last interaction with media before relinquishing office, Murmu had said that she had sought the TAC files and briefed the incumbent Governor over the issue. Bais also expressed dissatisfaction over the level of development in Jharkhand since its creation two decades back as compared to his own state Chhattisgarh, which was formed along with Jharkhand.“The state has huge potential, especially in the field of education, tourism, agriculture. I keep reading about traffic jams even in the state capital Ranchi. There needs to be an overall plan and get it implemented,” he said. Bais also said he was taking stock of the situation from concerned departments and he would give his feedback and ideas to the state government wherever possible. “Yesterday, I met university officials. Today I met agriculture department officials. It is important to know the realities before giving any advice,” he said.When asked if his reviews and advice may be interpreted as interference in governance and a possible showdown between the office of the Governor and the state government as it has been in some other non-BJP ruled states, Bais said that he has no political bias.“My only focus is that I contribute in development till the time I am here. I will only advise. It is up to the government to consider it or not,” he said. The Governor said he has already had 2-3 rounds of discussion with the CM over development issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/taking-legal-opinion-on-new-tac-rules-j-khand-guv-101633450758225.html
05-10-2021||Patna||Senior cop in Bihar faces probe after complaint from female inspector||The Bihar Police headquarters on Tuesday ordered a probe following a complaint by a female inspector who has accused a senior police officer of misbehaviour and mental torture and sought voluntary retirement from service.Additional director general (special branch) Sunil Kumar Tuesday ordered an inquiry against the 2010-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Deepak Barnwal, currently posted as a superintendent of police (special branch) on a complaint by inspector Anshu Kumari, who is now posted in Begusarai.Kumari herself is under a departmental probe since May this year when she was posted with the special branch in Patna. “I have asked deputy inspector general (special branch) Nawal Kishore Singh to inquire into the alleged incident. The officer will soon collect the evidence and file the report,” the ADG said.Recently, a delegation of Bihar Policemen’s Association led by its president Mritunjay Singh had also met the ADG and demanded an inquiry. “The incident with a woman officer which compels her to apply for VRS is a serious matter,” Mritunjay Singh said, adding that the probe against Barnwal should have ideally been handed over to an officer outside the special branch in the interest of fairness.On July 26, 2021, Kumari, 1994-batch inspector, had written a letter to state police chief, seeking voluntary retirement while accusing Barnwal of mentally torturing and harassing her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/senior-cop-in-bihar-faces-probe-after-complaint-from-female-inspector-101633450755405.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||More non-Covid deaths, decline in registration of major diseases in Mumbai: Praja report||Mumbai
05-10-2021||Patna||New names, symbols for LJP faction; Chirag group happy||The Election Commission's (EC) decision to allot new names and symbols to the warring faction of the Lok Janshakti Party has left the Chirag Paswan faction smiling.The EC, following a request from LJP Jamaui MP Chirag Paswan, has given his party the name of Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) and the election symbol helicopter while Pashupati Kumar Paras' LJP has been allotted the name Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party and sewing machine as its symbol.Chirag Paswan has moved the EC for an early settlement of the issue as his faction wanted to contest the by-polls for two assembly seats – Tarapur and Kusheshwarsthan—the elections for which are scheduled on October 30.The Chirag faction seems more than happy after the EC added the name of Ram Vilas in its name.“We welcome the EC decision. It is the vindication of our claim that we are the real holder of Ram Vilas Paswan’s legacy. Some parties wanted to sabotage our election prospect but truth has finally won,” said LJP (Chirag group) spokesperson, Ashraf Ansari.LJP leaders are happy that the addition of Ram Vilas Paswan’s name would help the party win over the Dalit votes. “It’s a blessing in disguise,” said a Chirag faction leader.Experts also agree. “Late Ram Vilas Paswan was a tall leader of Dalits and he still has a strong following which was proven during Chirag’s Aashirvad yatra. Union minister Pashupati Paras could not get the same response,” said Gyanendra Yadav, associate professor of sociology, College of Commerce, Patna.The LJP, with six MPs in Lok Sabha, split in June this year after five of the MPs refused to identify Chirag Paswan as their leader and petitioned the Lok Sabha Speaker to recognize the group as the real LJP. Both the groups announced their own president.The LJP contested the Bihar assembly election in 2020 separately and caused considerable to JD(U) in no less than 30-35 seats. The JD(U) could win only 43 seats. Ever since then, voices of dissent started to rise in the party. However, the party won a single seat and the lone party MLA defected to the JD(U).With Chirag deciding to field candidates once again from two assembly seats going to by-polls, things are not going to be smooth for the JD(U) which is contesting the elections on both seats. Both the assembly seats were represented by the JD(U).Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party was guarded in its comments. Pashupati Kumar Paras welcomed the Election Commission's decision of allotting his faction of the Lok Janshakti Party the name Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party and sewing machine as the party symbol."I welcome the Election Commission's decision. I have been allotted the name Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party and the sewing machine as the party symbol," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/new-names-symbols-for-ljp-faction-chirag-group-happy-101633447040504.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 426 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||Pune: As of Tuesday, Pune district has reported 426 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.14 million of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,810 deaths and 8,593 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 49,000 doses vaccinated on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 195 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 360,175 and the death toll stood at 6,794 as one death was reported on the day. Pune city reported 161 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 518,137 and the death toll went up to 9,168 as one more death was reported on the day. PCMC reported 70 new cases and the progressive count went up to 266,901 and the toll stood at 3,499 as no more deaths were reported. Pune also saw 49,898 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 10,882,577. Out of which 7,298,718 are first doses and 3,583,859 are second doses. A total of 646 sites saw vaccination of which 447 were government centres and 199 private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-426-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-101633447275137.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Valuation of PMC properties is ₹35,000 crore||PUNE: The total valuation of its properties by Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) as per the current market price is ₹35,000 crore. The immovable assets of PMC include amenity spaces, gardens, auditoriums and other properties. With the civic administration yet to carry out such an exercise in the recent past, municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar instructed officials to carry out the asset valuation. PMC estate department head Rajendra Muthe said, “PMC did the property valuation after a long time. Post the assessment of our real estate and its high market value, we could seek increase in credit limit and attract more investment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/valuation-of-pmc-properties-is-rs-35-000-crore-101633446615210.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||Panvel Taluka Police book 3 for alleged gangrape of 35-year-old woman||Three persons including a woman have been booked by the Panvel Taluka Police for the alleged gangrape of a 35-year-old woman. They have also been booked under sections of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.The survivor, who hailed from Pandharpur, had fallen for a WhatsApp forward offering the job as a cleaner in a government hospital. The woman had lost work as house help during lockdown and when she saw a message that said, ‘If in need of work, call the number,’ she trusted and called the number.The caller promised her a job with ₹17,000 salary as cleaner at a government hospital and gave the address to meet him in Panvel.The survivor said, “I managed to reach the said address, which was of a hotel, on September 18. After reaching the room in the hotel, a lady identified as ‘Baby’, gave me juice to drink and there were two men who told me that I could earn as much as I wanted if I agreed to sleep with various men. They asked me if I would work from a lodge or a hotel. I denied their offer and as I started to leave, I fell unconscious. When I woke up, I realised I was raped by the two men.”She then left the hotel and called her friend in Pune who asked her to come there. On September 23, her friend took her to Vimantal police station and registered a case against the trio whom the victim identified as Gulam Shaikh, Shetty and ‘Baby’. The trio was booked under gangrape sections and under Atrocity Act. The case was later transferred to Panvel Taluka police station.“I was called by the Panvel Taluka police for punchnama of the hotel and to identify the lady named ‘Baby’. On that day, the manager of the hotel said she had not reported. I feel the hotel people were trying to save her. If no arrests are made, I won’t hesitate to protest in Navi Mumbai,” she added.The victim had not told her husband about the incident fearing that he might abandon her and their two children.Further investigations are being done by ACP Bhagwat Sonawane. “The accused have fled and none has been arrested till now. We are looking for them,” a police officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/panvel-taluka-police-book-3-for-alleged-gangrape-of-35-year-old-woman-101633446134962.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Some residents of Pune’s Mangalwar peth evacuated during Mon evening downpour||PUNE The torrential rain in a short-span of time on Monday evening crippled not just traffic at many places in the city, but saw water logging in various housing societies. This was accompanied by incidents of trees falling caused by the thunderstorm and lightning. Parge chowk in Mangalwar peth was flooded with firefighters even evacuating some residents from there.Given the flash floods that have plagued Pune during the monsoon season in the recent past, a torrential downpour like the one on Monday evening always has Punekars worried.“Water level started rising around our area. When I looked out of the window the water level was above three feet, and people were still walking on the road. Then firefighters asked us to vacate our houses till the rain stopped, which it did, thankfully,” said Renuka Mandhare a resident of Mangalwar peth.The Pune Fire brigade received a total of 21 calls, of which 13 were about trees falling and waterlogging, all in different parts of the city. “The calls came from areas like Mangalwar peth, Sadesatra Nali in Hadapsar, Vishrantwadi, Yerawada, Camp and also Pune railway station. There were no injuries or major damage of goods and vehicles. Our firefighters reached the spots quickly and rescued people. Fallen trees were also cleared,” said Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) fire brigade department, 12 incidents of trees falling were recorded on Monday. The heavy rain started at 6pm on Monday and the water level on roads quickly rose, while the underpass at the Pune railway station was partially submerged, with people having to wade through waist-high water to get to the road.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), between 5:30 pm and 8:30 pm on Monday, Shivajinagar reported 26.3 millimetres (mm) of rain, Chinchwad reported 2.5mm, whereas Lohegaon reported 23.4mm of rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/some-residents-of-pune-s-mangalwar-peth-evacuated-during-mon-evening-downpour-101633444575021.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mandis in Haryana haven't started paddy procurement yet: BKU chief Chaduni||Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni on Tuesday alleged that the mandis in the state haven't started the paddy procurement yet.Speaking to reporters, Chaduni said, "Mandis haven't yet started paddy procurement. All terms and conditions including the cap of 25 quintals should be removed.""The government should start procurement from today onwards otherwise from tomorrow, we request farmers to gherao the political leaders," he stated.Earlier on Friday, the Central government informed that procurement of paddy under Minimum Support Price (MSP) operation would commence from October 11 in Punjab and Haryana.However, amid protests in both states over the aforesaid order, the Centre on Saturday took back its decision to postpone the procurement till October 11 and announced that it will start the procurement in both states from Sunday only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandis-in-haryana-haven-t-started-paddy-procurement-yet-bku-chief-chaduni-101633442120229.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||150-bed paediatric ward set up in Thane in anticipation of Covid third wave||Although schools have reopened and malls and theatres opened for the fully vaccinated, and rules relaxed across the city, the probability of the third wave continues to loom.Keeping this in mind, a 150-bed paediatric ward has been set up near the Thane Mental Hospital by the Thane District Health Department. This is apart from the ones set up by individual municipal corporations within the district.From among these 150 beds set up recently, around 25 will be specifically used in case of any disaster or emergency wherein children need hospitalisation.The paediatric ward has been set up on the ground floor of the health department adjacent to the Mental Hospital. Moreover, a state-of-the-art operation theatre has been set up for the convenience of pregnant women along with a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU).“We have planned for an additional 50-bed facility within the premises and preparations for the same are going on. This will be apart from the existing NICU and the 150-bed facility. If there is a sudden spike in numbers, we will have enough space to admit children and no one will be devoid of any facility or treatment,” said Dr Kailash Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane district.Within Thane district, Thane Municipal Corporation has already set up a 100-bed paediatric facility, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation has set up a 50-bed paediatric ward and Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation has set up an 80-bed facility within their respective jurisdictions. As it is anticipated that children would be most affected in the probable third wave, preparations are being made as per the rules stated by the State government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/150bed-paediatric-ward-set-up-in-thane-in-anticipation-of-covid-third-wave-101633443678627.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Pune’s Lohegaon airport completely shut from October 16-29||PUNE The Lohegaon international airport in Pune will be completely shut from October 16-29 to allow for the runway to be re-carpeted, officials from the Airports Authority of India said on Tuesday. Currently, the airport is only operating during the day.“I have been informed by the Indian Air Force (IAF) that airport will remain closed from October 16 through to October 29,” said Santosh Dhoke, director, Lohegaon airport. Flight operations will resume at 8am on October 30, Dhoke added. “After the complete shut-down for 14 days, the airport is expected to operate for 24 hours from then on. Flights are expected to increase once the airport reopens and since it will be Diwali time, it is expected air traffic will increase,” said an airport official asking not to be named. The re-carpeting is being done by the Indian Air Force (IAF) which controls the 2,530-metre runway and air-traffic control. Currently, passenger flights are operating from 8am to 8pm, ever since the work on the runway began last year. Currently, 55 flights are operating and daily footfall crossed the 10,000 mark recently, AAI officials said. Before first Covid wave, 170 flights used the city’s airport. The resurfacing of the runway began in October 2020. Some flyers are in a fix.“I had a flight to Goa scheduled on October 28, now I am applying for cancellation. I hope service at Pune airport will improve after the runway work is completed,” said Deepti Surve, an IT professional. Twitter was abuzz with flyers venting their frustration.Sanjay Koul tweeted: “Just imagine this decision has been taken just 10 days in advance to spoil Diwali vacation of middle class. Why is Diwali time specifically chosen for this? And why notice just 10 days in advance?”Sujeet Sahu tweeted: “Not good especially during the festive season when lot of people must have booked their tickets. Now cancellation is gonna be a big confusion. Request to postopone this until Dussera and Diwali is over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-lohegaon-airport-completely-shut-from-october-1629-101633443494837.html
05-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: SUV ploughed into farmers’ crowd from behind, say eyewitnesses||LUCKNOW Rajdeep Singh, 14, was with his father Daljeet Singh, a farmer, when the latter was allegedly mowed down by an SUV from behind on the Tikunia-Lakhimpur road on Sunday. “After peaceful protest, we were walking down the road when I heard a speeding SUV. It all happened in front of me… my father was knocked down by the vehicle. I tried to hold him but couldn’t do anything,” lamented Rajdeep.He said this SUV was part of the cavalcade of Ashish Mishra, son of BJP minster Ajay Mishra Tani. These vehicles were deployed to welcome UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and were on their way back after his visit was cancelled. After a peaceful protest, the farmers including Daljeet Singh were also returning home.“As my father lay unconscious on the road, my uncle held his head in his hands. That was the last thing I remember,” said Rajdeep who fainted on the road after witnessing the violence and arson.Harpreet Singh, 28, another farmer, was standing on the roof of a house on the road along with at least 20 others and saw the carnage unfold from a vantage point. “The road was packed with farmers who were returning from the venue. They were stopping to take photographs and selfies, which slowed the movement and led to further crowding on the road. Meanwhile, I saw three cars leaving the playground. The SUV leading the pack began accelerating, and some farmers had a close shave, with this vehicle nearly hitting them,” he said. “This SUV kept speeding till it reached the spot where farmers had assembled. I saw it plough into the crowd from behind. To save themselves, farmers jumped into ditches on both sides of the road. It appeared like a tractor moving through a paddy field, crushing the plants and leaving tyre marks behind. People started shouting…I couldn’t believe my eyes,” added Harpreet. Moments after the accident, this SUV was forced to stop and the people inside it jumped out and started running. The second SUV in the cavalcade tried to take a sharp turn and escape, but lost balance and landed in a ditch on the other side of the road. A farmer, Balvinder Singh Mangat, 39, who was standing here, hardly 10 metres ahead with his friends, said: “We heard a thumping sound of a vehicle moving from behind into the farmers’ crowd, followed by cries of farmers. The second SUV was seen going down into the ditch. But I was alarmed when I saw a third car speeding towards us. We pushed ourselves on the sides of the culvert to escape being hit and saw this third car fleeing,” recalled Mangat.Within minutes, the road which was crowded with farmers, was left barren as people jumped into ditches on either side for safety.“Everything was quiet for around 30 seconds, before people started coming out to check the injured and the dead lying on the road. Everyone looked alarmed and some were angry. People started calling out for help and cars were brought in to ferry the injured. I saw people running behind the driver of the first SUV,” said Joginder Singh Virk, another farmer who jumped into the ditch. According to the police, the angry farmers lynched four people, including the drivers of the SUVS and a local journalist. Both the vehicles were set ablaze by the time additional police force reached the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-suv-ploughed-into-farmers-crowd-from-behind-say-eyewitnesses-101633443314796.html
05-10-2021||Bangalore||Bommai reflects on need to start 'tech schools' in state||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday underscored the need to start 'tech schools' in the state to promote technical education. “There used to be a technology school in Hubballi way back in 1960 itself which was closed later. But, technology schools need to be started considering the fact that perception ability will be more during childhood," the CM said during a video conference after virtually inaugurating ‘Innovation and Impact’ programme, organised by the Department of Electronics, IT/Bt and S&T under ‘Beyond Bengaluru’ initiative. Bommai said steps will be taken to promote the growth of innovative industries in the Hubballi region. He also insisted on upgrading the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Tinkering Labs. He added that polytechnic colleges will also be upgraded along the lines of 150 Industrial Training Institutes in the state. Speaking on the occasion, Minister for IT/Bt C N Ashwath Narayan said a centre of excellence (CoE) for Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Date Engineering will be set up soon in Hubballi. The National Education Policy (NEP-2020) aspires to ready the students as per the global technological developments, and accordingly, coding will be taught for students at the school level itself. "The government has introduced effective policies to promote innovative technologies and the duration of the internship has risen from three weeks to 30 weeks. Students will also be given opportunity to undergo internship in foreign countries," the Minister explained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bommai-reflects-on-need-to-start-tech-schools-in-state-101633436622916.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||55% of eligible population in Kalyan, Dombivli given first dose vaccination||With a better supply of vaccines in September, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has managed to vaccinate 55% of its eligible population with at least the first dose while 27% is vaccinated with both the doses till the end of last month.“Last month, the vaccination was undertaken in good numbers and we have managed to cover 50% of our listed population with the first dose. The further vaccination drive completely depends on the availability of the stock,” said an officer of the health department, KDMC.As per the KDMC records, a total of 7.46 lakh citizens have been vaccinated with the first dose and 3.64 lakh with the second. Meanwhile, till August month, a total of 5.55 lakh beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 2.15 lakh with the second.The twin cities had 3,696 vaccination sessions in August and almost doubled to 6,202 in September. Out of the 7.46 lakh vaccinations carried out, 5.02 lakh were done at government centres, 65,268 at near-to-home (mobile vaccination), 1.48 lakh at private centres and 30,575 at workplace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/55-of-eligible-population-in-kalyan-dombivli-given-first-dose-vaccination-101633442598548.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||150 pollution hotspots identified in Delhi, govt will closely monitor them: Environment minister Rai||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Tuesday that his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led government has identified 150 pollution hotspots in the national capital based on the complaints received on the ‘Green Delhi’ application. Rai said that these pollution hotspots will be closely monitored and preventive action will be taken with the help of concerned departments and officials.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal launched the Green Delhi application in October last year, to enable people to file complaints about the pollution of anti-pollution norms in Delhi. The government had also set up the 'Green War Room’ last year itself to monitor and coordinate anti-pollution efforts.Speaking at the launch of the Green Delhi application's IOS version, environment minister Gopal Rai said on Tuesday that over 23,000 of the total 27,000 complaints received on the application have been resolved. The majority of the complaints were related to the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), municipal corporations and the Public Works Department (PWD), Rai added.The environment minister also said the Delhi government has strengthened the Green War Room, which is the most crucial component in the national capital’s anti-pollution campaign. The war room ensures stringent enforcement of guidelines to check dust pollution at construction and demolition sites, ready-mix concrete plants, and garbage burning. It is one of the measures of the government’s action plan to combat air pollution and will remain operational 24x7 from October to February.Previously, the Central Pollution Control Board and the Delhi Pollution Control Authority had earlier identified 13 pollution hotspots including those in Rohini, Punjabi Bagh, R K Puram.Chief minister Kejriwal on Monday released a 10-point winter action plan to fight pollution in Delhi which includes a total ban on firecrackers, strengthening of the anti-dust campaign, installing smoke towers, monitoring stubble burning among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/150-pollution-hotspots-identified-in-delhi-govt-will-closely-monitor-them-rai-101633437473848.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||Wrestler murder case: Olympian Sushil Kumar’s bail plea dismissed by Delhi court||A Delhi court on Tuesday denied bail to Olympian Sushil Kumar for his alleged involvement in the death of junior national wrestling champion Sagar Dhankar. The Olympian was arrested on May 23 for his role in the Chhatrasal Stadium murder case and is lodged in jail since June 2.Police said that Kumar, along with his associates, assaulted Dhankar (which led to his death) and his friends in Delhi’s Chhatrasal Stadium in May over a property dispute.In his bail plea, Kumar said that the police tried to paint a ‘false and guilty image’ of him and presented distorted information about the case to the media to establish connections between him and a few gangsters.Kumar, who won bronze medal at Beijing Olympics in 2008 and a silver at London in 2012 games, was also booked for robbery, dacoity and dishonestly receiving stolen property, according to a report by HT.According to a Delhi Police chargesheet accessed by HT, the police said that Kumar and Dhankar were involved in a feud over a flat in Model Town. Dhankar allegedly refused to vacate the property despite several intimations by Sushil Kumar. Although Dhankar eventually vacated the premises sometime between March and April this year, Kumar "felt humiliated", the chargesheet added.Police said that Kumar felt that his ‘ego was bruised by rumours of his diminishing clout and he wanted to re-establish his authority among younger athletes’, the report from HT said.Police named 13 accused in the first chargesheet, filed on August 2, and held the Olympian as the primary accused. Police on Monday said that there are at least 17 accused in the alleged murder case and said that it will file a supplementary chargesheet soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wrestler-murder-case-olympian-sushil-kumar-s-bail-plea-dismissed-by-delhi-court-101633440624033.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Surviving a nightmarish social media blackout||Last night, it was with shaking hands that I rebooted my mobile for the sixth time to log on to my favourite social networking sites, but they failed to open. I rushed to the tablet, and then the laptop, but things were no different there as well. Oh no! They are gone! I was filled with an inexplicable anxiety. Watching my restlessness, my husband asked, “Hey! What’s up?” “There’s no WhatsApp!” His inquisitive expression made it clear that he was still unaware of the catastrophe. “Facebook, WhatsApp, Instagram, and Messenger are all gone,” I said in a choking voice. “Really! Doesn’t matter. Maybe it’s an internet issue. We’ll check it tomorrow,” came his stock response. “No, YouTube and other websites are working. Oh my God! What will we do if these are never restored? So unfair. As if these Covid restrictions were not enough, now our only connection with the outside world is snapped. I was trying to check when our sons last checked their Facebook and WhatsApp accounts. It’s a daily ritual before going to sleep,” I said. But he seemed to be unperturbed by the development as he is hardly into these activities; I’m the only one addicted to these sites. With sleep miles away, and time hanging heavy on my hands, I wandered in the house as if in a daze. There were no funny videos to cheer me up, no goodnight messages on WhatsApp to lull me to sleep. Without Facebook, I felt like a faceless entity lost in a forest. What are my friends doing at this moment? Are they all in the same situation, fiddling with their mobiles in panic like me? I wondered “Just relax. Didn’t we manage without all these things in the pre-mobile and pre-internet days? Go back in time and relive those days, it will give you some consolation,” my husband tried to alleviate my agitated mind. Time travel, oh no! All science-fiction stories like The Time Machine and 11.22.63 flashed in my mind, where the protagonist could travel back and forth in time. I could visualise a genie, a well-attired modern version, coming out of the landline phone and asking in accented English, “Which time slot would you like to visit, madam?” “Shut up and get lost! I’m not going anywhere with you.” I found myself muttering. Frustrated and flustered, I put the mobile on the side table and went off to sleep only to find myself stranded in a desert in my dream. Suddenly, the mobile became alive with a familiar sound. As I picked it up, lo and behold! It was the first good morning message from a friend on WhatsApp! And the morning never felt so good. Am I narrating a fictional story? You know I’m not.njkaur1953@gmail.com The writer is a Patiala-based retired associate professor in English||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/surviving-a-nightmarish-social-media-blackout-101633439354546.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai ex-top cop Param Bir Singh may have fled India using forged passport: Probe agencies||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh may have fled India either before the Lookout Circular (LOC) was issued against him by the state police or using a forged passport, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday, citing investigating agencies. Notably, the LOC was issued against Singh in July, two months after the former state police chief went on leave.A senior official told ANI that there is zero probability for any individual to cross the immigration at any airport of India if an LOC has been issued against him/her. Elaborating the process further, the official pointed out that when a person against whom LOC has been issued puts their passport in the system to cross the immigration, it gets red-flagged and they are handed over to the concerned authorities. “The Maharashtra government issued an LOC against Singh just after several FIRs were registered against him,” the official was quoted as saying by ANI.The official stated that forged passport is the only way Singh could have fled the country, if he did, after he obtained the same using someone else’s ID and his photo. “Many a times people with forged passports get detained but some also manage to pass through because the verification is computer-based with less manual interference,” the official said.This latest development comes after Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said last week that the state government of the investigative agencies are unaware of the former police chief’s whereabouts. “I've heard something like that but as a government officer, he can't go abroad without government clearance,” Patil said on speculation of Singh escaping to Russia.Singh is wanted in a probe into a corruption claim he levelled against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, saying that the latter was involved in an extortion racket wherein he asked police officials to collect money from bars and restaurant owners. Singh also named dismissed former Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze in this case.Singh was demoted as the DG (Home Guards) on March 22 after being removed as the Mumbai police commissioner a few days before, following the Antilia bomb scare and the subsequent Mansukh Hiren murder cases. He had appeared before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on April 7 to record his statement in both the cases, however, he didn’t respond to summons by the NIA thereafter.Also Read | Maharashtra ACB gets nod to launch second inquiry against Param Bir SinghHe last attended office on May 4 after which he went on leave from the next day, citing health issues. Singh had also requested for an extension of his leave after May, even claiming he underwent a surgery. In mid-August, he requested the Maharashtra government for another extension of his leave on health grounds, and he has been untraceable since then.A state home department official recently said that the Maharashtra government has commenced the process of suspending Singh but it wants the case to be fool-proof in order to stand legal probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-may-have-fled-india-using-fake-passport-investigating-agencies-101633435305377.html
05-10-2021||Kolkata||Bengal guv to adminster oath of office to Mamata, 2 Trinamool MLAs on Oct 7||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will on October 7 administer the oath of office to chief minister Mamata Banerjee and two newly elected MLAs who won the September 30 assembly bypolls, at the premises of the legislative assembly.The West Bengal confirmed the news through a tweet earlier in the day.Governor WB Shri Jagdeep Dhankhar would administer oath/affirmation to the elected members to the WBLA, viz., MAMATA BANERJEE , JAKIR HOSSIAN and AMIRUL ISLAM at the premises of the West Bengal Legislative Assembly on 7 October, 2021 at 11.45 hours. pic.twitter.com/Zp30Jt02k9The development comes a day after Jagdeep Dhankhar withdrew Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee’s power to administer the oath of office to the members of the state legislature, citing Section 188 of the Constitution, which empowers the governor to administer the oath.Officials familiar with the development said this was the first time a Bengal governor has taken such a step, which, they fear, is likely to escalate tensions between the governor and the speaker.Soon after, West Bengal's parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee requested the governor's office to administer the oath of office to the elected leaders on October 7.Dhankhar also tweeted to inform that the swearing-in cermony would take place at 2pm, instead of 11.45am as notified by his office earlier.According to convention, it is the speaker who administers the oath to legislators while the governor administers oath of office to ministers.Mamata Banerjee won the bypolls to Bhabanipur assembly constituency by a massive margin of 58,835 votes against her closest contender, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal.Two other Trinamool Congress MLAs Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam won the assembly seats from Jangipur and Samserganj, respectively, with a record margin.Mamata Banerjee needs to be sworn in as a member of the assembly by November 4 to retain the chair of the chief minister. Trinamool Congress leaders said Mamata Banerjee wants the formalities to be completed before the Durga Puja festival which is a week away. Banerjee, who was defeated in the March-April assembly polls from Nandigram, was sworn in as chief minister on May 5, giving her six months to be elected to the legislature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-guv-to-adminster-oath-of-office-to-mamata-2-newly-elected-mlas-on-oct-7-101633436875062.html
05-10-2021||Noida||Rainfall in parts of Uttar Pradesh's Noida brings down temperature||Parts of Noida near Delhi recorded rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm on Tuesday evening. The humid weather in Uttar Pradesh district turned soothing and cloud cover soon resulted in showers. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had earlier forecast thunderstorm accompanied with lightning at some places in Uttar Pradesh.In its weather bulletin on Tuesday evening, the IMD had reported rainfall and thundershowers at isolated places in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and other states in the last 24 hours.It said that maximum temperature was above normal at many places in in western Uttar Pradesh in the above-mentioned period.In Delhi, the mercury rose by a few notches, with the minimum temperature settling at 29 degrees Celsius. The relative humidity on Tuesday morning was recorded at 71 per cent, according to IMD.The minimum temperature on Monday had settled at 25.7 degrees Celsius, while the maximum was recorded at 36.4 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rainfall-in-parts-of-uttar-pradesh-s-noida-brings-down-temperature-101633436852738.html
05-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka issues guidelines for Mysuru Dasara festivities. Check details||With Dussehra around the corner, the Karnataka government has issued guidelines to manage the footfall of crowd during the festival as it is taking place under the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic. This year, only 500 people will be allowed to participate in the ‘Jambu Savari’ (elephant parade) in Mysuru, reported News18.Meanwhile, the state administration mandated a negative RT-PCR test report and at least one dose of coronavirus vaccine for officers and staff on duty and artists, who will perform during the world renowned Mysuru Dasara festival, reported PTI. Further, those attending and participating the event should wear mask, maintain social distancing and hand hygiene.The famed Mysuru Dasara will begin from October 7 and end by October 15. Tourists from India and across the world come to witness the grand celebrations and take part in the festivities.Every year, a grand procession of the goddess Chamundeshwari’s idol atop an elephant is taken out from Mysore Palace through the streets of the city.Special pujas also take place at the Chamundi hill that can only be witnessed by 100 people this year, the report further said.Last year, 50 participants and 300 viewers were allowed for cultural events in the festival. Minister of State for Co-Operation of Karnataka S T Somashekar Gowda had earlier said that the government was looking forward to allowing 400 participants and around 1,000 viewers during the festivities this year.The state is gearing up for the celebrations as around eight elephants have already been selected for the parade, Hindustan Times' sister publication LiveMint quoted the minister as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-covid-latest-update-new-guidelines-issued-for-mysuru-dasara-festivities-check-details-dussehra-2021-101633432974065.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Resolving farm crisis: Assured procurement of pulses at MSP||India is the largest producer of pulses. Since the population has low-income levels and people are largely vegetarian, pulses provide good quality protein, and they contribute significantly to the nutritional security of the nation. In India, pulses are cultivated in both the kharif (autumn) and rabi (spring) seasons. Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka account for nearly 80% of the total area under pulses. The important pulses produced in India are gram (chickpea), tur (pigeon pea), urad (black gram), moong (green gram), masoor (lentils) and peas. Also read: BJP to focus on delinking agitation from farm issuesEven though we are the largest producer of pulses, the population growth has outpaced the supply of this essential commodity. While production has grown at 1% from 1970 to 2013, the population grew at 2% per year. At present, the domestic consumption is about 25 million tonnes. It does not meet the demand for pulses. This year, India will import three million tonnes of pulses worth about $1.5 billion. The import of pulses has been moved from the ‘restricted’ to the ‘free’ list. Since 2015, the country has imported pulses worth ₹1,08,200 crore. India is the largest importer of pulses in the world. India imports dry peas and lentils from Canada and the United States. Australia and Russia are the major suppliers of chickpeas to India. Large quantities of urad, moong and pigeon peas are imported from Myanmar. In 2018, India signed an agreement with Mozambique for the import of pulses for the next five years. Low productivity of pulses The productivity of pulses in India is low. It is only 755kg/ha as compared to 1,900 kg/ha in the US and Canada. We grow pulses in rain-fed conditions in regions where there is widespread variability in precipitation. The production of pulses is caught in the vicious cycle of low and uncertain yields and poor per hectare returns. As a result, farmers give least preference to grow pulses on fertile and irrigated lands. The overall result is unstable and low yields. There is an inadequate adoption of production technology leading to production risk. Worst of all, prices are highly volatile. Imports hurt indigenous farmers and the milling industry. The results from household consumption surveys indicate a decline in the consumption of pulses leading to an increase in malnutrition. About 15.2% of the people in India are undernourished. Making pulses available at affordable prices by boosting domestic production is the best strategy for providing nutritional security to the poor masses, relying on a vegetarian diet. The country has to develop and adopt more efficient crop production techniques along with favourable marketing policies and price support mechanism. In fact, the lack of an assured market is the single most important reason for the poor availability of pulses in the country. Step towards sustainable agriculture If the government were to guarantee procurement of pulses at the MSP, backed by a law to this effect, production of pulses would move to irrigated lands as well. Backed by technological support with high-yielding variety seeds from the agriculture universities, along with a package of practices of use of fertilisers and pesticides in proper doses, domestic production will soon bring about self-sufficiency. We must remember that pulses fix biological nitrogen and need less water. This diversification will be an important step in sustainable agriculture. For enhancing the nutritional status of the poor masses, pulses should be included as an item in the public distribution system. Punjab has already implemented the ‘atta /dal’ scheme in the state. To procure a sufficient quantity of pulses Nafed, FCI, STC and state government agencies, such as Punsup and Markfed, should be roped in. Post-harvest management and transport The Government of India should arrange funds. Procurement must happen in already declared APMC market yards as the farmers have confidence in the arrangements. Mechanisation of procurement operations with an automatic facility for cleaning and weighing would be a step forward. We must remember that the infrastructure required for post-harvest management of farm produce will not come cheap. But it is a necessary precondition for smooth operations along with a road network to help the producer reach the market. The hitherto levied market fee and rural development fund must be restored, or the arrangements so painstakingly built for national food security will crumble. Sufficient procurement of pulses in different states for supply to the poor in those regions will provide farmers with assured income and lead to a more prosperous nation as the farmer is a buyer of all consumer goods. In fact, making the farmer prosperous by payment of appropriate rates will actually give a fillip to the economy. Which government would not be happy to enjoy this bonanza? Area under cereal crops will shrink One spinoff side-effect of the scheme to mandatorily purchase pulses (and oilseeds) at the announced MSP is that the area under cereal crops will shrink. Money saved from procurement of cereals can fund the purchase of pulses by government agencies. This can be supplemented by building and utilising a reserve fund by exporting cereals that are far above the buffer stock level. The export of food grains would be a welcome relief to the spiralling mountains of wheat and rice that cost the nation dearly in terms of procurement and carrying costs. Pulses in India are the ‘poor man’s meat’ and ‘the rich man’s vegetable’. The nation has the capacity to ensure its production at home at affordable prices. So, let’s all join hands and do it. dhanbirbains@gmail.com The writer is a retired Punjab IAS officer and has a master’s degree from Harvard University. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/resolving-farm-crisis-assured-procurement-of-pulses-at-msp-101633433775131.html
05-10-2021||Bangalore||'Will be severely punished': Karnataka home minister on brutality of Yadgir rape bid||Karnataka home minister Araga Jnanendra told reporters that the accused in the Yadgir incident, where a woman was burnt alive for resisting rape attempt, has surrendered before the police and assured that they will be brought to justice with severe punishment. “The accused has surrendered at Surpura police station. Police are investigating the case. Severe punishment will be awarded to the accused,” the minister told ANI.On the night of October 3, a woman was burnt alive at her home in Supur taluka after she resisted the rape attempt of a man, who the police later identified as Gangappa Basappa Arolalli, a resident of Chowdeshwarihal village, according to a report in Deccan Herald on Monday.Superintendent of police CB Vedamurthy told reporters that the accused entered the victim’s house late at night while her husband was away and attempted to rape her. When the woman resisted his move the man left only to come back with gasoline from his motorbike and used it to set her ablaze.The woman was rushed to Surpur taluk hospital on the morning of October 4 and later shifted to Kalaburagi district hospital after her condition worsened. She succumbed to her injuries later that evening.Last month another such incident rocked Yadgir district after a video emerged of four men stripping, sexually abusing, and assaulting a Dalit woman on the Yadgir-Shahapur state highway. The video also showed the miscreants clicking selfies with the victim during the assault.Police arrested the four accused from the video which was reportedly filmed an year ago. “The police department has taken the case very seriously. Shahapur police have registered a suo motu case and the matter will be investigated,” Vedamurthy told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-be-severely-punished-karnataka-home-minister-on-brutality-of-yadgir-rape-bid-101633432647299.html
05-10-2021||Pune||In my opinion: Tribe of priests on “cannon-ball” run espouse courage to change||Because a Spanish soldier got hit by a cannon ball on May 20 1521, in a battle now referred to as the Battle of Pamplona, I got an education. My education came 460 years later in Pune, 7,450 km from Pamplona in Spain. Iñigo López de Oñaz y Loyola was the soldier. And his “cannon-ball moment” changed the world. It certainly changed my world. It gave me access to education. Ignatius of Loyola would go on to found the Catholic Society of Jesus, now known as the Jesuits and the Jesuit mission – as far as my experience of the priestly order goes – has been one of education, social justice and empowerment of the underprivileged masses. From May 2021 until July 2022, the Society of Jesus celebrates the Ignatian Year. What is an Ignatian Year? May 20, 2021, marked the 500th anniversary of Ignatius’ conversion — that fateful day when Inigo the soldier, struck by a cannon ball, began his transformation into Ignatius the pilgrim, or as those in the Catholic faith refer to him today, Saint Ignatius. July 31, the day Inigo died in 1556 is marked as his feast day. As the pandemic sent the Pune Jesuits and the Jesuits across India online to celebrate, mark and “re-live” the “Inigo impact” in India, one catch-phrase has caught on – “cannon-ball moment”. If Inigo the soldier does not get hit by the cannon ball, effectively, this column does not get written; because, myself and millions of students in Pune do not get an education; because hundreds of thousands of young men do not become priests and, thousands of priests do not join the Jesuits; priests like Fr Maximillian Riklin and Fr Rudolph Schoch do not come to Pune; St Vincent’s High School in Pune Camp never sees the light of day. The school website – stvincentspune.com - has the names of principals from the year 1867 – which is when the St Vincent’s High School cannon-ball run is believed to have begun. That “millions of students” figure above is based on an anecdotal calculation of 70 students per class, four divisions per standard, and Classes 1-10 at the very least. That was just one generation (1979-1988/89) at my alma mater – St Vincent’s High School. The Jesuits are firmly entrenched in the edu-social mission in Pune. Apart from St Vincent’s, the Jesuits run the Loyola High School in Pashan , the St Vincent’s night school, now on Shankarsheth road and the St Joseph’s technical school at the same premises. The latest addition to the Jesuit resume is the St Xavier’s High School in Vitthalwadi – co-ed, CBSE board, no less. My grandfather, my father, my brother, me and my son, all attended the same Jesuit school of St Vincent’s in Camp. So, forgive the over-indulgence in cross-referencing the St Vincent’s impact with Inigo’s cannon-ball moment. The fact is, four generations of one family went to school because of a cannon ball. Modern day “worthiness” is more often than not judged by the “super-achiever” count – how many world-famous names came out of Jesuit institutions? In Pune, it is not so much about the big names, as it is about the masses (as in people, not the Catholic church services). Educating the masses so that the cogs that allow the world to wheel on are primed for the job, is what the Pune Jesuits are all about. I could list the big names that got to where they are because of the Jesuit education, but I would rather tip my hat to the masses, like myself, who got the essentials of life from priests responding to their own “cannon-ball” moments – essentials like character, discipline and service, all firmly ingrained. As I sit across the table from Fr Kenneth Misquitta, SJ, my former school principal and now director of the night school/college, he reminds me that we do not choose our cannon-ball moment, but when the cannon ball strikes, how we respond is the key. Inigo, a soldier building his career and looking to win the love of a woman, responded to being hit by a cannon ball by picking up a Bible. The rest is history. Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy, a person repeatedly referred to as a “human rights defender” by the press, died in custody nine months after his arrest on alleged charges of terrorism – charges that, as has been repeatedly pointed out by political commentators, were far from the truth. His cannon-ball moment shook the foundations of democratic process in the country. The argument that the Jesuits use education as a Trojan horse to further the much-maligned Christian ultra-motive of “conversion”, does not hold any water in my experience. Not one of the 2,600 students who were in school with me at St Vincent’s converted to Catholicism; and if any did, it certainly was not because they received an education, or a fee reduction, or access to the best sporting facilities, or a chance to live life… because my school, St Vincent’s, provided all that, at the very least. Instead, values, principles, character, and that fundamental of “service” was exemplified by the priests at St Vincent’s. That and a good knock on the head back in the day when corporal punishment was de rigueur. The Jesuits in Pune allowed each of their individual cannon-ball moments to collectively impact a city and educate its “sons of the soil”. The Covid pandemic is Pune’s cannon-ball moment. Collectively as a city, in our societal groups, in families, and as individuals... we have been hit. Like Inigo, our response can impact the generations to come. Like Inigo, from this position of pain, discomfort and loss we can all reach for our “bibles” – that book, person, belief or vision – that, like Inigo, can change us and the world forever. Roopesh Raj can be contacted at roopesh.raj@htlive.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-my-opinion-tribe-of-priests-on-cannon-ball-run-espouse-courage-to-change-101633431434394.html
05-10-2021||Patna||Already apprised Cong that RJD will contest bypolls in Bihar: Tejashwi Yadav||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav clarified on Tuesday that the party decided to contest the upcoming bypolls in Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly constituencies of Bihar on October 30, adding that the RJD already apprised the Congress of its decision.Yadav, who is also the leader of opposition in the Bihar assembly, told news agency ANI, “There is no problem within Mahagathbandhan. Our party decided to contest elections in two constituencies. If there is a friendly candidature by Congress (for bypolls), it won’t be an issue.”On Sunday, the RJD announced its candidates for bypolls to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan, in what was being observed as a snub to the Congress, a junior ally of the RJD that wanted to contest in one of these seats. The RJD has fielded Arun Kumar Sah for Tarapur and Ganesh Bharti for Kusheshwar Asthan respectively.Also Read| RJD’s decision to field candidate in bypoll latest flashpoint in ties with CongExpressing shock over the RJD’s decision to field a candidate from Kusheshwar Asthan, Congress said on Sunday that this was allocated to it as part of the deal among opposition parties during the last year’s assembly elections in Bihar. The Congress had lost Kusheshwar Asthan by a margin of fewer than 7,000 votes in the 2020 elections.“The announcement came as a shock to the (Congress) party as we were following the coalition dharma and was preparing for Kusheshwar Asthan seat, which was allocated to the Congress under the seat adjustment among the opposition alliance during the 2020 assembly elections,” Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha told Hindustan Times.Bihar | There is no problem within Mahagathbandhan. Our party decided to contest elections in two constituencies. If there is a friendly candidature by Congress(for by-polls), it won't be an issue: RJD leader & Leader of Opposition in State Assembly Tejashwi Yadav pic.twitter.com/n9ZaNmD2INOn the other hand, Senior Congress leader Kishore Kumar Jha told HT that RJD always took the former for a ride and parted ways whenever it found a better opportunity.The relationship between RJD and the Congress took a sour turn in recent days when Communist Party of India (CPI) leader Kanhaiya Kumar jumped ship to the Congress last week. Just like the Congress, the CPI is also a junior ally of the RJD In Bihar.Also Read| ‘Make him Congress president,’ says RJD leader in a swipe at Kanhaiya Kumar“The RJD is jittery over attempts by the Congress to come out of its shadow by inducting people like Kanhaiya Kumar,” Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Nikhil Anand said in a statement on Sunday. Anand said that RJD killed two birds with one stone by announcing candidates for Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan seats.“It (RJD) has shown the Congress its place in the state and also obviated any possibility of Tejashwi and Kanhaiya sharing the stage during by-polls,” the BJP spokesperson added.(With inputs from Subhash Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/already-apprised-cong-that-rjd-will-contest-bypolls-in-bihar-tejashwi-yadav-101633428890828.html
05-10-2021||Lucknow||Stopped at Lucknow airport, Bhupesh Baghel sits on dharna in protest||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel sat on dharna at the Lucknow airport on Tuesday after being refused to walk out of its premises by the Uttar Pradesh police.Taking to Twitter, Baghel, who was on his way to Sitapur to meet detained Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi, said, "I am being stopped from going out of Lucknow airport without any orders." told news agency ANI.Congress workers gathered outside the airport and raised slogans amid heavy deployment of police personnel around the airport premises.Baghel, who was appointed as a senior poll observer for the upcoming elections in UP, shared another tweet wherein he can be seen telling policemen that he had no intention of visiting Lakhimpur Kheri and there was no reason to stop him from leaving the airport. Gandhi was detained early on Monday on her way to meet families of deceased farmers who were killed during violent clashes at Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday.
05-10-2021||Mumbai||Extension of judicial custody in absence of the accused not illegal: HC||Extension of judicial custody in absence of the accused is not illegal, the Bombay high court has said. The observation came in response to the plea of Mumbai resident Amol alias Avikumar Dhule, who is accused of duping and cheating a businessman after promising help in getting permission for buying a plot in Panvel.Dhule moved the hight court in May saying a magistrate’s order extending his judicial custody in his absence was illegal and sought his release. He argued he was not produced before the magistrate either physically or through video conferencing.Also Read: In Aryan Khan’s custody hearing, NCB says has ‘shocking, incriminating’ evidenceThe division bench of justices Prasanna Varale and NR Borkar dismissed the petition. “If according to the petitioner/accused, his custody was extended in violation of a provision of law, then he ought to have challenged that order,” said the bench. “The petitioner/accused has, however, not challenged the said orders. The custody/detention of the petitioner, therefore, cannot be said to be illegal.”The bench noted the petitioner moved the petition only after exhausting all other possible remedies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extension-of-judicial-custody-in-absence-of-the-accused-not-illegal-hc-101633423213464.html
05-10-2021||Lucknow||Liquor shop salesman beaten to death in Uttar Pradesh||Unidentified assailants thrashed a 28-year-old salesman at a country liquor shop at Nasirpur in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghazipur district to death on Monday night, police said. A police officer said Yadav was a resident of Matsa village in the district. He added a customer got into an argument with Yadav and then called more people and thrashed the salesman to death. The officer said that when local residents rushed to rescue Yadav, the assailants fled. He added that Rambadan Singh, the Superintendent of Police, rushed to the scene with a police team and started an inquiry. But none of the residents knew the identity of the assailants. The police team sent Yadav’s body for the post-mortem.Also Read: Families of 2 Lakhimpur farmers stop funerals, demand post-mortem reportSuperintendent of Police (City) Gopinath Soni said that there were no signs of serious injuries on the body, but Yadav perhaps succumbed to internal injuries. The cause of death would be clear after the post-mortem is conducted, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/liquor-shop-salesman-beaten-to-death-in-uttar-pradesh-101633422433645.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers worried as rain delays paddy, cotton harvest in Malwa||Punjab’s cotton growers are left worried about the loss of quality of their ready-to-harvest produce after untimely rain lashed south Punjab on Monday evening. Also read: Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi to meet Union home minister Amit Shah todayFarmers of Bathinda and Mansa districts said they were already braving losses caused by the pink bollworm attack and the inclement weather would hit them further. Cotton and paddy are the main kharif crops sown in seven districts of the state’s southern belt. Picking of cotton is underway, whereas paddy harvesting in Malwa is yet to pick up. The wet conditions will now stall harvesting till the weekend. Sudden showers damage raw cotton at mandis According to Punjab Agricultural University’s observatory at the Bathinda-based regional research centre, Bathinda district recorded 70mm of rainfall on Monday evening. Strong winds were reported from Bathinda, Fazilka, Muktsar and other adjoining places. Unsold raw cotton at several mandis of Muktsar, Bathinda and Fazilka was damaged due to sudden showers in the evening. Lodging of crops reported: State agri dept State agriculture department joint director Gurvinder Singh said rainfall at this juncture would affect the quality of cotton bolls and paddy grains. “Initial field inputs suggest lodging of crops of cotton and paddy at several places across the state. Rains are undesirable for kharif crops as paddy and cotton are ready for harvest,” he said. Harvesting held up for at least five days Bathinda chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh said cotton harvesting would be stalled for at least five days following rain in various parts of Malwa region “Unfriendly weather conditions would also push paddy harvesting, that is yet to gain momentum, by 3-4 days. Farmers are being advised to delay harvest,” he said. Sharanjit Singh from Mann Khera village of Mansa district said inclement weather would be a double whammy for farmers.“Pink bollworm attack has done considerable damage to the crop. Delay in the harvesting of cotton and paddy would lead to a delay in wheat sowing in the area. We are keeping fingers crossed to tide over these challenging times,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farmers-worried-as-rain-delays-paddy-cotton-harvest-in-malwa-101633415953242.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 vaccine: Himachal covers half its population with second dose||After achieving 100% vaccination of eligible people with the first dose in August, Himachal Pradesh has achieved the distinction of inoculating half the population with the second dose against Covid-19. Also read: India’s fresh Covid case count at 18,346 is the lowest since 209 days National Health Mission state director Hemraj Bairwa said “Himachal Pradesh was the first in the country to have administered the vaccine to 100% of its population with the first dose. Now, the state has fully vaccinated half of its more than 55 lakh eligible population.” Efforts on to secure number one position He said that the vaccination campaign is being taken forward with an effective strategy to achieve the target of the second dose by November 30. “We have set a deadline of November 30, 2021, for 100% vaccination of the entire population and the drive is in full swing to achieve the target in the given time-frame,” said Bairwa. So far, 28,17,227 people have been administered the second jab against the target population of 55,23,000. The mission director said that efforts were being made to secure the number one position among the states to have fully vaccinated its population. On Monday, 84,86,391 doses were administered in the state. As many as 56,69,164 people have been given the first jab and 28,17,227 the second dose as well. 94,146 health care workers have been given the first dose and 83,531 the second dose. Similarly, 2,14,971 frontline workers have been given the first dose and 1,91,075 the second dose. As many as 29,81,752 people in the 18-44 age group have got the first dose and 8,83,820 the second dose as well. Among people of aged 45 and above, 23,51,295 have been given the first jab and 16,58,801 the second dose also. Informing those due for second dose over SMS Bairwa urged all eligible people, whose have been inoculated with the first dose, to come forward and get their second dose in the stipulated time. Such beneficiaries were being informed through SMS. In the past two days, the officer said SMSs have been sent to 8,45,378 eligible people for the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-vaccine-himachal-covers-half-its-population-with-second-dose-101633413733127.html
05-10-2021||Kolkata||Plans for 4 helipads in Sundarbans for better disaster management||The West Bengal government is planning to build at least four helipads in cyclone-prone Sundarbans for a more effective response to natural disasters such as floods and cyclones as well for the promotion of tourism, officials aware of the matter said. There are around 30 helipads in the state and plans were afoot for more.“We received a proposal from the South 24 Parganas district authorities (for the helipads in the Sundarbans). Around a month back, the state public works department was asked to do a survey. It is in the planning stage,” said a state transport department official, who did not want to be named. Officials said the need for helipads was felt most after the region was hit by three cyclones in as many years – Bulbul (November 2019), Amphan (May 2020) and Yaas (May 2021).“The islands were badly hit, and river water gushed into the villages through breaches in the embankments. It took a lot of time to reach out to the victims on boats as the roads were damaged and inundated,” said an official in South 24 Parganas district, requesting anonymity.The Sundarbans is the world’s largest mangrove delta spread across India and Bangladesh. The Indian part of the delta covers 102 islands including 54 inhabited ones. The rest have dense forest covers and are home to tigers. Boats are the lifeline for travel from one island to another.Also Read: Bengal’s Sunderbans to get women tourist guides for the first timeOfficials said helipads have been proposed for Gosaba, Patharpratima, Kakdwip, and Diamond Harbour, which were severely hit by the cyclones. “We are also receiving proposals from other districts too and they are under examination. The helipads can be used for any purpose apart from reaching out to victims during natural disasters. If they come up at the right place where tourists want to go, they can also be used for tourism,” said the transport department official. The official added the Centre is coming up with a heliport tourism policy and that the state was going to identify more places where helipads could be built to promote tourism in Bengal.In 2019, the National Green Tribunal ordered an injunction on the construction of a helipad on Sagar Island in the Sundarbans after an environment activist alleged mangroves were being destroyed for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/plans-for-4-helipads-in-sundarbans-for-better-disaster-management-101633411933133.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi to meet Union home minister Amit Shah today||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is scheduled to meet Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi on Tuesday evening. Also read: BKU leader Gurnam Singh Charuni prevented from going to Lakhimpur KheriChanni is likely to take up with Shah the repeal of the three contentious agriculture laws against which farmers from Punjab and other states are protesting and the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh. First meeting with Shah after becoming CM The chief minister is tentatively scheduled to meet the Union home minister at 6pm. This will be Channi’s first meeting with Shah after taking over the reins of the state on September 20 from Capt Amarinder Singh, who had to resign following a bitter tussle with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and some other detractors. CM met governor seeking justice for UP victims Channi, along with his cabinet colleagues, met governor Banwarilal Purohit on Monday and submitted a memorandum addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to direct the Uttar Pradesh government to ensure justice to the families of Sunday’s violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district. In the memorandum, the CM also sought the repeal of the three agriculture laws. Called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week Last week, Channi had called on Modi in Delhi and urged the Centre to withdraw the three laws. The new CM’s meeting with Shah comes six days after Capt Amarinder Singh met the BJP leader, fuelling speculation about his future political moves. Capt Amarinder is upset over the “humiliating treatment” meted out to him by the Congress and has already announced that he will not remain in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-meets-union-home-minister-amit-shah-today-101633411873199.html
05-10-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: No fixed rates in some private hospitals, plea filed in high court||A Public interest litigation (PIL) was filed in the Calcutta high court on Monday against the state health commission for not fixing rates for treatment and diagnostics in private hospitals and nursing homes and violating of the West Bengal Clinical Establishments Act, 2017, by some hospitals and nursing homes. The petition has been filed by Bhaskarananda Halder through Advocate Srikanta Dutta."PIL filed in Calcutta HC against State Health Commission for not fixing up rates for treatment of patients and diagnostics in private hospitals and nursing homes and violation of WB Clinical Establishments Act, 2017 by some hospitals and nursing homes," Dutta informed.He further added that a statutory mandate is for making regulations to the said effect and strict compliance of it. It is not being done, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-no-fixed-rates-in-some-private-hospitals-plea-filed-in-high-court-101633410286980.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan, 2 others showed international drug trafficking: NCB to court||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has got the custody of Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and two other accused arrested for alleged drug abuse onboard a cruise ship till Thursday. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate RM Nerlikar extended the NCB custody of the three keeping in view the fact that the agency recovered an intermediate quantity of drugs from one of them, and Aryan Khan was accompanying them. Nerlikar also took into consideration that the investigation was at a preliminary and crucial stage.The NCB arrested Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha on Sunday and produced them before a special holiday court later that day. That court remanded them to NCB custody till Monday. The NCB on Monday sought further custody of Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha till October 11, saying it had to unearth the nexus between drug consumers and suppliers and confront all the arrested accused with each other and apprehend other suppliers of narcotics substances. However, the court extended their custody only till October 7.The NCB claimed before the city court that "shocking and incriminating" material has been recovered in the WhatsApp chats of Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha showed international drug trafficking. The NCB also claimed that Aryan Khan discussed modes of payment for procurement of drugs and that several code names were used. “Raids are going on now. Shocking and incriminating material recovered in WhatsApp chats of the accused shows international drug trafficking,” additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, argued. “All the accused persons have to be confronted with each other. The international transactions need to be investigated,” he adding that the NCB has arrested a supplier from Juhu and found a commercial quantity of drugs from him.Also read | 'Stop witch-hunting SRK’: Shashi Tharoor on Aryan Khan’s arrest in drugs caseSingh said while the sections under which the accused have been booked are bailable, the court has to consider the purpose of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) which is to remove the drug menace from the society, while hearing remand applications or granting bail. “One cannot say that just because he or she is found with a small quantity, they are entitled to bail. Consuming drugs has nowadays become very common with even college-going kids consuming them. The accused here are high profile persons who are considered as role models by regular persons,” the NCB counsel said.Aryan Khan's advocate Satish Maneshinde opposed the extension of custody sought by the NCB and argued that his client had no criminal antecedents. Maneshinde also claimed no drugs were recovered from his client's possession, who had shown good conduct by not running away from NCB officers when the raid was being conducted and allowed them to search him.Maneshinde argued Aryan Khan was invited to the cruise along with his friend Merchant and that he had not paid any money to get on the ship. “Nothing incriminating was recovered from Aryan Khan except his mobile phone. His friend (Merchant) was arrested because he had six grams of charas, but that has nothing to do with my client,” Maneshinde said.Also watch | Aryan Khan's WhatsApp chats had code words, says NCB; court extends custodyHe also refuted the NCB’s claims that Aryan Khan consumed drugs even when he was abroad. “During the entire period of his (Aryan) stay abroad, he has not been involved in any trafficking, supply or distribution of drugs,” Maneshinde said.Aryan Khan, Dhamecha and Merchant have been booked under sections 8(c) (produce, manufacture, possess, sell or purchase of drugs), 20(b) (punishment for contravention of cannabis), 27 (punishment for consumption of any narcotics or drugs) read with section 35 of the NDPS act. Possession of up to one kg is termed as a 'small quantity' of cannabis and a seizure of over 20kg is considered as a 'commercial quantity' under the act. For charas or hashish, a small quantity is up to 100gm while commercial quantity is 1kg or more under the act. The NCB has said it seized 13gm of cocaine, five grams of MDMA, 21gm of charas and 22 pills of ecstasy and ₹133,000 in cash after it raided the Goa-bound cruise ship. The NCB said in its remand note against the five others arrested on Sunday night that it seized 2.5gm of ecstasy, 54.3gm of mephedrone (MD) and two grams of charas from them.Also read | Shah Rukh Khan, Aryan Khan being targeted, says Suchitra KrishnamoorthiTaraq Sayed, the lawyer who represented Merchant, said that there is no clarity of how much quantity of drugs was allegedly recovered from each of the accused and that the NCB was seeking custody only on the basis of some chats recovered from WhatsApp.“The remand note of the NCB is misleading. If only six grams of charas was recovered from Merchant, why is he being charged for the other drugs seized? The two boys (Aryan Khan and Merchant) have been arrested only because they are high-profile persons,” Sayed said.The court was informed that five of the arrested accused – Ishmeet Chadha, Mohak Jaiswal, Gomit Chopra and Vikrant Chhokar – were also booked under section 27A of the NDPS Act. This section pertains to punishment for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-aryan-khan-s-custody-hearing-ncb-says-has-shocking-incriminating-evidence-101633409604094.html
05-10-2021||Lucknow||Day after clashes, UP hamlet turns fortress||A nondescript hamlet just 10km away from the India-Nepal border, Tikunia was known in the region for its superior paddy crop and the Lohri mela, the folk festival marking the end of winter.But on Monday, the area turned into a fortress as close to 1,500 security personnel descended on the hamlet to contain the protests that started after the death of eight people, including four farmers, on Sunday. All the four farmers killed were Sikhs.Tikunia — in the Terai belt of the state — has a sizeable Sikh population comprising primarily of farmers, who have been protesting against the three cental farm laws. “Will we be killed for protesting peacefully now? What kind of rule is this?” asked a protesting farmer Jaswant Singh on hand-held megaphone, clad in a white kurta-pyjama and green turban. The crowd sitting on the ground listened quietly as the man continued, “If we remain quiet now, we will be silenced forever.”The protesters blocked the narrow road connecting the area with district headquarters, about 70 km away, demanding compensation for the kin of the deceased farmers and action against the local Bharatiya Janata Party MP -- Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra and his son Ashish Mishra, who is an accused in the case.“We will not leave this spot till a decision is made regarding the arrest of the minister and his son,” said a farmer standing atop a trolley, blocking the Tikunia road. Residents from the town, including youngsters, thronged to pay their respects to the four farmers, whose bodies were kept in freezers on the road. A large number of police personnel stood on one side of the road, 100 metres from the spot where farmers negotiated demands with government officials. Over 1,000 Sikh farmers and members of farm unions reached Tikunia from nearby districts and states, including Uttarakhand, Punjab and Haryana, to participate in the protest.Hundreds of Sikh volunteers carrying sticks managed the crowd, directing them towards the bodies and then to the ground, where the crowd swelled as the day progressed. The volunteers distributed tea and water to both the crowd and the security personnel.Later in the day, farm leader Rakesh Tikait asked protesting farmers to clear the road after the government accepted their demands. “This is a victory for all the farmers of the country. It is the first time that an FIR has been lodged against a Union minister in this government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/day-after-clashes-up-hamlet-turns-fortress-101633386056661.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A tragedy, and its aftermath||It was a brief sleep, and a deep sleep. And a rare occurrence, for Rupkesh Kumar, 53, never sleeps during the day. But this late afternoon he had a splitting headache. After quickly finishing dal-roti in an eatery, he parked his auto on the roadside, swallowed down a pain-killer, and sprawled his exhausted body along the passenger’s seat.“I instantly fell asleep.”He woke up 15 minutes later and discovered “my wallet was no longer in my shirt pocket. The shirt pocket too had gone. “The thief slashed it with a blade, I think.”Mr Kumar unbuttons the shirt and shows the remnants of the pocket. The “haadsa (tragedy)” took place some minutes ago, here along this central Delhi road. Still in shock, Mr Kumar is talking like a person who just got injured but is too dazed at the moment to feel the pain. He shows his other pocket. “He tried to cut this one too but couldn’t… It has my mobile.”Mr Kumar’s wallet had ₹370—“the money I’d made since the morning.” The amount isn’t substantial, he concedes, but “even the loss of a single hard-earned rupee hits hard.” Mr Kumar works daily from sunrise to sundown. It is 5pm. Perhaps he may prefer to stay on the road for a few more hours to compensate for the stolen cash.“This isn’t my auto. I drive it on rent and have to return it to the owner everyday by 6 latest.” He fears he will not be able to pay this day’s rent— ₹280. “That will add up as debt,” he rues, absentmindedly running his fingers over the part of the shirt that had the lost pocket.Such a thing has never happened before in Mr Kumar’s 28-year-old career as a Delhi auto driver. He buttons up the shirt. “I’ll have to now return the auto (to the owner in Kalyanpuri) for the day.” He later plans to call his wife and daughters in Meerut to “share the news.”Suddenly Mr Kumar becomes intensely hyperactive, opening up a drawer beside the auto’s steering handle. He seems to be searching for something, his hands are fumbling all over. “This morning I had no idea that… the day began normally…” He gradually slows down, closes the drawer, starts the auto and drives away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-tragedy-and-its-aftermath-101633384018964.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||Of 341 dengue cases so far, 60+% reported last month||The total number of dengue cases reported in the Capital crossed the 300-mark on Monday as the weekly report released by the municipal corporations added 68 more cases, taking the total tally to 341 till October 2. Of the total, 217 cases (63.6%) were recorded in September, which is the highest number of cases seen in the month in the last three years.The cases of dengue usually start increasing in July and August after monsoons, and peaks in mid-October. This year, however, the cases started increasing in August-end and September due to heavy showers that the city received in the last month of monsoon.“There was an increase in mosquito breeding after the heavy rainfall. The rains were later than usual this year; it was also very heavy with gaps in between, all of which favoured breeding,” according to an official from the south corporation.Hospitals have also seen an increase in the number of cases being reported. “Dengue has increased substantially, probably 50-70% over the last three weeks. We see one or two person admitted with dengue every day at our hospital,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, director of internal medicine at Max hospital-Saket.He said, “The good thing is that most of the cases are mild and can be treated at home. Even in the few patients who were admitted, the symptoms resolved within two-three days.”There are four serotypes of dengue virus – Type 1 and 3 are the milder serotypes while type 2 and 4 are associated with severe disease. The Delhi government has started the “10 hafte, 10 baje, 10 minute” campaign to urge people to check for mosquito breeding in their homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/of-341-dengue-cases-so-far-60-reported-last-month-101633383843653.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Accused of sexual harassment, two Karnal teenagers end life||Two teenaged boys allegedly died by suicide after consuming a poisonous substance at Taikhana village in Karnal district on Sunday. The deceased, aged 16 and 17, were close friends.The boys’ families claimed that they were mentally disturbed since a village girl accused them of sexually harassing her at a bank on October 1.On her complaint, the police had taken the boys to the police station and released them after a warning. Later, at a village panchayat, they were told to apologise to the girl, their kin alleged. Thereon, the girl and her brother continued to harass their sons, due to which they ended their lives on Sunday, they alleged.“Following a counter complaint by the father of one of the deceased, the girl and her brother have been booked under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (acts done in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code,” said Parmod Gautam, in-charge of the Taraori police station.The bodies were handed over to the families after autopsy at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/accused-of-sexual-harassment-two-karnal-teenagers-end-life-101633380556463.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to revise deputy commissioner rates||The Haryana government has decided to revise the deputy commissioner (DC) rates of various districts to rationalise wages paid to unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled workers.An official spokesperson said the state government had reviewed the matter, and decided to fix DC rates based on broad principles of minimum wages and district specific consumer prices. The methodology includes various factors like rental housing values, vegetable prices, school fee rates, etc. An annual increment of 5% will also be allowed in line with inflation. The DC rates for all categories and districts will be fixed by the general administration department (GAD) under the chief secretary. The spokesperson said the initial purpose of the DC rates was to have a readily available payment rate, which could be used in times of emergency, like engaging workforce for flood control works, etc., when it would not be feasible to go for tenders due to time constraints. Gradually, these rates came to be recognised as the standard rate of engagement of ad-hoc and temporary staff, even in non-emergency times. The spokesperson said for the purpose of revising the rates, districts had been classified into three categories. Category A includes Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula and Sonepat; Panipat, Jhajjar, Palwal, Karnal, Ambala, Hisar, Rohtak, Rewari, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Yamunanagar, Bhiwani and Jind are in Category B, while Mahendragarh, Fatehabad, Sirsa, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri will form Category C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-revise-deputy-commissioner-rates-101633380555242.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tardy pace of paddy procurement has Karnal farmers staring at glut||Even as paddy has been arriving steadily since Sunday, poor pace of procurement is leading to a glut at grain markets, leaving no space for farmers to unload more produce.Second day into the procurement, reports said only 10% of the produce coming in had been bought, while lifting of the procured paddy had not begun at most mandis.“Due to delayed procurement and lifting, there is no space to bring more produce and harvesting is also being held up. The grain markets will be overloaded in the next two-three days,” said a commission agent, Sohan Lal, at Ladwa grain market. On the hand, officials of procurement agencies said the farmers were arriving without any schedule, leading to disorder, and as per government norms, they cannot purchase paddy with moisture content beyond the permissible limit, which is 17%.“Officials are citing higher moisture content for delay, even when we are ready to bear deductions,” said Ajay Kumar, a farmer waiting at the Indri grain market in Karnal district.Vexed farmers lock mandi gatesOn Monday, as farmers arriving without schedule were not allowed to enter, they locked the entrance gates of grain markets at Karnal, Nilokheri and Indri. They also blocked highways to express resentment against the procurement norms set by the government.Later, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav held a joint meeting with the farmers, commission agents and rice-millers, and assured that gate passes will be generated from 5am to 9pm every day.Rice millers also demanded waiver of the 5% security levied on them for milling the procured paddy under the custom-milled rice (CMR) policy. Yadav said the rice-millers had agreed to join the procurement process following an assurance to resolve their concerns within two days. He appealed to farmers to bring their produce as per schedule to avoid inconvenience and allow hassle-free procurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tardy-pace-of-paddy-procurement-has-karnal-farmers-staring-at-glut-101633380553867.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Charuni detained in Meerut: Farmers hold BJP MLA captive in Hisar||Anguished over the detention of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni in Meerut, farmers on Monday held BJP’s Hisar MLA Kamal Gupta captive at the local government guest house.The farmers were raising anti-government slogans at the main hall of the rest house when MLA Gupta reached there to meet party workers regarding their strategy for the Ellenabad bypoll.On spotting the MLA, a group of protesters surrounded him in the building’s lobby, not allowing him to leave.High drama continued for about half an hour, before the police went in and brought the legislator out.Interacting with mediapersons after the incident, Gupta alleged that the farmers held him captive and manhandled him. “A few of them tore my kurta amid the melee. The farmers can’t indulge in such behaviour. I am not lodging any police complaint, but the incident depicts that miscreants are waiting to manhandle public representatives once they come out in public,” he said.On the other hand, local farmer leader Ranbir Singh alleged that the MLA reached the rest house while farmers were present there to intentionally provoke them.He claimed that the farmers only raised slogans as a mark of protest and no one manhandled the MLA.BKU activists gherao Haryana CM’s house in KarnalFarmers on Monday started an indefinite protest outside the residence of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Karnal to protest farmer leader Gurnam Singh Charuni’s detention in Uttar Pradesh.They threatened to intensify their agitation on Tuesday morning by blocking all highways of Haryana if Charuni was not released by Monday night.The protesters said Charuni was going to Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on Monday morning, when he and his aides were illegally detained by the UP police.Soon after the farmers reached the CM’s residence in Prem Nagar in the heart of Karnal city, the administration deployed police in the locality.Similar protests were reported in Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts, as BKU activists blocked the Hisar-Chandigarh highway at Titram Chowk in Kaithal.In Shahbad of Kurukshetra district, farmers gheraoed residences of sports minister Sandeep Singh and JJP MLA Ram Karan. “The protests will continue and will spread in the entire state if he is not released soon,” said Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of BKU (Charuni).Statewide protests against Lakhimpur Kheri violence, CM’s remarksEarlier in the day, farmers held peaceful demonstrations at the district headquarters across the state against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s reported “pick- up sticks” and “tit-for-tat” advice to the BJP Kisan Morcha workers.The protesters assembled in large numbers following a call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) and held sit-in protests for three hours till 1pm, amid heavy police deployment.They reached the respective mini-secretariats, resorted to anti-government sloganeering and submitted memorandums to deputy commissioners (DCs) addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking action against the BJP leaders involved in the violence.They also sought the chief minister’s resignation for allegedly advising BJP workers to launch tit-for-tat action against the farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws and not allowing the BJP-JJP leaders to hold public functions in the state.In Kaithal, tension prevailed when the protesters blocked the highway. As per reports, when the farmers went to hand over a memorandum to DC Pradeep Dhaiya, he did not come out for hours.When protesters blocked the Karnal-Kaithal highway, Kaithal SDM Sanjay Kumar rushed to the spot to pacify them and received the memorandum. According to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU, Charuni) Rohtak district president Raju Makrauli, khaps and farmers blocked the Rohtak-Chandigarh national highway near Makrauli Kalan village of Rohtak and the Jind-Hisar road till 1pm.Ravi Azad, BKU’s state youth president, said protests were peaceful at all district headquarters.“Farmers are capable of giving a befitting reply to Khattar. It is deplorable that the CM is asking his party workers to retaliate violently,” said a protesting farmer leader Jagdip Aulakh.Congress burns UP, Haryana CMs’ effigiesMeanwhile, Congress workers burnt effigies of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.They held protests against Khattar’s reported remarks, now viral on social media, wherein BJP workers were advised to raise groups of 500-700 volunteers armed with lathis in each district of north and west Haryana, and retaliate against the protesting farmers. “The CM has used highly provocative language. He should resign. It is shameful that a CM is asking people to hold sticks against farmers,” said Tarlochan Singh, a Congress leader from Karnal.The protesters also gathered in large numbers in Ambala and Yamunanagar and demanded action against those responsible for the “murders” of the farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. A large number of activists affiliated to BKU (Charuni) protested at DC offices in both the regions and burnt Khattar’s effigies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charuni-detained-in-meerut-farmers-hold-bjp-mla-captive-in-hisar-101633380552249.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Har Hith stores to be launched in Haryana on October 7||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will virtually inaugurate 68 “Har Hith” stores set up by the Haryana Agro Industries Corporation on October 7. The stores will provide groceries, including products from organisations and cooperative agencies like NAFED, HAFED and VITA. These stores are being allotted to only Haryana residents, and the master warehouses are located in Gurugram, Karnal and Hisar. Haryana launches cyber security awareness campaign 
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dinkar Gupta removed as Punjab Police chief||Punjab government on Monday removed 1987-batch IPS officer Dinkar Gupta as the state police chief and posted him as chairman of Punjab Police Housing Corporation (PPHC). Gupta had decided to go on a month’s leave after Charanjit Singh Channi took over as the chief minister and the state government gave the charge to 1988-batch officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota. The government order regarding the transfer of Gupta also states that Sahota will continue to hold the charge of Punjab DGP till the appointment of a regular DGP for which the government has already sent a panel of 10 officers to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). The UPSC will revert by picking three officers for the top police post keeping in mind their service record and other aspects as per the norms laid down by the Supreme Court and the state will have to pick one for the top job. The state government also transferred 1987-batch IPS officer MK Tiwari as managing director, Punjab Police Housing Corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dinkar-gupta-removed-as-punjab-police-chief-101633378390941.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Form panels of expert advisers on education, sports, NRI affairs, says Punjab minister Pargat Singh||Punjab school education, higher education, sports, and NRI affairs minister Pargat Singh on Monday directed the top officials of the four departments to form committees of expert advisers. In a press release issued after chairing a meeting, Pargat said a committee of educationists and teachers will be constituted for the school education department, prominent writers and educationists for the higher education and languages department, renowned sportspersons for the sports department and distinguished NRIs for NRI affairs. He said professionals would be included in these committees of advisers who specialise in their fields. “The far-sightedness and experience of these experts will be utilised and the departments will be run in line with their opinion,” he added. Those among present in the meeting were secretary (school education, and sports and youth services) Ajoy Sharma, secretary (higher education and languages, and NRI affairs) Krishan Kumar, director (sports) DPS Kharbanda, DPI (colleges) Paramjit Singh and DPI (school education) Sukhjit Pal Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/form-panels-of-expert-advisers-on-education-sports-nri-affairs-says-punjab-minister-pargat-singh-101633378389858.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab health department orders to shift staff occupying same seat for 3 years||The Punjab health and family welfare department on Monday directed all the civil surgeons in the state to shift the officials or employees who have been occupying the same seat for at least three years, citing the upcoming festival season besides maintaining transparency. “It came to notice that many employees have been occupying the same seat in different institutions under the health department for many years. To bring transparency in the functioning of the department, you are directed to immediately shift all the officers/employees posted in your subordinate offices who have been on one seat for three years or more to other seats at the level of your office immediately,” read the orders. Director (health services) Dr Andesh Kang said, “The festival season is approaching. The civil surgeons can shuffle the staff if the need be. It is their duty to maintain a transparent system.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-health-department-orders-to-shift-staff-occupying-same-seat-for-3-years-101633378151681.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Being a good Samaritan costs Ludhiana man his car||An undergraduate student who stopped to help three strangers ostensibly struggling to start their bike on Sunday evening was assaulted and carjacked by the same men in Bhammipura village. The 20-year-old victim, Satvir Singh, of Bhammipura village said he was on his way to the sports ground in a Mahindra Scorpio when he noticed three men struggling to start a bike on the periphery of the village and stopped to help them. As soon as he stepped out of his vehicle, two of the men assaulted and overpowered him, while one of them got into his car and took off towards Randhirgarh village, after which the other two drove off on their bike, which did not have number plates. Assistant sub-inspector, Jagjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said the victim’s family had bought the car on instalments, but four or five instalments were still pending. “The finance company may have hired the men to take away the vehicle, over non-payment of instalments. We have questioned employees of the finance company, but did not find any leads.” Police are also combing through CCTV footage to identify the accused. A case has been registered under Sections 379-B (snatching using force) of the Indian Penal Code at the Hathur police station. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/being-a-good-samaritan-costs-ludhiana-man-his-car-101633378089711.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||32% people fully vaccinated against Covid in Ludhiana||The vaccination drive is in full swing in the district even as coronavirus cases remain at an all-time low and around 32% of the residents are fully vaccinated, while 80% have at least received one jab. Jagraon additional deputy commissioner and vaccination nodal officer Dr Nayan Jassal on Monday said 26,32,727 people are eligible for vaccination in the district, of which 20,97,002 people have received the first dose and 8,44,306 people are fully vaccinated.Meanwhile, one more Covid case was detected in the district, taking the total cases in the district to 87,544.Dr Puneet Juneja, nodal officer for the Covid immunisation programme in the district, said that the inoculation drive will be carried out over 148 session sites across the district. The health department hopes to achieve the 30-lakh inoculation mark on Tuesday. Seven fresh dengue casesSeven more people were diagnosed with dengue in the district, taking the patient count to 216. Of the 216 cases, 165 cases were reported from Ludhiana city, while 15 were reported from Jagraon, nine from Sudhar, and five cases each were reported in Koom Kalan and Sahnewal, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32-people-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-in-ludhiana-101633377855296.html
05-10-2021||Other||In a first for South Asia, drone delivers Covid-19 vaccine in Manipur lake island||For the first time, a ‘Make in India’ drone has been used in South Asia to transport Covid-19 vaccine over an aerial distance of 15 kilometres in 12-15 mins from the Bishnupur district hospital to Loktak lake, Karang island in Manipur for administration at the Public Health Centre, Union Health and Family Welfare Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Monday.Health Minister Mandaviya launched the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)’s Drone Response and Outreach in North East (i-Drone) via video conferencing in presence of secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Rajesh Bhushan, Director General (ICMR) Dr Balram Bhargava and other senior officers. Manipur’s additional chief secretary V Vumlumang, along with other officials, were physically present during its formal launching session at Bishnupur district headquarter, 35 kilometres south of Imphal.Congratulating the people of the country on this innovative step, the Union minister further added, “India is home to geographical diversities and drones can be used to deliver essentials to the last mile. We can use drones in delivering important life-saving medicines, collecting blood samples. This technology can also be used in critical situations.”“Our immunization program for Covid-19 has already exceeded all expectations. I strongly believe that this initiative will further help us achieve the highest possible immunization coverage for Covid-19. Incorporating such drone technologies into the national programs would help deliver other vaccines and medical supplies as quickly as possible,” he added.Sharing a video of the event on his social media accounts on Monday, Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh tweeted, “For the first time in South-East Asia, the State Govt in collaboration with ICMR launched a drone to deliver 900 doses of Covid vaccine from Bishnupur district hospital to the PHC in Karand island.”This i-Drone has been designed to overcome these challenges by deploying Unmanned Aerial vehicles/drones to remote areas and hard to reach terrains. Currently, the drone-based delivery project has been granted permission for implementation in Manipur and Nagaland, as well as Union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Island, according to a PIB press release.ICMR conducted an initial study in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, to test the capacity of drones to carry and transfer vaccines safely in Manipur, Nagaland and Andaman and Nicobar. These studies provided promising results based on which the Ministry of Civil Aviation, Directorate General of Civil Aviation and other regulatory authorities have granted permission to fly drones beyond the Visual Line Of Sight, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-a-first-for-south-asia-drone-delivers-covid-19-vaccine-in-manipur-lake-island-101633377670620.html
05-10-2021||Pune||ANC of Pune police has seized drugs worth ₹2.07 crore this year||PUNE The anti-narcotics cell (ANC) in Pune has lodged as many as 60 cases related to the sale of banned narcotic substances and arrested 93 accused with seizure of contraband worth ₹2.07 core in 2021, data obtained from ANC revealed. According to officials, 62 cases were lodged in 2020, wherein drugs worth ₹91.56 lakh were seized and 71 persons were arrested during different operations by the ANC. In 2019, 73 persons were arrested and drugs worth ₹1.69 crore were seized in 62 cases registered by the anti-narcotics wing of the city police. According to the crime branch the banned drugs seized comprised cocaine, MD, ganja, hashish oil, brown sugar, heroin, mephedrone, LSD and MDMA. According to the ANC, MD topped the list of drugs seized, followed by cocaine, during the raids. The issue of narcotics search and seizure operations in Pune assumes significance in the wake of Bollywood superstar Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan’s arrest, from a cruise ship off the coast of Mumbai. Deputy commissioner of police (Crime) Sriniwas Ghadge said, “We have seen a trend of buying drugs which are expensive amongst the youth, especially young women. It is the cultural and social set-up in which they live which has given rise to the increase in consumption. Also our teams are conducting regular raids to ensure that the flow of drugs is halted and the menace be brought to an end.” According Prakash Khandekar in-charge of ANC Unit II, police have seen the involvement of Nigerian nationals in the trade and the drugs are being brought to Pune from Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh through couriers. “It becomes very difficult to trace the main operators due to the need-to -know basis of the distribution channel. Sometimes, the consumers sell their drugs at high prices to the other consumers and earn money on the bought material. We are taking regular and strong action against all those involved in the trade.” Oct 1, 2021 Pune Crime Branch arrests two Nigerian nationals for possession of cocaine worth ₹2.17 lakh. While patrolling the Chaturshringi police station area, an ANC team nabbed two the foreigners near the Savitribai Phule Pune University They have been identified as Nnadi Odinaka Henry (37) and Okeke Infechukwu John (29), both Nigerian nationals who currently live in Pimple Gurav. During searches, police recovered 10.89 grammes of cocaine worth ₹2,17,800 lakh from their possession. September 13, 2021The ANC arrest two transport service operators from Nashik for smuggling marijuana. They seized over 71kg of the contraband, which was brought from a place near Vizag, from the arrested duo, The arrests were made after the police team received a tip-off that a few persons involved in the smuggling of contraband substances were coming to the Lohegaon-Wagholi road. ANC sleuths laid a trap and intercepted a truck. While searching the truck, police found 71kg of marijuana estimated to be worth over ₹14 lakh in the illegal market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/anc-of-pune-police-has-seized-drugs-worth-2-07-crore-this-year-101633377429849.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Thunderstorms with heavy rainfall in Pune on Monday evening||PUNE After a humid hot day on Monday, many parts of Pune city witnessed severe lightning along with thunderstorms after 6pm. Due to intense rainfall, there was traffic congestion in many parts of the city.Lohegaon, Viman nagar, Katraj, Magarpatta, Hadapsar, Swargate, Shivajinagar, Pune station, Pimple Saudagar, Fergusson College road, Erandwane and adjoining areas all saw heavy rainfall.Between 5:30 pm and 8:30 pm on Monday, Shivajinagar reported 26.3 millimetres (mm) of rain, Chinchwad reported 2.5mm whereas Lohegaon reported 23.4mm of rainfall. Rainfall data at Pashan was not available on Monday evening, officials said.Lavale and Magarpatta saw rainfall from the morning. Lavale reported 29 mm of rainfall and Magarpatta reported 68 mm of rainfall on Monday.The fire department noted four incidents of trees falling at Tingre nagar, Gultekdi, Maharshi nagar and Navi peth. Waterlogging was also reported at Ganesh peth, Koregaon park, Hadapsar and Pulgate on Monday. K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, IMD Mumbai said that Pune City experienced severe lightning along with thunderstorms on Monday evening.“By 7pm on Monday evening, a very severe convection was observed over Pune. The radar showed reflectivity above 50 dBZ. Severe lightning and thunderstorms with moderate to intense rains reported at few places in Pune,” said Hosalikar.Pune cantonment area was flooded with knee deep rain water on all the major roads of the area. Traffic jams and water entering business establishments residents claimed. Vinod Mathurawala, former PCB member said “ the area is under complete darkness due to power outage. There are reports of water logging and traffic jams in the cantonment area, “ he said3 new new IMD stations in citySince October 1, three new stations of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) have been functioning in Pune city in addition to those already in existence. With this, the IMD will now also monitor Chinchwad, Lavale and Magarpatta in addition to Shivajinagar, Lohegaon and Pashan. The three new stations will help in localised forecasts from different parts of the city.About the additional stations, Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said that they are located in different directions of the city. “We chose these stations so that we can monitor each direction of Pune city. With the three new stations, we will be issuing day and night temperature forecasts and rainfall forecasts,” Kashyapi said. In September, a one month pilot project was undertaken to monitor these new stations, he said.“Between Shivajinagar, Pashan and Lohegaon, we have seen that day temperatures have been higher in Lohegaon. With the additional stations in the last one month, we have noticed that Chinchwad and Magarpatta are hotter than Lohegaon. Therefore, monitoring these stations will help us provide detailed forecasts with respect to day and night temperatures in different parts of the city,” Kashyapi said.“As per our observations as of now, rainfall forecasts for these new stations may not vary so much. We will soon start issuing three hourly forecasts for these regions as well,” he said.Citizens can access the IMD Pune website to get localised forecasts and details of day and night temperatures of these stations.According to Kashyapi, “On the IMD Pune website, citizens can go to the Pune city weather section and get the data of all six stations under the ‘ARG Stations’ tab.” IMD Pune plans to further increase the number of stations. “Localised forecasts for Junnar, Purandhar, National Defence Academy (NDA), Wadgaon sheri and Talegaon are in the pipeline. Once the three new stations start monitoring and issuing data, other stations too will start,” Kashyapi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/thunderstorms-with-heavy-rainfall-in-pune-on-monday-evening-101633377070111.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||High court constitutes new special bench in Bhola drug racket case||The Punjab and Haryana high court has constituted a new special bench in the 2013 Jagdish Bhola drug racket case. The case was assigned to the division bench of justices AG Masih and Ashok Kumar Verma and will be taken up on Tuesday. Earlier, the case was being heard by the bench of justices Rajan Gupta and Ajay Tewari but the latter recusing from the case on September 1. The Supreme Court had recently recommended transfer of Justice Gupta. The new bench will on Tuesday take up an application in which it is being demanded that three crucial reports on the case be made public. The application was filed by Navkiran Singh, a lawyer who was an intervener in the 2013 suo motu petition initiated into the alleged ₹6,000 crore drug racket case. The court is monitoring probe by various agencies in the case. One of the reports is of then special task force (STF) head HS Sidhu while another of then Enforcement Directorate (ED) assistant director Niranjan Singh. The third report is of a committee headed by additional chief secretary (home). All are lying sealed in the high court since 2018. The reports are mainly on allegations of involvement of some high-profile politicians from Punjab in the drug racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-constitutes-new-special-bench-in-bhola-drug-racket-case-101633376950296.html
05-10-2021||Kolkata||CBI officers appear before Bengal speaker over Narada sting charge-sheet||KOLKATA: Four officers of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) appeared before the West Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee on Monday afternoon in response to his summons hours after a single-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court directed the agency to do so, said officials at the legislative assembly.Biman Banerjee sent two summons to the CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED) last month, asking the agencies to explain how charges were filed against Trinamool Congress (TMC) ministers, Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, and legislator Madan Mitra in the 2014 Narada sting operation case without his sanction.CBI arrested the three legislators and former TMC legislator Sovon Chatterjee on May 17 after filing chargesheet. ED submitted a chargesheet against them before a designated court in Kolkata on September 1.The speaker sent the summons to CBI deputy superintendent of police Satyendra Singh and ED assistant director Rathin Biswas as these two officers signed the respective charge-sheets, assembly officials said.“I was surprised to see the agencies bypassing my office. It is mandatory to seek the speaker’s permission before filing charge-sheet against a sitting legislator,” Banerjee said before sending the second summons to the ED, asking its officers to appear before him on September 22.While ED wrote back to the speaker saying that the agency does not need to seek his sanction, CBI said the arrests were made after sanction was given by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. CBI also petitioned the high court.On Monday, justice Rajasekhar Mantha, while hearing a CBI request, said the agency has to respond to the summons as the speaker is a constitutional authority but also directed that no harsh action should be taken against the officers. The judge asked CBI to file a report on the discussions with the speaker at the next court hearing on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-officers-appear-before-bengal-speaker-over-narada-sting-chargesheet-101633376831018.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab School Education Board to hold exams biannually from this year||The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has decided to conduct the examinations for classes 5, 8, 10, and 12, biannually from this year on the lines of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The first-term board exams will be held in November-December, and the second term in February-March, officials said. Nearly 12 lakh students will appear in the exams from classes 5, 8, 10, and 12. The board has uploaded the information on its website www.pseb.ac.in.PSEB chairperson Yograj said, “The decision was taken in the wake of the third Covid-19 wave. In the first term, exams will be based on multiple-choice questions, while the second term exams will be subjective. The academic year is divided into two with each covering 50% of the syllabus. The result will be declared according to the average of both terms. The exams for special students will be conducted in their schools only, while others will be allocated different centres as used to be the norm earlier. Last year, the PSEB had announced a 30% reduction in the syllabi for classes 10 and 12 for the academic session 2021-22. In the wake of the pandemic last year, the board had declared results of class 12 in July on the basis of the 30:30:40 formula to evaluate the students considering the marks in classes 10, 11, and 12. Thirty percent weightage was given to the classes 10 and 11 results while 40% weightage will be given to class 12 unit test/mid-term/pre-board exams. In May, the results of classes 8 and 10 were declared on the basis of continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-school-education-board-to-hold-exams-biannually-from-this-year-101633376771316.html
05-10-2021||Pune||37-year-old dies in accident on Katraj-Dehu road bypass||PUNE In a tragic accident on Monday, a 37-year-old died in an accident near the D-Mart in Ambegaon Budruk, on the Katraj-Dehu road bypass highway. Primary information from the police reveals that the victim, Ashok Kashinath Mirgude, fell from his bike and was run over by an unidentified vehicle. The deceased is a resident of Katraj. The incident happened at 3.45pm on the bypass highway in front of the D-Mart mall. For the next half-an-hour traffic was disturbed, as the victim was lying on the highway until traffic police and policemen from the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station came to the spot.“There is no exact information about how the accident happened. There are multiple reports from nearby people and so only after an investigation we will know the exact reason. Primarily, it is noticed that an unknown vehicle went over his head and he died on the spot. We have identified the victim, and informed his family,” said Ashish Kavathekar, sub-inspector, Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. The spot where the accident happened is where the bypass road gets narrow and on one side there is a slope going towards the service road. Also there are broken barricades that confuse two-wheeler riders. “I travel by this bypass highway and I feel afraid going through this specific patch, as the road is very narrow and heavy vehicles come in full speed,” said Santosh Zhende a resident of the area. Atul Namekar, secretary, Sinhagad road-Warje residents association, said, “This is the major bypass highway road which connects several areas of the Pune city and there is heavy traffic on it. Office goers use this bypass highway, but at some points it has become so dangerous that accidents are bound to happen. There is a need for immediate repairing and also to install some safety equipment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/37yearold-dies-in-accident-on-katraj-dehu-road-bypass-101633376770048.html
05-10-2021||Bhopal||MP woman gives birth in tractor-trolley as govt ambulance fails to turn up||A 28-year-old woman gave birth to a child in a tractor-trolley on Monday after an ambulance service run by the government for pregnant women failed to arrive in time to take her to a hospital, her kin said.The woman, a resident of Devgaon, some 10 kilometres from Ajaigarh tehsil here, was forced to take the tractor-trolley after a futile wait for the state-run 'Janani Express' ambulance service, said her relative Santram Patel. "I called 108 (an ambulance helpline) four times at around 1 pm. I was told it will reach within 10 minutes. After the ambulance didn't arrive for two hours, we brought her to Ajaigarh Community Health Centre by tractor-trolley, but she delivered midway,” he said.However, Chief Medical and Health Officer (CMHO) RK Pandey said he was unaware of the incident but promised that action will be taken after he collects more information and an inquiry is set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-woman-gives-birth-in-tractor-trolley-as-govt-ambulance-fails-to-turn-up-101633375944966.html
05-10-2021||Other||18-month-old Phagwara boy gets fresh lease of life via heart surgery||Kapurthala The National Child Health Programme has given a new lease of life to 18-year-old Phagwara boy Anmol. He underwent heart surgery for a congenital condition at Fortis Hospital, Mohali, for free. Dr Prabhjot Jabbal, of Phagwara civil hospital, said the Anganwadi Centre in Phagwara had diagnosed the condition in September. The doctor added that National Child Health Programme provided treatment for 30 major diseases for needy children, free of cost, in government or Multi Super-Speciality hospitals as per need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/18monthold-phagwara-boy-gets-fresh-lease-of-life-via-heart-surgery-101633376409746.html
05-10-2021||Other||Odisha man who committed over 500 burglaries using a crowbar re-arrested||A 59-year-old Odisha man who quit studies in the late 80s to start burglary with crowbars across the country and later stayed in luxury hotels over the last 3 decades has been re-arrested by Odisha police.Hemant Das, who since 1990 has allegedly committed more than 500 burglaries and petty thefts, was arrested by the special squad on Sunday while plotting a crime, said Bhubaneswar deputy commissioner of police Umashankar Dash.“Known as the crowbar man for committing burglary using crowbars from closed houses and commercial establishments, he committed crimes all over the country. He flew to different cities using his loot money and stayed in hotels with room rents ranging between ₹7000 and 10000 a day. In his entire life, he has looted more than ₹5 crore but spent almost all of it in wining and dining and visiting brothels,” said the DCP. When he was arrested, there was only ₹1,400 left in his bank account, he added.While studying in the BJB College in Bhubaneswar in the 1980s, the “crowbar man” was sent to jail in 1988 for his involvement in a case of group clash. There he came in contact with a notorious burglar in the jail. After his release from jail, he continued to be in touch with the notorious burglar and they became good friends. He then dropped out of college and chose burglary as his profession.Hemanta confessed that he looted only cash from hotels and houses and was committing the crimes alone.In 2018, the special squad arrested Hemanta and he was sent to jail. After getting bail, he did not go to his home despite having a family. He was caught in Puri in a case of burglary last year and was released from jail in July this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-man-who-committed-over-500-burglaries-using-a-crowbar-rearrested-101633376356653.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi, cabinet colleagues meet governor over Lakhimpur Kheri deaths, submit memorandum||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi along with his cabinet colleagues on Monday met governor Banwarilal Purohit and submitted a memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister urging him to direct the Uttar Pradesh government to ensure justice to the families of Sunday’s violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district. In the memorandum, the CM also sought repeal of the three agriculture laws, which according to him is a reason behind deep resentment among farmers. Those accompanying the CM were his deputy OP Soni and ministers Brahm Mohindra, Manpreet Singh Badal, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Vijay Inder Singla, Randeep Singh Nabha, Raj Kumar Verka, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Pargat Singh, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Gurkirat Singh Kotli,. Channi said he was forced to bring the matter to PM Narendra Modi’s notice as the violent incident at Lakhimpur Kheri has shaken the conscience of everyone. “It is all the more painful that our ‘annadatas’ (food providers) lost lives in this unfortunate incident while protesting peacefully against the farm laws,” he added. Seeking the PM’s intervention, Channi said the faces of real culprits behind this barbarous act should be exposed, howsoever influential or connected they might be.“The common people and farmers are feeling alienated from the present system, which has gradually crumbled due to erosion of democratic values and ethics. It is high time that people’s confidence and trust in the democratic set-up is restored,” the memorandum read. Farm organisations from across the country have been agitating amid the trying circumstances, an unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic and harsh weather conditions for almost a year at the borders of Delhi, he added. “Several farmers have lost lives during the stir in the crusade against the three laws, which posed a threat to their livelihoods,” Channi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-cabinet-colleagues-meet-governor-over-lakhimpur-kheri-deaths-submit-memorandum-101633376354820.html
05-10-2021||Pune||CNG price hiked by ₹2 in Pune, rickshaw union says fares may increase||PUNE: After the hike in prices of petrol and diesel, it is now CNG’s turn with prices rising by ₹2 in the city. Effectively, consumers will have to dish out ₹59.50 per kg of CNG as opposed to ₹57.50 per kg according to the last hike in prices recorded on August 2 this year. On Monday, petrol cost was ₹107.95 per litre while that of diesel was ₹96.50 per litre. With soaring fuel prices, several vehicle users have already switched to CNG.With a majority of auto-rickshaws in the city running on CNG, convener of the Pune Auto-Rickshaw Association, Nitin Pawar, said that considering the surge in price will closely impact auto-rickshaw drivers’ lives, a hike in fares maybe in order.“Earlier, we had reduced the fare hike but as CNG prices have inched closer to ₹60 per kg, it seems inevitable. As it is, the lives of operators of this business had become difficult due to overall inflation. Now to make things worse, CNG prices have increased. After meetings with all stakeholders, a final decision on the fare hike will be taken. It is already being implemented in Mumbai,” Pawar said.Social activists working for rickshaw drivers said that even a hike of ₹2 will impact profit margins. Keshav Kshirsagar, head of the organisation, Baghtoy Rickshawala, said, “Even the slightest hike impacts profit margins. A hike of ₹2 per kg may seem slight for a regular CNG vehicle user but it makes a great difference to rickshaw drivers.”Those who use CNG cars are also miffed with the price hike. Sunil Pote, who switched from petrol to CNG for his car expressed disappointment over the increase in price. “A few months ago, I decided to switch to CNG because of soaring petrol prices. But now CNG price is also increasing. How is a common man to stay afloat! If this continues, fuel will soon be out of reach of the common people,” Pote said.Prices under Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL)PMC (Pune Municipal Corporation) area + Fursungi + Pisoli + Ambegaon: ₹59.50 per kgPCMC (Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation) area + Hinjewadi + Chakan: ₹59.50 per kgNashik-Dhule-Valsad area: ₹63.50 per kgRamanagara district: ₹60 per kgSindhudurg district: ₹64 per kg(Source: MNGL website)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cng-price-hiked-by-2-in-pune-rickshaw-union-says-fares-may-increase-101633376349903.html
05-10-2021||Other||People’s Movement chief Javeed Mustafa Mir joins Apni Party||Former minister and president of People’s Movement, Javeed Mustafa Mir on Monday joined the Apni Party led by Altaf Bukhari.Mir joined the party in the presence of several senior leaders and Bukhari, who termed him a former colleague, who always worked for the people of Kashmir and his constituency.Bukhari said Mir’s presence will make the party strong and help the party fight for its causes.Mir had joined the People’s Movement (PM) soon after it was founded by Shah Faesal in March 2019. However, Faesal resigned from the party after he was released from jail, where he was detained soon after the abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A.This led to Mir’s appointment as the president of the party and his departure will effectively render the fold without any prominent leader.Mir said his politics was founded on honesty: “When I was in People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, the case of Article 370 was in court, and it’s still in court when I am joining a new party today.”The last few months have seen many former legislators and ministers joining either the People’s Conference or the Apni Party, which political analysts say reflects leaders’ hope for elections in Jammu and Kashmir in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/peoples-movement-chief-javeed-mustafa-mir-joins-apni-party-101633376229643.html
05-10-2021||Other||TuM conspiracy case: NIA files supplementary chargesheet before special NIA court||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday filed a supplementary chargesheet against two terrorists of Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen (TuM) terror outfit in connection with Poonch-TuM conspiracy case before a special NIA Court here, officials said.“Today, NIA filed supplementary chargesheet before the special NIA court, Jammu against two accused Shaid Naveed, son of Mohammad Naseem of Nar in Mendhar area of Poonch, and Zafar Iqbal alias Shamsheer, son of Aladin of Gunthal in Surankote area of Poonch, under Section 120-B read with Sections 121-A, 122 of the IPC, Sections 7 and 25 of the Arms Act, Sections 3 and 4 of the Explosive Substance Act, and Sections 17, 18, 38 and 39 of the UA(P) Act,” said a spokesman.However, Zafar Iqbal is presently hiding in Pakistan.The case was initially registered as FIR number 292 /2020 under Sections 16, 18, and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and Sections 121-A, 122, 295-A of the IPC at the Mendhar police station.“The accused were part of a deep-rooted criminal conspiracy hatched by Pakistan-based handlers of TuM and their terror associates based in Poonch and Kuwait to execute terror activities and to wage war against the Indian state,” he said.“Accused in the case were assigned the task of smuggling arms, ammunition, explosives, narcotics, etc, into the Indian territory. During the course of investigation, large cache of arms, ammunition, explosives, narcotics along with flags, posters and other incriminating material belonging to terror outfit TuM were recovered,” he added.The first chargesheet was filed against seven accused on June 24.“The investigation has further revealed that the chargesheeted terrorist Zafar Iqbal, based in Pakistan, had sent funds through his associate Shaid Naveed, who was then based in Kuwait. These funds were further sent to Poonch for the purpose of carrying out terror activities in J&K,” said the spokesman.Further investigation in this case is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tum-conspiracy-case-nia-files-supplementary-chargesheet-before-special-nia-court-101633376113793.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu, 5 other Punjab Congress MLAs detained during protest against Lakhimpur Kheri incident||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu along with at least five party MLAs and other leaders was detained outside the Punjab Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh on Monday during a protest against the death of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district a day before. Also among those detained were party MLAs Madan Lal Jalalpur, Hardiyal Kamboj, Pirmal Singh Khalsa, Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Rajinder Singh and state Youth Congress chief Brinder Dhillon. Terming the death of protesting farmers as “murder”, Sidhu demanded the arrest of Union minister of state Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son for allegedly running a car over the agitators. He also condemned the statement of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar asking the BJP cadre for “tit-for-tat action” against the farmers in the neighbouring state. The protesters also raised slogans against the treatment meted out to Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was detained on her way to meet the families of the deceased farmers. Nearly 30 Congress leaders were removed from the protest site and were taken in a bus to the Sarangpur police station. Later, they were released. “We removed the Congress leaders from the Raj Bhawan but no case was registered,” said superintendent of police (city) Ketan Bansal. “The Congress leaders reached held protest without any prior intimation,” said another police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-5-other-punjab-congress-mlas-detained-during-protest-against-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-101633376112715.html
05-10-2021||Other||NIT Jalandhar holds convocation||Jalandhar Dr BR Ambedkar National Institute of Technology (NIT), Jalandhar, held its 17th convocation on Monday, where 1,311 students were conferred degrees. Chief guest Union minister for education Dharmendra Pradhan joined the convocation virtually. “The New Education Policy emphasises inclusive growth. The Covid-19 pandemic has made us realise the power and convenience of digital technologies. I congratulate director of the institute Lalit Kumar Awasthi, faculty and students of the NIT for being ranked among the top 50 institutions of the country,” the minister said in his address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nitjalandhar-holds-convocation-101633375989721.html
05-10-2021||Other||Himachal govt shielding fake degrees scam accused: Sujanpur MLA||Senior Congress leader and Sujanpur MLA Rajinder Singh Rana on Monday accused the BJP-led state government of trying to cover up the fake degrees scam allegedly involving Manav Bharti University (MMU), Solan.Addressing a press conference here, he said the government was attempting to save the real faces behind the scam: “The opposition has been raising the issue in and outside assembly, but the government hasn’t come up with a clear explanation.”Rana alleged that MMU sold nearly 6 lakh fake degrees and the scam was worth more than ₹20,000 crore. “Even when the state government formed a special investigation team to probe the scam, crores of rupees were withdrawn from the university account. Government should tell where this money went,” he said.The Congress leader said the eight accused, who were arrested in the case, had got bail which reflected that the government deliberately pleaded its case in a careless manner and its intention to hush up the matter.He said the MMU chairman was already facing a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code for a similar scam while running some vocational courses back in 1998, when also BJP was in power.“Despite this, he managed to get a huge chunk of land to set up a private university in 2008 when BJP introduced the Private Universities Act,” he said. “This is a fit case for CBI investigation, but the government is avoiding the probe as it wants to save those behind it,” he alleged, adding that even senior BJP leader Shanta Kumar had raised the matter with the government and demanded punishment for the real culprits.‘Benami land deals rising under BJP regime’Rana further alleged that benami land deals were on the rise under the current BJP regime and some ruling party leaders were also involved in it.He said the registry of a piece of land measuring 38 kanals near the international cricket stadium was done for just ₹75 lakh, while its actual price was in crores.“This was just to convert black money into white. The person on whose name the land was bought is a farmer, with no source of such huge income,” he alleged, adding that while the government talked tall about zero tolerance against corruption, it was itself in neck deep in corruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-govt-shielding-fake-degrees-scam-accused-sujanpur-mla-101633375930193.html
05-10-2021||Pune||File suggestions, objections on new SRA rules in PMC, PCMC before October 28||PUNE: As directed by the Maharashtra government, the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) has drafted a new set of rules for slum redevelopment in Pune (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad (PCMC), and called for suggestions and objections on the same. The new rules have been published in the media and are also available on the SRA website.SRA chief executive officer Rajendra Nimbalkar said, “The citizens can file suggestions and objections till October 28 following which objections will not be registered.”“In Pune city, 28% of the population lives in slums while in Pimpri-Chinchwad, 14.85% of the population lives in slums. Pune city has 486 declared slums with 1.65 lakh families living there,” Nimbalkar said.Although 28% of the city population lives in slums, they occupy only around 4% of the land and live without any basic facilities, as per official data. The state government constituted the SRA to improve slums and give better homes to slum dwellers free-of-cost by developing these plots. The scheme is being implemented with the help of private builders. SRA is a separate organisation working for slum redevelopment. The Pune Municipal Corporation is also planning to file suggestions and objections on the new rules. BJP leader Ujwal Keskar said, “This issue is related to 28% of the city population. We will carry out a detailed study of the plan and submit our objections to it very soon. We have even appealed to Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol to ask PMC officials to study the plan and file their objections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/file-suggestions-objections-on-new-sra-rules-in-pmc-pcmc-before-october-28-101633375869548.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU graduate constituency: Second phase of polling likely on October 17||The second phase of polling for the registered graduate constituency of the Panjab University (PU) senate is likely be held on October 17, sources at the varsity said on Monday. The first phase of polling for the graduate constituency was held on September 26. Of the total 272 booths, polling at 61 is still pending. The sources at PU said that there is a plan to hold the polling at all 61 booths in the next phase. According to a recent notice, the varsity has already stated that the election is tentatively scheduled on any Sunday of October (except October 24).“When the date will be finalised, PU will write to the respective booths as an intimation. If any problem arises during polling, that will be taken up separately,” said a varsity official.In September, PU in its order had stated that 61 polling booths across different states have either expressed inability or did not confirm to make available their buildings for setting up of polling booths and polling was held at only 211 booths on September 26.Appointment of polling staff for Phase 2Regarding the deployment of staff for polling to be held in October, the varsity had also issued a notice to employees. “The person willing to act as polling officer is requested to give the name of another person/s with his/her/their consent who will act as supporting staff,” read the notice. It also states that the polling officer is requested to intimate the same also on the enclosed proforma by October 5.The polling for the registered graduate constituency was earlier scheduled to be held on August 18, but was deferred by PU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-graduate-constituency-second-phase-of-polling-likely-on-october-17-101633375809599.html
05-10-2021||Other||Four-fold rise in traffic at Rohtang since inauguration of Atal Tunnel||Rohtang Pass, that connects Manali with the remote and tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti in Himachal Pradesh, has seen a four-fold increase in traffic inflow since the opening of Atal Tunnel in October last year.According to data released by the office of director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu, a total of 6,59,087 vehicles entered the district through the 9.2km tunnel in the past one year, while their number was only 1,63,000 between January 1 and October 2 in 2020, before the tunnel was inaugurated on October 3.An engineering marvel, the tunnel is built at an elevation of 10,171 feet under the 13,051-feet-high Rohtang Pass, making it the longest in the world at that height.While the high-altitude Lahaul-Spiti would otherwise remain cut off from the rest of the world for four to five months in winter, the strategically important tunnel provided all-weather connectivity to the district.This spurred a steady stream of tourists, providing a fillip to the local hospitality sector, and allowed farmers to transport their produce to distant markets.According to the DGP, at 1,22,090, July 2021 saw the maximum vehicles cross the tunnel – a daily average of 3,938 vehicles, while the highest single-day traffic was seen on March 28 when 5,674 vehicles accessed the tunnel.In contrast, last year’s record was 5,450 vehicles on December 26.Kundu said the Himachal Pradesh Police was ensuring round-the-clock security at the tunnel and smooth flow of traffic. “Apart from this, police are also providing efficient disaster management in the area,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fourfold-rise-in-traffic-at-rohtang-since-inauguration-of-atal-tunnel-101633375751275.html
05-10-2021||Lucknow||'Do not visit rural areas’: Tikait’s advisory for BJP workers||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) national president Naresh Tikait on Monday advised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers to not visit rural Uttar Pradesh as farmers are angry over the recent incidents of violence at Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday, news agency PTI reported.Tikait also alleged that the BJP was trying to defame the farmers’ agitation by provoking violence while addressing a kisan panchayat in Sisoli. He said that BJP workers should refrain from visiting rural areas in a bid to avoid any untoward incident.Tikait’s remarks were in response to the death of eight people on Sunday at Lakhimpur Kheri where farmers were protesting against the three farm laws and held an agitation protesting the visit of deputy chief minister of Uttar Pradesh Keshav Prasad Maurya.At least 4 farmers died after a convoy belonging to Ashish Mishra, Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son, allegedly mowed down protesters opposing the deputy chief minister’s visit. The other four people were BJP members who were allegedly thrashed to death. The farmer leaders claim that Ashish Mishra was in one of the cars which knocked down some protesters.Ajay Mishra said he and his son refuted the allegations claiming they were not present at the spot as alleged by some farmer leaders. The minister and his son also said that they have photo and video evidence to prove it.The BKU workers staged a dharna against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident on Sunday night and blocked a road in Shamli district, according to news agency PTI. They also submitted a memorandum to the Shamli district magistrate demanding action against Ashish Mishra.The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday booked Ashish Mishra. It also said that a probe monitored by a retired high court judge has also been ordered. It also announced ₹45 lakh compensation for the family of the deceased anti-farm law protesters.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/do-not-visit-rural-areas-tikait-s-advisory-for-bjp-workers-101633375393790.html
05-10-2021||Other||October 30 bypolls: Himachal Congress sends four names to party high command||With the Congress Pradesh Election Committee authorising the party’s interim president Sonia Gandhi to take a final call on candidates for bypolls to three assemblies and one parliamentary seat, Himachal leaders have their feedback on the prospects of different contenders.The party high command is likely to announce the candidates tomorrow. State party chief along with the AICC secretary co-in-charge for party affairs in Himachal Sanjay Dutt and leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri called on AICC in-charge for Himachal affairs Rajiv Shukla in Delhi to apprise them about the candidates.“We have apprised the party high command about the prospects of the candidates,” said PCC chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore. Pradesh election committee had passed a single-line resolution asking the high command to take a final decision on the names.There were single names of the party leader from Jubbal Kotkhai and Fatehpur. Former chief parliamentary secretary Rohit Thakur who’s been a legislator twice had taken to campaigning much in advance. The bypolls to Jubbal Kotkhai had been necessitated after the death of former horticulture minister Narendra Bragta.Rohit is the grandson of former chief minister Ram Lal Thakur and BJP has already given a go-ahead to Narendra Bragta’s elder so in Chetan Bragta.Bhawani Singh Pathania, son of Rajput leader and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania, is the party’s lone choice from Fathepur. The race is intense in Arki where the party had to make choice from Sanjay Awasthi and Rajender Thakur, a local leader in Arki and close aide of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh.Sanjay Awasthi had contested to assembly in 2012 on Congress ticket but lost to Govind Ram of BJP by a slender margin, and in 2017 Virbhadra Singh shifted to Arki vacating Shimla rural for his son Vikramaditya Singh. Awasthi’s candidature is being backed by former PCC chief Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu.From Mandi parliamentary seat, former Lok Sabha member Pratibha Singh’s candidature is almost certain. Pratibha has been a member of Parliament twice from the Mandi seat which her husband represented five times. Congress is hoping to gain sympathy votes in Mandi after Virbhadra Singh’s demise.Former health minister Kaul Singh’s name also figured for Mandi but he himself had been unwilling to contest elections while former Union minister Sukhram’s grandson Ashray Sharma is intensely lobbying for the ticket using his grandfather clout in Delhi. Ashray had lost elections to BJP’s Ramsaroop Sharma in 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/october-30-bypolls-himachal-congress-sends-four-names-to-party-high-command-101633375570050.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Chipi airport will land tourists... locals believe business will take off||PUNE For Sameer Mhadgut and his family, it is an exciting opportunity to start a small restaurant after him having served in the hospitality industry for years.If the Covid-induced lockdown took away his job, the upcoming airport at Chipi in Sindhudurg district has opened the doors to a new life for the Mhadguts.With the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) granting an aerodrome licence to Sindhudurg airport, aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia will inaugurate the airport on October 9, putting this Konkan backwater firmly on the country’s aviation radar. Locals feel the new airport at Chipi will bring an economic boom with employment and entrepreneurship opportunities for locals, who otherwise have to migrate to Mumbai and Pune for better employment opportunities. “I was working with a private firm earlier and when the countrywide lockdown was imposed last year, tourism and other industries in Sindhudurg district came to standstill with people losing jobs. So we decided to start our own small restaurant in Malvan. One of the major reasons we took this decision was the Sindhudurg airport, which will bring more tourists, which means more business for us,” said Mhadgut, 42, who stays in Malvan city along with his wife, daughter and son. Like him, many on the costal belt are looking forward to the opening up of new opportunities in the region and competing with neighbouring Goa, now that the airport in Sindhdurg will aim to be as good as the Dabolim airport near Vasco, if not better. The Sindhdurg airport in Chipi surrounded by various tourist destinations like the the historic Sindhudurg fort in Malvan, and serene beaches at Tarkarli, Devbagh, and Chivla. The airport falls under Vengurla tehsil, bordering Goa. International tourists landing at Dabolim airport, 90km from Chipi, will now be one target audience. The Sindhudurg airport cost approximately ₹8 crore to set up and is the first of its kind in the south Konkan region, aimed at enhancing air connectivity with western Maharashtra and the southern states. “The airport, an SPV of IRB Infra, will not only generate passenger traffic, but will also be a boon for the economic development of the region as it will facilitate and boost cargo transportation, and generate direct as well as indirect employment and other business opportunities for the local people,” reads a recent statement from IRB, after the airport received its aerodrome licence on September 17. Locals feel the Chipi airport, which was awaiting clearance for four years, will open the doors of the Konkan to the world. Currently, most international tourists visit this costal belt on the Konkan railway by boarding trains from Mumbai, 550km from Vengurla. “Before Covid, 1,000 people used to come to our watersports centre on a daily basis and to cater them we had staff of 22 people. This number will increase once we start getting more foreigners coming to Sindhudurg after the resumption of flight operations. This is going to play a major role in creating job opportunities in the tourism industry in our region,” said Damodar Todankar, owner of a watersport centre at Malvan beach. Sindhudurg beaches offer scuba diving, parasailing and the mandatory speed boats and jet-skis. For mango and cashew growers, along with fishermen, cargo services once flight operations begin, offer much hope. “It has the potential to become a cargo hub of the western region as there is ample space for handling the cargo, and is expandable to meet the future growing needs,” a statement from IRB Infra adds. According to Nitin Walke, former president and current convenor of the Sindhudurg district Vyapari Mahasangh, cargo services from the airport is what farmers and traders have been looking for. “There are several major agriculture products the region grows, like mango and cashew, apart from the fisheries. This cargo service can bring a revolution for locals who can send their products internationally. There are 10,000 traders and small shop owners around the district who would benefit from this cargo service,” said Walke. According to airport officials, the 2,500-metre-long runway can handle 200 departing and 200 arriving passengers during peak hours and is suited for operating A-320 and B-737 types of aircraft. The government is looking start flight operations here under the UDAN scheme. Political mileage: who is in the pilot’s seat?Politically, it is likely to provide mileage for Union minister and BJP leader Narayan Rane, who was a driving force behind the airport. For Shiv Sena, the airport is equally important to retain its hold over Konkan. After becoming union minister, Rane’s first major achievement has been the airport, first envisaged around 15 years ago, though on-ground work began only five years ago. Nitesh Rane, son of Narayan Rane and legislator from Kankavali in Sindhudurg district said, “I think it is more important to give due respect to everyone who has given their contribution for development of this airport. I don’t want to see this positive beginning from a political angle. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Union minister Narayan Rane and of course, union aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia will all be present on the inauguration day which is more important to me,” said Nitesh Rane. According to Nitesh Rane, the airport will bring change the way investors and traders look at this region. “The class of tourists who will fly down to Sindhudurg airport with family will eventually help the local people increase revenue. There will be direct and in-direct employment opportunities coming up now all across the district, once the airport starts operating.” Maharashtra’s technical and higher education minister and the guardian minister of Sindhudurg district Uday Samant said, “Around two years ago Uddhav Thackeray was on a Konkan tour and he had given a commitment to start the Chipi airport for the development of the region. Finally, this dream is coming true.” This proposed inauguration of this green airport stands in contrast to projects proposed previously by various governments, that either met with resistance from locals or failed to gather momentum; one being the Nanar refinery. After stiff resistance, the then Devendra Fadnavis government was forced to shift the refinery from Nanar to a location the government has not announced yet. Then there is the Enron-Dabhol power project, which after facing opposition initially, eventually began functioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chipi-airport-will-land-tourists-locals-believe-business-will-take-off-101633375452377.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||UP violence: Farmers’ outfits protest outside Mohali DC office||Members of various farmers’ organisations held a protest outside the Mohali deputy commissioner’s office on Monday, demanding action against the perpetrators of the violence that broke out in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh on October 3. The protesters also submitted a memorandum addressed to the President of India. BKU (Sidhupur) state vice-president Mehar Singh Theri said, “This has been done under a deep conspiracy hatched by the Uttar Pradesh and central governments.”Farm leader Parminder Singh Sohana said, “It is clear from these incidents that some persons in constitutional positions are using their power for planned violence against the peaceful agitators. This is a crime against the Constitution and the country under the laws of the land.” In the memorandum, the farmers have demanded that Union MoS Ajay Mishra be sacked and charged with inciting violence and communal hatred, besides murder of farmers. “An immediate arrest should be made and the case should be investigated by a special investigation team under the supervision of the Supreme Court,” the letter read, further seeking the removal of Manohar Lal Khattar from the post of Haryana chief minister. Khattar had stirred a controversy in the backdrop of ongoing farmers’ agitation on Sunday when he asked the BJP’s kisan morcha workers to raise groups of volunteers in northern and north-western districts who can “pick up sticks”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-violence-farmers-outfits-protest-outside-mohali-dcoffice-101633375450843.html
05-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana students, teachers in a quandary over readiness for multiple exams||While the district government schools are already busy preparing students for the National Achievement Survey (NAS) and National Talent Search Examination (NTSE), the state education department has now asked district education officers and the school heads to also begin preparations for National Means-Cum-Merit Scholarship (NMMS) exam.While the NAS is scheduled to be held on November 12, the NTSE stage-1 examination and NMMS will be conducted in December 2021 and January 2022, respectively.The local education department has selected a total of 1,250 students to appear in the NMMS exam. The centrally-sponsored scheme is applicable for the meritorious and economically weaker students of government, government-aided and local body schools.Those, who pass Class 8 with at least 55% marks and are regular students in Class 9, are eligible to apply for NMMS. The annual family income of the candidate should not be more than ₹1.5 lakh. Teachers and students overburdenedDistrict education officer Lakhvir Singh Samra has asked the NTSE school representatives, district mentors (DM), block mentors (BM), school nodal officers, and the school heads to hold daily classes to prepare students for NMMS and NTSE.The teachers feel that the department has created a ‘war-like situation’ for the students. While teachers are already teaching students NAS modules during school hours and preparing them for NTSE via online classes in the evening, they will now also have to cover the syllabus for the NMMS exam during the virtual lessons.The block mentors or the nodal in-charges share the science, mathematics, and mental aptitude test (MAT) modules and videos with the students in special Whatsapp groups formed for this purpose.“Teachers have too much on their plates. We are finding it difficult to do our jobs. We have already been preparing students for NAS and NTSE, and now the department has directed us to hold classes for NMMS as well. This is too much, not only for us but also the students,” said a government school teacher.Voicing the same concern, another teacher said it has become difficult to teach the mainstream syllabus as they are busy preparing students for these exams.“At times, I feel like quitting my job as the department is pressurizing us to get the top spot for the state. All this pressure can even deteriorate our health,” she said.Meanwhile, Davinder Singh Chhina, nodal officer, media, education department, Ludhiana, stated that the department is preparing the students for the future entrance exams and get admissions in good colleges.“The trend and technique of the three exams are the same. We want a maximum number of our students to procure the scholarships. Our resource teams are working hard to train them. Our goal is to achieve the top spot in the country in terms of education,” added Chhina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-students-teachers-in-a-quandary-over-readiness-for-multiple-exams-101633375449534.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP seeks vigilance probe into illegal charging of parking fee on LIT land||Alleging that visitors were being‘illegally’ charged for parking on Ludhiana Improvement Trust land near the bus stand, saffron party leaders have alleged the collusion of Congress leaders in the fraud and have demanded a vigilance probe in the matter. Bhartiya Janata party (BJP) leader Vineet Pal Singh Monga said, “No parking fee can be charged om the site, but a few miscreants supported by the Congress councillor Poonam Malhotra were collecting around ₹50,000 a day from vendors, and those parking their buses, four-wheelers and two-wheelers on the site.Monga alleged that the illegal practice was being carried out on the say-so of a Cabinet minister. Seeking a vigilance inquiry into the matter, a complaint has been forwarded to the chief minister’s office, local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra, Central Bureau of Investigation, Ludhiana deputy commissioner and commissioner of police among others. A copy has also been forwarded to the Prime Minister’s office. Monga alleged that the land had been lying vacant for a long time and that the fee was being collected illegally for the last two years, which had led to a fraud of around ₹3.6 crore. “Around ₹500 is charged for parking a bus and ₹50 for a four-wheeler. A fixed monthly rent is collected from vendors. The LIT officials are also hand in gloves with the miscreants,” he alleged.“Action should be taken against the miscreants, and the politicians who patronise them. LIT officials are also involved in the scam as nothing was done to rectify the situation, though we had submitted a complaint with them in August,” said Monga. Refuting the allegations, councillor Poonam Malhotra said the BJP leader was levelling baseless allegations and she had nothing to do with collection of parking fee. “If someone is illegally charging parking fees from the visitors, then the LIT should lodge an FIR in the matter,” said Malhotra.It is a free parking site: LIT chairmanMeanwhile, LIT officials said that buses had been removed from the site after transport minister Raja Warring visited the bus stand on October 3 and directed that private buses be removed from the site. LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam said posters had been installed at the site advertising the spot as a free parking site for bikes, autos and cars, until a parking contract was formally allotted by the LIT. “Parking of buses will not be allowed on the site and a height barrier will also be installed at the site in a few days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-seeks-vigilance-probe-into-illegal-charging-of-parking-fee-on-lit-land-101633375390947.html
05-10-2021||Other||Condition of Opposition in Punjab is like its situation everywhere: Jai Ram||Taking a dig at Congress, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said the condition of the Opposition party in Punjab is like its situation in the entire country and is in complete disarray.Speaking to the media before leaving for Shimla, Jai Ram said what happened in Punjab will definitely be discussed among the public during the byelections.Jai Ram was in Dharamshala to attend a meeting of party’s state election committee held on Sunday to discuss the names of probable candidates from one parliamentary and three assembly constituencies going to polls on October 30.The CM said the panel of names for each constituency has been drawn and sent to party high command and candidates will likely be declared within two-three days.He expressed confidence of winning all four byelections.Panels drawn, state BJP chief dashes to DelhiMeanwhile, the BJP sources said the party has drawn panels for each of the three assembly segment and one parliamentary constituency.State BJP chief Suresh Kashyap has left for Delhi to discuss the names with party high command.Sources said many leaders in the election committee are against fielding a sitting MLA or minister from Mandi parliamentary constituency. Mandi seat is lying vacant since April after the death of incumbent MP Ram Swaroop Sharma.State Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur and education minister Govind Thakur’s names were doing rounds among the contenders from Mandi.However, some leaders proposed to field a Brahmin candidate.Pankaj Jamwal, a BJP leader from Jogindernagar, and the younger brother of BJP’s organisational secretary for the seven northeast states Ajay Jamwal, are also in the race besides Milkfed chairman Nihal Chand and Kargil war hero Kushal Thakur. It is learnt that Jai Ram has supported Nihal Chand’s candidature.From Fatehpur assembly segment, the party has shortlisted names of former MP Kripal Parmar, Baldev Thakur and Rita Thakur. Maximum leaders have backed the candidature of Parmar.Govind Sharma and Rattan Pal are the two names in the panel from Arki assembly segment while from Jubbal-Kotkhai Chetan Bragta, son of former minister Narinder Bragta, whose death necessitated the byelections, has been shortlisted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/condition-of-opposition-in-punjab-is-like-its-situation-everywhere-jai-ram-101633375330491.html
05-10-2021||Other||Kerala CM Vijayan rules out meeting of religious heads over ‘narcotic jihad’ row||ThiruvananthapuramKerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday ruled out a meeting of religious heads and community leaders in the wake of the controversial statement of Pala bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangatt on ‘narcotic jihad.’While giving a written reply in the assembly, Vijayan said there is no need of such a meeting in the present scenario, emphasising that the state’s communal fabric is very strong and nobody can vitiate the atmosphere and instigate hatred.“I don’t find any need to call such a meeting. Kerala is known for its communal amity and brotherhood and nobody can dent it,” he said. The Congress-led opposition United Democratic Front and a section of religious heads have been demanding all-party and all-religion meetings for quite some time.The CM reiterated his position that there was no need for a meeting to discuss a non-issue like ‘narcotic jihad’. Soon after the bishop’s statement, the CM had said the religious leader’s statement was “unfortunate and uncalled for” and both love jihad and narcotic jihad were not based on any statistics or fact. The bishop’s statement had triggered a war of words between different communities in the state even as opposition parties urged the government to call an all-party meeting. Addressing a church ceremony in Kottayam on September 9, the bishop came out against a particular community, saying that Catholic girls and youth were targeted by it. “Wherever arms are not used, narcotic drugs are being used and Catholic girls turn victims. Some groups are functioning in the state to support them. To understand this, one needs to analyse how women from other religions landed in the Islamic State camps,” he said. The bishop was referring to the trip of 21 people, including five converts to Islam, from north Kerala to Afghanistan in 2016. Though there were widespread resentments over his remarks, the bishop later justified his statement in church mouthpiece ‘Deepika.’ In an article, the bishop said pseudo-secularism will destroy the country. “Those who insist that one should not talk about the evils that befall his own community are silently encouraging such things to flourish. Instead of ignoring the warnings, attempts should be made to discuss and study these issues to prevent such social evils,” he said, adding that pseudo-secularists are trying to suppress voices that point out evils in the society. He said while secularism remains the core of the country, pseudo-secularism will destroy it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-cm-vijayan-rules-out-meeting-of-religious-heads-over-narcotic-jihad-row-101633375269458.html
05-10-2021||Other||Himachal women commission to run campaign against trafficking||The Himachal Pradesh State Commission for Women will focus on stopping trafficking of women and children in state.Chairperson Daisy Thakur said the commission will generate awareness on the rights of women with disabilities. She said schoolgirls are voluntarily joining to make women with disabilities aware of their rights.She said women can lodge complaints on the commission’s WhatsApp number 9459886600, Thakur said, while delivering a lecture on the ‘role of State Human Rights Commission in protection of women’s rights’ in the third episode of the weekly online series on human rights protection started by the Umang Foundation. More than 100 youths participated in the programme.She said both men and women are being made aware of the discrimination and sexual harassment being faced by girls and women. Most of the complaints coming in to the commission are of domestic violence.Around 400 complaints were disposed of in 2020-21 while 450 complaints are still pending. Most cases pertain to domestic violence. The Commission holds regular courts to hear complaints and passes appropriate orders. Apart from this, awareness camps are being organised from village to city.Free justice is being provided without the help of any lawyer after filing a complaint with the commission or taking suo motu cognisance of media reports.Umang Foundation president Ajay Srivastava said the commission will start awareness regarding the trafficking of women and children. He said till now, no complaint has been received in the commission in this regard. But such incidents cannot be ruled out either.He said tribal women from Assam, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Bengal, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar are brought in through smuggling and made domestic servants. They are also being sexually abused.Muskan Negi, PhD scholar, visually impaired, Himachal Pradesh University suggested that the Commission should also pay special attention to the problems of women with disabilities.On this, the chairperson of the commission said it will be kept in mind in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-women-commission-to-run-campaign-against-trafficking-101633375211295.html
05-10-2021||Other||Kerala high court nixes govt order on RT-PCR rate||The Kerala high court on Monday quashed the state government order reducing the charge of RT-PCR tests from ₹1700 to ₹500 in all private laboratories.The directive was passed on a petition filed by the accredited molecular testing laboratories and another private lab complaining that the present test rate was leaving a big hole in their pockets.The single bench of Justice R T Ravi, after hearing both sides, directed the government to take a decision on revising the rate after discussing it with owners of private laboratories. Petitioners contended that the decision was taken without hearing them and it was also a violation of natural justice.They argued that the state government has no right to fix the price for the testing and cited the price of RT-PCR tests in neighbouring states to buttress their point. They also said criminal cases were slapped on some of the laboratories after they refused to do RT-PCR tests citing loss.At this point the state government submitted a report stating that the cost of kits and related consumables have drastically come down and the argument of the private labs was not right. Test rate in Punjab is ₹415 while it costs ₹500 in Maharashtra, Haryana and Uttarakhand, it said.The government said it arrived at the figure of ₹500 as per the advice of the Kerala Medical Services Corporation (KMSC) and all expenditures will come to ₹448.20 per test. The private labs, however, contended that rates arrived at by the KMSC were not justified as it makes purchases for the state in bulk and, therefore, can get the materials at a price lesser than the institutions which do not procure the same in such large volumes.But the court after hearing both sides said there is merit in the contention of the petitioners and directed the government to talk to private laboratories and fix a new rate in three weeks that would be economical for labs and patients.Meanwhile, the state reported 8850 Covid-19 new cases on Monday after 128,736 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 11.82%. It also reported 149 deaths taking total fatalities to 25,526, according to the data released by the state health ministry. Active cases also reduced to 128,736. The state has been reporting maximum cases in the country for almost four months. Cases peaked after Onam festival in August-end. The worried government had conducted a sero prevalence survey in July-August to find out exact level of infection and its results are expected by the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-high-court-nixes-govt-order-on-rt-pcr-rate-101633375209522.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Japanese firm acquires 80% stake in Punjab-based Empire Packages||Japanese company Oji Holding Corporation, a global leader in paper and packaging, has acquired a majority 80% shares in Punjab-based Empire Packages Private Limited, which provides services to several fortune 500 companies and large FMCG companies in north India. Oji Holdings subsidiary Oji India Packaging has already established several corrugate units across India and this acquisition provides access to the entire northern region. Anil Gulati, managing director of Empire Packages, said, “Before acquiring the shares, the goal of the company was to partner with a firm that keeps innovation and environmental sustainability at its core. We look forward to working with Oji with renewed confidence and excitement. We will enable companies to switch from plastic dominated packaging to a fully sustainable paper based packaging”.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSDead body found at Railway track in Panchkula
05-10-2021||Other||Telangana govt to promote historical places, tourist spots: CM KCR||The Telangana government will take steps, including appointing a committee of MLAs, to promote places of historical significance, tourism destinations and temples, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said on Monday. He alleged that the Centre was negligent towards the state with regard to the selection of Padma Shri awards and others. Rao, who intervened in the assembly during question hour over tourism promotion, said he had asked the Prime Minister and Union home minister during his recent meetings with them whether the state government should send a list for selection of the Padma Sri awards or not in view of names not being chosen, to which they replied that they would definitely examine the matter. “I asked the Prime Minister and home minister... are there are no artistes or unique personalities in our state... are there no persons eligible for the Padma Shri award? I asked why are you neglecting. They said you don’t feel bad. We will definitely examine it.” The chief minister alleged that the Centre was not paying adequate attention to Telangana, cited the example of the ‘delay’ in sanctioning of air strips and said he took it up with the union minister concerned. He alleged that prominent temples, other places and issues of importance in Telangana were neglected during undivided Andhra Pradesh. Observing that the world needs to know about glorious past of Telangana, he said a committee, comprising MLAs from all districts, would be appointed to promote forts, tourism destinations and important temples. He urged the MLAs to hand over places of significance in their notice to the (tourism) minister so that they can be compiled and taken up for promotion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/telangana-govt-to-promote-historical-places-tourist-spots-cmkcr-101633375152358.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Now, auto-rickshaws to display details of driver, owner||The Chandigarh administration has directed the operators of auto-rickshaws plying in the city to display the name of owner/driver and their contact number along with complete address on the left side of the three-wheeler. This is among several directions issued to auto-rickshaw operators, which if violated can lead to imposition of fine or impounding of the vehicle. The administration has also instructed the operators and drivers to wear proper prescribed uniform (grey pant/shirt) while driving auto-rickshaws.The name of the operator/driver should be affixed on the shirt pocket, they have been told. The police verification report has to be present in the vehicle with other relevant documents.“Any violator flouting the above directions will be challaned and the auto-rickshaw impounded as per the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act,” said a UT official. There are at least 6,000 registered auto-rickshaws in Chandigarh, in addition to 500 each from Punjab and Haryana which are allowed to ply in the city. The administration is only registering e-rickshaws for keeping environmental pollution in check. CNG and petrol/diesel autos are not being registered now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-now-auto-rickshaws-to-display-details-of-driver-owner-101633375149563.html
05-10-2021||Other||ICAR invites applications for national hackathon||National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP), with the help of the animal science division of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), will be organising ‘Hackathon 2.0 Kritagya’ in connection with ‘Promoting innovation for precision and economical animal farming’.RC Aggarwal, deputy director-general (education), ICAR said, “India needs to find ways not only to encourage technology-enabled livestock management but also ensure effective adoption of such emerging technologies.”Students, faculty, innovators, and entrepreneurs from universities and technical institutes across the country can participate in this programme.Each participating group shall consist of a maximum of four participants, with not more than one faculty member and not more than one innovator or entrepreneur. Participating students can collaborate with students from local start-ups, institutes of technology and win up to ₹5 lakh. The students can get themselves registered for this programme till October 10.Interested candidates can find information regarding registration and participation at: https://nahep.icar.gov.in/Kritagya.aspx||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/icar-invites-applications-for-national-hackathon-101633375090715.html
05-10-2021||Other||Make colleges and universities narcotics-free, Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan tells police||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday called for making colleges and universities narcotics-free and asked the state police department to step up surveillance on the educational institutions to prevent supply and consumption of drugs.Jagan, who held a high-level review on the law and order situation in the state, expressed concern over the reports of cultivation of ganja, cannabis and opium in some parts of the state and their supply to colleges and universities.“According to the information available to us, most of the consumption of narcotics is happening in colleges and universities. If we can curb the drug supply to these higher educational institutions, we can control 80 per cent of the drug menace in the state,” the chief minister said.He asked the police department and the special enforcement bureau (SEB) of the prohibition and excise department to keep a watch on the colleges and universities to find out the source of the supply of drugs.“We have to identify the institutions where the consumption of drugs is high and map all such colleges. With the help of intelligence and the SEB, the police should track down the origin where these narcotics are coming from and who is supplying the same. If we can break the network of drug peddlers, we can control the menace easily,” Jagan said.Asking the police to take curbing the drug menace in educational institutions as a challenge, the chief minister instructed all the district superintendents of police and commissioners of police to work out an action plan on the issue and submit reports on supply and consumption of narcotics once in four weeks.“Our endeavour should be making all the educational institutions completely drug-free,” he said.There have been periodical reports of seizure of drugs from students in the state. In April this year, the Guntur (Urban) police booked cases against six students of a private university in the district for consuming drugs in an apartment near Tadepalli, close to the residence of the chief minister. The police seized 1.9 kg of ganja, two hookahs, bhang bottles, and six mobile phones.The recent arrest of a Telugu couple in Chennai linked to seizure of nearly 3,000 kg of heroin worth around ₹9,000 crore by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) at Mundra port in Gujarat, triggered a political uproar in the state.The main opposition Telugu Desam Party alleged that the arrested couple – Machavarapu Sudhakar and his wife Vaishali, have links with the YSRC leaders in East Godavari district.The firm floated by the couple – Aashi Trading Company, located at Vijayawada supposedly for exporting of rice from Kakinada – was the recipient of the consignment of heroin, declared as semi-processed talcum powder, being imported from Afghanistan to Mundra Port via Bandar Abbas Port in Iran.The Andhra Pradesh police, however, denied the allegation that the heroin was meant for distribution within the state. Vijayawada city police commissioner B Srinivasulu said the consignment was not meant to reach Vijayawada. “Except for using the address of a house owned by Vaishali’s mother, no activity relating to drug peddling was noticed in Vijayawada,” Srinivasulu said.The TDP, however, alleged that thousands of crores had changed hands in the drug peddling in the state. “Drug mafia is ruling the roost in the state and import of drugs, supply of ganja, gutka have become common. The YSRCP leaders have emerged as drug dons and smuggling kings,” a statement from the TDP on Monday said.At the review meeting in the afternoon, the chief minister, however, accused the opposition leaders of falsely propagating a drug deal which was not connected to the state. “The opposition is making irresponsible statements to tarnish the image of the police department, the government as well as the people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/make-colleges-and-universities-narcotics-free-andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-tells-police-101633375089500.html
05-10-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu chief minister Stalin reaches out to 12 CMs, seeks support against NEET||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin has written to his counterparts in 11 non-BJP-ruled states and Goa, seeking their support to oppose the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and restore “the primacy of states” in education, the government said on Monday. Stalin has also deputed his party MPs to reach out to the heads of such states to drum up support against NEET held for medical admissions. In a letter to his counterparts, the chief minister reiterated his government’s opposition to NEET. “Our considered position has always been that the move by the union government to introduce NEET goes against the spirit of federalism and violates the constitutional balance of power by curbing the rights of the state governments to decide on the method of admission in the medical institutions founded, established and run by them,” he said. The state governments need to assert their constitutional right and position in deciding the method of admission to their higher educational institutions, Stalin urged in a letter dated October 1, made available to the media on Monday.The CM enclosed a copy of the Justice A K Rajan Committee report based on which a Bill was passed in the assembly last month to dispense with NEET and provide for admission to medical courses based on Class 12 marks to ensure social justice. Also, a copy of that Bill, passed on September 13, was attached.Stalin requested them to peruse the attached documents and extend their support to ensure that the students in the respective states, hailing from rural areas and marginalised sections of the society are not put to hardship in obtaining admissions to higher educational institutions. “We need to put up a united effort to restore the primacy of state governments in administering the education sector, as envisaged in our Constitution. I look forward to your cooperation in this crucial issue.” Stalin wrote to the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, West Bengal and Goa.The Justice Rajan panel, constituted by the government to ascertain the impact of NEET in the state, had submitted its 165-page report in July. The Bill, quoting the panel report, had said if NEET continued for a few more years, the health care system of Tamil Nadu would be very badly affected and there may not be enough doctors for postings in primary health centres or state-run hospitals and that the rural and urban poor may not be able to join the medical courses.The committee had concluded that the NEET is not a fair or equitable method of admission since it favours the rich and elite section of the society and is against the disadvantaged groups. The panel had recommended that “the state government may undertake immediate steps to eliminate NEET from being used in admission to medical programmes at all levels by following the required legal and or legislative procedures.” SC dismisses plea seeking cancellation of NEET The Supreme Court Monday refused to entertain a plea seeking cancellation of the NEET, undergraduate, held on September 12 on the ground that the examination was not conducted in a fair and transparent manner.The apex court dismissed the plea saying that cancellation of the exam cannot be at the cost of lakhs of students.A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, which stopped short of imposing ₹5 lakh cost, noted that the petitioner seeks setting aside the NEET-UG Exam and directing the National Testing Agency to conduct the exam afresh.The basis is that CBI has registered 3 FIRs wherein it has stated that there has been impersonation of the candidates, the apex court noted.“What kind of writs are filed under Article 32? Lakhs of people have taken these exams? When people come to you (advocate), don’t you say that these will be dismissed with cost? You now want to cancel the entire exam? You argue, we’ll deal with this at length and we’ll deal with you specially,” the bench also comprising Justice B R Gavai said.Advocate Ninad Dogra, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that CBI has registered three FIRs and examination papers were leaked on WhatsApp.The top court was hearing a plea filed by 20-year-old petitioner Saloni seeking cancellation of the NEET UG exam held on September 12, 2021, citing alleged malpractices and conducting the exam afresh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-chief-minister-stalin-reaches-out-to-12-cms-seeks-support-against-neet-101633375029506.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Mumbai to Sindhudurg in 50 minutes; Flight bookings full till Oct 21||PUNE The next time you want to hit the beach – the Chipi airport in Sindhudurg district will be one of the options for weekend revellers.The airport is 50 minutes from Mumbai by air and goes ‘live’ October 9. Allianze Airlines is operating flights out of Chipi right now and bookings are full till October 21. The formal inauguration of the airport, by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Union aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia is on October 9. The airport is located in Chipi village uner Vengurla tehsil and apart from the local attractions, Goa is 95km away. The airport came up under the Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Transfer (DBFOT) model, with a runway that is 2,500 metres long and 45 metres wide, and can further be extended by 1,000 metres. The passenger-handling capacity is 400 pax or two flights per hour, with aircraft like the Airbus A-320 and Boeing 737 cleared to land. Kiran Kumar Chikkote, director, Sindhudurg airport said, “The first flight is by Allianze Airlines with an ATR 72 aircraft which will land here at 1 pm from Mumbai. It will return to Mumbai at 2 pm on the same day. Depending on passenger load, other airlines will come in. People around the Sindhudurg are enthusiastic, as it has been a long-pending demand.” Sindhudurg district has 21 beaches. “The airport will put Sindhudurg just 50 minutes way from Mumbai. In the next five years there will be 20 to 25 flights operating from this airport,” said Chikkote. The airport is an “all-weather airport” that received clearance from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA). Currently, it has been given visual flight rules (VFR) for day operation permission, and later on looking at the load factor, it can get instrument flight rules (IFR) for night operation permission, according to officials. According to Chikkote, the airport design is for both day and night flight operations, and can handle domestic and international flights as well. “There is a vision of another 90 years ahead while building this airport,” he added. IRB Sindhudurg Airport is a special purpose vehicle of IRB Infrastructure Developer that was formed and mandated with the task of project development and operations. Virendra Mhaiskar, chairman and managing director (CMD) at IRB had earlier said, “We are very happy to achieve yet another milestone in the current year and see the airport receive the licence to operate after successful completion. We now look forward to opening the facility for airline operators and the general public soon.” Speaking about starting of cargo services from the airport, Chikkote said, it may take some time to operationalise. “As we all know there are three major products here - mangoes, cashews and fisheries. We have plans to start the cargo though it may take some time. Everything being produced here goes to Mumbai and from there to the international market. We have provisions and enough space to start cargo services. As per the load factor and response to the flights these further decisions will be taken,” Chikkote said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mumbai-to-sindhudurg-in-50-minutes-flight-bookings-full-till-oct-21-101633374912870.html
05-10-2021||Other||SKM members observe Black Day, court arrested in Shimla||To protest the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Khiri, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha observed a Black Day and the protestors were court arrested from the Mall Road in Shimla.The other organisations, including CITU, SFI, DYFI, Mahila Samiti, Dalit Shoshan Mukti Manch, have expressed concerns over the methods being used by the Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments to deal with the growing farmers’ movement in their respective states.Himachal Kisan Sabha has stated that it is one of the constituents of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha and in spite of weak farmers’ movement in Himachal Pradesh, it will implement all calls and actions announced by them to carry forward the farmers’ agitation in state till the central government withdraws the three farm laws and declares minimum support price (MSP) for all agriculture and horticulture produce.They said the president should take cognisance of the statement made by the chief minister of Haryana where he has abetted crime and as a reward for the same, has promised bail to all those who would attack the farmers.Manohar Lal Khattar has no right to remain in the constitutional position of CM even for a single minute, the Himachal Kisan Sabha stated.They said a criminal case should be registered against Ashish Mishra, son of Union Minister for State for home affairs Ajay Mishra, under Section 302 of the IPC for murder of farm leaders in Lakhimpur Kheri.They have demanded dismissal of the minister of states for home affairs for “instigating murder of the farm leaders and spreading communal hatred”.They have also demanded an SIT be constituted under the supervision of the Supreme Court to investigate the incident in which farmers were “murdered”.The Himachal Kisan Sabha has warned the Uttar Pradesh government that it will not be cowed down by the methods used against the farmers’ struggle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/skm-members-observe-black-day-court-arrested-in-shimla-101633374911563.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing: Ex-Punjab DGP Saini, Umranangal withdraw applications on advancing of hearing||ChandigarhFormer Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal on Monday withdrew their applications seeking advancing of hearing in the 2015 Behbal Kalan firing reported after incidents of sacrilege. The applications were withdrawn due to no fresh developments in the trial court. The matter is now listed for hearing on December 4.This was the first hearing after appointment of senior advocate Rajwinder Singh Bains as special public prosecutor by Punjab to deal with post sacrilege violence cases. Advocate Sant Pal Singh Sidhu appeared for the former DGP, who was earlier being represented by Punjab’s advocate general APS Deol.Senior advocate Deol paved the way for Bains’ appointment on October 1 as his appointment came under criticism since he had represented Saini in these cases. Senior advocate Gurminder Singh is appearing for Umranangal. In these pleas, both have sought quashing of the FIR and chargesheet submitted by the special investigation team of Punjab police and transfer of case to the CBI. Initially, the FIR (number 130) was registered against Charanjit Singh, former Moga SSP, and subsequently the duo, too, were nominated as the accused.The case was registered on October 21, 2015, a week after two protesters were killed allegedly in the police firing at Behbal Kalan in the aftermath of incidents of sacrilege reported at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala. In the second set of the FIR of 2015 sacrilege violence (FIR 129 registered at Kotkapura police station), the chargesheet submitted has been quashed and the SIT has been told to file it afresh by the high court in April 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/behbal-kalan-firing-ex-punjab-dgp-saini-umranangal-withdraw-applications-on-advancing-of-hearing-101633374909430.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER to review operations as OPD footfall rises||With the number of patients getting physically examined at outpatient departments (OPDs) of Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) rising by 67% over a week, the institute will call a review meeting in a week to decide upon the operations. The PGIMER had resumed the walk-in facility for physical consultation at its OPDs on September 27. Since then, in the six working days, 32,913 patients were physically examined while 8,540 people were given consultation on telephones. The OPDs were closed on Saturday (Gandhi Jayanti) and Sunday. On Monday, 6,579 patients got physical consultation at the hospital’s New OPD department, as compared to 3,942 last Monday. Before the resumption of the walk-in facility, nearly 3,000 patients were visiting various OPDs daily, after prior appointments through tele-consultation or official website.Keeping in view the possibility of a third wave, the institute authorities believe that capping the number of patients for physical examination is important. The institute is providing tele-consultation only between 8 am to 9 am, to scale up physical consultation.“The number of patients coming to the institute is more than expected. Since Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh and neighbouring states are fluctuating daily, crowding at one place can spread the infection. A cap of numbers and resuming OPDs in a phased manner is a must,” said a PGIMER official, who did not wish to be named. Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said that on an average, 6,000 patients are visiting the institute daily, and each patient has two or three attendants with them. The total footfall is more than 18,000 daily. “At present, we are trying to manage the crowd and are accessing problems being faced by patients. In a week, we will call a review meeting with heads of each department and will decide upon further action. Guidelines on OPD operations will be reviewed,” he said. Before the contagion, over 10,000 patients visited PGIMER’s OPDs daily. Since the suspension of walk-in consultation and online appointments in March last year, the institute had been providing OPD services through tele-consultation. From June 21 this year, physical consultations resumed, but only after prior appointment through tele-consultation.On September 6, the institute also restarted an online appointment facility, but with a cap of 30 patients per department to ensure adherence to Covid protocols. Later, the limit was increased to 50 patients, with 100 allowed at three major departments — opthalmology (eye), hepatology (liver) and internal medicine.Now, patients can simply walk into the institute’s New OPD between 9.15am and 11am and get registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-to-review-operations-as-opd-footfall-rises-101633374852074.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali records fourth Covid death in five days||With another Covid-19 patient succumbing in Mohali on Monday, the district reported fourth virus related death in five days and third this month. In comparison, Chandigarh and Panchkula have reported no causality so far in October. Meanwhile, the tricity recorded eight new Covid-19 case, a significant rise from two cases logged on Sunday. Of the total, six surfaced in Chandigarh alone, while Mohali and Panchkula reported one each.The fresh infections in Chandigarh were reported from Sectors 16, 43, 51 and 38 (West).The tricity’s active caseload stands at 71, with 39 patients in Chandigarh, 28 in Mohali and only five in Panchkula. On Sunday, there were 74 active cases.Chandigarh’s caseload has reached 65,243, including 64,386 recoveries and 819 deaths. As many as 68,747 people have been found infected in Mohali so far. Among them, 67,651 have recovered and 1,068 have died.In Panchkula, of the 30,739 total cases, 30,357 patients have been cured and 377 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-records-fourth-covid-death-in-five-days-101633374850692.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||High court bars Mohali admn from cutting trees in Majri||The Punjab and Haryana high court has restrained the Mohali administration from cutting trees in Majri block area of the district.The court acted on a plea from advocate HC Arora, who had sought quashing of auction notice inviting bids for 337 trees on shamlat land in Rampura Taprian gram panchayat in Majri block. Under Section 30 of the Punjab Panchayati Raj Act, a gram panchayat has the duty to plant and preserve trees on roadsides and other public lands under its control. Further, under Section 6 of the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act, a gram panchayat can auction only such trees standing on its shamlat land, which may be useless and surplus, the court was told. It was added that the administration, however, cannot declare useless and surplus the 337 trees of different varieties on the shamlat land. The forest cover in Punjab is depleting, therefore, trees have to be protected, the court was told, adding that auction of such a large number of trees by a gram panchayat is a severe blow to the environment of the area concerned. The court has posted the matter for November 1 and restrained cutting of trees within the area in question till the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-court-bars-mohali-admn-from-cutting-trees-in-majri-101633374849503.html
05-10-2021||Other||Nagaland police seize smuggled bullion and drugs worth over ₹25 cr in 48 hours||Nagaland police made the state’s single largest seizure of smuggled gold on Sunday estimated to be worth Rs.22.8 crore, additional director general of police (law & order) Sandeep M Tamgadge said.The official told journalists that police personnel who were manning the interstate narcotics checkpoint at Khuzama, along the Kohima-Imphal National Highway, made the finding after intercepting an SUV bearing registration number MN01AS-1325. Upon a thorough search of the suspected SUV, police recovered smuggled gold weighing 48.14 kilograms (approx) worth ₹22,78,46,620.Police said the gold, in bars, were found hidden under the cover of the gear lever of the vehicle. The consignment and the vehicle were seized and two persons - Saurabh Singh (35) and Pawan Kumar (45), both residents of Uttar Pradesh, have been detained for further questioning to initiate appropriate legal action, the ADGP said.Besides the smuggled gold, the state police also confiscated 552 grams of illegal contraband suspected to be heroin and about 12 Kg opium at the same checkpoint, while another 532 grams of suspected heroin were seized from another location on the highway within the last 48 hours. Seven persons have been taken into custody in connection with the cases, police said. The total value of the seized illegal drugs is estimated to be worth over ₹4 crores in the international market.“In the quest of controlling the menace of drugs and narcotics under psychotropic substances along with the rest of the country, Nagaland police is also equally committed to controlling this menace,” Tamgadge said. He stated that the state police has increased its efforts towards this so as to make the highway from Manipur linking Assam and Nagaland free of all kinds of illegal activities.Although the cops did not divulge on the destination of the seized goods, PRO Nagaland police headquarters Manoj Kumar said investigation on said cases will be taken up in multiple states as the contraband was intercepted in transit. According to narcotics officials, Nagaland is used as a prime conduit route by drug traffickers as the state is located in close proximity with the Golden Triangle of the drug world, especially with it sharing borders with Myanmar. Conventionally, the Golden Triangle is a region between the borders of Myanmar, Laos and Thailand.An official, who did not wish to be named, mentioned that while the Government of India looking to boost foreign trade by building economic corridors in the northeast region with neighbouring South-East Asian nations through the Act East Policy, there is an uneasiness that this could also open ways for illicit drugs to easily ride the new access routes of greater connectivity.....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-police-seize-smuggled-bullion-and-drugs-worth-over-rs-25-cr-in-48-hours-101633374790955.html
05-10-2021||Other||GADVASU organises study tour for interns||The department of veterinary and animal husbandry extension education (VAHEE), Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), organised a study tour for interns.The interns visited the adopted villages of GADVASU in the Mehal Kalan block of Barnala district under the ICAR-funded ‘Farmer First’ project of the university. Parkash Singh Brar, director of extension education, nodal officer of the project, and SK Kansal, principal investigator of the project, supervised the visit.YS Jadoun and Ravdeep Singh of the department of veterinary and animal husbandry extension education coordinated it.The budding veterinarians interacted with the farmers and visited the demonstration units of the beneficiaries. They were made aware of various input services, interventions, and extension activities implemented by the project team of the university in the operational area.In another tour, interns visited KVK, Barnala, under the supervision and guidance of RK Sharma, prof-cum-head, department of veterinary and animal husbandry extension education.PS Tanwar, associate director, KVK Barnala, gave a presentation on mandates, objectives, and functioning of KVK and various extension activities, input services, and programmes conducted by KVKs for the farming community.Later, students witnessed various demonstration units of nursery, vermicomposting, goat farming, fish farming, backyard poultry farming, egg hatching, mini-sprinkler system, beekeeping, automatic weather station, orchard, and custom-hiring center developed by KVK Barnala for the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gadvasu-organises-study-tour-for-interns-101633374729503.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Smart meters: Chandigarh sets deadline of March 31, 2022, for pilot project||The Chandigarh administration has set a deadline of March 31, 2022, for completion of the pilot project for installation of smart meters. In a review meeting of the project, UT adviser Dharam Pal also asked officials concerned to complete the pan-city project by 2022-2023. Notably, the adviser had earlier held a meeting with the Union power secretary and asked for the presence of the CMD of the Regional Electrification Corporation (REC) in Chandigarh to resolve the issues leading to delay in project completion. State-owned REC is implementing the project. The pilot project was started in 2016, but not even 50% of it has been completed as the system hasn’t been developed yet. Around 30,000 smart meters under the pilot project are to be installed in four sectors (29, 31, 47, and 48), six villages (Faida, Ram Darbar, Hallomajra, Raipur Kalan, Makhanmajra, and Daria) and the industrial area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/smart-meters-chandigarh-sets-deadline-of-march-31-next-year-for-pilot-project-101633374549438.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three booked for duping Punjab Police constable of ₹56,000||The district police on Monday booked three persons for duping a Punjab Police constable of ₹56,500. The accused have been identified as Shaifi Das of West Bengal, Dinkar Pandit and Sumant Kumar of Bihar. Sub-inspector Gurmeet Singh said constable Pramodh Kumar, who is resident of Dogar Basti Faridkot city, filed a complaint of cyber fraud alleging that someone withdrew ₹56,500 from his account fraudulently through an online app. “A case has been registered on the investigation conducted by the state cybercrime cell, Mohali, after taking legal opinion from district attorney. Investigation has found that the accused committed fraud with Pramodh. The accused first called on Pramodh’s mobile phone and later sent a link on a pay app asking him click on it for verification. When Pramodh clicked on the link, amount was deducted from his account automatically,” he added. A case has been registered under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Faridkot city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-booked-for-duping-punjab-police-constable-of-rs-56000-101633374489432.html
05-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana shopkeepers hold protest, demand restoration of road construction work||Raising hue and cry over the pathetic condition of old GT Road from Rekhi Cinema Chowk till Clock Tower, which was earlier dug up in May for laying of storm sewer lines, the shopkeepers of the area staged a protest against the civic body on Monday.Slamming the MC for not commencing the road reconstruction project even after the rainy season is over, the members of Clock Tower Shopkeepers’ Association rued that the potholed road has also taken a toll on their businesses. The protesting traders also submitted a memorandum with MC zonal commissioner (Zone A) Jasdev Sekhon.They rued that despite repeated complaints submitted with the MC official, the authorities have failed to resolve the issue.President of the association, Bittu Gumber, stated that the dust arising from potholed roads enters their shops and is taking a toll on the health of the shopkeepers and customers. The customers avoid visiting the market and the shopkeepers who are already facing financial constraints due to the ongoing pandemic are left a harried lot.“Over five months have elapsed since the road was dug up for installation of a storm sewer. The road also caved in from different points during monsoon and many vehicles got stuck there as a result. The authorities had earlier claimed that the road will be constructed after the rainy season, but no action has been taken yet. The project should be commenced at the earliest to bring relief to the shopkeepers,” said Gumber.MC zonal commissioner Sekhon stated that the officials of MC’s bridges and roads (B and R) department have been directed to look into the complaint and initiate the process of reconstruction of the road at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-shopkeepers-hold-protest-demand-restoration-of-road-construction-work-101633374430825.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: One more dies of suspected dengue, toll mounts to five||A 30-year-old woman from Mataur village reportedly became the latest victim of dengue in Mohali, which has so far registered five deaths due to the disease in the last one month. As many as 482 dengue cases have been logged till date in Mohali. Ninety-one suspected cases were reported in the district on Monday of which 46 were confirmed. District epidemiologist Dr Vikas Nagra said the five deaths — three in September and two in October — are under review. “Of the total 482 cases, 344 were reported during September. In October, 111 cases have been confirmed, while 168 cases of suspected dengue have been reported in the first five days,” he added. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “The situation is turning alarming and to tackle it, anti-dengue drives have already been started. We need full cooperation of the residents in this.” She said inspection, spray and awareness campaigns by the teams of Mohali health department for the prevention of dengue have been going on continuously since March across the district. Thirteen teams, she said, have surveyed 1,36,665 houses and other places in the district since March. Mosquito larvae have been found in as many as 4,957 houses and challans have been issued to the violators. For information, the health department could be contacted on helpline number 104, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-one-more-dies-of-suspected-dengue-toll-mounts-to-five-101633374429484.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala Cantonment: Indian Army Chief visits Kharga Corps||Chief of Army Staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane visited the Ambala Cantonment based Kharga Corps on Monday to review operational preparedness and laid the wreath at the Vijay Smarak in remembrance of the sacrifices made by soldiers of the Indian Army in the past 50 years.General Naravane addressed a special Sainik Sammelan at the Raina Auditorium, where he lauded the exemplary zeal displayed by all ranks of the corps during every operation till date.A statement issued by the army said that Naravane also motivated all ranks to dedicate themselves towards achieving the highest professional and operational standards set by the Corps.“The Kharga Corps was raised to battle at Krishna Nagar in West Bengal under the leadership of Lt General TN Raina, MVC (Later General TN Raina, COAS). The Corps has earned distinction in various battles since and developed into a mighty fighting force with immense capacity and versatility,” the statement reads.The chief also visited Air Force Station, where a historic affiliation of 17 Squadron of Indian Air force with the Sikh Light Infantry of Indian Army was formally signed at a solemn ceremony in the presence of Air Marshal Amit Dev, Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Western Air Command.The ceremony was also marked by aerobatics display by the Rafale aircraft and a display on the ground by the Sikh Light Infantry Regiment.“The affiliation of the Regiment with the Rafale Squadron of Western Air Command will assist in the development of mutual understanding of joint ethos, capability, limitations and core competencies of both services through a common understanding of military tactical doctrines and concepts in the contemporary conflict environment,” another statement reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-cantonment-indian-army-chief-visits-kharga-corps-101633374369331.html
05-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka high court issues notice to former judge in graft case||The Karnataka high court on October 1 issued notice to a former judge of the court, after a petition was filed against her for allegedly paying a bribe amount of ₹8.50 crore to a person to get the governor’s post. While hearing a petition filed by advocate NP Amrutesh, a single-judge bench of Justice Krishna S Dixit issued the notice. “Office objections are overruled. Learned AGA is requested to accept notice to the respondent. Issue emergent notice to respondent No 4 (BS Indrakala),” it stated.The case came to light when a person identified as Yuvaraj Swami was arrested in December 2020 by Bengaluru police for allegedly cheating several people of crores of rupees by promising them high positions. Following his arrest, the former high court Judge B.S. Indrakala filed a complaint with police saying she had paid sums of ₹3.7 crore and ₹4.5 crore on two different occasions to Yuvaraj. The payments were made after Yuvaraj had promised the governor’s post. She also named another person in the complaint in the scam. However, it was the former judge’s claim that Yuvaraj did not secure her a post as promised nor did he return the money that was paid to him for securing the said post. Following this, the petitioner, advocate NP Amrutesh, on December 21 last year, filed a complaint with the police where he highlighted the involvement of the former judge in the bribing scandal. “As the complicity of the Respondent No.4 (former judge) was forthcoming in the said FIR and also various newspaper reports, the petitioner submitted a representation dated January 16, 2021 to the police narrating in detail the involvement of Respondent No.4 and that the allegations made in her written information, dated December 21, 2020 incriminate her and as such request police to investigate the same and take necessary action,” the bench had said on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-high-court-issues-notice-to-former-judge-in-graft-case-101633374313127.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Drone spotted during protest outside Punjab Raj Bhawan||In a major security breach, Chandigarh Police were caught off guard as a drone was spotted at Punjab Raj Bhawan during a Congress protest on Monday. The incident took place when Congress workers, led by Navjot Singh Sidhu, reached the governor’s house without intimating police about the protest. As Congressmen sat at the gate and started raising slogans, a drone was spotted flying over the protest site. Policemen, who had reached the site by then, swung into action and found a man operating the drone while standing at some distance from the protest site. He was immediately stopped and his drone and other devices were checked, but no recording was found. The man told police that he had come to cover the protest. He was let off after questioning. “We are verifying his credentials. No case has been registered,” said Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police (SP, City), Chandigarh. In view of security threats and the possibility of misuse of drones by anti-social elements, the UT administration had banned their use on September 15. According to the order issued by district magistrate Mandip Singh Brar, flying of drones and low-flying objects is prohibited within Chandigarh for 60 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drone-spotted-during-protest-outside-punjab-raj-bhawan-101633374311967.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Dry weather likely ahead, says IMD||After recording trace rainfall on Monday, Chandigarh is likely to witness dry weather in the coming days.“Chances of monsoon withdrawal are likely from Wednesday. Dry weather will continue. Temperature is likely to be on similar lines, as days slowly get colder,” said an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official.Meanwhile, maximum temperature in the city went up from Sunday’s 33.8°C to 34.1°C on Monday. Minimum temperature went up from 23.7°C to 24.6°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 34-35°C while minimum temperature will remain around 24-25°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-dry-weather-likely-ahead-says-imd-101633374310832.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ramlila begins in Chandigarh, will highlight Covid safety norms||With most Ramlilas set to make a comeback, after the last year’s hiatus due to Covid-19, the pandemic and its prevention will remain in focus, say the organisers. The season’s first Ramlila, being performed by Azaad Dramatic Club, kicked off at Sector 20 on Monday, while other troupes are gearing up for a Tuesday launch. While some organisers will only let in people who have been vaccinated against Covid-19, others are ensuring that their artistes have got the jab. Hoardings to spread awareness against the virus will also be put up at many venues.OCF Sanskritic Manch, Sector 29, is returning to the stage after opting for online streaming last year. However, people will have to show their vaccination certificate to get an entry. “After all the hardships we had to go through last year, we want to ensure that people stay safe and Ramlilas can be enjoyed responsibly,” said veteran artiste Jyoti Bhardwaj. The organisers will also check visitors’ temperature at the entrance and distribute masks to those without one.Meanwhile, Navyug Ramlila and Dusshera Committee, Sector 7, has ensured that all its artistes have been vaccinated. “We have around 60 performers this time, and most of them have even got their second dose. Their vaccine certificates are available with the committee’s general secretary, and we hope this initiative will help attract more people,” said committee director Pardeep Kumar.Various other Ramlilas will also spread awareness about Covid-19 protocol and importance of getting vaccinated. Rajinder Bagga, director of the troupe that performs at the Parade Ground, Sector 17, said: “We will put up banners and ask people to follow norms. Masks will be distributed to those who show up without one.” Mukesh Sharma of the Garhwal Ramlia Mandal, Sector 28B, said they will encourage all those coming to watch the performance to get vaccinated and stay safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ramlila-begins-in-chandigarh-will-highlight-covid-safety-norms-101633374309433.html
05-10-2021||Bangalore||Using bluetooth-enabled devices while driving may invite ₹1k fine in Bengaluru||The Bengaluru traffic police have decided to imposed fines of up to ₹1,000 on those using bluetooth-enabled devices for communication while riding or driving. As per the amended Motor Vehicles Act use of any mobile devices while driving has been brought under the ‘dangerous driving’ category and attracts a fine of up to ₹5,000 or up to one year jail or both. While police said that use of the mobile devices for navigation will be allowed, Bengaluru traffic police said that using headphones for navigation will be punishable. According to police, the first violation of rule will attract ₹500 fine, while the fine for the second violation will be ₹1,000. Joint commissioner of police (traffic) BR Ravikanthe Gowda said that the use of earphones to speak on the phone would lead to restrictions and the department is clear that it is a violation. “As per the Motor Vehicle Act, the use of gadgets that divert the attention during the operation of a vehicle is restricted. Whether it is mobile phones, headphones, bluetooth earphones or any other equipment, it violates this provision, so we have given clear instructions to fine those indulging such use of technology while commuting,” said Gowda. The officer also said that use of phone or earphone even at signals will attract fines. “Even using these devices while waiting at the signal would attract punishment. Even at the signal, people are on the road and the use of mobile devices is an offense. So, yes, those using mobile phones or bluetooth devices will attract fines,” said Gowda. Until August this year, Bengaluru traffic police has booked 86,565 people for using mobile phones while driving. The decision of the police, however, has invited criticism in the city. Several people took on to social media to express their displeasure. Rishi Bangera, a delivery agent with a food delivery app said that the earphones are helpful in getting directions. “The idea of having these headphones was to avoid using a phone while riding. We can get directions from the GPS app and get information from the customer as well. It saves a lot of time,” he said. Rohan Menezes, a city-based graphic designer said that traffic police are focusing on the wrong issues. “One of the biggest problems in the city has been parking on the footpath and recently, the speeding incidents. But the police are more interested in people wearing headphones. It is absurd,” he said. “We have heard passengers complaining about the new rule, but the fact is that whenever someone puts a headphone, they don’t hear any noise from around. With bluetooth headphones having technology that cuts all the noise around the person, it is possible that the person may not hear the honk or a vehicle coming towards it,” said a senior east division officer, who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/using-bluetooth-enabled-devices-while-driving-may-invite-1k-fine-in-bengaluru-101633374251070.html
05-10-2021||Bangalore||Belagavi hate crime: Protests erupt over delay in arrests||Several groups in Belagavi on Monday held a protest against police inaction in the suspected case of hate crime in the district, where a 24-year-old Muslim was found decapitated on a railway track. The protesters demanded that police must arrests the culprits by Wednesday or they will intensify their protest. Members of one of the groups that took part in the protest said that president of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, Asaduddin Owaisi, will arrive in the city to take part in the protests, if police action is delayed. Six days after the gruesome murder of Arbaz Mullah, police are yet to make an arrest in case. The decapitated body of Mullah was found on the railway tracks in Khanapur in the border district, about 505 kms from Bengaluru, on September 28. While police had initially registered a case of unnatural death, they later filed a murder case after a post-mortem report revealed injuries on the head. Laxman Nimbargi, superintendent of police, Belagavi district and Raghavendra Suhasaa Inspector General of Police (Northern Range) were not available for comments. Officials of the Belagavi rural police said that the investigation is underway. “The case was transferred from railway police to local police on Sunday itself. We are investigating the case,” said an official, who didn’t want to be named. In her complaint to the police, the mother of the deceased, Nazeema Mohammad Sheikh, alleged that her son, who was a car dealer, was killed by the family and relatives of a Hindu woman he was in a relationship with. Sheikh claimed the two families were aware of the relationship and also alleged the role of two members of a Hindu right-wing group in the murder. Based on her complaint, police booked three persons, including the girl’s father, for murder (section 302 of Indian Penal Code). “We knew about the relationship and I had spoken to the woman’s mother to ensure she doesn’t meet him. I also told my son not to meet her. I shifted from Khanapur to Azam Nagar in Belagavi with my son. But the two continued to meet, and we started getting threats from her family and relatives,” Sheikh said. A relative of the deceased alleged that the woman’s family roped in members of Sri Ram Sene who, on September 26, who reportedly threatened the man. “They called him to Khanapur where he took his phone and deleted the woman’s photos. They also demanded money from him for a settlement. He then sold his (Volkswagen) Polo car for ₹90,000 to pay them,” the relative said, seeking anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/belagavi-hate-crime-protests-erupt-over-delay-in-arrests-101633374189764.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Obstructing Covid warriors: Chandigarh youth, 2 women kin held guilty||Team from Chandigarh health department was restrained when it went to shift youth to quarantine facility after he tested +ve for CovidA Chandigarh district court has convicted three residents of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, including two women, for obstructing a health department team from shifting a Covid-19 patient to a quarantine facility in April this year. The convicts have been identified as Umesh, 20, Hemani, 33, and Raj Rani, 65. Though the trio will not have to serve a jail term, the court of additional chief judicial magistrate TPS Randhawa imposed a fine of ₹2,000 each.A complaint in this matter was lodged by Jaswinder Singh of Dhakoli, who works as a booth-level officer in Chandigarh. He said a medical team had gone to transfer Umesh, a Covid-19 patient from Bapu Dham Colony’s Phase 1, to the quarantine facility at a hospital in Manimajra on April 26. “Umesh refused to cooperate with the health workers and locked himself in a room in a bid to avoid being shifted to hospital. His relatives Hemani and Raj Rani wrongfully restrained the members of the health team, who managed to shift the patient to the hospital only after an hour with the help of police,” he had said. A case under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease danger­ous to life) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides under the Disaster Management Act 2005 was registered at the Sector-26 police station. The prosecution said that the trio not only defied Covid-19 protocols, but also wrongfully restrained officials of the Chandigarh health department. The three pleaded guilty. Considering their plea that was given “with free consent and voluntarily”, court held them guilty on October 1 and imposed a fine of ₹500 on them under each section. They have paid the penalty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/obstructing-covid-warriors-chandigarh-youth-2-women-kin-held-guilty-101633374130735.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traders discuss their issues with UT home secretary||Members of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal have requested that the administration not establish more vending zones in northern sectors, as the markets there are already congested. The issue was brought up as a delegation of CBM met UT home secretary Nitin Kumar Yadav on Monday.CBM president Charanjiv Singh said no more vending zones should be established in city markets, especially in the first phase sectors, as they are already very congested. He added that commercial properties must be made from leasehold to freehold to increase trade.Chairman Satpal Gupta urged Yadav to rationalise collectorate rates in Sector 7, Madhya Marg, as it is more than the market price and Sector 17A and B, which is still under-developed as compared to plaza in main city Centre, Sector 17 C, D and E. General secretary Sanjeev Chadha said that Sector 17 should be kept as a no vendor zone and green belt opposite the GPO should be developed as an amusement park with eatable stalls, so that it is more attractive for tourists.General secretary Kamaljit Singh Panchhi asked that apart from the one seat already reserved for the president of CBM to represent traders in the administrator’s advisor council, one more seat must be given to the chairman. Home secretary Nitin Yadav said he will look into these matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-traders-discuss-their-issues-with-ut-home-secretary-101633374075024.html
05-10-2021||Other||E-auction of prime site at Model Town Extension: BJP leaders accuse Ludhiana Improvement Trust of favouring petitioner||Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders staged a protest outside the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) office on Monday and accused LIT of trying to favour the petitioner, who has filed a case against the government for cancellation of e-auction of 3.79 acres of land in Model Town Extension.The petitioner had moved Punjab and Haryana High Court over the cancellation of the e-auction of 3.79 acres of land in Model Town Extension by the state government.BJP leaders led by district secretary Lucky Chopra stated that the LIT deliberately does not want to defend the case properly. The protesters alleged that the LIT had deliberately deputed a law officer, who is known to have given an incorrect legal opinion in the 2019 double plot allotment case, to defend the state government. The LIT wants to weaken the defence to benefit the petitioner, they alleged.“Earlier also, the chairman had tried to benefit the bidder by auctioning the land at a throwaway price,” they alleged.“We have also sought action against the officials as recommended by the local bodies department in the 2019 double plot allotment case. Some other advocate/law officer should be deputed to defend the case of cancellation of auction proceedings. Also, the state government should take action against LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam,” said Chopra.The protesters also served a legal notice to the LIT chairman and executive officer for not taking action against the guilty officials in the 2019 double allotment case, even after the local bodies department had directed them to lodge an FIR against them.Chopra said the local bodies department had also recommended that action as per the law should be taken against the advocate for giving incorrect legal opinion in that case.Meanwhile, Balasubramaniam termed the allegations levelled by BJP leaders baseless.“Baseless allegations are being levelled without any proof. The advocate was selected by the government as the petition has been principally filed against the state department. LIT is only a party. We had recommended three names to the state government and suggested that two advocates should be deputed. However, the government decided to depute only one advocate, and LIT had no say in that decision.”Earlier, in September, the local bodies department had cancelled the e-auction of 3.79 acres of land in Model Town Extension. BJP had called it a ‘scam’, stating that land worth around ₹350 crore was auctioned for around ₹98 crore.Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra had, however, stated that the auction was cancelled as there was a difference in the statement of deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and LIT chairman regarding fixation of reserve prices for the said land. An inquiry was marked in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eauction-of-prime-site-at-model-town-extension-bjp-leaders-accuse-ludhiana-improvement-trust-of-favouring-petitioner-101633373949579.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU to consider increasing chances for employees to apply for jobs||Panjab University (PU) is considering increasing the number of chances in a calendar year for employees to apply for jobs outside the varsity. A special panel, which will meet this week, has been constituted to take up the matter along with other items on its agenda. The Panjab University Staff (non-teaching) Association (PUSA) had in 2019 requested the varsity to amend the existing rule, which allows employees to send only two applications for jobs outside the varsity in a calendar year. The PU calendar’s Volume 3 also states, “A member of the teaching staff, in case of his selection, shall not be relieved during the academic year. His/her request for grant of leave and retaining accommodation on the university campus will be considered in accordance with the normal rules and regulations of the varsity.” PUSA, in its representation, had said the chances must be increased so that employees have better future prospects. The matter was already placed before a committee in 2019, which at that time had recommended that four chances should be allowed to the confirmed university employee. The panel will also take up the matter of reducing eligibility for promotion to the post of stenographer at the varsity. As per the PU calendar, 50% of posts of stenographers are filled by promotion from among the stenotypists and those having completed 15 years service as a stenotypist. A committee in 2019 had unanimously recommended reducing the eligibility condition from 15 years to five years for promotion as stenographer, and the matter was placed before the PU syndicate which had deferred the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-to-consider-increasing-chances-for-employees-to-apply-for-jobs-101633373709366.html
05-10-2021||Other||Sacked factory workers stage protest in Ludhiana||Resenting their ouster from a private auto-parts manufacturing unit, workers staged a protest outside the factory on Gill Road on Monday. The sacked workers also tried to stop others from going to work.The protesters alleged that the factory owner had ousted them, which was unfair as it was against the norms. The sacked workers alleged that the factory owner had even called bouncers to threaten them. They said the bouncers had even thrashed some of them. Shiv Kumar, one of the workers, stated that they were protesting peacefully, but the factory owner called bouncers, who threatened and assaulted them.However, they did not file a complaint in this matter.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, SHO at Division Number 6 police station, stated that the police had received information regarding some protesters not letting the workers enter the factory in the morning. Following this, the police reached the spot and handled the situation, he added.Further, the SHO added that the police did not receive any complaints regarding violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sacked-factory-workers-stage-protest-in-ludhiana-101633373531209.html
05-10-2021||Other||Lakhimpur Kheri incident: Congress workers stage protest in Kashi||Congress workers staged demonstration at Azad Park, Varanasi in protest against state government’s move to detain Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi in Sitapur when the leader was on way to Lakhimpur Kheri during wee hours on Monday. Led by party’s national secretary Rajesh Tiwari, the workers marched from Azad Park to Maldahiaya intersection. Several Congress workers were taken into custody and were released in late afternoon. Congress national secretary Tiwari said that the Congressmen strongly oppose the incident of Lakhimpur Kheri. He alleged the UP government led by the BJP is anti-people and anti-farmer. Instead of listening to the farmers, it is silencing their voice. The Congress party is in pain by what happened with the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, Tiwari said and added that this government is trying to suppress every democratic voice. Public is aware of everything and will give a befitting reply to the BJP at appropriate time, he said. Congress leader Shailendra Singh said that the Congress workers the present government didn’t care for the farmers and poor. “When our leader Priyanka Gandhi was going to meet the bereaved families of the farmers to console them and share their pain, she was detained by police,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-congress-workers-stage-protest-in-kashi-101633373470825.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Secretaries of UT depts to submit fortnightly reports to adviser||Every fortnight, secretaries of departments of the Chandigarh administration will have to submit an action-taken report to the UT adviser regarding decisions taken in previous meetings. UT adviser Dharam Pal said: “I have noticed that during meetings, I take decisions on different aspects of the administration, but these are then not taken up by the departments.” Pal said all decisions taken in meetings will be listed and secretaries will have to share the current status. Notably, the adviser had in July set a 100-day road map for project completion. “We are continuously monitoring the pace of completion of works listed under the road map. Some of the listed works have already been completed or good progress has been made. The Intelligent Transport System (ITS) has been started and the digitisation and online system for the estate office has been initiated,” said Pal. Central nod for regular meeting on UT’s issuesThe ministry of home affairs has agreed to the request of the UT administration for regular meetings to take up various issues related to Chandigarh.The administration recently formulated a list of issues of all the departments which are pending the Centre’s approval. It was also decided that UT adviser Dharam Pal will personally take up UT’s issues at different levels with different Union ministries.Last week, Pal in his meeting with the MHA officials, took up issues like creation of posts in police department and allowing conversion of leasehold to freehold for commercial and industrial properties. “I asked them to organise special meetings for the UT Chandigarh, where we can discuss all the issues and speed up the process of decision making. They have agreed and we will now have more regular interactions,” said Pal.Several policy initiatives by the UT administration have been stuck as the requisite approval of the Union government has been pending for several years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-secretaries-of-ut-depts-to-submit-fortnightly-reports-to-adviser-101633373411653.html
05-10-2021||Other||Allahabad University to restart offline teaching for UG students from Dec 17||PRAYAGRAJ: Allahabad University (AU) would reopen its campus in phased manner to conduct classes for undergraduate students in offline mode from December 17, following the Covid-19 protocol, said AU officials. The decision comes close on the heels of the central varsity starting offline classes for students of select semesters enrolled in postgraduate courses from October 1. “In view of the fact that the Covid-19 situation is under control at present and there is a concerted effort by the state government to bring maximum population under the cover of vaccination, AU has begun a phased reopening of its campus,” said public relation officer of AU, Jaya Kapur. The university authorities have decided to reopen the university for students of undergraduate classes from December 17, she added. However, AU administration has notified that it will be compulsory for the students to carry their vaccination certificate and I-cards for entering the campus. The students will need to follow the Covid protocol in the campus. Earlier, in the first week of April this year, AU had postponed all exams, even in online mode. AU and its constituent colleges were completely closed till April 21. Later, the summer vacations of AU were also announced early in a way that the days lost in offline teaching could be compensated. As the situation of Covid-19 pandemic was not completely under control, though the campus of AU was opened in phased manner for administrative officials and later for teaching faculty members, but the teaching at AU was kept restricted to online mode. This continued till last month even though many of the departments conducted seminars, meetings and courses in offline mode. A section of student leaders on the campus continued with their agitation for starting teaching in offline mode. They also wanted the library to be opened for student fraternity. In the meantime, research scholars were asked to come to their respective departments and continue with their research work. Later, even hostels were opened for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-to-restart-offline-teaching-for-ug-students-from-dec-17-101633373410682.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||E-cycles’ exclusion from export policies may cost industry ₹10,000 crore in 5 years: Hero Cycles||The exclusion of electric cycles from all major manufacturing and export promotion policies has dashed the Indian cycle industry’s hope to displace China as the world leader in e-cycle manufacturing, as they may lose orders approximately worth ₹10,000 crore over the next five years.  Hero Cycles chairman and managing director Pankaj Munjal on Monday said the government had snubbed e-cycle manufacturers from major export polices such as faster adoption and manufacturing of electric vehicles in India, Phase II (FAME-II) and production-linked incentive (PLI), which will result in Indian companies losing export orders to the European Union, even as the bloc reduces its dependancy on China. “The EU levies a heavy anti-dumping tariff on e-bike imports from China that may go as high as 83%. It had initiated a re-shoring of e-bike production in 2019. The estimated re-shored e-bike production was 9,30,000 units with countries such as Portugal, Poland, France, Bulgaria, Italy and Romania grabbing more than 80%. With quality products at a competitive price, Indian manufacturers are poised to grab this opportunity to secure the migrating business. However, we are losing out on the policy side, which would have helped the industry to take advantage of the shrinking share of China and the far-East as suppliers of e-bikes to the EU,”Munjal said. Hero Cycles had started manufacturing electric bicycles three years ago. The company had invested around ₹300 crore on a state-of-the-art factory, ₹400 crore on establishing a vendor base and ₹300 crore in the UK for exporting the bikes to international markets. “The e-bike market in the EU is 50 times that of India. E-bike sales in Europe are expected to grow five times in the next decade. India has the second largest bicycle making capability in the world and lower import duty will help to increase exports to the UK. Besides, generalised systems of preferences benefits are given to many Indian products in the UK, but not to bicycles that attract an import duty of 14%. Therefore, to remain competitive globally, India must lock a deal to bring down import duties on bicycles,” added Munjal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ecycles-exclusion-from-export-policies-may-cost-industry-10-000-crore-in-5-years-hero-cycles-101633373291566.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 360 new Covid cases, 6 deaths||PUNE According to the state health department, Pune district reported 360 new Covid cases and six deaths due to the infection, on Monday. This took the progressive count to 1.14 million out of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,808 deaths reported and 8,839 are active cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 180 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 359,980 and the death toll stood at 6,793.Pune city reported 129 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 517,976 and the death toll went up to 9,167 as six more deaths were reported.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 51 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 266,831 and the toll stood at 3,499.The district also saw 62, 502 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-Win dashboard and in total 10,829,429. Out of which 7,276,942 are first doses and 3,552,487 are second doses. A total of 700 sites saw vaccination out of which 499 were government centres and 201 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-360-new-covid-cases-6-deaths-101633373290321.html
05-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana players shine in state table tennis championship||On the concluding day of the 62nd Punjab State Table Tennis Championship held in Jalandhar, Ludhiana players Manmeet Singh and Harminder Chatwal were declared the state champions in the veterans’ singles 39 + and 59+ categories, respectively on Sunday.Amit Oberoi got the second position and Harjinder Singh secured the third position in veterans’ singles 39+ event. In the veterans’ singles 49+ event, Vanshdeep Mangal bagged the third position.Earlier, four Ludhiana players on Friday bagged state medals on the opening day of the tournament.While Raghav Bhanot was declared the state champion in the cadet boys’ singles event, Jasmeen Makkar secured the second position in the cadet girls’ singles.Meanwhile, Vihaan Verma and Aryan Sachdeva had secured the third position in the under-15 boys’ singles category.The four medallists qualified for the national tournament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-players-shine-in-state-table-tennis-championship-101633373229255.html
05-10-2021||Other||Political parties in Prayagraj protest deaths of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri||Leaders and workers of different political parties staged massive protests against death of farmers and detention of senior Congress and Samajwadi Party leaders who were trying to reach Lakhimpur Khiri on Monday.Bhartiya Kisan Union workers staged protest at the collectorate and handed over memorandum to officials demanding action against those responsible for death of farmers at Lakhimpur Khiri. Many Samajwadi Party leaders were taken into custody and sent to police lines after they torched an effigy of the chief minister at Subhash Crossing.A group of Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha leaders under state vice president Sandeep Yadav, city president Sandeep Singh Satya and state secretary of Mulayam Singh Youth Brigade Yathansh Kesarwani reached Subhash Crossing and torched an effigy of chief minister Yogi Adityanath in protest of death of farmers and detention of SP chief Akhilesh Yadav while he was proceeding to Lakhimpur Khiri to meet kin of killed farmers. The youth leaders had a scuffle with police officials following which 17 youth leaders were taken into custody and taken to Reserve Police Lines where they were released later in the evening.SHO of Civil Lines police station JP Shahi said an FIR has been lodged against four named and some unidentified SP leaders for torching effigy at Subhash Crossing.Large number of Samajwadi Party leaders under party office bearers reached the Collectorate under district general secretary Ravindra Yadav Ravi and handed over a memorandum to ADM City demanding immediate release of Akhilesh Yadav and ₹2 crore compensation to the kin of dead farmers along with action against the accused.Hundreds of Congressmen under district president Arun Tiwari staged protest at Civil Lines against death of farmers at Lakhimpur and detention of UP incharge Priyanka Gandhi. Tiwari alleged that Priyanka Gandhi was detained since early in the morning and was not allowed to reach Lakhimpur Khiri. City president Nafees Anwar said that the state government was trying to hide the truth. The Congress leaders demanded a judicial probe into the incident. Congress leaders Fuzail Hashmi, Kishor Varshney, Arshad Ali, Rinku Tiwari, Irshad Ullah and others were present in the protests.Aam Admi Party leaders under district president Altaf Ahmad, city general secretary Sarvesh Yadav and others staged protest against the death of farmers at Lakhimpur Khiri and detention of AAP MP Sanjay Singh. The AAP leaders were arrested and taken to police lines where they were released at 5 pm in the evening. AAP city president Sanjeev Kumar Mishra said arrests of party leaders protesting against death of farmers was unconstitutional. However, the party workers would launch massive protest in support of the farmers, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/political-parties-in-prayagraj-protest-deaths-of-farmers-in-lakhimpur-kheri-101633373053423.html
05-10-2021||Pune||PMC starts 75-hour marathon Covid vaccination drive from today at two sites||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has arranged for 75 hours of Covid-19 vaccination at two of its hospitals starting from Tuesday.The two centres are Kamla Nehru hospital at Mangalwar peth and Sutar hospital in Kothrud. From Tuesday, 8 pm, both the centres will start vaccination for 75 consecutive hours, said Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol.The civic body has received enough syringes and vaccines to conduct the drive at its two major hospitals.Mohol said, “Vaccination has gained momentum in the PMC in the last few weeks. Therefore, the number of Covid patients has reduced. I appeal to the people of Pune to take advantage of the drive. ”Dr Suryankant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer, said, “The hospital staff would conduct the vaccination drive day and night and in three shifts. We have enough syringes and vaccines to conduct the drive and by Monday evening we are hoping to get more syringes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-starts-75-hour-marathon-covid-vaccination-drive-from-today-at-two-sites-101633373049244.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab AAP to send delegation to Lakhimpur Kheri||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson and Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha on Monday condemned the alleged “brutal killing” of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, demanding strict action against those responsible for the incident. Addressing a press conference, Chadha and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said an AAP delegation would go to Lakhimpur Kheri to lodge their protest against this “unfortunate incident”. The delegation would include Chadha, Cheema, MLA Baljinder Kaur and Punjab Kisan Wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan. Chadha said the AAP delegation would make three major demands, including Union minister of state (home) Ajay Mishra’s sacking, his son Ashish’s arrest and a fair investigation to punish those responsible. Cheema accused the BJP government of creating an emergency-like situation in the state. Dismiss Mishra, arrest his son: Mann Strongly condemning the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Monday demanded immediate dismissal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra from the cabinet and arrest of his son Ashish. In a statement issued here, Mann said that about 700 farmers had lost their lives during the ongoing farmers’ movement. He alleged the Lakhimpur incident showed that there was no democracy in Uttar Pradesh and the country, but the rule of batons and bullets. “The relatives of the injured, leaders of opposition parties and others are not being allowed to go to the spot,” he said. Releasing a video, Mann appealed to the people to take this matter to the UN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-aap-to-send-delegation-to-lakhimpur-kheri-101633372869141.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||Experts from London, Bogota at Delhi govt road redesign workshop||As it gears up to revamp 540km of roads in the city as per international standards, the Delhi government will on Tuesday organise a workshop to learn from the experiences of top global cities.Organised by the government’s Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) of Delhi, the workshop will feature transport and urban planning experts from London, New York and Bogota.Jasmine Shah, DDC vice-chairperson, said, “As we will start work on transforming roads, it will be good to learn from the journeys of these cities. We plan to make our streets accessible to all, provide infrastructure for cycling, among others.”In 2019, the Delhi government launched its ambitious initiative to redesign 540km of roads across the city. The Delhi Public Works Department (PWD) maintains around 1,280km of roads in the city. The project will be implemented on roads that are 100-feet or more wide, and will aim to provide adequate space for pedestrians, non-motorised transport, provide street furniture, among others.The government has completed work on the stretch between Chirag Delhi and Sheikh Sarai.The government has invited Shashi Verma (director of strategy and chief technology officer at Transport for London, or TfL), Alex Williams (director of city planning at TfL), and Dario Hidalgo (transportation consultant from Bogota), among others for the workshop. DDC Delhi is organising the workshop in partnership with World Resources Institute (WRI) India.Shah said streets in cities such as New York have been made pedestrian-friendly. Similarly, London introduced the bus priority signal system that reduces delay for buses at intersections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/experts-from-london-bogota-at-delhi-govt-road-redesign-workshop-101633372809276.html
05-10-2021||Other||Anand Giri’s lawyer seeks fresh probe into Ashish Giri’s death||Priest Anand Giri’s lawyer on Monday submitted a complaint at Daraganj police station demanding registration of an FIR in connection with the suspicious death of Ashish Giri who was found dead at his room at Baghambari Gaddi Math on November 17, 2019.Ashish had a bullet wound on his head and his licensed pistol and two cartridges were also found from the spot at the time. However, then the police merely mentioned the incident in the general diary (GD) and carried out a postmortem on that basis treating it as a suicide case.Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) Mahant Narendra Giri had claimed that Ashish Giri was in depression over his liquor addiction and prolonged illness. However, no suicide note was found from the spot and some persons related to him had alleged foul play. However, the police had closed the case on the basis of Mahant Narendra Giri’s statement.On Monday Anand Giri released a video demanding proper investigation into the case and has claimed that Ashish Giri was against selling of properties of the Math. It is said that Anand Giri during questioning by CBI officials has again made same allegations into the death of Ashish Giri and has demanded a probe into his death.“We will also be meeting the SSP Prayagraj in this regard and demand a probe. Both the death of Mahant Narendra Giri and Ashish Giri are interlinked and should be investigated,” said Vijay Kumar Dwivedi, Anand’s lawyer.Anand Giri’s lawyer Vijay Kumar Dwivedi has demanded lodging an FIR into Ashish Giri’s death under suspicious circumstances and proper investigations of the case.An official privy to the development in the case, said that CBI could soon question the persons at the Math regarding Ashish Giri’s death too. The official hinted that the CBI might also study postmortem and forensic report of the period.Meanwhile, after one week of intensive questioning of the three accused in Mahant Narendra Giri’s death case including his disciple Anand Giri, priest of Bade Hanuman temple Aadya Tiwari and Aadya’s son Sandeep Tiwari were escorted back to Naini Central Jail by the CBI officials on Monday evening.The court had granted seven days custody of the three to CBI on their formal request in this regard on September 27. During these seven days, the CBI had taken Anand Giri to his ashram located in Haridwar and recovered his laptop, mobile phone and some documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/anand-giri-s-lawyer-seeks-fresh-probe-into-ashish-giri-s-death-101633372749839.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Navjot Singh Mahal assumes charge as SSP||Navjot Singh Mahal assumed charge as the Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) on Monday. On the first day in office, he said he aims to make Mohali a crime-free district. “Crime prevention and maintaining law and order will be my priority. I will adopt zero tolerance towards corruption and police officers will have to discharge their duties honestly. Getting justice for public will be the foremost task,” said the new SSP, after joining office at the district administrative complex. He said police presence will be increased at all major points in the district to control illegal activities A Punjab Police Service (PPS) officer, Mahal was previously posted as commandant of 7th Battalion, Punjab Armed Police, Jalandhar, and was also holding additional charge of AIG, special task force, Jalandhar. A nephew of cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, he has also served as the SSP in Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar Rural and Khanna. In Mohali, he has replaced Satinder Singh, who has been posted as the SSP, Jalandhar Rural. GMADA get new chief administrator Vipul Ujjwal, a 2009-batch Indian Administrative Services officer, is the new chief administrator of Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). He on Monday took over charge from Pradeep Kumar Agarwal, who had joined office in June last year. Ujjwal was earlier holding the charge of director and special secretary, social security, women and child development. He has also served as a deputy commissioner in Hoshiarpur, Nawashahr and Gurdaspur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-navjot-singh-mahal-assumes-charge-as-ssp-101633372690666.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||Pothole repair on highway between Mumbai and Nashik to be done by Oct 25: NHAI to Bombay HC||The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) on Monday assured the Bombay high court that the work of repairing the Mumbai-Nashik expressway by filling up the potholes and doing the patchwork was in full progress and would be completed before October 25. The assurance by the Centre was made in response to HC’s query on the time required by the highway authority to improve the around 100-km stretch, which had become unfit for travelling, resulting in serpentine lines of vehicles having to move at a snail’s pace.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, after taking cognisance of news reports on September 24 regarding potholes on the Mumbai-Nashik highway – a part of the old Mumbai-Agra Highway – had asked the state and Centre to work in coordination to prevent loss of lives of commuters due to the poor condition of roads.According to HT’s September 23 report, “Commuters had to endure a nightmarish commute on both Tuesday and Wednesday as 15km-long serpentine queues of vehicles were witnessed on the Mumbai-Nashik Highway. The traffic snarls spilled over to Ghodbunder Road, Waghbil, Kalwa, Majiwada and other areas in Thane city.”During the hearing on Monday, additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh representing NHAI, informed HC that the repair work on the 24-km stretch between Thane and Vadape was in progress and three teams had been assigned to work on the stretch. He submitted that work on the same was expected to completed by Tuesday, unless there is heavy rainfall in the area.ASG Singh added that patchwork and pothole-filling work on the remaining stretch of the expressway between Vadape-Nashik, which was approximately 97km, was expected to be completed in around three weeks as seven teams had been assigned to do work there. He added that a stretch of around 5km was severely damaged, but work was expected to be completed by the next hearing provided the work was not interrupted by heavy rains.The court accepted the assurances and asked the Central and state authorities to give a status report on the patchwork by October 25 and adjourned the hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pothole-repair-on-highway-between-mumbai-and-nashik-to-be-done-by-oct-25-nhai-to-bombay-hc-101633372689630.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Progressive Punjab Investors Summit on October 26, 27: Channi||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has urged businessmen and industrialists to invest in the state and asked for exploring opportunities in agro-processing, pharmaceuticals, iron and steel, health, education and manufacturing sectors. At a luncheon meeting with top businessmen and industrialists on Monday, Channi announced to organise the fourth edition of the “Progressive Punjab Investors Summit” on October 26 and 27 through a virtual mode and a day’s session in Ludhiana. “The state offers most conducive business environment, uninterrupted power supply, no history of labour issues, prompt clearances and best logistical connectivity. I urge you all to be a part of Punjab’s progressive momentum,” said the CM.Chairman, Trident Group, Rajinder Gupta, vice-chairman and MD Vardhman Group Sachit Jain, Avon Cycles’ Onkar Singh Pahwa, CEO, HMEL, Prabh Das, chairman and MD, Hero Cycles, Pankaj Munjal, vice chairman, International Tractors, AS Mittal, and CEO, Swaraj Mahindra, Harish Chavan attended the meeting. Speaking on the occasion, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal assured the industry of direct access to the state bureaucracy and political class, ensuring ease of doing business. Welcoming the captains of industry to Punjab, industries and commerce minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli said the upcoming investors summit would be an opportunity for holding interactions with the leading players of the industry. Chief secretary Anirudh Tewari mooted the idea of creating industrial regions in the state and exploring possibilities in the petrochemical sector in Bathinda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/progressive-punjab-investors-summit-on-oct-26-27-channi-101633372629046.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||Bulk of dengue cases in Delhi came in September||The total number of dengue cases reported in the Capital crossed the 300-mark on Monday as the weekly report released by the municipal corporations added 68 more cases, taking the total tally to 341 till October 2. Of the total, 217 cases were recorded in September, which is the highest number of cases seen in the month in the last three years. Dengue usually start increasing in July and August after monsoons, and peaks in mid-October. This year, however, the cases started increasing in August-end and September due to heavy showers that the city received in the last month of monsoon.“There was an increase in mosquito breeding after the heavy rainfall. The rains were later than usual this year; it was also very heavy with gaps in between, all of which favoured breeding,” according to an official from the south corporation. Hospitals have also seen an increase in the number of cases being reported. “Dengue has increased substantially, probably 50-70% over the last three weeks. We see one or two person admitted with dengue every day at our hospital,” said Dr Rommel Tickoo, director of internal medicine at Max hospital-Saket. He said, “The good thing, however, is that most of the cases are mild and can be treated at home. Even in the few patients who were admitted, the symptoms resolved within two-three days. There were cases where the platelet count dipped, but there was no need for transfusion or ICU care. This leads me to believe that the milder serotype 1 is affecting the people in the city.” There are four serotypes of dengue virus – Type 1 and 3 are the milder serotypes while type 2 and 4 are associated with severe disease.Patients suffering from serotypes 1 and 3 have symptoms like fever, headache, body ache, and pain behind the eyes. Type 2 is associated with more severe disease leading to drop in platelet count, inability to form blood clots, and internal bleeding. Type 4 is associated with leaking of fluids from the capillaries leading to drop in blood pressure and circulatory shock (not enough blood reaching the organs). Dengue came into prominence amid a waning Covid-19 pandemic after it was identified as one of the diseases, along with scrub typhus and leptospirosis, which claimed at least 51 lives, mostly of children, in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. Doctor advises wearing full-sleeve clothes and using mosquito repellents when stepping out to protect one-self from the mosquito which bites people during the day. The aedes aegypti mosquito that spread the disease breeds in clean stagnant water. The Delhi government has started the “10 hafte, 10 baje, 10 minute” campaign to urge people to check their homes and nearby areas for mosquito breeding. The doctor also advises against the use of any pain medications as it may complicate the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bulk-of-dengue-cases-in-delhi-came-in-september-101633372571785.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||Maha schools reopen: Banners, Covid norms welcome students at Matunga municipal school||On October 4 at 8 am, Pooja Singh, a Class 10 student of LK Waghji Mumbai Public School in Matunga (East) walked into her school 19 months after she last sat in a classroom.Pooja and her friends were greeted with colourful banners carrying educative slogans warning students to maintain social distancing and to keep their masks on. Staff members also conducted thermal screening before asking the students to enter in a single file. Chalk markings and stickers on the floor directed the students to their respective classrooms; markings on the benches instructed them to occupy alternate seats in a zig-zag manner.“I was a little worried about sending her to school, due to all the news about covid-19 cases. But for how long will students sit at home? I packed a sanitizer and I got her to wear a double mask. She is also old enough to be aware of the care she needs to take. I have another child in class 3. I am glad the government has not started primary school, because a younger child will not be able to take care of itself,” said Pooja’s mother, Sapna Singh (36) a home-maker. The teenager and her classmates were split up between separate classrooms as seating capacity was halved. Different teachers taught different subjects to the groups of students. Each class was livestreamed simultaneously for the students who didn’t attend school. Through it all, Pooja and her friends sat with their masks on -- there was no lunch break, and four hours later, they were free to go home. On Tuesday, the school will do the same drill, but with Class 9 students. In order to prepare for Monday, the municipal school appointed coordinators to oversee preparations and manage schedules of the teachers. Santosh Gawli, in-charge of classes 9 and 10 at the Matunga school said, “We have received a positive response from students and parents. We closely coordinated with all parents over the weekend and kept them updated about the preparations we were making for Monday morning. We have decided to conduct classes for 9 and 10 on alternate days to avoid crowding.” “At the end of the school day, only four students were allowed to exit the classrooms and the school at a time, to avoid crowding. I felt really happy to be back,” Pooja said. Shubhangi Kale, a student of class 9 said, “My classes start on Tuesday. All my classmates have been coordinating with each other about the safety measures we need to take once we are back in class. We have been asked to get textbooks only for three subjects: Marathi, Maths, and English, so they will be easy to sanitise once we are back home.” Municipal schools that reopened on Monday saw a mixed response: some schools seeing over 80% attendance while some seeing as low as 10% attendance on Day 1. At Pooja’s school, 22 out of 34 students enrolled in class 8 attended their classes, while 12 out of 33 students enrolled in class 10 attended school. On Tuesday, 29 out of 39 enrolled students have submitted consent letters from parents to attend schools.Over the next three days the BMC will conduct an online awareness programme for parents and students who have not yet submitted consent letters, or did not attend school on Monday. Parents still have the option of not sending their children to school, a senior civic officer from BMC’s education department said. As per the BMC circular issued last week announcing the reopening of schools for classes 8 to 12, parents’ consent is required for students to attend school, and attendance is not compulsory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-schools-reopen-banners-covid-norms-welcome-students-at-matunga-municipal-school-101633372389189.html
05-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Two constables held for taking bribe from truck driver||Two policemen were arrested on Saturday for allegedly beating up a truck driver andsnatching ₹400 from him on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway. The policemen, deployed on the expressway under the jurisdiction of Kasna police station, were identified as constables Tara Chand and Gyan Singh. The truck driver, Arvind Saini, is a resident of Sikar, Rajasthan. He said that he ferries cattle from Rajasthan to Meerut in a truck via the expressway. “On Saturday, I was on my way to Meerut in the truck when the two policemen stopped me near Sirsa toll plaza at 6.30am. It is an unwritten norm that they illegally seek money from truck drivers. So I gave them ₹400. However, they appeared unhappy and demanded ₹4,000 from me. When I expressed my inability to pay more, they grabbed me and started beating me,” he said. Saini said that he was beaten up so badly that he needed medical treatment. He also made a video of the injuries he sustained. He then informed his employer, who advised Saini to file a complaint. Saini then filed a complaint at Kasna police station against the two constables. Sudhir Kumar, station house officer, Kasna police station, said a case has been registered against the two policemen under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), Section 504 (intentional insult) and Section 7 of The Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. “The matter is being investigated by Brijnanda Rai, assistant commissioner of police (3), Greater Noida,” he said. Rai said that the two constables were arrested. “They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Saini has alleged that he was extorted by the policemen. The matter is being probed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-two-constables-held-for-taking-bribe-from-truck-driver-101633372330247.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||On Akal Takht directions, SGPC to send panel to Lakhimpur Kheri||On the direction of the Akal Takht, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Monday decided to send a panel to Lakhimpur Kheri to inquire into the deaths of farmers and submit a report to the highest temporal seat of the Sikhs.SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said: “A son of BJP minister killed farmers and injured many who were protesting peacefully at Tikunia village in Lakhimpur Kheri. A panel is being sent by the SGPC to Uttar Pradesh to inquire into the matter and get the details of the case from the families of the victims. The panel will submit its report to Sri Akal Takht Sahib.”Kaur said the panel includes SGPC’s executive committee members Ajmer Singh Khera and Amrik Singh Shahpur, members Kulwant Singh Mannan, Gurcharan Singh Grewal, Jarnail Singh Dogranwala, Sukhmeet Singh Qadian, Harbhajan Singh Cheema and SGPC assistant secretary Nirvail Singh.The SGPC president said a Union minister of state and his son are responsible for this heinous act and the minister should be sacked immediately.Meanwhile, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh sought an independent probe into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/on-akal-takht-directions-sgpc-to-send-panel-to-lakhimpur-kheri-101633372329189.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||Burglars strike at Ludhiana liquor vend, make off with 50 cartons||Burglars broke into a liquor vend and decamped with 50 cartons of liquor on Sunday night. The complainant, Harwinder Singh of Raikot, a salesperson at the liquor vend at Bassiyan Road, said he had locked the vend at 10pm on Sunday, but when he returned on Monday, he saw that the vend had been ransacked and the liquor had been stolen. The burglars had barged into the vend after cutting through the grills of the window, and had taken 50 cartons of liquor of different brands.Assistant sub-inspector Surjit Singh said a case had been registered under Section 457 ( house-trespass) and 380 (theft in dwelling ) house of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. “The accused used a pickup truck to commit the crime. We are scanning CCTV footage to trace the accused,” the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/burglars-strike-at-ludhiana-liquor-vend-make-off-with-50-cartons-101633372210278.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||Limited attendance recorded as Mumbai schools reopen for classes 8-12||Banners, balloons and posters exhorting caution greeted Mumbai students as they set foot in their classrooms after a gap of nearly 19 months following a state government notification permitting students of classes 8 to 12 to return starting October 4.On September 29 the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) permitted city schools to reopen for the first time since they were closed mid-March to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.Day 1, however, saw limited attendance in schools across all boards even as schools across the city greeted students with ‘Welcome Back’ posters, balloons and posters exhorting them to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.“Only 25% students from classes 9 and 10 batches came to school today and they were thrilled, as were we. Teachers as well as other non-teaching staff members have been waiting to hear the buzz of students in the school corridors and finally, online interactions were once again replaced with physical interactions in a classroom,” said Rupa Roy, principal of Balmohan Vidyamandir, Dadar.At Pant Nagar School No. 3 in Ghatkopar, a “Welcome Back” banner greeted students at the gate and balloons decorated the corridors of the school. However, out of 133 students enrolled in class 8, only 55 students had submitted consent letters from parents -- a condition put forward by the BMC for all city schools -- to attend class. Only 10 attended school on Monday.Over 20 municipal schools in Mumbai did not resume classes on Monday, as the vaccination or quarantine centres on their premises could not be moved, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said.As per a BMC circular issued last week announcing the reopening schools for classes 8 to 12, parents’ consent was mandatory for students to attend school; attendance was not compulsory; lunch breaks were not permitted and schools could only conduct classes for up to four hours. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad announced last week that after a 19-month break, physical lessons for classes 5 to 12 schools in rural parts of the state and classes 8 to 12 in urban areas would resume from Monday. The plan is to allow other classes to return to school in a phased manner, she said.Schools have followed an online mode of teaching for the past two academic sessions, even the Class 10 and 12 boards were scrapped this year due to rising Covid-19 cases following which students were assessed on the basis of their performance in the previous as well as current academic years.Many schools have chosen to retain both online and offline teaching modes, for the time being. Others chose to stagger the classes of students at different hours. At Balmohan Vidyamandir, two teachers were deputed to conduct the same lecture — one for those attending physical classes and another for those attending school online. “Merging the two seems difficult for the time being and we would like to wait until we are more comfortable with physical classes,” Roy said. At Pant Nagar school No. 3, which offers English, Hindi, Marathi, and Urdu medium for classes 9 and 10, the English medium school was open in the morning, in two batches from 8 am to 10 am, and 11 am to 1 pm, while the Marathi medium classes were held in two batches in the afternoon. Hindi medium classes were also held in the morning. “We cannot force parents to send their children to school. However, we have been interacting with all parents to create awareness about the safety measures we are taking up at school,” said Suman Singh, principal of Pant Nagar school. Some junior colleges also remained shut on Monday. “The government order has been very clear that classes can’t start without consent of parents. We still haven’t collected the consent forms and therefore, deferred the reopening day by a couple of days,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal of K C College, Churchgate.Some non-state board schools are also busy with end-of-semester exams at present, and had no choice but to defer physical reopening of schools by a week or more. “Our schedule was set much in advance so we didn’t want to disturb the same due to the last minute decision of the state government. Once the online exams are over, we have decided to continue regular lectures online from 7am to 10am for all batches, and then invite interested students from batches 8, 9 and 10 to attend two hours of physical school for problem solving as well as practical sessions,” said Rohan Bhat, chairman, Children’s Academy group of schools.He added that if this schedule works well, post Diwali vacation, the school might reverse the system and conduct only physical classes for students from older batches while the problem-solving sessions will go online.The state’s decision to open schools has seen a bit of back and forth in the past owing to the conditions of the Covid-19 pandemic. The state had asked schools to work towards re-opening physical classes in a phased manner on August 17 but had to roll back the decision following concerns put forward by the state task force, as well as of parents, students and school management boards over the potential spread of Sars-CoV-2. Similarly, the school education department announced the re-opening of schools for classes 9 to 12 in a phased manner last November. In January 2021, another circular directed students from classes 5 to 8 to be brought back to school in groups. Both these circulars, however, were revoked once Covid cases started rising again starting February and the state government called for another complete lockdown starting mid-April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/limited-attendance-recorded-as-mumbai-schools-reopen-for-classes-8-to-12-after-19-months-101633371911285.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||Maha schools reopen: Malad school students, teachers share pandemic experiences||For 15-year-old Prisha Cholera, her first day back in school was not what she had expected. While she was impatience to enter the classroom and find a seat next to her best friend, the Class 10 student found herself feeling apprehensive. “The minute I entered the school, my first instinct was to wear a double mask and look for my sanitiser. Even when I saw my friend at the gate, we didn’t hug, as we usually would. Never before did we have such apprehensions,” said Prisha, a class 10 student of D G Khetan International School, Malad. Monday marked the first day back to school for students across batches 8 to 12 in the city. However, the management of S G Khetan decided to start the first day of physical school only for students of classes 10 and 12 with their end of semester exams. The day started at 8am as school staff stood at the gate to welcome students and remind everyone to maintain social distancing. “It was different to see students already following Covid-19 protocols and maintaining distance from each other. Even once students settled on their classrooms, teachers encouraged students to share their experiences and were very sad to hear about the experiences of some students. It’s sad to see what a pandemic has done to routine school life,” said Kavita Agarwal, the school’s director.Typically, nearly 800 students would walk in the gates of the school in two separate sessions, with parents dropping off their children on the first of day of school. On Monday, however, students entered the school premises in a single file and parents turned away from the gates. “We (principal and teachers) were all waiting to see excitement among students and parents, many of whom have been part of the institute for more than a decade. But I could barely recognise parents through their masks and students too showed barely any excitement. First day of school is supposed to be full of stories but that’s not what happened,” added Agarwal.Devansh Dhanuka (14) another class 10 student, knew exactly what he wanted to do the minute he entered the school premises. Sanitise hands, wear mask, say hello to teachers, drop bag in classroom and head straight to the stilt area (common play area) to meet up with his friends and catch up on football. “I was heartbroken when our staff informed us that only the classrooms on the ground floor and the auditorium where exams were on are open for students. Rest of the school premises remain off limits,” said Devansh. The stilt areas, routinely used by students between school hours to play football, basketball, kho-kho and kabbadi wore a barren look, though over 150 students were present on campus. “I’m already in class 10 and this could be the last year in school. My year will be incomplete without a few friendly games with my friends on the school campus,” added Devansh.The school management, for the time being, has decided to call only class 10 and 12 students and complete their exams over the next few days. Starting October 20, class 9 students too will be asked to attend physical classes while the rest will join post Diwali holidays. “We miss how lively our school gets with students around and we cannot wait for things to go back to normalcy. After all, a school without its daily hustle is just another building,” Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malad-school-students-teachers-share-pandemic-experiences-101633371671017.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Show cause notice to Ganga Ram hospital over free treatment to poor||The Delhi government’s ’directorate of health services has served a show cause notice to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on Monday for violating norms related to providing free treatment to the poor, officials in the know of the matter said. Private hospitals in Delhi that received land from the government at a concessional rate are required to earmark 10% of their hospital beds and 25% of their out-patient clinic for providing free treatment to the poor.Karol Bagh MLA Vishesh Ravi wrote to the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), informing them that the hospital was not admitting deserving poor patients despite 95% of the 68 beds earmarked for such patients lying vacant.The MLA said the hospital created multiple hurdles for the EWS (economically weaker section) patients and merged patients from the hospital’s charitable trust into the EWS category to deny admission and treatment to deserving poor patients. He also said the government-appointed liaison official at the hospital was not given any powers to implement the EWS norms.“The beds are available at the hospital and the nodal officer is the one responsible for allocating them. Of course, there were some disruptions during Covid-19 -- we gave the beds to anyone who came, irrespective of whether they belonged to the EWS category or not. Any EWS patient with Covid-19 was provided free treatment as per the mandate, but there was a decline in the number of EWS patients who came to us during that time,” said Dr DS Rana, chairperson of the board of management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.The notice was served for violations of Delhi Nursing Home rules, which govern space, staffing and other facilities at all registered hospitals and nursing homes in the national capital. Most of the hospitals in the city, including Sir Ganga Ram, are currently in the process of renewing their licences, as all licence renewals were suspended during the pandemic and all hospitals being allowed to operate on their existing licences.“The directions of the high court are very clear. If a hospital does not follow the EWS norms, then the management of such a hospital can be taken over by the government. The land granted at concessional rates can also be taken over, or the hospital can be held in contempt of court,” said advocate Ashok Agarwal, who has been working to ensure that EWS norms are followed by Delhi hospitals. He is also part of the high-court appointed monitoring committee on this subject.He said, “Until two or three years ago, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital had an excellent track record when it came to treating EWS patients. We could refer patients to them at any hour and they would arrange a bed, sometimes even going beyond the mandated 68 beds. Then, things took a turn -- the hospital started treating patients admitted to their economy wards there. They started taking a long time to verify a patient’s EWS status, sending the patient from one doctor to another, and taking a long time to complete the documentation .”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhishow-cause-notice-to-ganga-ram-hospital-over-free-treatment-to-poor-101633371070486.html
05-10-2021||Mumbai||Maha schools reopen: Thane students excited to head to school after 19 months||Best friends Vaishnavi Kamat and Dhanvi Sakharkar from Shreerang Vidyalaya and Junior College in Thane were excited to head to school on Monday morning. Both 15-year-olds were meeting each other after almost 19 months. Just as they were about to greet each other with a warm hug outside the school gates, parents and school staff were quick to remind the girls about the social distancing rules. Around 62 students of Shreerang Vidyalaya’s class 10 came to school with their parents’ consent forms in hand. Students formed a queue, as staff checked their temperature at the entrance. Posters in the school’s common areas reminded students to maintain distance. Inside each classroom, students were asked to sit on alternate seats. Teachers wore masks and gloves and the day started with a set of instructions issued to the students regarding Covid protocols. “I was most excited to meet my friends and teachers whom we have been interacting only through online sessions since the past year and a half. Although school means more discipline if compared to offline classes, we missed attending physical classes all this while,” Dhanvi said. The school had adopted a hybrid teaching method, wherein the students who did not visit physical classes could attend online. “An additional teacher was present in every classroom to stream the physical session on the online platform and monitor the students in the online class at the same time. We did not want to make it hectic for teachers as they would otherwise have to take the same session twice,” said Chandrika Nair, the headmistress at Shreerang Vidyalaya and Junior College. The school only called class 10 students on Monday. It will conduct classes for classes 10 and 12 on alternate days. The school also plans to resume physical classes for class 8 students eventually, after receiving consent from parents. The school and the junior college have a strength of 133 and 55 students respectively. Only 62 and 35 students respectively came on Monday. “We were a tad nervous as they were going out on their own after a long period, however the precautions mentioned within the school premises was an assurance that our students will be safe,” said Varsha Kamat, parent to a 15-year-old. Saleha Shaikh, a class 10 student, said, “We were relieved to not have an online sessions today. It was easier to understand the Math class and I could clear my doubts immediately. It was easier to take notes during the class as well.” Students attended three hours of school on the first day. “We have asked both students and parents to ensure that the children reach home immediately after school and should not be found loitering anywhere outside,” said Pramod Sawant, Trustee, Shreerang vidyalaya and junior college. Every evening the school premises will be sanitized completely and kept prepared for classes on the next day, said the school staff. Saraswati secondary school welcomed students with shower of flowers and all teachers and staff were given a rose each as part of their welcome. Along with students and parents, officials from Thane were also excited for school to reopen. Thane Mayor, Naresh Mhaske, visited his alma mater, Saraswati secondary School, Thane on Monday morning. “As a student I always wanted to ring the school bell, today I got an opportunity to ring the morning bell in school and start classes,” said Mhaske. In the rural areas of Thane district, classes for grade 5 to 8 began today, from mid-July classes had resumed in rural areas gradually and 88 schools were functioning. From among 1131 school within rural areas of Thane district, 963 reopened on Monday, from among 1.46 lakh students around 79,130 students attended school for class 5 to 12 in the rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-students-excited-to-head-to-school-after-19-months-101633371069003.html
05-10-2021||Noida||Noida authority files FIR against 32 in Supertech twin towers case||The Noida authority filed an FIR on Monday against 26 former and current officials of the Noida authority, four Supertech Limited directors, and two architects for their involvement in violating building regulations and giving map approval to Supertech’s twin towers in Sector 93A. Of the Noida authority officials named in the case, 20 have retired, two are dead and four are still serving.The move comes a day after an Uttar Pradesh government-constituted special investigation team (SIT) submitted its report to the state for further action in the case.On August 31, a Supreme Court bench led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud directed the demolition of the twin towers part of Supertech’s Emerald Court project, over grave violations of building norms, which, the court said, was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida authority and the real estate developer. Further, the bench asked Supertech to refund money to all the existing home-buyers in Emerald Court’s Apex and Ceyane towers within two months, along with an interest of 12% per annum from the date of their deposits.Noida authority town planner Vaibhav Gupta filed the FIR with the vigilance department in Lucknow against everyone found involved in the case. For the first time, two former chief executive officers of the authority have been named in such an FIR.“We have filed an FIR against everyone named in the SIT report. Now, further action will be initiated by the vigilance department,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.Meanwhile, Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain an application of Supertech Group requesting a modification in its August 31 demolition order. The company had asked the court to allow it to only partially demolish 224 flats of one tower, along with its community area on the ground floor, to conform with the building norms. However, the Supreme Court rejected the application.The spokesperson of Supertech was unavailable to comment on the issue.However, according to Noida authority officials in the know, Supertech could file a review plea.“We have asked the CBRI, which is an expert agency in demolition and construction matters, to plan the demolition. We are likely to meet with them to discuss this on Tuesday,” said Maheshwari.The SIT said in its report that Supertech encroached a “green belt” which was part of the layout plan, measuring 7,000 square metres as “land plots”, for which a departmental inquiry against Noida authority officials is already in progress.“We will start fencing of this green belt at the earliest. And we have formed a committee that will probe and act against those involved in grabbing the green belt space,” said Maheshwari.Vimla Singh, one of the 26 authority employees named in the FIR, was suspended, but she reported to work on Monday, left the office in the afternoon, and could not be reached for comment. Rituraj Vyas, a Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority employee, has also been suspended as he did not carry out his duties as an assistant town planner in 2009 when the construction took place. Vyas was unavailable for comment as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-files-fir-against-32-in-supertech-twin-towers-case-101633370951656.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||South Delhi body writes to PWD, wants cooperation in installing EV charging hubs||South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) officials on Monday wrote to Delhi government’s Public Works Department to facilitate installation of electric vehicles charging stations on roads maintained by the agency after the latter removed equipment from two locations in Bhikaji Cama place and Lajpat Nagar on Sunday, officials aware of the matter said.A senior SDMC official overseeing the project said the installation process has been suspended for now. He added that the public sector undertaking Telecommunications Consultants India Limited (TCIL), which has been tasked with installing 35 e-charging stations, has reported that it is facing resistance from PWD in carrying out the work.“Charging stations have been removed at two locations and equipment from Lajpat Nagar has been confiscated. It is a loss of public money. The local PWD officials said that the road comes under their jurisdiction. Inter-departmental co-ordination will be necessary to make the electric vehicle policy successful,” the official said.The PWD officials, however, said that the stations were removed since the contractor did not take prior permission for the work.The remunerative project cell of the south corporation wrote the PWD on Monday for intervention to facilitate the installation work. Civic officials also argued that the roads wider than 60 feet were only transferred to the PWD for maintenance purposes, and the actual ownership of land still lies with the three municipal corporations.SDMC is installing e-charging stations at 109 locations of which installation work for two-wheeler specific modules will be carried out at 35 locations by TCIL, official said. “41 charging stations will be installed by EESL, 6 sites by BSES power discom, and 17 sites will be covered by another PSU,” the official said.A senior PWD official said the charging station Bhikhaji Cama was removed since no prior information was provided to the agency about the work. “It was not considered an encroachment, but the contractor appointed by the south corporation did not prior permission. We are now in touch with the civic body and details about all the locations will be submitted to us. All the locations will be considered on case-to-case basis so that the installation does become obstructions on the roads,” the PWD official said asking not to be named.The Delhi Electric Vehicles policy, announced in August last year by the Delhi government, envisages that 25% of all new vehicle registrations should be Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs) by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-writes-to-pwd-seeks-cooperation-in-installing-ev-charging-stations-101633370949104.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board says petition over accounts audit is ‘politically motivated’||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Monday told the Delhi high court that BJP leader Harish Khurana’s petition alleging that its accounts have not been audited in the six years was “politically motivated” and “without any research”.Khurana sought directions to the Comptroller and Auditor General to audit the accounts of DJB, and alleged that the accounts have not been audited for the last six years. He also demanded proper accounts, other relevant records and sought preparation of an annual statement of the profit and loss with balance sheets from 2015 onwards as prescribed under the law.Opposing the plea, the DJB, in an affidavit, informed a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said that the allegations are false, frivolous and vexatious.It said that the water utility is making every effort to ensure that all final statements and balance sheets are duly prepared and audited in the interest of transparency and compliance with the law.DJB said that all its accounts are being maintained presently on a double-entry system of book-keeping and all accounts are regularly maintained in accordance with the provisions of the Delhi Water Board Act, and other relevant laws.It added that it would be incorrect to state that no accounts were maintained or no audits were conducted in the past six years, adding that the petition was filed with oblique motives and was not maintainable and liable to be dismissed with costs.The CAG said that it made “several correspondences” for seeking accounts for audit from DJB and the Delhi government but as accounts were not made available for audit, the audit could not be accomplished.The petition has said that in response to the RTIs of May 11, May 24, and July 22 this year, it has been clearly stated that the copy of the balance sheet for the year 2015-16 and onward is under preparation.The plea said since the authorities have failed to perform the functions laid down under the law, the petitioner was approaching the court with the petition.“It is mandatory to maintain financial accounts and conduct an annual audit of the accounts, in order to ascertain effective functioning of the state and local bodies. Maintaining financial accounts and conducting an annual audit of the accounts, help to secure accountability, transparency of the state and local bodies functioning towards the general public,” the plea said.The court posted the matter for further hearing on November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-says-petition-over-accounts-audit-is-politically-motivated-101633370829018.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||HC tells Supertech to give buyer ₹40 lakh to repay loan||The Delhi high court on Monday directed real estate developer Supertech to give an additional ₹40 lakh by October 31, to a home buyer for repayment of loan. On September 20, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) ordered Supertech to pay ₹1.79 crore to the same homebuyer while also issuing an arrest warrant against the firm’s managing director (MD) Mohit Arora. In its order, the NCDRC said its order shall come into effect after seven days if the builder fails to deposit around ₹1.79 crore by then.The NCDRC order came on a petition by Brigadier (retd) Kanwal Batra and his daughter Aakriti Batra, who jointly purchased a villa in Supertech’s Upcountry project, offered by the builder in December 2013 at a cost of approximately ₹1.03 crore, which the builder promised to deliver in August 2014.Supertech challenged the NCDRC order in the high court, arguing that the commission acted out of its jurisdiction and also did not give the company a chance to present its case.On Monday, Justice Amit Bansal said ₹40 lakh will be utilised by the petitioner, Brigadier Kanwal Batra (retired), for repayment of the loan. The court asked the company to give a payment plan on the next date of hearing while also recording the statement of Supertech’s counsel that a further sum of ₹17 lakh would be paid by November.The high court also extended its stay order on Supertech MD Mohit Arora’s arrest till November 11.During the last hearing on September 24, the high court stayed Arora’s arrest, after Supertech agreed to give ₹50 lakh to Batra.On Monday, initially, Supertech’s advocate Vikas Sethi submitted that the company proposes to pay the whole amount in monthly instalments of ₹10. The court, however, said the amount has to be substantial.Advocate Shailesh Madiyal, representing Batra, said the firm shall pay at least the principal amount in the near future so that he can repay the loan and get some money for his daughter’s marriage.To this, the court said, “You must be reading newspapers that how difficult it is nowadays in these matters. He (Batra) should be grateful for whatever he is getting now. Rather than seeing the glass half empty, see it as half full. The bottom line is that you get back your money.”The matter will now be heard on November 11.A Supertech spokesperson refused to comment on the matter, saying the court is seized of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hctells-supertech-to-give-buyer-40-lakh-to-repay-loan-extends-stay-on-md-s-arrest-101633370710396.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||Supreme Court dismisses Supertech plea to avoid demolition of 2 towers in Noida||The Supreme Court on Monday turned down an ambitious plan by real estate major Supertech to save one of its 40-storey residential towers in its Emerald Court project in Noida that was ordered to be demolished for flouting laws and fire safety norms.An application filed by the realty firm for modifying the top court’s August 31 order directing demolition of the two towers – Apex and Ceyane – was dismissed as the court was of the view that the application seeking clarification/modification was “in the guise of a review” and the only remedy for Supertech was to file a review petition.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna said, “In essence what the applicant seeks is that the direction for demolition of towers T-16 and T-17 be substituted by retention of T-16 and slicing of T-17. The grant of such relief is in the nature of review. In successive decisions, this court has held that filing of applications styled as miscellaneous applications or application for clarification in the guise of review and cannot be countenanced.”Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, who appeared for Supertech, said, “I am not seeking review but have come out with an alternate proposal to meet with the distance and green area criteria. It may be considered by the court after the same meets the approval of the concerned authorities.”As per the plan, the company proposed to partially demolish 224 apartments in tower T-17 along with the community area at the ground floor without touching tower T-16. By doing so, the minimum distance between T-1 and T-17 will be 16 metres as per the requirement under the National Building Code 2005. On the land cleared by demolishing the portion of T-17, the company promised to provide a landscape green area. The flat owners who have opted to keep their apartments could be allotted apartments in the remaining portion of T-17, the firm said.The application filed by Supertech said that the modification will not only comply with the Building Regulations but also satisfy the fire safety norms -- the grounds formed by the court to order the demolition of the twin buildings.Earlier, the Allahabad high court too had directed the demolition of the two towers in 2014, against which Supertech had approached the top court.Representing the home buyers, senior advocate Jayant Bhushan said, “What they are seeking is in the nature of review. The top court had held on August 31 that the common garden area in front of T-1 was eliminated by the construction of T-16 and T-17. This was done in violation of the Uttar Pradesh Apartments Act 2010 which requires the consent of the flat owners before modifying the project plan promised to them.”He further stated that each homebuyer has an undivided stake in the project that was recognised by the Supreme Court decision and any addition to it by permitting more flats will be impermissible under the Court order.The company stated in its application, “The construction of the said towers has consumed steel and cement in huge quantities apart from various other materials including human labour amounting to several crores of rupees which shall be rendered to complete waste in the form of scrap.”The court reiterated, “The attempt made by the application is clearly to seek substantial modification of this court’s order. Such an attempt is not permissible in a miscellaneous application to bypass review procedure. There is no substance in the application and the same is accordingly dismissed.”The construction of the two towers situated at Noida’s Emerald Court project belonging to Supertech was challenged by the residents before Allahabad high court earlier. The HC order directing demolition got a stamp of approval from Supreme Court, which said, “The illegal construction of T-16 and T-17 has been achieved through acts of collusion between the officers of NOIDA and the appellant (Supertech) and its management.”The court had ordered the company to refund the money to people who purchased flats in Apex and Ceyane towers within two months, along with 12 per cent per annum interest from the date of their deposits.The two towers facing demolition have 915 flats of which 633 were booked. Of them, only 252 flat buyers still remain as 133 homebuyers have re-invested in other Supertech projects while 248 have taken a refund.Following the SC order, the UP government has ordered a probe by a special investigation team (SIT), to probe the unholy nexus between the builder and bureaucrats that led to the two buildings being approved in violaton of existing norms. Based on the enquiry report, the SIT has recommended for filing a criminal case against Noida Authority officials and persons associated with Suptertech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supreme-court-dismisses-supertech-plea-to-avoid-demolition-of-2-towers-in-noida-101633370529015.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||CAA protests: Sharjeel Imam says his prosecution is ‘whip of monarch’||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Sharjeel Imam on Monday told a city court that his prosecution for alleged inflammatory speeches made during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens is the “whip of a monarch rather than a government established by law”. Advocate Tanveer Ahmed Mir informed additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat, during a hearing on Imam’s bail application, that his client’s criticism of the government cannot be the cause of sedition. “He is not a terrorist or associated with some terrorist outfit. He has no criminal antecedents, he does not have any political agenda,” he told the court.“This prosecution of Sharjeel Imam is more of a whip of a monarch rather than a government established by law. This is not how the government or executive has to respond. At the end of the day, a dispensation will change. Nothing is permanent,” he said.Imam was booked for his allegedly provocative speeches given during protests against the CAA and the NRC, wherein he allegedly threatened to “cut off” Assam and other northeastern states from the rest of the country.The alleged inflammatory speeches for which Imam was arrested were made in Jamia Millia Islamia on December 13, 2019, and in Aligarh Muslim University on January 16, 2020. He has been in judicial custody since January 28, 2020.Citing the example of a recent Bharat Bandh called by farmers against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws, Mir, asked whether those protesters could also be booked for sedition.“Will we call for sedition in all those cases? Asking for rail roko, blocking of roads, etc, is that a constitutional means of protest or not?”Mir said it is the duty of every citizen to be critical of the government and added, “It is only the monarchs, kings who need the affection of people. We are not here to bow down before the government.”The lawyer said that there were many prosecutions against Imam just because he had criticised the government’s policies.Special public prosecutor Amit Prasad said the fundamental right to protest cannot cause problems to the public at large. He told the court that violent riots took place pursuant to Imam’s speech. “He tried to create anarchy by saying that there is no hope left for the Muslim community and that there is no other way left,” Prasad said, opposing his bail and discharge in the case. Imam is accused of offenses relating to sedition, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, imputations prejudicial to national integration, and public mischief under the Indian Penal Code, and indulging in unlawful activities under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.In a charge sheet, the Delhi Police has alleged that Imam gave speeches inciting hatred, contempt, and disaffection towards the central government and instigated the people which led to the violent protests outside Jamia Millia Islamia in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/caa-protests-sharjeel-imam-says-his-prosecution-is-whip-of-monarch-101633368909096.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||Prepared to implement Delhi govt’s winter action plan, say agencies||The three municipal corporations and the Delhi Traffic Police on Monday said they were committed to take all necessary steps to ensure that the 10-point anti-pollution Winter Action Plan unveiled by the Delhi government is fully implemented.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday released the city’s winter action plan, which will be a guiding document to manage the pollution levels in the Capital this winter. Kejriwal set a 10-point agenda, which details tasks to be performed by various agencies, to control pollution at source.Delhi government officials said that while it is a state-level action plan, and the Delhi state pollution control board along with other agencies will continue to act simultaneously on the emergency measures laid down under the SC-mandated Graded Response Action Plan (Grap).Every winter, Delhi experiences a huge spike in air pollution due to a combination of several local, external and meteorological factors such as crop stubble burning in the northern states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, burning of garbage, road dust and low temperatures and poor wind speed trapping pollutants in the air closer to the ground.In fact, in the run-up to the formulation of the action plan, the Delhi government had asked all agencies, including the PWD, the civic bodies, the traffic police and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to come up with their own plans to ensure that air pollution could be prevented from slipping into emergency levels.On Monday, several senior functionaries in the three municipal corporations of Delhi stated that most of the pollution countermeasures mentioned in the Delhi government’s winter action plan are already covered under the Supreme Court-mandated Grap, and the municipal bodies will replicate the measures taken last year with a few modifications.Shyam Sunder Aggarwal, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) mayor, said a “three-pronged strategy” will be undertaken in the form of using water sprinkler tankers, pressing 10 mechanical road sweepers in service for controlling dust on roads and deploying enforcement teams for checking waste burning in trans-Yamuna areas.“Most of the measures in the action plan were already being undertaken last year under Grap. Even if some additional steps have been directed which are for public welfare, we are committed to execute them,” a senior EDMC official said.Road dust is one of the major contributors to the particulate pollution (PM2.5 and PM10) in Delhi -- the primary pollutants in Delhi’s air.Avinash Chanchal, Climate Campaigner, Greenpeace India, appreciated the efforts by the Delhi government and added that air pollution crisis should not be seen as just seasonal and the action plan must provide long-term solutions, PTI reported.“It’s good to see the Delhi government preparing for the winter’s air pollution crisis but it should also adopt a holistic and long-term solution to improve the air quality. The plan needs to address the consistent major contributors like emissions from vehicular, power, industry, waste and other sectors which exist throughout the year,” he said.A senior civic official said changes in operation of mechanical road sweeping machines, which have been ordered under the state action plan for the season, will be undertaken as per the audit carried out by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). Among other changes, the audit recommended that each mechanical sweeper should cover 80-100 kms by working in double shifts. The three corporations and New Delhi Municipal Council together operate 59 road sweepers. The north DMC has also decided to set up a separate dust control and management cell headed by the engineer-in-chief.Besides these 59 mechanical sweepers, additional 10 such machines will also be operated by the Public Works Department (PWD) on all arterial roads.Municipal officials said that the civic bodies will together deploy 102 teams for 24x7 monitoring of waste burning cases. Fines for waste burning related violations are one of the ten actions mentioned in the government’s winter action plan.“In the past, we have noticed that the levels of recovery of these NGT-mandated waste burning fines have been low. We will be working with sub-divisional magistrates to issue FIRs in major cases of non-payment of challans. The teams will also be working on a 24-hour basis instead of just carrying out night patrolling,” a senior north DMC official said.He added that the project to set up e-waste parks, where electronic waste will be safely dismantled and recycled, is already being monitored by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.Inderjeet Sehrawat, the leader of the house in South Delhi Municipal Corporation, said the steps being taken for controlling pollution during winter will be replicated from last year. “We will try to improve the efficiency of the measures stated in Grap,” he added. The south body operates the largest fleet of 24 mechanical road sweepers among the local bodies.The Delhi traffic police said they are already working towards decongesting the list of 64 stretches that they have submitted to the government. Traffic jams amplify pollution due to vehicular exhaust in particular areas.“These 64 stretches are among the 120 roads which witness consistent traffic snarls in the city, and need to be decongested. We have in the past worked with governments and other agencies, and we will be taking steps to manage the traffic in these areas,” a senior traffic official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/prepared-to-implement-delhi-govt-s-winter-action-plan-say-agencies-101633367108906.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Lukewarm response to reopening of junior colleges in Pune||There was a lukewarm response to the reopening of junior colleges on Monday in Pune city.Prominent colleges like SP College, Modern College, Shivajinagar, BMCC College and others didn’t start offline lectures for students.Along with all the Covid protocols, junior college administration must take permission from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) committee who will check the preparations done by the colleges.“Our preparations for starting offline classes are going on well. We have vaccinated our staff and all the classrooms are sanitised daily. Also, to maintain the social distancing of students in the college, we have made arrangements of the benches accordingly. In each division, only 50 per cent of students will be called on a day and the rest will study in online mode. We will start the offline classes within the next four to five days,” said Savita Datar, principal of SP College, Pune.“We are preparing to start offline lectures at our junior college in a phase-wise manner and all the necessary arrangements of social distancing and Covid protocols are in place. As of now Class 11 admission process is still in process, also we are conducting online lectures for both Class 11 and 12,” said Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal, Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar.Similarly, Ferguson College also didn’t start Class 11 and 12 offline lectures, Ravindra Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College, said, “We are taking extra precautions about arrangements to start offline lectures for the junior college. Also, the consent from parents to send their children to college is important, as without consent students won’t be allowed to attend the classroom lectures.”Namrata Badami, a Class 11 student, said, “I am excited to return to the college campus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lukewarm-response-to-reopening-of-junior-colleges-in-pune-101633366629189.html
05-10-2021||Chandigarh||New posters in Ludhiana underscore change of guard in Punjab government||In the run up to the assembly polls, the familiar face of former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has been replaced by that of his successor Charanjit Singh Channi to reflect the change of guard at the state level. Flex boards have been installed at around 150 unipoles and other advertisement sites in the city over the last few days. Apart from familiarising the people to the new chief minister, the boards also advertise the Cabinet’s recent decisions such as waiving off pending arrears of power bills. In a bid to woo the farming sector, the government has extended support to their demand to repeal the farm laws and have published details of a loan waiver for farmers. The hoardings have been installed at different locations such as Mall Road, Ferozepur Road, Bharat Nagar Chowk, Haibowal, Jagraon Bridge, Gill Road, BRS Nagar, and Rajguru Nagar. Hoardings featuring Captain Amarinder Singh had been removed from the Unipoles on September 20 amid political turmoil in Congress. Former Congress district president Ashwani Sharma said the posters had been changed as MLA Channi was the incumbent CM. “Every ruling party promotes the work done by the government and the Congress, which has taken historic decisions recently, is raising awareness among the public.” An MC official, requesting anonymity, said the MC had allotted the contract for outdoor advertisement to a private company in the city and the state government had directly approached the contractor for placing flex boards and payment was also being made directly. “The MC receives monthly instalments from the contractor and the civic body has nothing to do with the flex boards promoting government schemes and decisions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-posters-underscore-change-of-guard-in-state-govt-101633364107766.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Dhole Patil road, Hadapsar-Mundhwa wards account for 32% of dengue cases in Pune||Even as the dengue cases continue to rise in the city, Dhole Patil road ward and Hadapsar-Mundhwa wards account for 32% of the total dengue positive cases, as per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department data.Dhole Patil road ward is primarily a mix of the most elite societies in the city and also the slum pockets of the city. Out of the 395 confirmed dengue cases, Dhole Patil road ard reported 71 confirmed cases and Hadapsar-Mumdhwa ward reported 57 cases.Dhole Patil road and Hadapsar-Mundhwa wards have always reported the highest count of malaria borne ailments and DP road was one of the first wards to also report the surge in Covid-19 cases in April-May 2020.The surge of dengue cases in the city has become a new worry for the administration as the number of serious complications in dengue cases is rising. City hospitals are witnessing a surge in dengue cases since September when the highest number of dengue cases were reported. Out of the 392 confirmed dengue cases reported, 192 were reported in September alone, as per the PMC data.The ward with the least number of confirmed dengue cases is Wanawadi-Ramtekdi and Kondhwa-Yewalewadi which also house a lot of the populations living in slums or congested pockets but has only 6 confirmed cases in each of the wards.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, PMC assistant health officer, said, “Dhole Patil road is one of the most congested areas and has a lot of slum pockets and so the number of cases is likely to be higher here. This was also one of the reasons why Covid-19 spread faster and earlier in this ward than any other wards back during the initial months of the pandemic.”“On the other hand, Hadapsar-Mundhwa is the largest ward not only area-wise but also population wise and so in proportion, the ward has the highest numbers. Also, the ward is located on the border of the city and has major hospitals and so people who live in nearby areas also get registered in the city records,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dhole-patil-road-hadapsar-mundhwa-wards-account-for-32-of-dengue-cases-in-pune-101633359668410.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Schools reopen: Pune civic body withdraws mandatory Covid RT-PCR test for staff||On the first day of schools reopening on Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) withdrew its order of compulsory Covid RT-PCR test for the teaching and non-teaching staff vaccinated with both doses, providing relief to many.Hindustan Times had earlier reported that due to compulsory RT-PCR testing of staff, many schools may delay reopening on Monday while teachers too were unhappy with mandatory provision.On the first day, 29 per cent of schools reopened in urban areas of Pune district for Classes 8 to 12, whereas, 20 per cent attendance was reported in PMC and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).In Pune rural, 93 per cent of schools reopened for Class 5 to Class 12 and about 50 per cent attendance was reported, according to State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) data.Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune District Principals’ Association, said that many schools reopened today and students were greeted with enthusiasm.“Staff who are vaccinated with both doses do not need to conduct an RT-PCR until there have symptoms. Because the order was amended by the PMC, many schools reopened on Monday,” said Gaikwad.He added that teachers, students and parents were elated to be back to school.“All schools followed the Covid protocols and used temperature checks, compulsory wearing of masks and hand hygiene was followed. Only 50 per cent attendance was made mandatory in each class to ensure social distancing,” said Gaikwad.He added that teachers and non-teaching staff are taking all necessary precautions to ensure that students are safe.“There has been a lot of learning loss of students and we want to continue teaching offline. And so each member of every school is taking all necessary precautions to ensure safety,” said Gaikwad.However, some schools will gradually open this week.Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Laxmanrao Apte Prashala, also shared that their school will reopen from October 5.“We shall reopen on Tuesday. Our first agenda will be to accustom students to offline classrooms. From next week, we are starting the revision of important topics from the last academic year. And after the holidays, we will start afresh with this academic year syllabus,” said Sinnarkar.Jayshree Venkatraman, principal, SNBP international school, Rahatani, said that school will start next week.“Unit tests are ongoing in the school right now. And so we have decided to reopen offline classes from next week,” said Venkatraman.Dnyaneshwar Molak, PMC joint municipal commissioner, said that teaching and non-teaching staff with symptoms of Covid will have to get tested.“Otherwise, school staff members with both vaccination doses, may not undergo an RT-PCR test. As of Monday, there are 84 primary schools with Class 8 and above and 40 higher secondary schools with the PMC. Many of them have started classes from Monday,” said Molak.“About 120 PMC schools reopened. For Class 8, 14 per cent attendance and for secondary school, there was 19 per cent attendance on Monday,” said Molak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-withdraws-mandatory-covid-rt-pcr-test-for-staff-as-schools-reopen-amid-enthusiasm-101633358348419.html
05-10-2021||Delhi||SDMC to launch parking application, give real-time info on slot availability||South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will soon launch its new parking application which is expected to encourage digital payments and facilitate access to information regarding parking slots availability.A senior official overseeing the project stated that the beta version of the mobile app is being tested, and it may be launched this week during the Navratras. “We will link all the 153 parking facilities being operated by the municipal corporation with this application and the geo-tagging of the parking slots is being carried out. Users will be able to see in real-time the availability of parking slots. Since the parking time and charges will be calculated digitally, we will be able to weed out any possibility of malpractices,” the official said.Of the five local bodies in Delhi, only New Delhi Municipal Council currently operates a parking management application. The south corporation operates 145 surface parking sites and 8 multilevel parking sites --6 underground multilevel parking sites and 2 tower parking systems.The SDMC official said they were currently managing around 25,000 parking slots across 104 municipal wards. “We will discourage use of paper slips and they will be provided only in cases where users demand it. In the second phase, there is also a proposal to link the mobile application with Delhi Traffic Police and Vahan digital database of vehicles managed by the ministry of road transports and highways. The application will enable us to issue challans to vehicles parked in no-parking zones,” the official explained.The New Delhi Municipal Council uses a sensor-based system to assess the parking slot availability, the south body is going to use geo-tagging-based system. “The sensor-based system to check the availability of each slot would have been too expensive. In our system, we will enable users to link the mobile phones with the registered vehicles. The new system will benefit both users and the civic body as we will be able to plug any revenue loss at the contractor level with more transparency,” the official stated.On September 30, the civic body operationalised its first RFID-based parking lot in Dwarka Sector-14 with the help of NHAI.Official said that these two IT based projects will help the corporation in getting better understanding of parking demand-supply and patterns of usage at particular locations.Inderjeet Sehrawat, leader of the house in SDMC, said the new application will benefit the users in terms of more transparency and access to real time parking availability. “NDMC is already using similar system which will be made available online in the south corporation’s parking lots,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmcto-launch-parking-application-give-real-time-info-on-slot-availability-101633358228234.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Lockdown-like curbs imposed in 61 villages in Ahmednagar as Covid cases surge||The district administration of neighbouring Ahmednagar district has imposed lockdown-like restrictions for ten days beginning from October 4, in 61 villages in the district to contain the spread of Covid infection in rural areas.Sangamner, Shrigonda, Parner and Rahata tehsils are some of the villages with a higher number of active Covid cases.District collector Rajendra Bhosale issued an order regarding the lockdown-like curbs in 61 villages belonging to 11 tehsils where active Covid patients are more than ten. During these ten days, only essential services will be allowed to operate.As per the state health department on October 3, 436 Covid patients were found in Ahmednagar district and there were 5,173 active cases in the district.Rajendra Bhosale collector of Ahmednagar mentioned in the order that the positivity rate in the district was above five per cent and hence it was essential to contain the spread of the infection.Rajendra Kshirsagar, CEO, Zilla Parishad Ahmednagar, said, “The lack of Covid appropriate behaviour could be the reason behind rise in cases. We are aiming to vaccinate all of its eligible population in these ten days at least with one dose. We have already stopped the home isolation. Institutional quarantine is mandatory for the covid patient.”The convening Covid situation had come up in the weekly Covid review meeting of Pune district, as it was observed that at least 40 per cent of Covid patients in the Sassoon hospital are from Ahmednagar district.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that it was essential to contain the Covid surge in the district before it impacts the neighbouring districts such as Pune and Nashik.“The situation is serious in the tehsils such as Sangamner and Parner. Pune district shares boundaries with Parner and Nashik district with Sangamner. These are big cities. If the situation is not controlled then we would have to pay a heavy price,” said Pawar while speaking in Satara.“When we noticed that 40 per cent of Covid patients in Sassoon hospital were from Ahmednagar, we decided to impose restrictions until the situation comes under control,” said Pawar.Out of the 61 villages where restrictions are imposed, 24 are in Sangamner tehsil, nine in Shrigonda, six in Parner and seven are in Rahata. Others belong to Akole, Karjat, Kopargaon, Nevasa, Pathardi, Shevgaon and Shrirampur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lockdownlike-curbs-imposed-in-61-villages-in-ahmednagar-as-covid-cases-surge-101633354507877.html
05-10-2021||Pune||Multi-speciality hospital proposed at Wadgaonsheri for economically weaker section of society||A multi-speciality hospital has been proposed at Wadgaonsheri for the economically weaker section of the society. The 2,189-square meter plot is located on survey number 46/1.The plot is reserved for amenity space which will be used for a multi-speciality hospital.The city improvement committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given a nod for the proposal to use amenity space plots for healthcare purposes.Local corporator Shewta Khose-Galande has submitted the proposal.She said, “The plot is surrounded by many working-class and economically weaker section of society who take advantage of PMC-run hospitals. But as there is no civic body run hospital nearby, they have to travel for long distances to take treatment. If PMC approves the multi-purpose hospital, it would benefit the citizens.”As Covid-19 has exposed the sorry state of civic healthcare infrastructure, there are chances that the standing and general body would give a nod for the proposal. Later, PMC will have to approve funds for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/multispeciality-hospital-proposed-at-wadgaonsheri-for-economically-weaker-section-of-society-101633354147594.html
