06-10-2021||Lucknow||‘Indigenously made Metro coaches being exported’||Lucknow “No one In India believed that Metro services would be such a big success . Our history of the Metro is only 25-years-old but today, under the ‘Make in India policy, our indigenously made Metro coaches are being exported to Canada and Australia,” said Durga Shankar Mishra, secretary, urban and housing affairs, Government of India. Mishra was addressing the seminar on ‘Status of Metro Rail on 100 Years of India’s Independence’ organized during the three-day ‘New Urban India Conclave, 2021’ in Lucknow at Indira Gandhi Pratishthan on Wednesday. He said, “Revolutionary changes have taken place in the field of public transport. Metro has played an important role in making urban transport safe, convenient, fast and accessible.” Managing directors of different Metro organisations from all over the country participated and shared their views in the seminar. Mishra said, “Metro is the need of urban transport and after 25 years from today, when 100 years of independence will be completed, then Metro will have achieved expansion in at least 100 cities of the country, extending the network up to 5,000 kms.” Target to export Metro He said , “Today Metro has more than 750 km network and by 2022, 150 kms of additional Metro network will be added. With a strong emphasis on Make in India policy, the indigenously made Metro coaches are being exported to Canada and Australia. Our goal is: when we celebrate hundred years of Independence, we should not only be self-reliant in every aspect related to Metro construction, but also be able to meet the needs of other countries.” UP Metro Managing director, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation Kumar Keshav gave a presentation on the rapid expansion of Metro in Uttar Pradesh. He said that after the expansion of 23 km of Lucknow, a trial run of Metro was proposed in Kanpur in November, while fast construction was going on in Agra. Metrolite project in Gorakhpur had already been approved by the state government and sent to the central government for approval. There was a plan to construct an operational metro route of 28 kilometres, he said. Lucknow to have six more Metro routes Kumar Keshav said , “Considering the traffic analytics and growing congestion in Lucknow, a techno feasibility study of six other Metro routes was conducted, according to which 114 kms of routes have been identified in the city.” He said that according to the Metro Policy 2017, a Metro project could be brought in the cities with a population of more than 10 lakh and there were 12 such cities in the state. DPRs for Meerut, Prayagraj and Varanasi had been prepared while proposals for cities like Jhansi, Ayodhya and Saharanpur were under consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/indigenously-made-metro-coaches-being-exported-101633544938164.html
06-10-2021||Gurugram||Resident duped of ₹71 lakh by online fraudsters on pretext of business proposal||A city resident claimed he was duped of ₹71 lakh by a person who posed as the director of a Japanese company on the pretext of paying him a commission for acting as a middleman to purchase raw materials from a Sikkim-based firm.The police registered a case under Section 66D of the IT Act and Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code at the cyber police station on Tuesday.A police official, who is privy to the investigation, said that the matter appeared to be of impersonation and online fraudsters were taking this approach to dupe people. “Similar types of frauds, for selling seeds or products from Sikkim, are increasing of late,” the official said. In his complaint, the resident, Pradip Kumar Saha, said he received an email from a person who claimed to be a Japanese national and the director of a company who was seeking to purchase zirconite (a mineral) from India. After the resident responded to the email, he was given the contact number of a material supplier in Sikkim and asked to contact the sales manager.Saha said that in the fraud, which took place over two months, he was promised a commission on the total purchase value for representing them as their India operations and coordination. After accepting the proposal, the complainant was asked to arrange some samples, for which he transferred ₹10 lakh to the bank account shared by the supplier. Likewise, he was allegedly motivated to make a series of payments for visa permissions, opening a bank account and advance payments, among other reasons. The victim said that he paid ₹71 lakh in total to the accused, but refused to make further payments. Subash Boken, the spokesperson for Gurugram police, said, “The matter is being probed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/resident-duped-of-71-lakh-by-online-fraudsters-on-pretext-of-business-proposal-101633544156374.html
06-10-2021||Pune||ARAI presents awards for best technical papers, student poster competition||The Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI) in association with SAEINDIA and SAE International (USA) presented awards for best technical papers and student poster competition during the 17th edition of the Symposium on International Automotive Technology (SIAT) 2021. The symposium was held in virtual form for the first time. The awards were presented under eight categories for technical papers and three categories for the student poster presentation.Experts from around the world presented 130 technical papers, including 40 keynotes and 19 international papers on various subjects, which were evaluated by a total of 115 members of the jury and by at least three domain expert jury members.In the technical awards categories, Massimiliano Calloni from ESI Group, Italy was awarded for the ‘Best international paper’, while Girikumar Kumaresh from Robert Bosch Engineering Business Soln, India was awarded for ‘Best paper on safety.Pavan Prakash Duvvuri from Cummins Technical Centre, India was awarded for ‘Best paper on simulation and modelling, while Samir Kale from Ashok Leyland, India was awarded for ‘Best paper on environmental pollution and Hemant Kumar Dashora from KPIT Technologies Ltd., India for ‘Best paper on electric mobility.’Similarly, Best paper- first prize was awarded to Gernot Hasenbichler from AVL LIST GmbH, Austria, while Best paper- the second prize was given to Sivaprasad Koralla of Tata Motors Ltd., India and Best paper- third prize to Dr Ravindra Utgikar, Praj Industries Limited.The student poster presentation competition was held for UG, PG engineering students and PhD research scholars from various universities on contemporary topics on mobility. The competition was conducted on TechNovuus – the Technology Innovation Platform of ARAI.Under ‘Safe mobility’ category first prize was given to Arka Patra for’ real-time driver behaviour assessment in two wheelers’, while second prize was given to Prafulla Dandge and Shubham Gaygol for ‘smart collision svoidance system by detecting vehicle brake lights using computer vision’ and third to Mandar Kodange and Samyak Waghmare for ‘self-activated vehicle turn indicator for collision avoidance.Under the ‘smart mobility’ category, Anuj Tote stood first for ‘Automatic number plate detection’, Ashwini Kumar stood second for ‘Accident prevention by drowsiness detection and automatic braking’, while Hemavathi and Shinisha A also stood second for ‘Design of smart two-heeler electric car in Covid-19 scenario’. Under ‘Sustainable mobility’ category, Gautami Chati and Shivaji Nawale stood first for ‘Treatment of vehicular exhaust through plug flow reactor model using alkaline absorption’ while Swapnil Chopade stood second for ‘Strategies to reduce NOx emissions in off-road diesel engine vehicles’. No third prizes were given in smart and sustainable mobility categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/arai-presents-awards-for-best-technical-papers-student-poster-competition-101633543737332.html
06-10-2021||Gurugram||Bhondsi school murder: High court rejects bail plea of accused||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday rejected the bail plea of the accused involved in the murder of a boy at a private school in Bhondsi, stating that the custody period was insufficient grounds to grant bail.The lawyers of the accused, who was 16 years old at the time of the crime, had submitted to the court that he was in the custody for last three years and requested that be released on bail. Justice Avneesh Jhingan, while dismissing the bail petition, observed that in the present case, considering the facts and circumstances in totality, the custody period and non-progress of trial can’t be the sole ground for grant of bail. He further observed that the ground of delay in trial is not available to the appellant at this stage as this issue is sub judice before the Supreme Court. The court order further stated another aspect that needs to be taken care of is that there are complaints filed by the victim’s father of an attempt to influence the witnesses. The Central Bureau of Investigation, in its reply, has categorically said that the appellant and his father tried to influence the witnesses. “Be that as it may be, the apprehension that there can be an attempt to tamper the evidence or influence the witnesses in the present case can’t be said to be baseless. In the circumstances mentioned, no case is made out for grant of bail,” the order said. On September 8, 2017, the accused, a student of class 11 at the time, had allegedly killed a class 2 student at a private school in Bhondsi. Initially, the city police had arrested a bus conductor for the murder but later, a CBI inquiry had found that the juvenile was allegedly involved in the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bhondsi-school-murder-high-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-accused-101633543377298.html
06-10-2021||Gurugram||Dengue count at 83, over 11K households get notice for larvae breeding||Amid rising dengue cases, which reached 83 on Wednesday, notices were issued to 11,311 households in the district where mosquito larvae were found, officials of the health department said. The district reported 10 cases of dengue on the day.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “There is a risk of mosquito-borne diseases, especially dengue, malaria and chikungunya spreading this year due to heavy waterlogging and stagnation of water. People should take precautions and ensure there is no place for water to collect and give special attention to cleanliness around them and do not allow mosquitoes to breed near their homes.”Last year, 52 cases of dengue were reported, while 22 cases were reported in 2019.This year, the health department has identified 13 hotspots in the city, from where dengue cases have been reported. The hotspots identified are Wazirabad, Palam Vihar, Basai, Jharsa village, Kanhai Colony, Sarhaul village, Sector 21A, Sector 39, Sector 12A, Sector 47, Dharam Colony, Udyog Vihar Phase-1 and Sector 12.The district administration on Wednesday said that over 2.27 million houses have been checked to control mosquito-borne diseases. The administration has also issued two helpline numbers, 18001801817 and 0124-44055779, for residents to request fogging drives in their areas from 9am to 5pm.Officials said that anti-larval activities are being carried out by health department teams at suspected locations, such as coolers and overhead tanks, where mosquitoes are likely to breed and temephos medicine is being sprayed at such places. Along with this, rapid fever surveys are also being conducted.The health department, in collaboration with the fisheries department, has introduced gambusia fish, which feed on mosquito larvae, in 173 water bodies of the district.The department has also directed private hospitals to send reports related to surveillance and case management of mosquito-borne diseases. Setting a cap for tests, private hospitals were instructed not to charge more than ₹600 for NS-1 and LGI test to detect dengue and chikungunya, respectively, and ₹1,000 for RT-PCR tests to detect dengue. Hospitals are mandated to state the prescribed rates on the notice boards on the hospital premises.Yadav said, “Residents should clean the surroundings of their houses once a week and ensure that there is no standing water anywhere. If a person feels high fever, nausea, joint and muscle pain, red rash on the skin and tiredness, then they should immediately contact the health centre and not self-medicate. There is no specific medicine available for dengue and malaria; residents can take paracetamol to reduce fever or pain, but must not take aspirin.”Meanwhile, residents said that corrective action is taken only after issues are raised on social media multiple times. On Wednesday, HT found water stagnating at several places in the city, with residents also raising the matter on social media handles of the district administration.Mahendra Tiwari, a member of the managing body of Sagar Kunj group housing society in Sector 9A, who had complained last week about water stagnation, said, “After I raised the matter two to three times on social media, action was taken but nothing is being done by the authorities on their own. For fogging or clearing water from our locality, we have to keep following up with the authorities.”Rajesh Pandit, a resident of the Gupta Colony in Palam Vihar, said, “There are small patches of empty land where water has been stagnating since the start of the monsoon, but no action has been taken by the authorities. A 15-year-old boy in our locality is suffering from dengue and more people can get infected.”Officials said that as the post of the chief medical officer of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is vacant at present, the staff is working on the directions from the health department. They accompany health department teams to areas where high cases of fever are reported based on rapid surveys to conduct fogging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dengue-count-at-83-over-11k-households-get-notice-for-larvae-breeding-101633543376197.html
06-10-2021||Gurugram||Badminton court at Manesar’s Nakhrola court revamped||The Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) opened its redeveloped badminton court at the Nakhrola Stadium, located just ahead of Rampura Chowk flyover on the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway, on Tuesday, making it the first sports infrastructure project carried out by the MCM.Located in Sector 81, Nakhrola was one of the 29 villages that came under the jurisdiction of MCM upon its creation in December 2020. MCM officials said that the indoor badminton court was upgraded following demands from Manesar residents.“There was a demand from residents for upgrading the badminton court, which was in a dilapidated condition, to an international standard. Subsequently, the matter was taken up on priority and a badminton court with synthetic mats was set up so that players can use it both for leisure and competitive training,” Ajay Nirala, executive engineer, MCM, said.Nirala said that the MCM had floated tenders for setting up synthetic mats at Nakhrola sports complex for badminton as well as for kabaddi. “Cumulatively, the two projects cost around ₹ 3.24 lakh and the synthetic mats have a shelf life of at least 10 years. Once the work order was issued, it took the contractor around three weeks to complete the task,” Nirala said.Officials said that last week, they also opened tenders for setting up solar octagonal streetlight poles across the sports complex so that the sports facilities can be used during the night as well.Besides the badminton court, the sports complex has an open ground, where cricket, football and kabbadi are played.“The only proper badminton court in Manesar is located inside a golf club, for which membership is needed. Hence, the requirement for a public badminton court that is accessible to all, with proper amenities, had been a longstanding demand of residents in the area,” KN Prasad, a resident of Sector 80, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/badminton-court-at-manesar-s-nakhrola-court-revamped-101633543318803.html
06-10-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccinations: Health dept targets 80% total coverage by Dussehra||The district health department is planning to complete the two-dose Covid-19 inoculations for 80% of the eligible population by Dussehra, officials of the health department said on Wednesday. At present, 64.5% of the eligible population has been given both doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the district. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “With special vaccination camps along with routine vaccination, we are targeting to fully vaccinate 80% of our eligible population by Dussehra and 85% by Diwali. We want to make sure that there is herd immunity among people during the festive season, which may prevent a surge in cases in future.” A special vaccination camp will be set up at the Sheetla Mata temple during Navratri, starting Thursday. In anticipation of a heavy footfall of residents from across the National Capital Region (NCR) for a fair that is set to be held on the premises from October 7 to 14, officials of the health department said they are planning to allocate 400 vaccines doses per day, half each for first and second doses, for the session site. In Gurugram, over 1.78 million people are eligible for Covid-19 vaccinations. In the district, the first dose has been administered to over 2.04 million and the second dose to 1.15 million people. Officials also said that of over 160 villages in the district, 64 villages have reported 100% coverage for the first dose of the vaccine. On Wednesday, a total of 15,000 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district, with 5,206 people taking the first dose and 9,794 people taking the second dose of the vaccines. So far, over 3.21 million doses of vaccines have been administered in the district. On Thursday, the first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 56 sites and the second dose of Covaxin will be administered at five vaccination sites. Sputnik V vaccines will be administered at the Sector 31 polyclinic. Meanwhile, four new Covid-19 cases and three recoveries were reported on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccinations-health-dept-targets-80-total-coverage-by-dussehra-101633543317492.html
06-10-2021||Gurugram||Swimming pool, international sports stadium projects in Gurugram remain in limbo||Even as the newly constituted Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) has started setting up sports infrastructure in Manesar, three sports projects of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) —Wazirabad sports stadium, Kamla Nehru Park swimming pool, and a sports stadium in each of its four zones — continue to remain in limbo.Announced in June 2016 by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, the international sports stadium in Wazirabad is yet to take off as designs have been altered on at least three occasions.For its construction, the MCG leased a 12-acre plot from the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) for 99 years. Until April 2019, a ₹130-crore archery range and multi-purpose indoor sports complex was to be developed at the site, but a month later, the MCG decided that a ₹20-crore recreational sports complex along the lines of Azad Maidan and Shivaji Park in Mumbai, with a multi-purpose sports ground and basic indoor sports infrastructure, was more feasible.In August 2020, the project was revised once more, with the MCG finalising a ₹200-crore sports complex with a hostel for players and amenities, such as a swimming pool, shooting range, basketball court and kabaddi court.“A DNIT [detailed notice inviting tender] and detailed project report (DPR) have been sent to the directorate of urban local bodies (ULB) for approval. A representative of the ULB has already studied the DNIT and DPR, and will be visiting the MCG on Friday for further clarity and discussions on the matter,” TL Sharma, the chief engineer of MCG, said. Sharma said that the swimming pool in the Wazirabad project will be of international standard, where national-level competitions could be held. Similar to the Wazirabad sports stadium, the fate of the Kamla Nehru Park swimming pool is also uncertain.Despite the MCG floating a ₹2-crore tender for renovating the swimming pool in January 2020, only demolition work has been carried out by the MCG. The pool, located near Sadar Bazar, was constructed in 1975 and has been lying unused since 2012 due to poor upkeep.“The scope of work for the project has changed. The estimated projected cost of ₹2 crore was far lower than the actual cost needed for the project. In addition, some enhancements are also being made to the original project which will take the cumulative cost of the project to ₹6-7 crore. A new estimate, hence, will be prepared afresh,” Sharma said. He said that the MCG will try to complete some aspects of the project in the sanctioned ₹2-crore project, while the additional ₹4-5 crore worth of work will be tendered and then allotted to a contractor separately.During an MCG House meeting in August 2018, an agenda for constructing an international sports stadium in each of its four zones was approved. However, there has been no further development in the matter for the last three years.“There was no seriousness in regard to the proposal. When the agenda was floated, it did not list any details such as potential sites or the type of sports infrastructure which need to come up. It was simply raised and approved without any discussion or afterthought. Hence, there is no progress in the matter,” an official with the MCG’s engineering wing said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/swimming-pool-international-sports-stadium-projects-in-gurugram-remain-in-limbo-101633543316293.html
06-10-2021||Lucknow||Probe ordered into AMU land lease||Agra The Uttar Pradesh government has ordered a probe regarding the land leased out by late Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh to the Aligarh Muslim University in 1929. Commissioner, Aligarh division, has been asked to conduct the probe and he has sought a report from the district magistrate of Aligarh. “A letter in this regard was received from additional chief secretary SP Goyal. The matter to be probed relates to land leased out for 90 years by late Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh to the Aligarh Muslim University. The term of the lease has lapsed and so a report has been sought from the district magistrate of Aligarh,” said Gaurav Dayal, commissioner, Aligarh division. It may be recalled that late Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh was a known freedom fighter, social reformer and academician. He had leased out land owned by him to Aligarh Muslim University for 90 years in 1929. The term of the lease has lapsed but, according to the complaint lodged in the chief minister’s office, the said land has not been handed back to legal heirs of late Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh. Taking note of the complaint lodged by Ashok Chaudhary from ‘Ahuti’, a social organization in Aligarh, the chief minister’s office, through additional chief secretary, has directed commissioner, Aligarh division to probe the matter and submit the report. On the said land leased out to the AMU, there stand a ‘Tikonia Park’ and the city school run by Aligarh Muslim University. The legal heirs of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh had suggested to the AMU to hand over land on which Tikonia Park stands and name the city school run by AMU after Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh. In this regard, a committee headed by the vice chancellor was constituted by the AMU Executive Council, to consider the proposal. When contacted, AMU spokesperson Prof Shafey Kidwai admitted that a proposal from the legal heirs of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh was considered by the Executive Committee of Aligarh Muslim University. However, no final decision had been taken yet, he added. “The Executive Council of Aligarh Muslim University was ready to give back the land on which Tikonia Park is located. Further, the Executive Committee said it was acceptable that the city school run by AMU on remaining land will be named after Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh, an alumnus of AMU, and the lease of this land be extended,” said Prof Shafey Kidwai. Recently, at a grand function, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, had laid the foundation stone of a university to be built in the name of Raja Mahendra Pratap Singh near Aligarh. As many as 396 degree colleges in Aligarh division are to be affiliated with this upcoming university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/probe-ordered-into-amu-land-lease-101633543256887.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Two arrested for stealing LPG cylinders in Pimpri-Chinchwad||Two workers of a gas agency were arrested for stealing liquified petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders used for cooking from an agency to allegedly sell it in the black market on Tuesday evening.The two arrested were identified as Chandraprakash Vikramsingh Thakur (19) and Manoj Mahavir Bhardwaj (29), both residents of Prabhatnagar in Pimple Gurav and natives of different districts of Uttar Pradesh.The two men work as delivery executives in a gas agency in Pimpri-Chinchwad and have access to a tempo used for cylinder delivery.The two deliberately failed to return some cylinders to the agency and used those cylinders to steal cooking gas from the filled cylinders that the agency entrusted them with for delivery to their customers.The police found them with 31 gas cylinders, a weighing scale, and one refill pipe along with the delivery tempo, according to a statement.The two had diverted from their delivery route and come to the banks of Pawana river near their house in Prabhatnagar, Pimple Gurav where they were found with the cylinders, according to the police.A case under Sections 379 (theft), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 7 of Essential Commodities Act and Section 5 of Explosive Substances Act, 1908 was registered at Sangvi police station. Assistant police inspector Satish Kamble of Sangvi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-stealing-lpg-cylinders-in-pimprichinchwad-101633543136188.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Driver suspected of stealing ₹97 lakh cash from employer in Pune||A person working as a driver for a businessman in Yerawada in Pune was booked for stealing ₹97,00,000 in cash from his employer on Monday night.The suspect was driving his employer through Kalyaninagar around 8:40pm when he managed to steal the cash.A 50-year-old resident of Kondhwa, who is the complainant in the case, is the employer.Around 8:40pm, the man wanted to urinate and therefore asked the driver to stop the car in Kalyaninagar near a private company’s office. The complainant left behind a bag that had ₹97,00,000 in cash in it. The driver was aware of the money in the bag.As the complainant left the car, the driver drove away with the car as well as the cash. The car was later found at a distance from the place where the complainant had alighted the car. However, the bag was not in the car and so was the driver.The police are on the lookout for the man over suspicion of having stolen the money and fleeing. Assistant police inspector Ravindra Alekar of Yerawada police station is investigating the case.A case under Section 381 (property theft by the clerk, servant from employer) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Yerawada police station against the driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/driver-suspected-of-stealing-rs-97-lakh-cash-from-employer-in-pune-101633542775863.html
06-10-2021||Other||Three held for duping retd police inspector in Prayagraj||A joint team of Special Operation Group (SOG) and Civil Lines police arrested three persons involved in stealing cash from a retired police Inspector few days back. The looted cash and bank documents were recovered from the possession of the accused, police said.According to reports, a resident of Soraon area retired police Inspector Shyamlal Patel had come to Civil Lines on October 4 to withdraw cash worth ₹50,000 from his bank account. After picking cash from the bank, he was waiting for a bus to his village when some persons offered him a lift in their car, which he accepted.However, they took away his cash ₹50,000 and his bank documents from his pocket without his knowledge. Shyamlal came to know of the theft when he reached home and found the cash and the documents missing. On his complaint, an FIR was lodged at Civil Lines police station. SHO of Civil Lines police station Inspector JP Shahi said acting on a tip off police teams arrested three persons involved in the crime on Wednesday. The trio was identified as Sahib Alam of Phaphamau, Vikas Gupta and Vikku Kumar of Shivkuti area with looted cash and documents. Sahib Alam and Vikku have past criminal records and have cases lodged against them at different police stations, SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-held-for-duping-retd-police-inspector-in-prayagraj-101633542595953.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Pune district administration sends notices to 1,000 firms seeking 15% premium on exempted land||The district administration over the past ten days has sent notices to 1,000 firms (industrial plot holders) in Pune city, demanding that they pay 15% of the transfer fee out of their transactions involving the conversion of commercial land space from industrial to residential purposes. The conversion of land use from industrial to residential purposes is termed as ‘residential zoning’ by the district administration. Initiated under section 20 of the Urban Land Ceiling Act (UCLA), the action sees 15% fee on the transfer transaction.District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “The notices have been issued as per the procedure wherein replies of the property holders have been sought. We are taking necessary steps in this regard.”The move comes following complaints by civil society members that the conversion of industrial zones into residential zones was deliberately neglected by the former district administration, leading to serious loss of revenue for the state. Civil society members alleged that both the state and revenue department conveniently ignored the issue of conversion of land use.Meanwhile, officials said that permission for converting land from existing commercial purposes to residential purposes was given by the state government in 1997, according to which it is mandatory to deposit 15% of the transfer fee with the state government. However, property holders did not pay the requisite amount leading to losses worth crores of rupees.The Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1976 (ULC Act) was enacted to prevent concentration of urban properties in the hands of a few, and to ensure equitable distribution-cum-utilisation of vacant urban lands. The ULC Act provided for a ceiling on holding vacant land in urban agglomerations of the state. Accordingly, possession of surplus vacant land was taken over by the ULC authorities as per procedure laid down under the ULC Act.On applications by landowners holding excess vacant land, the state government granted exemptions under section 20 of the ULC Act, which provided for vacant lands to be utilised for specified purposes and the land holder to implement the terms and conditions of the exemption order. The ULC Act was subsequently repealed by the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act, 1999 (Repeal Act) and the Maharashtra state legislature adopted the Repeal Act on November 28, 2007. A specific category of land exempted for industrial purposes was introduced, wherein it was decided that such lands should be freed from the conditions of the exemption order by charging a onetime premium at the rate of 15% of the current annual scheduled rates for the total exempted land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-administration-sends-notices-to-1-000-firms-seeking-15-premium-on-exempted-land-101633542417322.html
06-10-2021||Other||Railway schools to be brought under KVs or run on PPP model||Schools of the Indian Railways would now be brought under the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVs). In places where the KVs option wasn’t feasible, these schools would be handed over to the state government or to be developed on Public Private Partnership (PPP) model, railway officials said. This follows the recommendations of the principal economic advisor of the union ministry of finance, Sanjeev Sanyal and its approval by the Cabinet, railway officials said. In 2015, the Bibek Debroy committee on restructuring railways too had suggested closing down these schools and had suggested association with KVs and private schools for wards of railway employees. The Cabinet secretariat had sent the recommendation to the Railway Board for implementation, and which has now sent them to all zonal railways including the North Central Railways (NCR) headquartered in Prayagraj, officials said. “We have received the letter from the Railway Board and would be taking suitable steps as per their instructions,” Chief public relations officer (CPRO), NCR, Shivam Sharma said. At present 94 schools are run by Indian railways for education to children of railway employees as well as children of non-railway employees. In 2019, 15,399 wards of railway employees were enrolled in the schools against 34,277 students hailing from families not employed with railways. Indian Railways also supports 87 Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) where 33,212 railway wards and 5,386 non-railway wards are enrolled. Total number of railway wards in the age bracket of 4 to 18 years is 7,99,703 and of this only 2 per cent students attend railway schools, officals said quoting the recommendations, a copy of which is with HT. Geographically, the Railway schools aren’t necessarily concentrated in the most deprived parts of the country and have to compete with private schools which also exist now in places where there are railway colonies, the finance ministry recommendation states. As per those recommendations, operating railway schools takes up large amount of time of the railway management whose core competence is in running and maintaining the railway service. “Thus, we recommend minimizing this time of railway management in running schools, except where absolutely necessary,” the recommendation states. It has been recommended that wherever possible Railway schools be brought under KVS with a quota for the children of railway employees, which is the most preferred option. As per Sanyal’s recommendations where KVs does not have the capacity to run the railway schools, they could be handed over to respective state governments with the preference to children of railway employees. Besides where appropriate, Public Private Partnership (PPP) model may also be explored, it suggests. However, it adds that these schools might be continued in such remote areas where they are considered necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/railway-schools-to-be-brought-under-kvs-or-run-on-ppp-model-101633542175772.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports over 600 Covid cases after over 80 days||The city reported above 600 Covid-19 cases (624 infections) on Wednesday over 80 days after 619 infections were reported on July 14. This comes a day after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) maintained that any spike due to festivals and starting of seasonal migration cannot be completely ruled out.On Wednesday, the city reported 624 cases and seven deaths, taking the case tally to 746,703 and toll to 16,136. The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 722,636 recoveries. The fatality rate is 2.16% and there are 5,451 active cases. The city reported a 1.50% positivity rate on Wednesday, up from the trend of 0.90% to 1.40% since the past two weeks now.On Monday, reportedly, the BMC’s counsel Anil Sakhare informed the high court that the work is on (of vaccination) very smoothly. Now, there is no shortage of vaccines too. Mumbai is safe. We do not see a third wave (of the Covid-19) coming. However, the BMC has said any spike further cannot be ruled out.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, on Tuesday had told HT, “”The situation right now in the city is very comfortable and it is maybe safe considering we are able to handle the caseload very well and there is adequate health infrastructure to handle cases. However, we cannot completely rule out any further spike. There are festivals upcoming, including Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali where there will be gatherings.”Kakani added, “We cannot make any claim that a third wave will not come. In Ahmednagar district, several villages are facing a spike and we cannot claim anything on the above lines. We have to remain cautious and continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, and get vaccinated, considering it is definitely helping control the spread.”On the other hand, experts had indicated that there can be a spike due to almost complete unlocking, but there will not be any third wave, but a steady spike in the number of cases.Further, when it comes to Maharashtra, the trend indicates a decline in the second wave of Covid-19, Maharashtra’s weekly positivity rate has declined to 2.07% from last week’s 2.11%. In addition, there is no district which has a positivity rate of more than 5%, indicating that Covid-19 is under control. The positivity rate is a crucial metric that shows how widespread the virus is in the community and also provides an idea of the ability of the region to contain the virus. It is the proportion of the total tests that turn positive in that region. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that this should remain below 5% for an outbreak to be considered under control.Maharashtra currently has 11 districts, which have positivity rates above the state average of 2.07%. These include Sindhudurg (4.71%), Pune (3.59%), Nashik (3.29%), Ahmednagar (3.03%), Satara (2.94%), Palghar (2.81%), Ratnagiri (2.69%), Osmanabad (2.64%), Sangli (2.30 %) and Thane (2.11%).Similarly, 11 districts have Covid-19 growth rate higher than the state average of 0.044 %. These include Ahmednagar (0.152%) Palghar (0.112%), Raigad (0.106%), Sindhudurg (0.105%), Mumbai (0.078%), Ratnagiri (0.075%), Satara (0.075%), Sangli (0.082%), , Osmanabad (0.078%), Solapur (0.116%) and Pune (0.066%). Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force and director, critical care, Fortis Hospital, Mulund, said the cases are declining. “Although the number of cases is going down, the process is taking time. Currently, we need to keep close watch and be proactive by taking timely action whenever we witness a surge,” said Dr Pandit. The state cabinet expressed apprehensions on the growing cases in districts like Ahmednagar and Pune. It said that local administration should be instructed to take steps to reduce the numbers. Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, credits the vaccination process and various proactive steps taken responsible for the decline of cases. “Vaccination has played a major role in blunting the effects of the virus and also reducing the death rates,” said Dr Mandot. “However, we should not let our guard down on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 2,876 Covid-19 new cases and 90 deaths. The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,567,791. There were 150,584 tests done on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 2763.The total active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 33,181, while the total deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 139,362. There are currently 33,181 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 8,929 patients followed by Mumbai and Ahmednagar with 5,451 and 4,186 active patients respectively. The death toll has now reached 139,362 with Pune leading with 19,495 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 16,136 and Thane with 11,382.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-over-600-covid-cases-after-over-80-days-101633542122677.html
06-10-2021||Pune||PMRDA development schemes to boost housing sector, employment in and around Pune||The research analysis of Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority’s (PMRDA) proposed development plan by Credai Pune Metro shows it will boost the real estate sector as the number of residences in and around Pune will increase by 13.3 lakh by 2041.The cluster development will not only make Pune the best city in India to live in, but also accelerate the social and economic development of the locals in the area as at least 26 lakh employment opportunities will also be created during the time, as per the analysis.The findings of the research analysis by CredaiI-Pune Metro on the development plan were presented during a recently held programme of Credai Pune Metro.Ranjit Naiknavare, vice-president, Credai Pune, said, “The development plan for 2021-2041 prepared recently under the leadership of Suhas Diwase, PMRDA commissioner, and his team is commendable and futuristic. The cluster structure of Urban Growth Centre (UGC) and Rural Growth Centre (RGC) in the plan is important and will make Pune a bigger city than Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA).“A total of 6,914 sq km (11 times the size of Singapore) was surveyed by air and satellite for the plan and data on land features, topography, built up area, expansion of urban and rural areas was collected. From all these factors, it is estimated that by 2041, 13.3 lakh homes and 26 lakh employment opportunities will be available in the area. This will be the largest development plan and if successful, Pune will be considered as the best city to live in,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmrda-development-schemes-to-boost-housing-sector-employment-in-and-around-pune-101633541995905.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||With quarantine or Covid-19 vaccination centres on premises, over 20 municipal schools yet to restart||Three days after all schools in the city restarted classes 8 to 12, about 20-25 municipal schools had still not opened until Wednesday, as they have vaccination or quarantine centres in the premises. The schools are likely to open from Monday onwards. In its circular issued last Wednesday, instructing schools to start from October 4, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) asked all assistant commissioners of the 24 administrative wards in the city, to find alternate feasible premises to shift quarantine or vaccination centres that were housed in municipal schools. There were 16 municipal schools that had quarantine centres and 35 that had vaccination centres. These were to be moved to nearest municipal amenities centres, such as marriage halls. However, in some cases, officials were not able to find alternate locations, and about 20-25 schools did not start on Monday this week. “It is more difficult to find alternate locations for vaccination centres and quarantine centres in schools located in slums, because there are no buildings as such nearby. In such cases, we have identified municipal open spaces and are constructing mandaps on them with tarpaulin and tin sheets to start vaccination centres. Now that monsoon is almost over, this is feasible,” a senior civic official said. On Wednesday, Marathi and Hindi medium schools had a holiday due to pitrupaksha, and English and Urdu medium schools were working. On Tuesday, attendance dropped in BMC schools in comparison to Monday. According to figures from BMC, 30,250 students attended schools on Monday, while 23,162 students attended on Tuesday. A total of 755 municipal schools have restarted and operated classes on all three days this week. Data for Wednesday was being updated till the end of the day. A senior civic official said, “It is early to say attendance has dropped. It may be fluctuating, as many schools are taking different classes on alternate days. So attendance of students may vary grade wise. By the end of the week, the picture will become clearer.” Principals of municipal schools have started conducting awareness sessions with parents and students and informing them about the safety measures being taken within the school premises, so more students get permission from parents to attend school. While attendance is not mandatory, all students require consent letters from parents to attend school. On Wednesday, 7,332 students attended schools, as only English and Urdu medium schools were open. Marathi and Hindi medium schools had a holiday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-quarantine-or-covid-19-vaccination-centres-on-premises-over-20-municipal-schools-yet-to-restart-101633541699171.html
06-10-2021||Pune||PMC to develop equal value infrastructure to get defence land for Chandani chowk flyover project||To complete the Chandani chowk flyover project, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has got land from the Defence Ministry. Now, PMC has decided to depute project consultants to complete equal value infrastructure work which National Defence Academy (NDA) wants the corporation to complete.As per the agreement in 2015, the PMC would provide land to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for the project. NHAI has divided the project into two phases so that PMC gets time to acquire the 11.4 hectares of land to start work out of the total 13 hectares of land needed for the project. The cost of the project is around ₹400 crore and it has been spent by NHAI.PMC needs defence land of 0.48 hectares for Chandani chowk flyover. It is under the control of the NDA. It is almost 1.5 kilometres from the academy’s main entrance, on the Mumbai-Bangalore national highway.Indrabhan Randive, executive engineer, project department of PMC, said, “ The cost of land is around ₹16.88 crore. The defence has given working permission to start work on a flyover on their land. The Defence Ministry is ready to hand over land to PMC on the equal value land. The Defence Ministry has given a proposal to the PMC to develop infrastructure. Instead of money, they want the civic body to develop infrastructure.”He further said, “We have decided to depute consultants who will develop infrastructure as per defence requirement.”Earlier, NHAI was ready to pay the land cost to the Defence Ministry to speed up the work and the corporation will give the same amount of land cost to NHAI. The PMC general body meeting also passed a proposal according to the same. Later, it was changed. The Defence Ministry proposed to develop an equal value infrastructure. After that, NHAI requested the corporation to develop infrastructure as they are expertise in road construction.Finally, the corporation showed a positive response and agreed to develop infrastructure as per the requirement of the Defence Ministry.On August 27, 2017, Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari laid the foundation stone of the project. It is one of the ambitious projects of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the city. The project is implemented by the NHAI. To build the flyover at Chandni Chowk — which is a connecting point for the Hinjewadi IT Park and also includes stretches of the Mumbai-Bangalore bypass, Mulshi road, Paud road and Pashan road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-develop-equal-value-infrastructure-to-get-defence-land-for-chandani-chowk-flyover-project-101633541335819.html
06-10-2021||Bhopal||MP CM Chouhan thanks PM Modi for gifting India with ‘Swamitva Yojana’||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for gifting the nation with the Swamitva Yojana. Chouhan called PM Modi ‘a man of ideas’ ahead of the virtual programme where PM Modi addressed 171,000 villagers across 3,000 villages and 19 districts of Madhya Pradesh while distributing the rights records under Swamitva Yojana to them.PM Modi distributed rights records and interacted virtually with the concerned beneficiaries of Harda, Dindori and Sehore districts.“The Prime Minister is a man of ideas. Before him, no one had noticed that the land in the village should be given ownership, there was no paper, so the land had no meaning. But today, when the ownership of that land is being received in the form of a letter of authority, we have now seen that land can be availed in many ways,” Chouhan said ahead of the virtual event.Chouhan also congratulated PM Modi on completing 20 years of service as the head of a government.PM Modi while addressing the beneficiaries said the soul of India resides in its villages. “I am satisfied that the economically weaker people in Madhya Pradesh are getting the ownership papers of their land easily. Citizens are being empowered and made self-dependent by giving them ownership rights over inhabited land. I believe that rights records will be available in all the villages soon in Madhya Pradesh,” PM Modi said.“The strength of the villages of India is in their land. People are not using it for their development. They have to face disputes, fights and many difficulties. Gandhiji had also expressed concern about this situation. It is our responsibility to make improvements in this area,” PM Modi further added.Chouhan highlighted that the Swamitva Yojana empowered the villagers of the country. “While the records of land would be available to the villagers, on the basis of these records with the implementation of the Swamitva Yojana in the country, the villagers would now be able to take loans from the bank for building a house or opening a shop,” Chouhan said.Chouhan dedicated 380 solar-powered Anganwadi buildings in Harda district on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-cm-chouhan-thanks-pm-modi-for-gifting-india-with-swamitva-yojana-101633540454700.html
06-10-2021||Pune||First Pune Metro coach arrives from Italy in Mumbai||The first metro coach for Pune Metro arrived from Italy to Mumbai by sea on Wednesday. After clearing customs formalities, the metro coach will arrive in Pune.Pune Metro has given an order for 34 metro trains which have three coaches each and a total of 102 coaches.The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) has given the order to Titagarh Firema, which is the wholly-owned Italian subsidiary of Titagarh Wagons Limited, and will provide 102 aluminium-bodied coaches to Pune Metro.Currently, Pune Metro is using Nagpur Metro’s train for trails.Brijesh Dixit, managing director, Maha-Metro, said, “The company will manufacture 25 per cent of coaches at their plant in Italy and 75 per cent will be produced and commissioned at the Maha-Metro coach manufacturing plant in Kolkata.”“Aluminium body coaches being lighter, are more energy-efficient and have better aesthetics. Manufacturing of aluminium body coaches will be a game-changer in the Indian metros,” said Dixit.According to Maha-Metro press release, “Initially trains in Pune Metro will consist of three coaches which will be subsequently converted into six coaches as per traffic requirement. These coaches would be fully air-conditioned and have a digital route and station display. The coaches will have 100 per cent CCTV coverage.”Each metro train has 970 passengers capacity and each metro coach can accommodate 320 commuters. Each coach has space to park a wheelchair facility which would be used by disabled people.Features of coaches- Aluminium body- CCTV coverage- Emergency/panic button- Passengers able to communicate with driver/operator- Physically challenged passengers can travel seamlessly with space earmarked for wheelchairs- Mobile and laptop charging facility- Coaches will be ergonomically and aerodynamically designed with the coach exterior reflecting the history and culture of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad- Coaches will be fit for a maximum speed of 95kmph- Coaches can accommodate 970 passengers- Lighter and energy-efficient with better aesthetics||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/first-pune-metro-coach-arrives-from-italy-in-mumbai-101633540555676.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Question isn't who was there or not there’: Devendra Fadnavis hits back at NCP’s claims||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis hit back at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik’s allegations that the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) is being “used by the BJP to malign the Maharashtra government and Bollywood”. Fadnavis insisted that the issue is of drugs and not any political affiliation.“The question isn't who was there or not there; if they were affiliated with BJP or not. Question is whether a drug party was going on in the cruise, and if indeed it was, would Nawab Malik support it, why doesn’t he talk about that,?” Fadnavis told reporters on Wednesday.“Evidence says drugs were coming in and a drug party was going on the cruise,” he added.Popular Bollywood star Shahrukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested by NCB from the cruise along with Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha on Sunday after it carried out a raid in a cruise off the coast of Mumbai.Fadnavis also claimed that Malik has been criticising NCB because it “arrested his direct relative in a drug-related case”. The leader of the Opposition was referring to the arrest of Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan in connection with the seizure of 200 kilograms of marijuana after the agency arrested British national Karan Sejnani from Khar and two sisters Rahila and Shaista Furniturewala from Bandra on January 9.Khan and his co-accused were granted bail by a special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on September 27, after his counsel argued that substances seized from Khan were only tobacco and herbal products and not covered under the NDPS Act.Malik alleged on Wednesday that the two men seen escorting Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant to NCB’s Mumbai office were private individuals and not officers. He said at a press conference in Mumbai that one of the men is Manish Bhanushali who claims to be a BJP office-bearer and the other is KP Gosawi, who claims to be a private detective based out of Kualalumpur. He also played a recording of Khan and Merchant’s arrest.“According to the Bhanushali’s Facebook page, he is a BJP vice president and has photos with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP chief JP Nadda and other senior leaders including those from Maharashtra such as Devendra Fadnavis and Ashish Shelar,” Malik told reporters at party headquarters at Ballard Pier in South Mumbai.NCB deputy director-general Gyaneshwar Singh, however, told reporters that both Bhanushali and Gosawi were two of the nine independent witnesses and the agency had carried out the raid while following proper legal provisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/question-isn-t-who-was-there-or-not-there-devendra-fadnavis-hits-back-at-ncp-s-claims-101633540236373.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Belapur to Uran railway line will open for passengers in September 2022||Mumbai’s fourth suburban railway line between Belapur and Uran will be opened for passengers in September 2022. The Central Railway (CR), which is undertaking the construction of the second phase of the new suburban railway corridor Belapur-Uran railway project, announced on Wednesday. The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) provided nearly 3km of land for construction of the project in September and construction of the corridor is ongoing. The zonal railway has completed 75% work on the railway line. Once completed, the railway corridor will facilitate a direct commute between Mumbai and Uran and will connect to the new Navi Mumbai international airport and Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT). The first phase of the project between Belapur and Kharkopar (12.5 km) railway stations started in November 2018. The railway line received sanction in 1967. The estimated cost of the Belapur-Uran railway project is ₹1,782 crore and the project is being undertaken on a cost-sharing basis, of which 66% is being borne by City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) and 33% by the Central Railway. “The work involves construction on a rocky terrain and we plan to complete it as soon as possible. The railway line will be commissioned in September 2022,” said Anil Kumar Lahoti, general manager, Central Railway. The second phase is being constructed between Kharkopar and Uran railway stations. Five railway stations are being constructed along the railway line. The construction work of Gavhan, Ranjanpada, Nhava Sheva, Dronagiri and Uran railway stations are being done. A rail over rail (ROR) is also being constructed between Gavhan and Ranjanpada railway stations. The zonal railway will be launching girders for construction of ROR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-belapur-to-uran-railway-line-will-open-for-passengers-in-september-2022-101633540075697.html
06-10-2021||Lucknow||Chief minister flags off NSG’s car rally in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath flagged off the Suderashan Bharat Parikrama, a car rally of the National Security Guard (NSG), from 1090 crossing in Lucknow as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, on Wednesday.The rally was launched in Delhi on October 2 by union home minister Amit Shah.The car rally will pass through 18 cities in 12 states covering a distance of 7,500 km in 29 days. It will go through Lucknow, Varanasi, Vijaywada, Hyderabad, Chennai, Mumbai and Jaipur among other cities before concluding in New Delhi. The chief minister praised the courage of NSG personnel during critical situations. “The NSG has helped the country in critical moments with its bravery and dedication. It has helped to remove environment of fear and terror in the society,” he said.He went on to praise the police and paramilitary forces of the country and said the new generations must be taught about the “cost of freedom” by informing them about our freedom fighters.Director general of UP police Mukul Goyal and director general of NSG MA Gadgit attended the event along with other officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/chief-minister-flags-off-nsg-s-car-rally-in-lucknow-101633539836655.html
06-10-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand Congress workers led by chief Rajesh Thakur leave for Lakhimpur Kheri||Congress workers led by Jharkhand unit chief Rajesh Thakur left for Lakhimpur-Kheri in Uttar Pradesh to support farmers and their leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi. Thakur said he would be joined by state ministers Banna Gupta and Badal Patralekh besides legislators and scores of party office bearers and workers. “We are going there to support the farmers and strengthen the protest being led by our leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi. The Uttar Pradesh government has been resorting to diversionary tactics from the farmers’ protest but we will not allow them to do that,” Thakur told reporters before leaving for UP. Thakur claimed the Uttar Pradesh government was forced to set Priyanka Gandhi free from house arrest as they started feeling the heat when Congress workers began arriving in Lakhimpur-Kheri from across the country. Reacting to the development, the BJP described it as ‘political tourism’ of the Congress ministers. “State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh is very concerned about farmers in Uttar Pradesh, but he is least bothered about dues to farmers against paddy procurement and black marketing of fertilisers in Jharkhand,” Jharkhand BJP general secretary Aditya Sahu told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-congress-workers-led-by-chief-rajesh-thakur-leave-for-lakhimpur-kheri-101633539475841.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Return personal staff to parent units: Punjab DGP to transferred cops||All Punjab Police officers have been directed to return the personnel who moved with them to their new postings back to the parent district or unit. Officiating director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota issued the orders to all police unit heads in the state and officers posted out of Punjab on October 5. In the letter, Sahota mentioned that it has been observed that some police officers on being transferred also take along their personal staff to the new station or unit. “This practice leads to a number of administrative problems and it needs to be discontinued in the interest of professional propriety,” stated the letter. It further said that all such personnel taken along without proper authorisation, except the officer’s security detail, should report to their respective parent districts or units immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/return-personal-staff-to-parent-units-punjab-dgp-to-transferred-cops-101633539295353.html
06-10-2021||Patna||EoU raids house of mining official in Patna||The Bihar Police’s economic offences unit (EOU) Wednesday searched the house of an assistant director of mining department who has been accused of conniving with the sand mafia and booked into a disproportionate assets case.According to the press release issued by the EOU, search was going on in the house of Sanjay Kumar, who joined service in 1987 and resides at Arya Kumar Road in Patna. “During investigation, the EOU found that Kumar had invested money in real estate and owns two flats in Noida of Uttar Pradesh, besides a shop at Khaitan marketin Patna,” said the release.During the search, the EOU also found a bank deposit of ₹1.58 crore in the account of Kumar and his wife, who had 16 saving accounts in different banks. Kumar has also been accused of amassing wealth worth ₹1.29 crore, which is 51 per cent more than his known sources of income, the EOU has said.A case of disproportionate assets was registered against Kumar by EOU on October 5 under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/eou-raids-house-of-mining-official-in-patna-101633539055542.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Post-monsoon thundershowers prevail as temperature continues to rise in Mumbai||A post-monsoon thunderstorm was witnessed over Mumbai starting 5:30pm on Tuesday, depositing light to moderate showers across the city and suburbs, while more intense showers were felt around the same time in central Mumbai and Navi Mumbai. Daytime temperature, meanwhile, continued to climb, touching 35.1°Celsius (C) on Wednesday, breaching last year’s record for the month. In October 2020, the city had recorded a maximum temperature of 35°C on the 10th, 28th and 29th of the month. The highest October temperature was recorded at 38.6°C in 2015. The city has recorded above normal daytime temperature for four straight days now. On Tuesday and Wednesday, the mercury remained at 34.5°C. “It is not expected to fall below 35°C over the next week unless there are daytime showers to break the heat,” said a spokesperson with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.Meanwhile, occasional thundershowers and moderate rain, along with partly cloudy skies, are expected to prevail till at least October 12, as per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) seven-day forecast for its monitoring station in Santacruz.As forecast by the IMD earlier this week, the delayed withdrawal of the southwest monsoon began on Wednesday from some parts of India, including Gujarat and Rajasthan. While the monsoon is expected to withdraw entirely from north India in the next three to four days, it will linger over parts of central India and Maharashtra, including Mumbai, for about another week. “The withdrawal of monsoon over the city still seems unlikely before October 15. Till then, post-monsoon showers will happen once in a while,” said the official.Train services disruptedOwing to heavy rainfall and thunderstorm in the city, local train services on the main and trans-harbour line of Central Railway (CR) were impacted on Wednesday. On the trans-harbour railway route, train services were disrupted due to electric supply on the overhead wires near Airoli railway station on Wednesday evening. On the main line, local train services were functional between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan, but were disrupted between Kalyan and Karjat and Karjat and Kasara railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/postmonsoon-thundershowers-prevail-as-temperature-continues-to-rise-in-mumbai-101633538755533.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab transport policy in limbo for three years||Three years after its notification, the state transport policy has been implemented only in bits and pieces in Punjab. The transport department is now planning to come up with a revised policy after taking feedback from all stakeholders.The policy notified in 2018 mainly envisaged streamlining of bus operations, of both private and state transport undertakings, and curtailing unhealthy competition that results in speeding and unauthorised stoppages.Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, convener, PRTC-linked trade unions, said the main component of the transport policy was to digitise timetables of private and government buses.The policy clearly stated that to curb unhealthy competition, which causes discomfort to passengers on board and threatens road safety, a computerised timetable and roster of movement will be introduced within one year.“Nothing has been done so far in this regard, as private players continue to flout manual time tables, leading to losses to state undertakings,” said Dhaliwal.Among other key components, the policy stated that public and private operators should install global positioning system (GPS) and radio frequency identification tags in order to enable monitoring of their entry and exit at bus stands, adherence to routes, speed, stoppages and regularity of service. With an eye on safety and security of passengers, operators were also required to install CCTV cameras and panic buttons in buses. Dhaliwal said the transport authorities should conduct a field survey to check the implementation.Overhaul in the offingAmrinder Singh Raja Warring, the newly inducted transport minister, said the policy requires an overhaul, for which he has already instructed senior officials to gather feedback. “Officials have been instructed to ensure implementation of the timetable and roster at bus stands , while the whole process will be digitised soon,” said Warring.The minister said the department is also finalising working hours for drivers. “In case of an accident, the driver will have to go through a proper medical process and orientation programme for three months under the revised policy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-transport-policy-in-limbo-for-three-years-101633538695513.html
06-10-2021||Patna||Regulate dispersal of students, Patna district admn tells schools||In a bid to ensure effective implementation of Covid-19 guidelines at private schools, the Patna district administration on Wednesday instructed all schools to regulate dispersal of students during lunch break. Besides, divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal also instructed the district education officer to enforce Covid-19 guidelines at all city schools. “Private schools have been asked to disperse 50% of students at a time and another half after a gap of 15 minutes. Students of classes 1 to 5 can be released first, followed by classes 6 to 12. Similarly, a gap of 15 minutes is mandatory during lunch hour, so that all students do not rush in the campus together,” Agarwal said, adding that similar closing time of schools also leads to huge traffic jam in various localities.This comes after several parents complained to the district administration about alleged violation of Covid-19 protocols at schools, as a huge crowd of students and guardians was spotted every day near school premises during dispersal. Private schools can formulate internal plans for regulating crowd inside and outside their premises, said the divisional commissioner. All schools in the state are functional at full strength after the state government allowed their reopening for classes 9 to 12 from August 6, and for classes 1 to 8 from August 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/regulate-dispersal-of-students-patna-district-admn-tells-schools-101633538155330.html
06-10-2021||Patna||Man injured in police lathicharge in Patna dies||Angry residents of Malahi Pakari in Patna on Wednesday blocked the main road in the locality and disrupted traffic movement for about six hours after the death of a tea stall owner who was injured in a lathicharge during an anti-encroachment drive to clear land for the Patna metro project on Tuesday. Police on Tuesday resorted to lathicharge after people refused to remove encroachment from the government land. Locals allegedly pelted stones at the police. One of the injured, identified as tea stall owner Rajesh Thakur (36), was taken to a private nursing home, where he died during treatment on Tuesday night. As the news of the death spread, irate locals took to streets. A team of police officers and administration officials rushed to the spot with additional forces to bring the situation under control. After six hours, locals agreed to lift the blockade when the administration agreed to fulfil their demands, including compensation, a government job for the next of kin of the deceased and rehabilitation of people whose huts and shops were removed for the metro project. The administration paid ₹20,000 for performing last rites of Thakur, said a police officer.About 20 huts had encroached government land at Malahi Pakari area, where about 100 families used to stay. The Patna municipal corporation had issued notices to people to remove their belongings.Naveen Kumar, subdivisional officer (Patna Sadar), said, “The administration on Wednesday provided benefits under the government scheme to the kin of deceased for last rites. The body was sent to the PMCH for autopsy. I saw a video of Tuesday’s incident. However, there was nothing to prove that the deceased was injured. We will look into the matter after the autopsy is done.” CPI-ML MLA Mehboob Alam staged a dharna at Malahi Pakri, demanding compensation for the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-injured-in-police-lathicharge-in-patna-dies-101633537615387.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||One in seven patients missed cancer surgery during lockdowns: Lancet study||One in seven patients missed planned cancer surgery during the lockdown, a new study published in The Lancet Oncology has found. While immediate and short-term outcomes were not compromised, there could be a reduction in long-term survival among patients, who had delayed or cancelled surgeries, the study said. A cohort of 20,006 patients, including 1,566 from India, with 15 types of cancers was followed up for the study. These patients were under treatment in 466 hospitals across 61 countries and had a decision for curative surgery during the pandemic. They were followed up until the point of surgery or till they stopped the follow-up up to August 31, 2020. “Of eligible patients awaiting surgery, 2003 or 10% of 20,006 did not receive surgery after a median follow-up of 23 weeks, all of whom had a Covid-related reason given for non-operation,” said the study led by experts from the University of Birmingham. As many as 5,000 surgeons and anaesthetists from across the world collaborated on it. Of the 2,003 non-operated patients, 453 patients were formally re-staged and 179 had progressed to unresectable disease. At least 48 patients died before their planned surgery – 14 due to Covid related complications and 34 due to non-Covid related causes. It was observed that increasing cases of Covid-19 were associated with increased rates of non-operation. Both moderate and full lockdowns were consistently associated with an increased likelihood of non-operation. “Accessing healthcare facilities was difficult for patients during lockdown restrictions,” said Dr Shailesh Shrikhande, deputy director of Mumbai’s Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH) and one of the collaborators in the study. “There was also fear about Covid-19 infection and lack of information among patients that may have resulted in the delay,” he said. TMH is one of the biggest cancer centres in the country that registered an average of 80,000 new patients annually before the pandemic. In 2020, when the pandemic hit Mumbai, TMH saw a decline in footfall with 62,000 registrations. The hospital, however, took the lead in starting elective surgeries amid the pandemic, by scientifically and strategically choosing patients. “Cancer will not wait for Covid-19 to disappear. We have to therefore plan our hospitals well and triage well in order to face such challenges in the future,” said Shrikhande. He said that even as the Mumbai centre recorded a decline in registrations, newly developed hospitals under the Tata Memorial Centre in other cities recorded an uptick during the pandemic. This suggested that patients opted to get treatment at local or nearest centres as travelling to Mumbai was difficult due to the lockdown. Dr Nikhil Agrawal, a gastrointestinal cancer surgeon at Max Superspeciality Hospital in Delhi, also a collaborator to the Lancet study, said, “We should strengthen our cancer care delivery pathways for future shocks like the Covid-19 pandemic.”From operating nearly 200 patients a month, the surgical oncology department at Max Superspeciality Hospital came down to performing only about 10% to 20% of procedures when the pandemic hit in 2020. “As we got to know more about the virus and the infection, we put systems in place and the number of operations slowly went back to the normal average,” said Agrawal, adding the surgery numbers were again affected during the second wave when Delhi struggled with Intensive Care Unit beds and oxygen supply. The Lancet study, too, emphasised the need to strengthen the resilience of elective surgery systems. “In order to prevent further harm during future lockdowns, we must make the systems around elective surgery more resilient – protecting elective surgery beds and operating theatre space, and properly resourcing ‘surge’ capacity for periods of high demand on the hospital, whether that is Covid, the flu or other public health emergencies,” James Glasbey, co-lead author of the study from the University of Birmingham said in a media release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-in-seven-patients-missed-cancer-surgery-during-lockdowns-lancet-study-101633537135259.html
06-10-2021||Kolkata||Rain likely during Durga Puja in south Bengal; northern parts to enjoy fair weather||Rain and thundershowers could hit Kolkata and other districts of south Bengal during the Durga Puja days, the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday. IMD officials said that a low pressure area is likely to form over the north Andaman Sea around October 10. It would move towards the coast of south Odisha and north Andhra Pradesh over the next four to five days. “Chances of rainfall activity over the districts of south Bengal, including Kolkata and its adjoining areas, are likely to increase between October 13 and October 15. There could be light to moderate rainfall in Kolkata, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas, East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly during that period,” said a senior IMD official in Kolkata. Durga Puja is the biggest annual festival in West Bengal. Mahalaya, which marks the beginning of the Durga Puja festivities in the state, was celebrated on Wednesday, while the Durga Puja would be held this year from October 11 to October 15. Immersion would start from the afternoon of October 15 and would continue till October 17. Officials also said while there are chances of scattered rain and thundershowers in Kolkata and other districts of south Bengal between October 6 and October 8, from October 9 to October 12 the weather is likely to remain fair over south Bengal and chances of rain are less. In north Bengal the weather would remain fair from October 9 to October 15. Durga Puja will be celebrated in a muted manner for the second consecutive year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Calcutta high court has banned the entry of visitors inside Durga puja pandals once again this year to check the spread of the viral disease. While at least 36,000 community pujas are held across the state, in Kolkata alone 2500 community pujas are held by various clubs. These are just the clubs that are registered with the state government. This apart there are pujas held in housing societies and residences. There are around 1500 pujas which are organised by women only. The state government too has issued a series of guidelines based on the high court orders. The puja carnival which is held during the immersion has been cancelled this year, while puja committees have been directed not to organise any cultural programs. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee inaugurated some of the big puja pandals on Wednesday. “Please wear a mask when you go for pandal hopping. Puja committees should distribute masks to visitors,” she said while inaugurating a puja pandal in south Kolkata.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/rain-likely-during-durga-puja-in-south-bengal-northern-parts-to-enjoy-fair-weather-101633536895338.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: DRDO scientist becomes latest target of thieves||Thieves targeted the house of a DRDO scientist when he was out with his children and took away two gold chains, one diamond ring, one pair of ear stud, souvenirs, including one golden satellite and a coin with ISRO printed on it, besides five pairs of silver bangle, one silver glass and ₹15,000 on October 5, police said on Wednesday. The victim is Yugal Kishore Joshi of Sector 29, who works as a scientist in the Terminal Ballistics Research Laboratory of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). A case under sections 380 and 454 of the IPC has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. School director loses ₹30,000 as her driver falls for currency bait Another theft was reported by Devi Singh, who works as a driver for Spring Dale School in Amritsar’s Nangli. He told the police that he had brought Kirat Sandhu, one of the directors of the school, to Chandigarh and was waiting for her at a parking lot in Sector-9 inner market. “A man knocked at my SUV’s window and pointed towards a few currency notes of ₹20 denomination scattered on the ground. As I got down to pick them up, someone stole the director’s purse from the vehicle,” he told the police. The purse carried ₹30,000, an iPhone, sunglasses, and other valuables. An FIR has been registered. Theft at ayurvedic clinic: FIR registered Further action was taken on the theft complaint lodged by Dr Rajeshwari of Sector 55, who runs an ayurvedic clinic in Sector 41-D. She had alleged that ₹60,000, two pukhraj rings, two golden and silver rings, as many golden chains and other items were stolen from her clinic on September 17. The police had initially filed a DDR and after verification, an FIR was registered under Section 380 of the IPC at the Sector-39 police station. Nayagaon resident’s mobile phone snatched Brijlal, 53, of Nayagaon in Mohali complained that three motorcycle-borne persons snatched his mobile phone from Maloya in Chandigarh on October 5. The police have registered a case under Section 379A of the IPC. One lands in police netA Ram Darbar resident was caught while stealing an iron frame from Ramesh Steel Industries in the Industrial Area. The accused is Ravi, 31, who was arrested on the complaint of Ajay Pathaniya. A case under sections 379 and 411 of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-drdo-scientist-becomes-latest-target-of-thieves-101633536295157.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Man arrested for sexually assaulting teenage daughter in Ulhasnagar||The Central police in Ulhasnagar have arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly sexually assaulting his teenage daughter repeatedly for the last two months.Police said that the matter came to light on October 2 when the 15-year-old victim and her mother registered a complaint.“A statement was recorded and an FIR was registered immediately. The accused was arrested on the same day,” senior police inspector, Sudhakar Suradkar, Central police station, said.An officer who is part of the investigation added that according to the victim’s statement, the sexual assault was being committed since August this year.“The victim has said that the accused first forced himself on her under the influence of alcohol in August and then repeated the same whenever he was inebriated and alone in the house with the victim. He threatened to harm her as well as her mother if she told anyone about the matter,” the officer said.The victim, however, realised that her silence would only make matters worse and took her mother into confidence, after which her mother took her to the police station.The accused was charged with rape and criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. He was first remanded in police custody till Wednesday, and then to judicial custody, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-teenage-daughter-in-ulhasnagar-101633535395233.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||One-fourths of beneficiaries in Thane district get vaccination against Covid from private centres||Out of the 69,94,801 beneficiaries vaccinated in Thane district so far, around 18 lakh availed the vaccination at private centres. This means 25.73% got vaccinated at the private centres in the district.On a daily basis, Thane district has more than 300 government vaccination centres. A senior officer from the district health department, Thane, said, “Individual municipal corporations are conducting special drives to vaccinate as many as possible with at least the first dose of vaccination. This has led to an increase in the number of government vaccinations.“Moreover, we have now increased the number of walk-in facilities for vaccination. Online booking is not feasible for all. This has also added to the increase in the number of government vaccinations across the district. Besides, all those who could avail the paid facility have mostly completed the process in the initial months itself.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/onefourths-of-beneficiaries-in-thane-district-get-vaccination-against-covid-from-private-centres-101633534377868.html
06-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur incident:Police begin probe, urge people to share videos of violence||LUCKNOW With farmers’ groups and opposition leaders demanding arrest of Union minister of state for home Ajai Mishra’s son Ashish, the Lakhimpur police on Wednesday initiated a probe into Sunday’s violence that claimed eight lives, including four farmers.Ashish Mishra, along with his aides, had been accused of mowing down the protesting farmers and firing at them. The minister’s son was named in the FIR lodged by farmers in connection with the incident.A seven-member investigation committee constituted under an ASP rank officer visited the spot at Banbirpur village under Tikonia police station limits of Lakhimpur Kheri late on Wednesday evening. Some people were questioned, but so far no arrest was made, said a senior police official.He said the committee examined the spot and started collecting evidences related to the incident. The panel led by ASP Arun Kumar Singh comprises two DySPs, three inspectors and a sub-inspector. He said the Lakhimpur Kheri police also issued a helpline number (9454403800) urging people to share videos, photographs or any information related to Sunday’s violence. The identity of people providing information will be kept secret, said the officer, adding that the information could also be shared on the e-mail Id: spkhi-up@nic.in.The official also appealed to Netizens to not share any unverified or unauthenticated videos/photographs related to the incident. “In fact, they could share such videos with the police,” he added. On Sunday, eight people were killed in Tikunia area of UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district, where violence and arson broke out after a vehicle allegedly ran over protesting farmers. The farmers alleged that son of a minister was in the vehicle.Tikonia is nearly 70 km from Lakhimpur Kheri district headquarters and very close to the India-Nepal border.The violence broke out minutes ahead of UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Banbirpur village under Tikonia police station limits. The incident took place on Tikonia-Banbirpur road when the farmers protesting against farm bills blocked the road to oppose the deputy CM’s visit and show black flags got infuriated after two SUVs – reportedly belonging to BJP workers – hit them, leaving a number of farmers seriously injured. In retaliation, the infuriated farmers set on fire two SUVs besides thrashing people in the cavalcade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-incident-police-begin-probe-urge-people-to-share-videos-of-violence-101633532875652.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation will set up various projects on plots reserved so as to prevent encroachments||With increasing encroachments on reserved plots, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has claimed that it would develop its reserved plots for the various projects they are meant for.Preference would also be given to open spaces, especially playgrounds. As per the KDMC records, there are 153 such plots in all that have been reserved for different amenities like gardens, town halls, commercials, libraries, hospitals, parking lots, entertainment centres, markets, houses for the poor and sports complexes.The immediate focus is utilising some of the plots to develop grounds for kabaddi players who have been demanding one for a long time.“The plots that are reserved with the civic body will be utilised for the benefit of the public. Some of the plots will be developed as a ground for kabaddi players. Apart from this, tree plantation will also be emphasised on these plots that are reserved with us,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, KDMC commissioner.“It’s high time the civic body provided more playgrounds or sports complexes for the citizens of Kalyan-Dombivli. There is a need to have a proper space for sports in the city for budding players,” said Amit Joshi, a 26-year-old kabaddi player from Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/the-kalyan-dombivli-municipal-corporation-will-set-up-various-projects-on-plots-reserved-so-as-to-prevent-encroachments-101633532704358.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 624 Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, highest single-day spike since July 14||Covid-19 cases in Mumbai breached the 600-mark on Wednesday after the city recorded 624 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day spike since July 14 when the city had reported 635 cases. The total number of cases in the financial capital now stands at 746,703, according to the state health department.Mumbai’s death toll also went up on Wednesday, as the city recorded seven fatalities, marking a jump from the two fatalities the city had recorded just a day before. The death toll currently stands at 16,136.Mumbai has been witnessing a gradual decline in the number of daily Covid-19 cases but breached the 500-mark on September 8, 15, 29 when 535, 515, and 525 new cases were recorded, respectively. On October 3, 573 cases were recorded in 24 hours.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) pegged the recovery rate in the capital at 97% after 540 people were discharged in the last 24 hours, up from the 525 discharged on Tuesday. The civic body has also estimated that between September 29 and October 5 the city has exhibited a Covid-19 case growth rate of 0.06%. BMC has also sealed 48 buildings in the city.The civic body has launched an ambitious vaccination drive to inoculate 10,000 individuals from vulnerable communities in Mumbai. The campaign which is being carried out in partnership with ChildFund India and city-based Surana hospital aims to vaccinate fisherfolks and other members of marginalised communities with both doses of Covishield free of cost.Maharashtra recorded 2,876 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, and 90 fatalities, pushing the total number of cases to 6,567,791 and the state’s death toll to 139,362.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-624-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-highest-single-day-spike-since-july-14-101633532118051.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 634 new Covid cases, 34 deaths||Pune: As of Wednesday, Pune district has reported 634 new Covid-19 cases and 34 deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.14 million of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,844 deaths and 8,929 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 40,000 doses vaccinated on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 327 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 360,502 and the death toll stood at 6,818 as 24 more deaths were reported on the day. Pune city reported 192 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 518,329 and the death toll went up to 9,178 as 10 more deaths were reported on the day. PCMC reported 115 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 267,016 and the toll stood at 3,499 as no more deaths were reported. Pune also saw 40,931 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Wednesday and in total 10,924,738. Out of which 7,315,461 are first doses and 3,609,277 are second doses. A total of 613 sites saw vaccination of which 416 were government centres and 197 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-634-new-covid-cases-34-deaths-101633532214356.html
06-10-2021||Other||Mafia terror bulldozed to create atmosphere of security in UP: Yogi||VARANASI Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said the BJP-led UP government ran a bulldozer on the terror of criminals and land mafia to create an atmosphere of security and this gave a new identity to the state. “If any mafia or criminal tried to grab property of any poor person or trader, we didn’t hesitate in bulldozing their terror and created an atmosphere of security in the state. This has given a new identity to UP,” he said while addressing a gathering in Chandauli district where he laid the foundation of a ₹274-crore government medical college that would be named after Baba Kinaram. The chief minister also laid foundation/inaugurated development schemes worth over ₹550 crore. Yogi said development projects worth over ₹800 crore were being initiated in Chandauli because people elected good representatives in 2017. “People, who were in power in UP from 2004 and 2017, didn’t do anything for development. They engaged in self development and filled the pockets of mafias and contractors from funds meant for development projects, instead of utilizing the money for UP’s development,” he alleged. “The medical college, which will be ready by November 2022, will produce doctors and also provide better medical care to locals. Youths will not have to go out of the district for medical education,” stated the CM. Yogi Adityanath said financial penalty would be slapped on the executing agency if did not complete the medical college project within the deadline. A medical college each would be ready in all 75 districts of the state by 2024. He said the state government also decided to give employment guarantee to youths. “Jobs were auctioned during the rule of SP and BSP. But his government ensured free and fair recruitment,” added Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mafia-terror-bulldozed-to-create-atmosphere-of-security-in-up-yogi-101633532154519.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Places of worship in Pune ready to reopen with raft of Covid safety measures||PUNE Enthusiasm and safety precautions mark the mood as religious places of worship in Pune open up for the public from Thursday, following a Maharashtra government order allowing the same. At the Saint Anne’s church in Solapur bazaar, preparations were on in full swing on Wednesday. Right from sanitising the church to setting up “colour-coded” seating arrangements, everything is about ensuring Covid safety norms. “In our church we have sanitised everything and are ready to open up from Thursday. We have a colour code for where people can, and cannot sit. And we have a huge number of volunteers for every service helping and monitoring the gathering,” said Father Malcolm Sequeira, Vicar General of the Poona Diocese. “Normally, on Sunday we have the maximum number of people coming to church, so on Sunday there are two services in the morning and one in the evening. There will be 15 volunteers for each of the services who will guide the person right from the moment s/he enters the gate, this includes checking of temperatures, sanitiser for hands and then seating arrangements,” he added. Advocate A Rehman, chairman of Kausarbag Mosque in Kondhwa area said, “We are happy to open up our mosque after such a long time and have already sanitised our premises . People will be allowed keeping social distancing for prayers and we will monitor the crowd, especially on Fridays. Apart from that, all the Covid guidelines given by the state government will be strictly followed.”Similarly, safety arrangements have been made at the Gurudwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha in Ganesh peth. A special prayer programme has been organised on Thursday morning. “We have made all the social distancing arrangements at the Gurudwara. Seating arrangements have been made keeping a distance of two feet. Without face mask and sanitising hands no one will be allowed entry. Every day we will sanitise the entire Gurudwara in the morning,” said Pritam Singh, manager of the Gurudwara. As the Navratri festival is also starting from Thursday, temples have also geared up to monitor crowds. There will be a large number of devotees coming to these temples all across the city. A prominent one is the Mahalaxmi temple near Sarasbaug. The decorations and safety arrangements have been made at the temple to open on Thursday. “We have given top priority to the safety and security of people coming for darshan during the nine days of Navratri. We have installed 35 CCTV cameras in and around the temple premises. All the priests in the temple are fully vaccinated. And for further precautions, no one will be allowed without a face mask inside the temple. We have appointed two health personnel in the temple to check devotees if anyone feels uneasy,” said Amita Agarwal, chief trustee of the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/places-of-worship-in-pune-ready-to-reopen-with-raft-of-covid-safety-measures-101633531554386.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Dabholkar murder trial: Judge to decide Covid-appropriate location||PUNE: The special Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) judge in Pune will decide in a week’s time whether the trial in the 2013 case of the murder of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar is to be held at the district court premises or Yerawada central jail - where three of the five accused are currently lodged. The judge said so on Wednesday during a hearing in the case built by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Special judge S R Navander asked special public prosecutor (SPP) Prakash Suryavanshi to submit a list of witnesses he would be examining. Whereas defense lawyer, advocate Suvarna Avhad-Vast, denied the list of documents submitted by the SPP during the last hearing. “I have submitted the list of documents. Now that they have been denied, I will have to prove the documents in court during the trial,” SPP Suryavanshi said. Judge Navander told SPP Suryavanshi, “We will decide during the next hearing. You make a programme and give it to the court (for witness examination).”The judge is considering using a bigger room in the court premises as an alternative in order to facilitate social distancing as the current courtroom has restricted space. The judge might also decide to hold the trial inside the jail. The judge said that these options are being considered as the defense wants the accused to be physically present when the trial begins.Three of the accused - Virendrasing Tawade, Sachin Andure, and Sharad Kalaskar – were shifted to Yerawada jail from different jails in the state for this purpose. The two other accused, advocate Sanjeev Punalekar and Vikram Bhave, are out on bail. While Punalekar is facing charges of destruction of evidence, all others are facing charges of terrorism, murder and criminal conspiracy. All have pleaded ‘not guilty’.Dabholkar was shot dead near Omkareshwar bridge in Pune at around 7.30am on August 20, 2013 while he was on a walk. Andure and Kalaskar have been accused of being the bike-borne shooters; Tawade has been accused of being the mastermind; Bhave has been accused of conducting the recee and providing the bike; while Punalekar has been accused of advising Kalaskar to throw the weapon away.Advocate Avhad-Vast also rekindled the issue of an article written by advocate Nihal Singh Rathod published in a well-read Marathi daily. After the last hearing, the newspaper had published an apology written by the original author. Therefore, the judge called it an act of ‘criminal defamation’ but refrained from initiating any legal action against the paper’s editor and Rathod.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dabholkar-murder-trial-judge-to-decide-covid-appropriate-location-101633531074627.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Apply ‘small family’ rule uniformly: Bombay HC to Maharashtra||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Tuesday asked the Maharashtra government to uniformly apply “small family” rule to all government employees, local self government bodies and other state instrumentalities and delete the rule that allowed for exceptions .The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice SG Mehare held Rule 6 of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Declaration of Small Family) Rules, 2005, allowing relaxation to a certain category of people to be “counter productive and harmful” . The HC bench asked why the rule was not applied to the employees of the local bodies at villages, tehsils and district councils, though similar provisions were applied to their elected representatives by introducing a disqualification clause.“As such, we express our disapproval to Rule 6 of the 2005 Rules and request the state government to delete Rule 6 and make these rules applicable uniformly to all employees of the state government, state instrumentalities, local authorities and local bodies, if the laudable object of controlling the growth of population is to be achieved,” said the bench.Also Read: Won’t make false promises: Maharashtra CM on BJP’s criticism over no relief to farmersThe court’s direction came while hearing a plea by Ramnath Sasane, an employee of a village panchayat in Ahmednagar district, who had challenged a show cause notice asking why action should not be taken against him for flouting the small family - maximum two children - norm. Sasane argued that the 2005 rules were not applicable to him as he was employed months before it came into force in March 2005, and because he was not a government employee, as contemplated under the 2005 rules. HC refused to entertain his petition. The court, however, took a serious note of amicus curiae, advocate Ajay Deshpande’s, submissions about the necessity of deleting Rule 6 for arresting population explosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/apply-small-family-rule-uniformly-bombay-hc-to-maharashtra-101633530954297.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Half of Navi Mumbai’s eligible population fully vaccinated against Covid||Half the total eligible population in Navi Mumbai has been fully vaccinated, according to the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), thus becoming the first civic body in MMR to achieve this target so far.According to the NMMC statistics, around 10.65 lakh people have received their first dose of vaccination. Among these, 5.34 lakh have received their second dose as well. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, NMMC had the highest number of vaccination centres till date with 100 Covishield and four Covaxin centres. While there were 28,000 Covishield doses for both first and second jabs, there were 4,000 Covaxin doses.“Since the first dose has now crossed 10.60 lakh of the eligible population to get vaccinated, we are concentrating on both the doses. When the supply becomes less, only the second dose would be arranged,” a medical officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/half-of-navi-mumbai-s-eligible-population-fully-vaccinated-against-covid-101633530057835.html
06-10-2021||Dehradun||PM Modi to dedicate 35 oxygen plants to nation at AIIMS Rishikesh on Oct 7||As many as 35 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants established under PM CARES will be dedicated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday during his visit to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Aiims) Rishikesh in Uttarakhand, a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) read.“With this, all districts of the country will now have commissioned PSA Oxygen Plants. [The] Prime Minister will also address the gathering on the occasion,” the PMO statement added.A total of 1,224 PSA oxygen plants have been funded under PM CARES across India so far, of which, over 1,000 plants have been commissioned thereby yielding an output of more than 1,750 MT oxygen per day. “The project to commission a PSA oxygen plant in each district of the country was executed while dealing with complex challenges of hilly areas, islands and territories with difficult terrain,” the statement noted.For the maintenance and operations of these plants, over 7,000 personnel have been trained, the PMO statement read. The plans have an Internet of Things (IoT) device embedded in them for their functioning and performance to be evaluated on a real-time basis via a consolidated web portal.Operations and maintenance of these plants have been ensured by training more than 7,000 personnel. They come with an embedded Internet of Things (IoT) device for real time monitoring of their functioning and performance through a consolidated web portal.Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, who is going to be a part of Thursday’s event, said on Sunday that PM Modi’s visit to the state is a “good sign” and that he was eagerly waiting for the same.Dhami also said that Uttarakhand has seen unprecedented progress under the rule of PM Modi-Centre.Notably, at Thursday’s event, apart from Dhami, Uttarakhand Governor Gurmit Singh and Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya will also be present.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/pm-modi-to-dedicate-35-oxygen-plants-to-nation-at-aiims-rishikesh-on-oct-7-101633529222300.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||NCP sees a BJP link to Aryan Khan arrest in drugs case; NCB rebuttal follows||MUMBAI: Two men, who escorted Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and another accused Arbaaz Merchant to the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Mumbai office, were private individuals and not officers, Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik said on Wednesday. Malik allegedly that the arrest was a conspiracy involving NCB and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to defame Maharashtra, the state government and the film industry, a charge that was promptly denied by the NCB and BJP. NCB later said the two men were among the nine independent witnesses.One of them is Manish Bhanushali who claims to be a BJP office-bearer and the other is KP Gosawi, who claims to be a private detective, said Malik at a Press conference in Mumbai where he played two widely-circulated video clips of Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant. In the first, KP Gosawi can be seen bringing Aryan Khan to NCB office and in the second, Manish Bhanushali can be seen bringing Arbaaz Merchant to the NCB office, Malik said.In what capacity were the two private individuals allowed to bring high-profile accused to its office, asked Malik, who is also the minority affairs minister in Uddhav Thackeray cabinet. He also asked the BJP what its connection was with the two people.Gosawi had earlier also taken a widely-circulated selfie with Aryan Khan before the 23-year-old was formally placed under arrest on Sunday, initially triggering criticism on social media on the assumption that the man was an NCB officer. NCB subsequently issued a statement, clarifying that the individual was not an NCB officer.“According to the Bhanushali’s Facebook page, he is a BJP vice president and has photos with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP chief JP Nadda and other senior leaders including those from Maharashtra such as Devendra Fadnavis and Ashish Shelar,” Malik told reporters at party headquarters at Ballard Pier in South Mumbai.Malik alleged that the BJP, which is in power at the Centre, in connivance with the federal drug enforcement agency NCB, was trying to defame Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government and film industry, which is based in the commercial capital, Mumbai.“BJP is using NCB to defame people who are against them and also using its leaders and workers in raids. What is Bhanushali’s connection with the massive drug haul caught in Gujarat...BJP in connivance with NCB is defaming Maharashtra, MVA government and the film Industry,” Nawab Malik alleged.“It all started with Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. The claims were made that he was murdered because of drugs and NCB’s zonal office in Mumbai came into limelight. Stories were planted, attempts were made to defame film industry, those related to the industry were called one by one, cameras were set up in advance and news channels ran the stories 24x7 and a perception was created that entire Bollywood, which is based in Mumbai, has a nexus with drug racket. In the same series, we saw that Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3,” he added.NCB takes a swipe at Nawab MalikMumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Sameer Wankhede said there is no substance in the allegations. NCB deputy director general Gyaneshwar Singh later told reporters that the ahecy officials followed the legal provisions. Singh said there were nine independent witnesses and Manish Bhanushali and Kiran Gosawi were among them.“The allegations made against the agency are baseless and if anyone has any reservation, he or she can approach the court and we will appropriately reply to them,” Singh added. The allegations are perhaps levelled by persons affected by the action taken by the agency, Singh said, without mentioning that NCB recently arrested Nawab Malik’s son-in-law in a drugs related case.The BJP said the NCP should clarify whether they are opposing or supporting the action against drug mafia.“First of all, NCP should clarify whether they support or oppose action against the drug mafia. We suspect Nawab Malik has other intentions behind making the allegations rather than supporting actor Shah Rukh Khan,” said Keshav Upadhye, Maharashtra BJP spokesperson.“It is up to the NCB to decide if they want to take action over involving private people in the raid. We have no objection to it. By having pictures with senior BJP leaders, one cannot become a BJP leader,” he clarified, in response to the allegations of BJP’s involvement in the raid.Bhanushali said he was a BJP party worker. “I did not bring Arbaaz Merchant to NCB office but was accompanying the NCB officers as I was asked by them to come and sign the documents as a witness. The raid was conducted with the help of the information provided by me about the drug party, Bhanushali told ABP Majha, a Marathi news channel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-sees-a-bjp-link-to-aryan-khan-arrest-in-drugs-case-ncb-rebuttal-follows-101633529155536.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Majha region has already reported 200 farm fires||Even as paddy harvesting is yet to pick up the pace due to the delayed monsoon withdrawal, as many as 201 cases of stubble burning have been reported already in three of the four districts in Punjab’s Majha region. With 162 cases, Amritsar tops the list, while Tarn Taran and Gurdaspur have reported 35 and two cases, respectively. In Pathankot, harvesting is yet to begin. Stubble burning is a quick and cheap way to prepare soil bed for the next crop. However, widespread farm fires reduce the air quality to dangerous levels in the region every year. The agriculture department officials have been visiting villages and making announcements from gurdwaras to encourage farmers not to burn paddy stubble. Though the exact figures for the corresponding period in previous years are not readily available, Kuljit Singh Saini, who is the chief agriculture officer for Amritsar and Tarn Taran, says that, in his experience, the number of stubble burning incidents reported in the two districts has gone down. “Our teams are in the field, organising awareness camps against stubble burning. Those farmers who are not burning stubble will be honoured. Special prizes will also be given to panchayats that encourage farmers to shun this polluting practice,” says Saini. However, scientists and environmentalists have warned that this year, farm fires in north India are likely to be more intense than in previous years, considering the delayed monsoon withdrawal from the region. On Wednesday, the air quality index was recorded at 70 in Amritsar. Though in the “satisfactory” range so far, it could quickly turn “poor” if stubble burning incidents continue in the coming days, warn experts. However, farmers say they are forced to burn the paddy stubble despite knowing its environmental consequences. “We know that stubble burning not only pollutes the environment, but also damages the fertility of our fields. We have been demanding that adequate machinery be provided to us through village-level societies for stubble management besides a bonus of ₹200 per quintal. But, the government is doing nothing,” says Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC)’s state convener Kawalpreet Singh Pannu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-majha-region-has-already-reported-200-farm-fires-101633528674062.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||MDS counselling in Punjab from October 14||After a six-month delay, Baba Faridkot University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) will start the counselling for admissions to the Master of Dental Surgery (MDS) courses at 12 dental colleges in Punjab on October 14. The Faridkot-based university on Wednesday invited applications after the department of medical education and research issued a notification. Dr Nirmal Ouseppachan, registrar, BFUHS, said the eligible candidates who have cleared the NEET-PG (MDS) 2021 can apply online through the university website (https://bfuhs.ac.in) till October 11. The provisional merit list of candidates will be displayed on October 13. The first round of physical counselling will be conducted at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, on October 14. The 12 private and government dental colleges in the state offer 135 MDS seats under state quota. Another 10 MDS all-India quota seats in two government dental colleges are filled by the medical counselling committee MCC through the central counselling process. As per the government notification, an MDS student has to pay ₹4.5-lakh fee for the full three-year course in a government college and ₹5.85 lakh in a private medical college. The NEET-PG (MDS) examination was conducted on December 16, 2020, and the result was declared on December 31. However, the counselling process, which usually starts in March, was suspended by the central government for an indefinite time amid the second wave of the pandemic. The counselling for admissions to MD, MS and MDS courses usually starts at the same time, but the NEET-PG exam was postponed till August. Following this, MDS counselling could also not be conducted. After a number of pleas were filed in the Supreme Court against the delay, MDS counselling is now starting before the counselling process for admissions to MD and MS courses. “The result of NEET-PG 2021 has also been declared; so the admission process for MD and MS courses will also start soon,” said Dr Ouseppachan. Counselling for para-medical courses on Oct 25 BFUHS has also invited applications for admissions to certificate, diploma, PG diploma and MSc courses at GGSMCH, Faridkot. “Duly filled application form along with requisite fee and documents must reach at the principal office, GGSMCH, Faridkot, by October 18. Counselling will be held at GGSMCH on October 25,” reads the notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mds-counselling-in-punjab-from-october-14-101633528434094.html
06-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Airport issues advisory 'owing to extensive VIP movements'||Chaudhary Charan Singh International and Domestic Airport in Lucknow has issued an advisory for passengers "owing to extensive VIP movements" at the airport.Airport authorities in an official communique has asked passengers to contact respective airlines and reconfirm flight schedules at least three to four hours prior to leaving for the airport."Owing to extensive VIP movements and on-going scheduled activities at Lucknow airport, our passengers are hereby requested to kindly connect with respective airlines and reconfirm flight schedules, at least 3 to 4 hours prior to leaving their homes. To ensure minimal passenger inconvenience, our teams at Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport are committed to always prioritize the safety and security of our passengers while ensuring a secure and efficient air hub in Lucknow," read the airport's official communication.The Lucknow police on Tuesday announced new restrictions under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in view of the upcoming festival season and farmers' protest. These restrictions will remain in place till November 8.Earlier today, Rahul Gandhi left for violence-hit Lakhimpur Kheri from Lucknow airport along with four other Congress leaders - Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and party general secretaries KC Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala.On October 5, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel claimed that he is not being allowed to leave the Lucknow airport, where he arrived to meet Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at Uttar Pradesh's Sitapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-airport-issues-advisory-owing-to-extensive-vip-movements-101633527684937.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Pune district launches system to track health of every rural child||PUNE The Pune district administration on Wednesday launched a child-tracking system to track the health of every child in rural areas.The system will update the health department about current health, ailments, treatments, as well as malnutrition. The system was launched by the Pune Zilla Parishad in the presence of NCP MP Supriya SuleThe system will update each child’s health record on the website of the Integrated Child Development Services, which can be accessed by health departments at the taluka and district level. The system will identify children aged between 0-6 years as regards any serious ailments, birth defects and malnourishment. “If serious ailments in the kids are addressed at an early age it can be treated, however, if the ailment is ignored at its early stage then it can escalate,” said ZP CEO Ayush Prasad.Prasad added, “All ground-level officials at the village or block level would be trained to update information about the child and the present the known medical history on the system. Also, treating doctors would get a login ID and password to update information on the child’s health. Anganwadi workers will update the child’s height, weight and other vital growth signs on the system. This will help us know the status of the child immediately and also real-time data would be accessible. Auditory, dental, vision and psychological screening will also be updated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-launches-system-to-track-health-of-every-rural-child-101633527953822.html
06-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man arrested for killing gang member in Dadri||A 30-year-old man wanted in at least seven criminal cases in Greater Noida was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly killing his gang member in Dadri on July 8 this year. The suspect, Rohit Manral, a resident of Burari in New Delhi, was absconding since the murder, said police. Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer (SHO), Dadri police station, said on July 8, Dadri police found a body with bullet wounds near a canal in Dadri. “The police launched an investigation and found that the body was of one Danish, a 23-year-old resident of Bulandshahr. Danish’s father Iqrar informed police that Delhi Police arrested his son in a rape case six months ago and that he was released on parole in July,” said Tripathi. Iqrar performed the last rites of his son and also filed a case against an unknown person for the murder. Tripathi said police scanned Danish’s mobile number and picked up a few suspects, who were frequently in touch with him, for questioning. “We also picked up Rohit for interrogation and he admitted to have murdered Danish. Rohit revealed that Danish had asked him to meet in Dadri saying he had hatched some plans to commit a series of loot. He also promised Rohit a share of the looted valuables,” said the SHO. However, when Rohit reached the spot where Danish called him, he found Danish did not want to commit any crime. “Danish was talking to some woman on his phone on loudspeaker when Rohit asked him to disconnect the call. This led to an argument and in a fit of rage, Rohit killed Danish,” said Tripathi. Police said Rohit and Danish belonged to Billu Dujana gang in Greater Noida. Rohit is also wanted in seven criminal cases in Greater Noida. “We have recovered the countrymade gun used in the murder. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-arrested-for-killing-gang-member-in-dadri-101633527174102.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Lakhimpur Kheri incident: MVA calls for Maharashtra Bandh on October 11||The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition partners on Wednesday called a strike in Maharashtra on October 11 to protest against the killings in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. The announcement was made by the Nationalist Congress Party chief Jayant Patil.The decision from the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress - all members of the MVA coalition - comes a day after the Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for a short meeting regarding the incident.Following his meeting with Rahul Gandhi, Raut said that a unified opposition is necessary for the country. “I met Rahul Gandhi. I have also held discussions with him on the Lakhimpur incident. A united opposition is very important for the country and to save democracy,” Raut said.Earlier in the day, the Maharashtra cabinet passed a resolution expressing regret over the death of farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. The lawmakers also stood in silence as a mark of respect in the legislative assembly.The Shiv Sena has criticised the Modi-led government for not paying attention to the demands raised by the farmers. In its editorial Saamana, the party said that the BJP-led government illegally detained Priyanka Gandhi and wanted to know why she was being held from visiting the family of the victims.Former Maharashtra chief minister and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis came out in support of the Yogi Adityanath-led government and said that the UP government is capable of investigating the case on its own.“The UP government is capable of investigating the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The MVA government should look at the plight of farmers in Maharashtra,” Fadnavis said.Four farmers died in Sunday’s violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. Four other people - two BJP workers, a journalist and Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra’s driver - were lynched by the farmers who were protesting against the three farm laws and the visit of the Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister KP Maurya at a nearby village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-mva-calls-for-maharashtra-bandh-on-october-11-101633526715309.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||‘10,000 vaccinations in 10 days’: Covid-19 inoculation drive launched in Mumbai||A large-scale Covid-19 vaccination drive has been launched for fisherfolk and the people from vulnerable communities in Mumbai. The drive, which began on October 4 and will continue till October 13, is aimed at inoculating at least 10,000 people within the 10-day period.As part of the drive, 10,000 fisherfolk and people from vulnerable communities in south Mumbai will receive the two doses of the Covishield vaccine as per government directives and protocols, free of cost. The drive will serve marginalised people who have not been able to access them earlier due to the nationwide vaccine supply shortage and vaccine hesitancy.Launched by ChildFund India in collaboration with the Municipal Corporation Greater Mumbai and city-based Surana Hospital, the drive is supported by HSBC Bank. The drive was flagged off by Colaba MLA Rahul Narwekar BMC's Ward 226 corporator Harshita Narwekar at a private Covid-19 vaccination centre in Colaba in the presence of  ChildFund India country director Neelam Makhijani, HSBC India's head of corporate sustainability Aloka Majumdar, south Mumbai A ward medical officer (health) Dr Prajakta Amberkar and community leaders from the Machhimar nagar.India has 7,200km of coastline and around five crore fisherfolk making their living from the sea. Given these numbers, it is easy to see how a pandemic such as Covid-19 would have far-reaching implications. Vaccination support to the community was imperative and our efforts have been directed towards the same.ChildFund India claimed that it supported millions of people, including children, with awareness and vaccination drives, relief material, livelihood recovery opportunities, psycho-social support and necessary medical aid, as part of the COVID-19 response in the past 18 months. These efforts have so far reached over eight million people including children from vulnerable communities across the 15 states.“Through this initiative, ChildFund India and HSBC together are proactively contributing to the nation's goal of complete vaccine coverage. We are grateful to HSBC for joining hands in our endevour to keep people safe, secure and sustained,” Neelam Makhijani said.“Our interventions include providing medical equipment to 100 primary healthcare centres and comunity healthcare centres, setting up child-friendly Covid-care centres, providing food, hygiene and educational kits to families, launching an intensive vaccination drive and most importantly, providing livelihood opportunities,” Makhijani added.Aloka Majumdar said the marginalised communities in Mumbai have been particularly vulnerable and also lacked the access to adequate health care. “Vaccination has emerged as an effective measure to check the spread of the pandemic and this is the latest initiative amongst our various efforts to combat the pandemic and support our communities,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/10000-vaccinations-in-10-days-covid-19-inoculation-drive-launched-in-mumbai-101633524229281.html
06-10-2021||Ranchi||‘First preference for those who voted for me’: BJP’s Dhanbad MLA sets up a row||RANCHI: Bharatiya Janata Party legislator from Dhanbad Raj Sinha has sparked off a controversy by his remarks at a public event, telling his audience that areas that supported him in elections have the first right on development projects. “I speak very clearly. In my view, people who don’t vote for me don’t have the first right on development projects. But still, if I do 10 development works, I do at least two here and eight elsewhere. Don’t people who have made me a legislator have the first right over development work,” Sinha said at an event on Monday in the Muslim-dominated Wasseypur area of Dhanbad.After leaders of the Congress and Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) criticised him for his approach that they alleged was aimed to polarise the city, Sinha shot back: “I don’t expect roses from the JMM and Congress”.Sinha told local reporters on Tuesday that people of Wasseypur generally do not approach him for work but whenever they do, he does solve their problems.On Wednesday, the minister said he stands by his statement.“I told them they keep voting for others just to oppose the BJP even if they don’t deliver. I requested them they should join the mainstream and vote for us (BJP). What’s wrong with that? It’s not that I don’t do development work in that area. Even that day, I was in that area to inaugurate a newly-constructed road,” Sinha told HT.Isn’t his statement contradictory to the Prime Minister and BJP’s slogan, ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas’? Sinha said this wasn’t correct since everyone has access to central schemes.“All schemes, be it roads, free gas, free ration, free housing from the Centre are being provided without discrimination in areas like Wasseypur as well,” he said.Leaders of rival parties, the JMM and Congress, continued their attacks on the BJP.“Using polarisation has always been a diversionary tactic of the BJP,” said JMM spokesperson Manoj Pandey, arguing that the effort to communalise was linked to the central government’s performance. “When they fail, they use communal politics. People now understand their tactics and will teach them a lesson when the time comes,” added Pandey.Jharkhand Congress spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said BJP and its leaders claim to work for the last man standing but in practice, they discriminate.“Otherwise, they talk of Ekatma Manawtawad (Integral Humanism professed by former Janasngh president Deendayal Upadhyay) but in practice, they discriminate on basis of religion. Earlier also BJP legislator from Ranchi targeted a specific area of the minority community for allegedly spreading Covid-19,” added Prasad. Raj Sinha said he wasn’t bothered about criticism from his opponents but his constituents. “They need to survey what even people from minority communities have to say about me and how much work I do for them,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/first-preference-for-those-who-voted-for-me-bjp-s-dhanbad-mla-sets-up-a-row-101633519959206.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab bureaucratic reshuffle: 12 IAS, 5 PCS officers transferred||The Punjab Government on Wednesday effected its second major bureaucratic reshuffle this week by transferring 12 IAS and five PCS officers. Also read: Lakhimpur Kheri: Sidhu to lead Punjab Congress march to UP against BJPSpecial chief secretary Vijay Kumar Janjua has been posted as the financial commissioner, revenue and rehabilitation, in place of Ravneet Kaur, who goes as special chief secretary, labour, fisheries and animal husbandry and dairy development. Additional chief secretary (ACS) A Venu Prasad will hold the charge of parliament affairs in addition to his existing posting of CMD and chairman of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited and the Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited. Alok Shekhar is the new principal secretary, medical education, while VK Meena is the secretary, defence services welfare. Vikas Garg will be the secretary, health and family welfare, while Arun Sekhri will be the registrar, cooperative societies. Pardeep Kumar Aggarwal will be the director, social security, women and child development, while Vinay Bublani goes as the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) chief administrator. Sanjay Popli will be the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Water Supply and Sanitation Board. Uma Shankar Gupta will be the additional principal secretary to the Chief Minister in addition to being the CEO, Punjab Bureau of Investment, while B Srinivasan will be the director general of school education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bureaucratic-reshuffle-12-ias-5-pcs-officers-transferred-101633518939375.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: The 18 peths of 18th century Pune - Part 2||Development of Pune during Peshwa period could not be contained in seven peths named after week days. The major impetus of growth started after 1743 and many more peth areas were added on the map of Pune. Nagesh-Nyhal peth has been lost to public memory today as it was merged with Somwar peth and other contagious peths in later days. The peth supposedly got its name after an officer named Nyhal who was appointed by Khajagiwale to build the fortification around Pune during Nanasaheb’s times (work was left half-way and could be completed for unknown reasons). Nestled between Nagjhari and Daruwala bridge near Rasta peth, towards the Parsi Agyari, it was a small in area and a connection between Kasba, Somwar and Rasta peth. It might have been named Nagesh due to presence of the Nagoba temple or Nagjhari stream. Unlike all other peths of the city, Nyhal/Nagesh peth never took off to become a major trading settlement nor was it occupied by any significant dwellers. It merely served as a connection and was finally lost in oblivion.Ganesh peth was another small peth which was rebuilt by Jivajipant Khajagiwale on orders of Madhavrao Peshwa I and prospered after the Nizam’s raid in 1963. It houses the famous temple of Dulya Maruti built in the late 17th century and renovated by Naro Anant Natu. The peculiar epithet of Maruti is assigned after an interesting anecdote which was formed when news of the Panipat battle was received in the city. It is believed that the idol of Maruti shook vigorously on hearing of the dreadful defeat at Panipat. The peth housed the Peshwa mansion and prospered around the end of the 18th century. It had a mixed population including migrants from Karnataka and mainly consisted of timber stores.Narayan peth was established in 1761 and redeveloped by Lashman Vishwanath who named it after Narayanrao Peshwa. It was dominated by rice traders carried out by Marwadi Jains who began to live in Pune from the 1770s and traded with rice growers from Mawal region. The ward was mostly inhabited by wealthy Brahmins and had a number of temples, gardens and vast compounds. The peth also had a mansion built by the Gaikwads of Baroda for their residence in Pune.Bhavani peth was established by Mahadev Vishnath Limaye as per the kaul order during reign of Madhavrao Peshwa I and was supervised by Nana Phadnis. It was named after the famous Bhavani temple which was part of the older town of Pune. In the last decades of the 18th century, it had residences of several dignitaries living during their sojourns in Pune. The houses and shops were renovated according to a Peshwa records, and banking facilities were made available for the same. It rapidly became a commercial centre for trade and prospered after establishment of the Cantonment nearby. It housed the palace of the Gaikwads and the offices of Lokmanya Tilak’s Kesari and Maratha newspapers.Bhavani peth housed two hospices, takiyas (congregation spaces for Muslim fakirs), five temples, five maths and three police stations. The peth had eclectic mix of caste and communities including Kamathis, Kunbis, Lingayat Wani, Johari, Brahmin, Muslims, Sandaniswar (couriers riding camels), fakirs, Kaikadis (twig basket makers), Ramoshis and so on. The Kamathi migrant population from Andhra Pradesh could be found in large numbers here.Muzzafarganj peth was set up in 1768 by a commander in the army of Maloji Ghorpade, but it ceases to exist now. A group of beneficiary Karnataka Brahmins from the village Karkal used to camp around the banks of the Ambil stream, giving it the name “Karkolpura”. The divergence of the Ambil stream opened a large area from Ramanbaug to present day Tilak road. Sadashiv peth was set up by Nanasaheb Peshwa to commemorate the death of his cousin Sadashivrao Bhau at Panipat. Appaji Mudhe was made incharge of the Shete office to set up the peth and was given a kaul to such effect on August 19, 1769. The peth housed the famous “Khajina Vihir” water complex constructed by Nana Phadnis bringing water from the aqueduct at Ambegaon. Sadashiv peth’s precincts were serenely decorated with expansive gardens such as Haripant Phadke’s baug, Naro Chakradev’s Baug, Dada Gade’s baug near present day Khunya Murlidhar temple, Raste’s baug near present day Pune Vidyarthi gruha, and Nagarkar’s baug. It was a prestigious ward consisting of mansions of wealthy Brahmins including Vishrambaug wada. To quote a present day reference, it was the “Kothrud” of the Peshwa times (just as Kothrud is an extended Sadashiv peth of modern Pune)! The peth limits stretched upto Parvati and it consisted of residential mansions more than the commercial establishments. It is till date known as the “Brahmin heart” of Pune. Ghorpade peth established by 1781 by Vyankatrao Ghorpade (grandson of Maloji Ghorpade), who was in charge of the royal standard, “Jari Patka”, during the reign of Sawai Madhavrao Peshwa. It was originally meant for the cavalry and was later dominated by Malis (gardeners) and Chambhars (cobblers).Nana peth was established much later in 1789 by Nana Phadnavis and Shete officer Phirangoji Khonde. It is a commercial peth with wholesale merchants and those who provide transport facilities using bullock carts. “Ghodepir”, the well-known Muslim shrine set up by Nana’s servant, Nathu Khan, and the Nivdungya Vithoba temple are situated in the peth. Ganj peth was the salt store and place of heavy commercial activities with Jains and Wanis amongst the principal residents. Rasta peth also known as “Shivpuri” was one of the most prosperous established by Anand Lakshman Raste, commander of the Peshwa cavalry, in1783. Rastes from Wai, who has marital relations with the Peshwas, built the stately mansion of Raste wada in the heart of this peth and had their cavalry parked nearby. It is planned on a grid pattern, has straight roads and regular plots and assured water supply from the Raste aquaduct. Brahmin, Shimpi, Kunbi and Mali were the dominant castes. It was inhabited by immigrants in later periods, including the Bene Israeli-Jews and south Indians. Lastly, there exists the 19th peth of the 19th-20th century, which subsequently developed during the colonial period, which does not follow the “peth process”, but is obsoletely referred to as “Navi” i.e. new peth. It serves as extension of Sadashiv peth and connects the city to the western part of Pune. Commercial activities and the number of diverse inhabitants increased in late 18th and early 19th centuries in Pune. Pune also witnessed period additions to the city population. One was the number of army contingents under various commanders and its environs during festival celebrations such as Holi, Diwali and Dasara. Another great congregation was held during the holy month of Sharavan when Peshwas distributed Dakshina (grants and gifts) to Brahmins from all across India. Such congregations would put pressure on housing, transportation, food supply and goods, but would also increase trade and commerce, bringing cash flows in to the city. All in all, the expansion of the city through the setting up the 18 peths was a successful development venture initiated by the Peshwas. It contributed to the riches of the city and diversity of residents giving it a more cosmopolitan character. With population of around 100,000 at the end of the 18th century, Pune faired well when compared to contemporary urbanisation across the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-the-18-peths-of-18th-century-pune-part-2-101633517259807.html
06-10-2021||Jaipur||Lakhimpur violence: Congress leader Sachin Pilot en route to Sitapur||Senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot landed in Delhi on Wednesday morning and set out for Sitapur in Uttar Pradesh by road straight from the airport, sources close to him said.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is in detention at the PAC compound in Sitapur since Monday morning. She was on her way to meet the families of farmers killed in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri when she was stopped.Pilot, who arrived here on a flight from Jaipur, will also try to visit Lakhimpur to meet the grieving families, the sources said.They said Pilot's motorcade was moving slowly as it was stopped at multiple places on the way by police personnel who searched the cars and asked him questions before letting him proceed.The Congress leader is now headed towards Moradabad, the sources added.Four of the eight people who died in Sunday's violence in Lakhimpur Kheri were farmers, allegedly knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers travelling to welcome Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area.The four others included two BJP workers, a driver of Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Kumar Mishra, and Raman Kashyap, a journalist working for a private TV channel.While the first three were allegedly lynched by agitating farmers, the scribe, according to his father, died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Ajay Mishra's native place.The UP Police has lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra's son but no arrest has been made.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/lakhimpur-violence-congress-leader-sachin-pilot-en-route-to-sitapur-101633516095305.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Stepping into post-pandemic festive season with caution||As we bravely limp into this New World of ours, gingerly treading with caution towards attempting to once again live a normal life, massive behavioural changes and difficult adjustments stare us grimly in the face. How long will we have to live in this punishing atmosphere is anyone’s guess but what is certain is that our Earth, as we knew it, no longer exists! Its gentle and forgiving nature that we took for granted has metamorphosed into an aggressive, self-serving force, desperate for its own survival. The newer, mutant varieties of coronavirus and the threat of the imminent third or fourth waves of the Covid-19 pandemic hang over our heads like the proverbial sword of Damocles. We are still not sure of the way forward and most of us are in a daze or roaming about like headless chickens, mouthing prophesies, quoting newspaper articles or hearsay without much clarity or coherence. I’m still coming to terms with this radical turn of events where the first thing I notice in an old film or series on TV is the proximity of actors which alarms me, the sight of a large congregation of unmasked people makes my eyes goggle and it takes a while to orient my thoughts at the now strange sight of people sharing ice-creams, shaking hands or passing around a bottle of water. My brain does an incredulous jig at their negligence and disregard for Covid protocol before it sinks in that it will be a long time before that kind of casualness will return to our lives. Spontaneous trips and holidays have become a distant dream because a stern voice will nudge our conscience on the futility and imprudence of putting pleasure over caution and restraint. Imagine the horror of falling prey to the virus in a strange city or town! Even in our wildest imagination could we have ever dreamed that an innocuous piece of paper declaring ‘fully vaccinated’ would take precedence over passports, quickly become our chief identification and declare us kosher for any kind of travel? That there will be drawing room conversations and entire evenings devoted to arguments over the efficacy, time gap, quality and brand of a vaccination that we adults have to take? That quarantine, antigens and CPR are words that slip off even children’s tongues so easily today? But be that as it may, we humans are a resilient, stubborn lot! Just as easily as we fear, dread and press the panic button, we also have convenient memory lapses. A casual and Devil may care attitude is slowly sinking into our collective psyches. About two years since the first infections wafted across the seas and borders of the world, we have now adopted an almost cavalier attitude towards the Covid-19 pandemic and as we go into the fag end of the year, it is not possible to restrain the festive spirit, innate optimism and anticipation of good times to come. So, I hope and pray Mother Earth has forgiven us our transgressions and is gracious enough to give the human race a second chance and an opportunity to redeem ourselves. pallavisingh358@gmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stepping-into-post-pandemic-festive-season-with-caution-101633515998893.html
06-10-2021||Lucknow||Dozen heritage structures to be restored in Lucknow||The Uttar Pradesh government plans to undertake restoration work of over a dozen heritage structures in Lucknow, including Rifa-e-Aam Club, under the Smart City Project. “We have shortlisted Kaiserbagh area for the project. We will restore the area within 12 kilometers of its radius...covering the restoration of all historical structures, including Rifa-e-Aam Club...,” said divisional commissioner Ranjan Kumar, Historians say the restoration of the club would revive a chapter of the city’s rich heritage and culture. “The club’s restoration would not only save an important heritage structure from getting lost but will also make the present generation aware of its historical importance,” said Roshan Taqui, a historian, who has written books on Lucknow’s nawabi-era structures. He added it was perhaps the state’s first Indian club before independence.The club was established by nawabs and taluqdars in 1860 to hold their family functions. “It is said that since all British establishments carried a board mentioning ‘dogs and Indians not allowed’, the nawabs formed their own club. Later on, it was named as Rifa-e-Aam and was opened to commoners,” said Taqui. “The club was formed in response to the British government’s racial discrimination.”Also Read | Lakhimpur Kheri: Sidhu to lead Punjab Congress march to UP against BJPHe added the building hosted historical events and personalities including first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Vallabhbhai Patel, Mahatma Gandhi. “The club hosted meetings of All India Muslim League and Indian National Congress that eventually led to the Lucknow Pact of 1916 (for separate representation to Muslims)...”A mound of garbage surrounds the building, which has also been encroached upon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dozen-heritage-structures-to-be-restored-in-lucknow-101633515338839.html
06-10-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar confident NDA will win both bypoll seats in Bihar; voting on Oct 30||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday asserted that the ruling NDA in the state, of which his JD(U) is a constituent, will win the bypolls to Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seats. By-elections to the two seats will be held on October 30, and the results will be declared four days later, on November 3. "The NDA will win elections to both the constituencies without any difficulty. Both the seats were bagged by the JD(U) in the assembly polls last year. People have seen our work, they will vote for us," the CM told reporters at Patna airport, following his aerial survey of flood-hit areas in Vaishali, Muzaffarpur and East Champaran and other districts. Awadh Bhushan Hajari and Rajiv Kumar Singh of the JD(U) are the two National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidates for Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats, respectively. Tarapur fell vacant after JD(U) MLA Mewa Lal Chaudhary succumbed to COVID 19. The party's candidate from the seat happens to be an old lieutenant of Kumar. The Kusheshwar Asthan candidate is the son of MLA Shashi Bhushan Hazari, who breathed his last at a Delhi hospital while undergoing treatment for Hepatitis B. Besides the BJP and the JD(U), former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi-led Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) of Mukesh Sahani are the two other NDA constituents in Bihar. Asked about his reaction to reports stating that RJD supremo Lalu Prasad may campaign for the upcoming by-elections, Kumar said, "What can I say? He can do whatever he wants. He was working from the jail in any case." Responding to another question on the apparent rift in the Grand Alliance over bypoll candidature, the CM quipped, "I came to know about it from you all (media persons). Every political party has its style of functioning. People are watching everything." Both the RJD and the Congress, the two main constituents of opposition Grand Alliance, have fielded candidates for the bypolls, bringing to the fore the cracks in the coalition. The CM, during his aerial tour, was accompanied by several senior officials. He said that his government would provide all possible aid to people suffering due to the flood. More than 34 lakh people have been reportedly affected by heavy rain and subsequent flooding in 32 districts of Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-confident-nda-will-win-both-bypoll-seats-in-bihar-voting-on-oct-30-101633514251123.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||2 children among 3 killed in Delhi fire due to gas leakage||A 36-year-old woman and her twin children aged seven died after their house caught fire following gas leakage in central Delhi’s Anand Parbat area on Tuesday morning.Shweta Chauhan, deputy police commissioner (central), said four people were found with burn injuries and were rushed to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. “Fire was caused due to leakage in a rubber pipe which connects the cylinder to the burner when the woman’s 13-year-old daughter, Mehak, was preparing food for her younger siblings and mother, who were asleep.” The father of the children, Rajesh, was away for work.The woman, Sushila, and her twin children, Mansi and Mohan, succumbed to their injuries at the hospital. Her 13-year-old daughter was battling for her life.Also Read | Delhi traffic alert: Police issue advisory ahead of farmers’ protest“Although the cylinder did not explode, the leakage of the gas caused the fire to spread rapidly, and the victims could not escape. Inquest proceedings are being done,” said Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mother-two-children-die-of-burn-injuries-in-delhi-fire-101633513779102.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri: Sidhu to lead Punjab Congress march to UP against BJP||The Punjab Congress will start its march to Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri district on Thursday in protest against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the “brutal murders” of farmers. Also read: Delhi CM Kejriwal criticises Centre for its ‘apathy’ towards Lakhimpur violenceThe march led by Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu will start from Mohali, according to an aide of the state unit chief. “54 hours passed! @priyankagandhi Ji has not been produced before any Court…unlawful detention beyond 24 hours is a clear violation of the fundamental rights. BJP & UP Police: - You are violating the spirit of the Constitution, impinging on our basic human rights!” he tweeted in the morning. Sidhu had on Tuesday warned that the state unit would march to Lakhimpur Kheri if Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is not released, and Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son is not arrested. Sidhu, who earlier held a protest against the violence in which eight people, including four farmers died, had given time to the UP government till Wednesday. “If by tomorrow, the Union minister’s son behind the brutal murder of farmers is not arrested, and our leader @PriyankaGandhi being unlawfully arrested, fighting for farmers is not released, the Punjab Congress will march towards Lakhimpur Kheri! (sic),” he posted on the microblogging site on Tuesday. Priyanka was detained by police on Monday in Sitapur as she was going to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet family members of the farmers who died in the violence during a protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-sidhu-to-lead-punjab-congress-march-to-up-against-bjp-101633513118635.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||AAP faces water cannons in Chandigarh during protest over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Police used water cannons to disperse demonstrators as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) workers staged a protest outside the Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh on Wednesday over the death of farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. Addressing a press conference earlier in the day, Delhi chief minister and AAP president Arvind Kejriwal hit out at the Centre over its “silence” on Sunday’s violence that claimed the lives of eight people, including four farmers.Kejriwal also demanded immediate removal of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Kumar Mishra, whose son Ashish was allegedly in the SUV that mowed down the protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. The AAP leader questioned why there were no arrests yet and claimed that the killers were being “shielded” by the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Uttar Pradesh.Chandigarh | Aam Aadmi Party workers protest outside Raj Bhawan over Lakhimpur Kheri violence, police use water cannon to disperse them pic.twitter.com/iPYleYVRUIThe Aam Aadmi Party also staged a protest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Ludhiana, Punjab on Tuesday seeking arrest of the Union minister and his son. The party claimed that the ‘BJP goons’ are openly killing the farmers in a bid to suppress their voice against the three contentious farm laws.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella of farmers' unions, even alleged that one of the deceased farmers was shot dead by the minister’s son while the rest were allegedly mowed down by the vehicles of the BJP convoy. An FIR has been registered against Ashish, although they have denied the claims.The incident took place on Sunday when Ajay Mishra was travelling to receive Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya to an event in the area. A video of the incident has been doing rounds on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-faces-water-cannons-in-chandigarh-during-protest-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633510635959.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi traffic alert: Police issue advisory ahead of farmers' protest check details||The Delhi traffic police on Wednesday issued a traffic advisory in wake of the farmers' protest, to help commuters avoid any inconvenience. Taking to Twitter, the traffic police alerted people that the movement of vehicles between the point of UP Gate and Ghazipur Border will be slow and advised them to take alternative routes:Announcing a diversion from Delhi to Ghaziabad, the Delhi Police announced the following routes:1) People can take Akshardham Setu for Noida, and Vikas Marg for Ghaziabad.2) Road no 57 A to Hassan Pur Karkari Mod for Shahdara, Anand Vihar and Ghaziabad3) From Round about Ghazipur towards Anand Vihar, Bhopura Border Ghaziabad via Road no. 564) Round about Murga Mandi towards Dr Hadgavayar Marg then Nala Road up to UP Gate Ghaziabad for Vaishali Vasundhara Ghaziabad via Paper Market GhazipurOn Monday, the Delhi Traffic Police had announced a traffic diversion due to closure of National Highways 9 and 24 due to farmers' protests. “Diversion being continued is informed as under: Commuters/motorists coming from Sarai Kale Khan should take alternate route for Ghaziabad, i.e., Vikas Marg via road 57 A, road number 56, Anand Vihar and Paper Market for Ghaziabad and Noida via DND,” it had announced on its official Twitter handle.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been protesting around Delhi-NCR against the Centre's three agriculture laws- the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, and Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.The three legislations were enacted last year in September and since then the farmers have taken to the streets, demanding repeal of the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-traffic-alert-police-issue-advisory-ahead-of-farmers-protest-check-details-101633499500777.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Diesel price crosses ₹99/l in Mumbai after latest fuel price hike||Price of a litre of diesel crossed ₹99 in Mumbai on Wednesday, an all time high, and was selling at ₹99.17 a litre, while price of one litre of petrol inched closer to ₹109 mark at retail fuel outlets in the city following an increase of 37 paise and 29 paise/litre respectively. On Tuesday, before the hike, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹108.67 while a litre of diesel was available at ₹98.80 in Mumbai. In Thane, a litre of petrol was available at ₹109.10 and a litre of diesel was priced at ₹99.31 following the hike on Wednesday. In Maharashtra’s Parbhani, a litre of petrol was being sold at ₹111.52 and in Amravati, diesel was available at ₹100.72 a litre. Petrol and Diesel prices were hiked on Tuesday, sending retail rates to all-time high levels, with a substantial increase expected in coming days as international oil prices touched seven-year high.State-owned fuel retailers have in the past few days resorted to modest increases to align domestic rates with cost. But with international benchmark Brent crude soaring to 82.37 $ a barrel as a result of the decision by OPEC+ not to increase output more than 0.4 million barrels per day, fuel rates are likely to rise even further.Also Read: Shirdi Sai Baba temple reopens tomorrow, check Covid-19 guidelinesGlobal oil prices are also rising because of rapid demand recovery due to easing of pandemic restrictions and improving vaccination rates. International oil rates, which are often volatile, directly influence the retail prices of petrol and diesel in India. Heavy loads of central and state taxes are also responsible for astronomically high rates.Through 2020, as global crude prices plunged (below $20 a barrel in April last year), the central government raised excise duty on fuel to shore up its finances. States, too, followed suit as their revenues were hit on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, the central and state levies on petrol and diesel are over 50% of their retail prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/diesel-price-crosses-rs-99-l-in-mumbai-after-latest-fuel-price-hike-101633499136225.html
06-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: Bengaluru issues guidelines for Durga Puja. Check full SOPs||The Bruhath Bengaluru Mahanagara Pallike (BBMP) on Wednesday issued guidelines for upcoming Durga Puja to manage the crowd and exercise precaution amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The Durga Puja festivities, from October 11 to 15, will take place in Bengaluru keeping in mind the following guidelines issued by the civic body:-A gathering of not more than 50 people will be allowed at a time during prayers.-Distribution of sweets, fruits and flowers are prohibited.-Association management should strictly monitor and adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour.-Only basic prayers and rituals will be allowed.-Size of the idol should not exceed more than 4 feet.-Idols should be sanitised thoroughly before installation.-Only one idol can be installed per ward with the permission of the respective Joint Commissioner of the zone.-Association should not allow more than 10 members at a time for Debi Boron.-Queue formed for Debi Boron should follow social distancing.-Sindur Khela should be restricted within maximum of 10 members at a time-DJ/Drums are not allowed during the visarjan procession.This set of fresh guidelines came a day after the Karnataka government issued an advisory to manage the footfall of crowds during Mysuru Dasara festivities slated to begin from October 7 and end by October 15. The state administration mandated a negative RT-PCR test report and at least one dose of coronavirus vaccine for officers and staff on duty and artists, who will perform during the world renowned Mysuru Dasara festival, a report in PTI said. Those attending and participating in the event should wear mask, maintain social distance and hand hygiene at all times. Read full story here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-covid-update-bengaluru-issues-guidelines-for-durga-puja-check-full-sops-dussehra-2021-101633494732172.html
06-10-2021||Kolkata||Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to inaugurate Durga puja pandals||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will begin inaugurating some of the Durga puja pandals in Kolkata from Wednesday with Mahalaya marking the beginning of the Durga puja festivities in the state.A senior Trinamool Congress leader said the party supremo was expected to inaugurate around five big puja pandals in south Kolkata on Wednesday and over the next few days, she would be virtually inaugurating multiple puja pandals across the state. “Some of these pujas are patronised by state ministers and senior TMC leaders. She would start with the puja pandal at Chetla Agrani in the afternoon, which is patronised by Firhad Hakim, a state minister. On Friday she is likely to inaugurate more puja pandals, including the one patronised by another state minister Sujit Bose in the northern fringes of the city,” said a TMC leader. Banerjee is also likely to inaugurate a few other big puja pandals on Wednesday afternoon including those in Jodhpur Park, 95 Pally, Babubagan and Selimpur Pally. “The auspicious occasion of Mahalaya marks the beginning of the much-awaited festive season. The countdown has begun! I extend my heartiest greetings and best wishes to all. Shubho Mahalaya!” Mamata Banerjee tweeted. “Shubho Mahalaya! We bow to Maa Durga and seek her blessings for the well-being of our planet and the welfare of our citizens. May everyone be happy as well as healthy in the times to come,” Narendra Modi, Prime Minister tweeted. In 2020, when the corona pandemic was raging, the chief minister had inaugurated more than 80 puja pandals including 69 virtual inaugurations. Like last year, Durga puja celebrations will be muted this year too as the Calcutta high court has banned the entry of visitors inside puja pandals for the second consecutive year to check the spread of Covid-19. Also Read: Mahalaya: Bengal wakes up to an age-old tradition, why it still inspires hopeThe puja committees need to put up barricades - 10 metres away from the outer end of big pandals and five metres away from the outer end of smaller ones – to make pandals no-entry zones for visitors. While at least 36,000 community pujas are held across the state, in Kolkata alone 2,500 community pujas are held by various clubs registered with the state government. This apart, there are pujas held in housing societies and residences. Around 1,500 pujas are organised by women only. Durga puja is the biggest festival in West Bengal. Even though the five-day-long Durga Puja starts this year from October 11, the festivity has started much earlier. The immersion process will start on October 15 and continue till 17. The state government has cancelled the puja carnival during the immersion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-to-inaugurate-durga-puja-pandals-101633495236081.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky in Delhi with air quality in ‘moderate’ category||Partly overcast weather is expected in Delhi on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department said with the minimum temperature likely to be 26 and maximum 35 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 26.4, five notches above normal, and maximum of 35.4 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal. The city’s humidity levels have increased to 81%.As monsoon is beginning to withdraw, parts of the city received trace rain on Tuesday. Clear skies are expected in the city on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 115. The prominent pollutants in Delhi’s air were particulate matter (PM2.5, PM 10) and ozone. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Also Read: Trace rain in Delhi, change in wind likely to bring pollutantsOn Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said Delhi’s AQI is in the satisfactory category with PM10 as the main pollutant because of dry air coming from the north-west of India along with local pollution. With the presence of the dry condition, AQI will remain satisfactory to moderate for the next three days.Safar said most of the air quality influencing factors are expected to contribute towards the deterioration of AQI levels in the coming days. The local wind speed and ventilation factor will remain in the moderate category leading to “low to moderate” dispersion of pollutants in the air, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-in-delhi-with-air-quality-in-moderate-category-101633493075808.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Shirdi Sai Baba temple reopens tomorrow, check Covid-19 guidelines||The Shirdi Sai Baba temple and the Shani Shingnapur temple in Maharashtra are reopening from October 7, according to the latest directions issued by the Ahmednagar district administration on Tuesday in view of the declining number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state. However, strict pandemic-related guidelines are to be followed, and officials will ensure that all the devotees wear masks and maintain distancing protocols while visiting the temple. As places of worship in the state are slated to reopen from October 7, a meeting of the district administration and the management of Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust was organised to chalk out measuresHow many devotees will be allowed?According to the fresh guidelines issued by Ahmednagar district collector Rajendra B Bhosale, a maximum of 15,000 devotees are to be allowed in the Shirdi Sai Baba temple daily, while the number of pilgrims at the Shani Shingnapur temple will be capped at 20,000 a day.The Shirdi Sai Baba temple is issuing 5,000 paid passes, 5,000 online passes, and 5,000 offline passes for the devotees. No more than 1,150 devotees will be allowed to be inside the temple premises at any hour.Meanwhile, the temple aarti can be attended by a maximum of 90 devotees, according to the fresh guidelines.What are the Covid-19 guidelines for devotees?In view of the declining coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state, the district administration has reopened the temple gates for the devotees; however, there still remain prevailing protocols to prevent a renewed surge in cases.Also Read | Ahmednagar bucks the trend while Covid cases in rest of Maharashtra dipDevotees going to both the Shirdi Sai Baba and the Shani Shingnapur temples must mandatorily wear masks and maintain social distancing wherever applicable. For this purpose, the administration has fixed entry from entrance number 2, while exit will be facilitated through exit gates numbers 4 and 5 at the Shirdi Sai Baba temple.The Dhyan Mandir and Parayan Kaksh will remain closed, the administration informed, adding that pregnant women, children below 10 years of age, and people above 65 years will not be allowed to enter the temple.What is the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra like?Maharashtra reported 2,401 new Covid-19 cases and 39 fresh deaths on Tuesday - an uptick from multi-month lows registered a day ago - taking the infection tally to 65,64,915 and the toll to 1,39,272, a health department official said. Maharashtra witnessed a rise in Covid-19 cases and fatalities as compared to Monday, when it reported 2,026 infections, the lowest since February 2, and 26 fatalities.Mumbai districts reported the highest 447 new infections in the state. Among the eight regions of Maharashtra, the Mumbai region reported the highest 845 new Covid-19 cases, followed by 791 in the Pune region. The Nashik region reported 463 new cases, Kolhapur 178, Latur 77, Aurangabad 30, Nagpur 12 and the Akola region five.According to the official, among the 39 fresh fatalities, the highest 13 were reported from the Pune region, followed by 10 from the Nashik region. Seven fatalities each were registered in Kolhapur and Mumbai regions, while the Latur region saw the death of two coronavirus patients. Significantly, Aurangabad, Akola, and Nagpur regions did not report any fresh fatalities.  (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-shirdi-sai-baba-temple-reopens-tomorrow-check-covid-19-guidelines-101633486314321.html
06-10-2021||Lucknow||Section 144 restrictions to remain in place in Lucknow till Nov 8. Check details||The Lucknow police on Tuesday announced new restrictions under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in view of the upcoming festival season and farmers' protest. These restrictions will remain in place till November 8.The directive under Section 144 (also known as prohibitory orders) empowers the magistrate to prohibit the gathering of four or more people in a specified area."Section 144 of CrPC implemented in the state capital Lucknow with immediate effect. Section 144 will remain in force in the capital till November 8 to maintain law and order and ensure adherence to Covid-19 rules in view of upcoming festivals, various entrance exams and farmers' protests," an official note signed by Piyush Mordia, Joint Police Commissioner (Law and Order) said.In the order, the police said that Navratri will be celebrated from October 7-14, Dussehra on October 15, Eid/Barawafat on October 19, Diwali on November 4 and Bhai Dooj on November 6. "Covid-19 is still having an impact on the normal lives of people. So, it is important to be vigilant during the festival period."It also gave details about the Covid-19 protocols to be followed during this period:• The Covid-19 curfew guidelines issued by the UP government from time to time must be followed.• Restaurants and hotels, gyms, sports stadiums, cinema halls and multiplexes will be allowed to open in areas which have not been declared containment zones with 50 per cent capacity. Swimming pools will remain closed till next order.• Tractors, bullock carts, horst carts, gas cylinder, inflammable material and any kind of weapon is banned in one kilometre area around the Vidha Sabha.• All demonstrations are also banned near the Vidha Sabha. If anyone is found violating these guidelines, strict action will be taken against that person.• Drone shooting is banned above or 1 kilometre around the state legislature building and government offices. Special permission needs to be taken from the police for using drone to shoot footage in any area of the district.• Loudspeakers or any such instrument must not be used between 10pm and 6am by any religious place.• People should refrain from publishing material or indulging in action which can disturb communal harmony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/section-144-restrictions-to-remain-in-place-in-lucknow-till-nov-8-check-details-101633484371420.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Prominent Kashmiri Pandit businessman shot dead in Srinagar||Makhan Lal Bindroo, owner of a prominent Srinagar pharmacy, was shot dead by suspected militants on Tuesday, inside his business premises at Iqbal Park here, police said.Bindroo, 68, was shot by the assailants from point-blank range while he was at his pharmacy dispensing medicines at around 7pm, a police official said.He was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. A Kashmir Pandit, Bindroo was one of the few among his community who did not migrate out of Kashmir after the onset of militancy in 1990. He stayed back along with his wife to continue operating his pharmacy Bindroo Medicate. Doctors who attended Bindroo at SMHS hospital said that he had multiple injuries and was brought dead in the hospital. The police spokesman in a tweet confirmed Bindroo’s death. The family runs two prominent medical stores in the city and had a large client base. Different mainstream politicians condemned the killing of Bindroo.“What terrible news! He was a very kind man. I’ve been told he never left during the height of militancy and remained with his shop open. I condemn this killing in the strongest possible terms & convey my heartfelt condolences to his family. God bless his soul,” tweeted Omar Abdullah. “The fatal attack against the owner of Bindroo medicates is outrageous and unacceptable. I knew the gentleman personally. He never left the valley. And terrorists made him pay for that. May he live in peace,” said Sajjad Lone in tweet. City Mayor Junaid Mattu also express shock over killing of Bindroo. “Shocked, anguished and deeply saddened by the cowardly, despicable assassination of M L Bindroo Sahab of the famous Bindroo Medicate near Iqbal Park. This is yet another attempt by terrorists to target our syncretic identity. My deepest condolences with the Bindroo family,” hes aid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prominent-kashmiri-pandit-businessman-shot-dead-in-srinagar-101633474816829.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir: J&K registers 102 fresh infections||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 102 fresh coronavirus infections on Tuesday. Around 73 cases were reported in Kashmir valley, while Jammu saw 29 infections. There are 1,074 active cases in the UT. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 468, followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 105 and 87 active cases, respectively.Officials said with 41 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, while 19 other districts had no or single-digit cases. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,24,493, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.33%.35 students test positive in Poonch
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri: J&K Congress chief Ghulam Ahmad Mir detained during protest||Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress president Ghulam Ahmad Mir, who was leading a demonstration against the killing of farmers in Uttar Pradesh and the detention of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, at Srinagar was detained on Tuesday. The Congress workers were raising slogans against UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and demanding strict action against the people responsible for killing farmers, when the police intervened and used force to disperse the protestors and took Mir into preventive custody. Congress workers said they were beaten up, despite protesting peacefully. Mir said, “The Congress has organised a major protest in Srinagar against the killing of farmers in UP and the detention of Priyanka Gandhi. When we came out from the office at MA road, police detained me and other senior members and used force against our workers, injuring them. One of our workers Mohammad Shafi Shah had to be hospitalised.” Mir, who was releases after an hour, said, “It is the norm of the government to use force gainst peaceful protesters.BJP’s inhuman face exposed: Jammu Cong The Congress also held a protest demonstration in Jammu. Former minister Mula Ram said, “The BJP government’s inhuman face has come to the fore. It is undemocratic to ignore the demands of the farmers, oppress them and then not allow any opposition party to stand with them.” Meanwhile, former minister Raman Bhalla, said, “Our farmers will always have our unconditional support. No one is above the law and an FIR under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) must be registered against union minister’s son.” He also slammed Uttar Pradesh government and police for “manhandling” party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lakhimpur-kheri-j-k-congress-chief-ghulam-ahmad-mir-detained-during-protest-101633473856918.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid cases in HP: 155 more people test positive||Himachal logged 155 fresh coronavirus cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,19,746, while the death toll mounted to 3,672 after three patients more people succumbed to the infection.Among the fresh cases, 44 were reported in Hamirpur, 41 in Hamirpur, 31 in Mandi, 19 in Shimla, 11 in Bilaspur, six in Kullu, and three in Una. No case has been reported in three four districts Chamba, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti and Solan.The active cases have come down to 1,400, while recoveries reached 2,14,657 after 161 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 49,147 cases reported till date, followed by 31,068 in Mandi and 27,281 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cases-in-hp-155-more-people-test-positive-101633471702183.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Trace rain in Delhi, change in wind likely to bring pollutants||As monsoon begins to withdraw from northwest India, parts of the national Capital received rainfall on Tuesday. Raisina Hill and India Gate complex in central Delhi saw moderate showers, while parts of north Delhi and other areas received light rain.According to the India Meteorological Department, 0.5 mm rainfall was recorded on Tuesday till 5.30pm.According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), monsoon will begin withdrawing from many parts of northwest India starting Wednesday, leading to a gradual reduction in temperature and moisture.“The thunderstorm activity over some parts of Delhi [on Tuesday] was mainly due to high day time temperatures and moisture. There is also a western disturbance which is impacting the region. Withdrawal will happen gradually from all of northwest India,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.The minimum temperature on Monday were recorded at 25.7 degrees Celsius, while the maximum was recorded at 36.4 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature on Tuesday settled at 35.4 degrees Celsius, one notch above the normal.The weatherman has forecast cloudy sky for Wednesday, and the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover around 35 and 25 degrees Celsius respectively.The India Meteorological Department has issued green alert from October 5 to October 10, indicating uneventful weather conditions.Delhi’s air quality is likely to deteriorate and remain moderate on October 6 and 7, according to the ministry of earth sciences’ air quality early warning system.One of the main reason for the drop in air quality in the capital is that now the predominant surface wind is likely to blow in from the northwest direction. North-westerly winds tend to blow fumes from stubble fires from northern India towards Delhi.Despite a late-onset, the monsoon this year has seen some erratic, record-breaking patterns. The monsoon officially arrived in the national capital on July 13, after a delay of 16 days instead of its usual onset on June 27. The resultant rainfall, arising from the late arrival of monsoon was, however, covered with only a few spells of heavy rain, with July receiving 507.1mm rain, compared to the normal precipitation of 210.6mm, and recording a surplus of 141%.In August, monsoon patterns changed again when the city experienced two spells of break monsoon. IMD officials said one such spell of break monsoon lasted for 10 days, making it one of the longest dry spells the city has ever seen in the monsoon season.In August, Delhi received 214.5mm rainfall against the average monthly precipitation of 247.7mm. The rainfall trends changed again in September. Unlike August, which by and large remained dry due to the break monsoon, Delhi recorded eight rainy days between September 1 and September 10 with the rainfall recording standing at 248.9mm against the normal of 62.6mm for those 10 days. The overall monthly average rainfall for September is 125.1mm. Last September, Delhi’s rainfall recording was only 20.9mm for the whole month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/trace-rain-in-delhi-change-in-wind-likely-to-bring-pollutants-101633471309792.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls: Congress fields Pratibha Singh from Mandi||The Congress on Tuesday announced that former MP Pratibha Singh will contest the Mandi Lok Sabha constituency in the upcoming by-elections.The seat had fallen vacant after the death of Ram Swaroop Sharma, who had defeated Pratibha Singh in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections with a margin of 39,796 votes. Pratibha was first elected to parliament in 2004, after she defeated Maheshwar Singh, the scion of the Kullu Royal family. She also defeated incumbent chief minister Jai Ram Thakur with a margin of 1.36 votes in 2013.Sanjay Awasthi will contest from the Arki assembly seat, which fell vacant after the demise of Virbhadra Singh. Meanwhile, Bhawani Singh Pathania, the son of former transport minister Sujan Singh Pathania, has been fielded from of Fatehpur. The seat had fallen vacant after the death of Sujan. In Jubbal Kotkhai, the party reposed its trust in former chief parliamentary secretary Rohit Thakur, who was first elected to Vidhan Sabha in 2003. Rohit was re-elected to assembly in 2012 after he defeated the former horticulture minister Narendra Bragta. Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore said the Congress was fully prepared for the four byelections that will be held in the state on October 30. Taking issue with chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s statement that Congress had no other issue other than inflation, Rathore said, “Inflation and unemployment are the biggest issues being faced by the people of the state and the country. The Congress will surely fight the polls on the issues, which affect the people the most,” he said. He also dared the chief minister to compare the prices of essential commodities, edible oil, petroleum products under the Congress government and current BJP regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hpbypolls-congress-fields-pratibha-singh-from-mandi-101633470977083.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Portrait of an introvert||He has no known friends or relatives. Utterly alone, he seems to prefer his own company. This unnamed monkey lives in the dargah of Hazrat Chirag Dehlavi.He first surfaced in the south Delhi Sufi shrine during the lockdown early this year, when the city was reeling under the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. “No idea where he came from,” confesses Syed Moeez Ahmed Nasiri, a khadim, one of the shrine’s hereditary caretakers, who lives in the dargah with his family. The residences of the caretakers are situated at one end of the sprawling courtyard that is crisscrossed with centuries-old graves of known and unknown mystics.The monkey spends a large part of the day in this courtyard. Right now he is sitting by a rose-strewn grave. His expressive face has a curious kind of inner transparency, enabling one to interpret in it a reflection of one’s own feelings.The serene place shelters a variety of creatures, including at least five cats and scores of pigeons. The resident birds stay hyperactive during the day, flying across the shrine’s many domes; at night they disperse themselves within the courtyard’s six gigantic neem trees. “We also used to have lots of mynahs and parrots but most have gone away… don’t know where,” says Peerzada Aamir Ahmad Nasiri, another khadim in the shrine. The peacocks have completely disappeared, he says. “They haven’t been seen since the courtyard was paved with marble some 10 years ago.”The monkey is an introvert but everyone in the dargah, including the fakirs, have grown fond of him. “He is a bhoodha bandar (aged monkey),” asserts fakir Muhammed Qadir, explaining that “he walks very slowly, and like any old person he eats only soft food.”The monkey is now sitting by the dargah’s gateway, amid a handful of alm seekers and devotees. Nobody appears to be alarmed by his presence. A pilgrim enters and starts distributing bananas to everyone in the shrine; he hands one to the monkey, too. The monkey peels the skin (with some indifference), and goes on to eat the fruit very slowly.At night, the monkey retires to a roof in the dargah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-portrait-of-an-introvert-101633470336384.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Weapon smugglers’ gang busted with arrest of three||The counter intelligence and CIA Staff-1 of Ludhiana police busted an inter-state gang of illegal weapon smugglers on Tuesday with the arrest of three persons. Police said they used to contact potential buyers using fake Facebook profiles. Two .32 bore pistols, four live cartridges, two magazines and three mobile phones have been recovered from their possession. The suspects have been identified as Harinderpal, 39, of Lallian Khurd village, Jalandhar; Balwinder Singh, 39, of Badhala village, Jalandhar, and Arjan Kumar, 22, of Rajasthan, who is currently living in Haibowal. They were arrested on the basis of a tip-off near Lajpat Nagar Park, close to the Ludhiana bus stand. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said Arjan Kumar hails from Madhya Pradesh, from where he used to smuggle illegal weapons to other states including Punjab, with help of his two accomplices. “The accused made fake profiles on Facebook and posted pictures of weapons in different groups and also contacted potential buyers through direct messages. After receiving the order, they delivered the weapons to them,” said the DCP. “Harinderpal is a convict in a murder case and is facing trial in five cases, including assault, possessing illegal weapons, drug peddling and murder. He had got 20 years imprisonment in the murder case, but after serving six years of his sentence, he came out on bail and got involved in illegal activities again,” he added. The DCP added that the police are questioning them to find out to who they were delivering the weapons to. A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of Arms Act has been registered at Division Number 5 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-weapon-smugglers-gang-busted-with-arrest-of-three-101633470196538.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||FIR against Punjabi filmmaker Vikram Dhillon for not paying ₹18,000 to dhaba owner||Mullanpur Dakha police booked noted producer, director and actor Vikram Dhillon for fraud as he allegedly failed to pay ₹18,000 to a dhaba owner against the food his crew consumed at the eatery during the shooting of a Punjabi movie in 2017.The FIR has been registered after five years of investigation.Rahul Kumar, the owner of Pandtan da Dhaba of Mullanpur Dakha, said that Dhillon, along with his crew, had visited Mullanpur Dakha and nearby locations for shooting a movie in 2017. The crew used to consume three meals from his dhaba daily.Kumar said that Dhillon had issued four cheques for payment but asked him not to encash the fourth one, amounting ₹18,000. Kumar agreed and Dhillon promised that he would take the cheque back after making the payment in cash.“I trusted him and did not deposit the cheque. The director, along with his crew, then left the place. Later, they stopped replying to my phone calls,” said the dhaba owner.“After repeated attempts to contact Dhillon, I finally deposited the cheque but was shocked to know that the filmmaker had already stopped payment against the cheque,” said the complainant.Kumar said that on July 13, 2017, he filed a complaint to the then senior superintendent of police (SSP), who marked an inquiry to superintendent of police (investigation). After more than five years, the police lodged the FIR.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Baljit Singh, the investigating officer, said the case against Dhillon has been lodged under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. Police will summon the accused to join investigation.Dhillon had worked as an VJ for Channel V. He also has to his credit Punjabi feature film ‘Pinky Moge Wali’, and web series ‘The Great Punjabi Luv Shuv Story’, which was streamed on Ekta Kapoor’s digital platform AltBalaji. He has also directed and produced a feature film Ji Karda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fir-against-punjabi-filmmaker-vikram-dhillon-for-not-paying-18-000-to-dhaba-owner-101633470016537.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Rohini court shootout: 8 people plotted to kill Gogi, say cops||The plot to kill gangster Jitender Gogi was allegedly hatched in Delhi’s Mandoli jail and eight people were part of it, said police officers interrogating jailed gangster Sunil Maan, alias Tillu Tajpuriya, Gogi’s arch-rival.Gogi was gunned down on September 24 in a Rohini court, and Tajpuria, who was already in jail for another offence, was questioned as the prime conspirator.His three-day custodial interrogation ended on Sunday, and police learnt the original plan was to kill Gogi in a court in Panipat, Haryana. But when the gangsters learned that Gogi will be produced in Rohini a week before, they decided to take him down in Delhi, said an investigator, seeking anonymity.“Sunil Maan, who was once a friend of Gogi and now a member of Tajpuriya’s gang, was a co-accused in a decade-old attempt-to-murder case in Alipur, in which he and Gogi were arrested. As both of them were supposed to be present in the same courtroom on September 24, there is a strong possibility that Maan may have tipped off Tajpuriya about the court visit, allowing him to plot Gogi’s assassination. To verify this, we may seek Maan’s custody from jail,” the investigator said.Police said Tajpuriya’s old accomplice, gangster Naveen Bali, was also a co-conspirator. Like Tajpuriya, Bali is in Mandoli jail, and on Tuesday, the crime branch team secured his custody for two days.Around 1pm on September 24, Gogi, who was in Tihar Jail, was escorted to court number 207 on the second floor of the Rohini court complex by 10 personnel of the 3rd Battalion, Delhi Police, while 15-20 plainclothesmen from the Special Cell and the Rohini district police were present as well.Judge Gagandeep Singh in court when the two assailants, dressed as lawyers and seated on chairs in the courtroom, whipped out pistols and began firing at Gogi. As Gogi was hit, the policemen present there responded and killed the suspects in retaliatory fire.The next day, Special Cell sleuths arrested two more suspects, Umang Yadav and Vinay Yadav, who had accompanied Gogi’s shooters in an i-10 car to the court from a flat in Haiderpur village, three hours before the shootout. The duo’s interrogation and footage from the CCTV cameras installed at the court complex revealed that a fifth suspect was also present. The suspect was not known to the four men, as he was directly getting orders from his handler in jail.“Umang and Vinay had told us that the fifth man was sent by Tajpuriya. We interrogated Tajpuriya about that man’s identity and whereabouts. However, he claimed that he did not know the man because he was sent there by Bali. We will question Bali about him once we have his custody,” said a second police officer, requesting anonymity.The police are also looking for Tajpuriya’s second-in-command (his name has been withheld) for arranging for the firearms and other logistical support required in the execution of the crime.So far, the cellphone allegedly used by Tajpuriya in jail to get live updates about the shooting through internet video calling hasn’t been found. He told police that he destroyed the phone by first crushing it and then setting it on fire, the second officer said.Sandeep Goel, director general of Delhi prisons, said no burnt phone was found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rohini-court-shootout-8-people-plotted-to-kill-gogi-say-cops-101633469784699.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Law and order situation in a shambles in UP, says HP Congress||The Himachal Congress on Tuesday staged protests across the state over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, where a car from the convoy allegedly belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra ran over the protesting farmers, and the subsequent detention of Opposition leaders who were on their way to meet the victims. State Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore, who led the protest outside the deputy commissioner’s office in Shimla , said, “The law and order situation in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh is in a shambles and Opposition leaders are being put under house arrest to stop them from going to Lakhimpur Kheri.” “Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra mowed down farmers with his car, just a few days after the minister openly threatened the crush the farmers’ protests.The BJP leadership is doing all it can to suppress the farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws and has also resorted to massacring farmers,” the HP Congress chief said. “Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was arrested without an FIR. The BJP government is trying to stifle democracy and have always acted against farmers. In Himachal too, the police had opened fire on farmers and killed three people,” she said. Meanwhile, leading a protest at Shahpur in Kangra, state Congress general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania said the Union minister’s son run over the peaceful protesters and fuelled the violence. Saying Vadra’s arrest will mark the current dispensation’s downfall, Pathania said, “In 1977, the then Jan Sangh government’s downfall started with the arrest of former PM Indira Gandhi on October 3. Forty-four years later, the arrest of Vadra on October 3 also mark the beginning of current regimes downfall,” he said.The protesters have submitted a memorandum to the President of India demanding strict action against those accused of killing farmers and the release of Opposition leaders. They also demanded resignation of Union minister Teni and a judicial probe into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-law-and-order-situation-in-a-shambles-in-up-says-hp-congress-101633469481292.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bypoll: Posters calling Kripal Parmar an outsider crop up in Fatehpur segment||With politics heating up in Himachal Pradesh ahead of the byelections, posters have cropped up against former Rajya Sabha member Kripal Parmar,a front-runner for BJP’s ticket in Fatehpur assembly segment of Kangra district. Fatehpur is among the three assembly segments and one parliamentary constituency going to polls on October 30. The byelection to the constituency was necessitated after the death of former Congress minister Sujan Singh Pathania, who represented Fatehpur in the current assembly, in February due to prolonged illness. The posters, calling Parmar an ‘outsider’, were put up in the streets and in front of the BJP’s local office at Rehan town by some unknown people on Monday night. Slogans like ‘Kripal Parmar Go Back,’ ‘People of Fatehpur will not accept an outsider’ and “Abki Bar Chakki Par’ (This time will send him across Chakki River) were written on posters. The slogans are a veiled reference to Parmar’s hometown Pathankot in Punjab. Chakki River forms the boundary between Punjab and Himachal. The incident also indicates that the local BJP unit is plagued with factionalism. Earlier too, similar posters had cropped up when he fought the 2017 assembly elections from Fatehpur. Parmar, who is currently the Himachal BJP vice-president, had lost to Congress’ Sujan Singh Pathania by a small margin of 1,284 votes. The main reason for his loss was infighting in the Fatehpur BJP unit. Party leader Baldev Thakur had contested as an independent and secured more than 13,000 votes while former BJP MP Rajan Sushant had polled over 6,200 votes. Interestingly, the slogan “Abki Bar Chakki Par” was coined by the BJP against Congress veteran Sat Mahajan who would contest from Nurpur. Parmar said his detractors don’t want him to be politically active in the constituency even though he has been living in Fatehpur for many years. The BJP has sent three names including Kripal Parmar, Baldev Thakur and Rita Thakur to the party high command for a final selection. Parmar is being touted as the strongest contender as he has the backing of national as well as state leadership given his close relationship with Prime Minister Narender Modi. Congress has declared Sujan Singh’s son Bhawani Singh Pathania as a candidate from Fatehpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bypoll-posters-calling-kripal-parmar-an-outsider-crop-up-in-fatehpur-segment-101633468156253.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||21 more dengue cases surface in Ludhiana||As many as 21 fresh dengue cases were detected in Ludhiana on Tuesday, of which 20 were reported from city areas. The day before, the district had recorded seven cases. As per the health department, majority of the cases were reported from the posh areas of Mall Enclave, Sham Singh Road, Model Town, Sant Nagar, Raj Guru Nagar, BRS Nagar, Sarabha Nagar and Civil Lines.Dengue fever is caused by the bite of the female aedes aegypti mosquito, which is also called the tiger mosquito. Ludhiana has so far seen 237 cases, while 161 patients from other districts and states have also been diagnosed with the disease this season. Apart from that, the district also has 1,668 suspected dengue cases. District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said no dengue deaths have been reported in the district so far. He, however, appealed to the residents to not allow water to stagnate in the coolers, containers, nets behind the fridge, pots, on the roofs of the houses, etc. 92-year-old man dies of CovidA 92-year-old man from Urban Estate, Dugri, died while three fresh cases of Covid-19 were detected in Ludhiana on Tuesday. The deceased had been undergoing treatment at Fortis Hospital on Chandigarh Road. The total Covid count in the district has now reached 87,548, while 2,103 people have succumbed to the virus so far. There are 14 active cases as of now.District crosses 30 lakh-mark in inoculations The health department crossed the 30 lakh-mark in Covid inoculations on Tuesday. As per the health department, 42,590 people were vaccinated on the day, taking the total number of vaccinations to 30,41,898. Out of the total, 8,83,439 people have been fully vaccinated while 21,58,459 residents have received the first dose. The health department has administered 10 lakh vaccination doses in 35 days. On August 31, the district had reached the milestone of 20 lakh vaccinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/21-more-dengue-cases-surface-in-ludhiana-101633467556220.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC fails to explore viability of reusing 37 defunct buses||The municipal corporation (MC) authorities have failed to find a solution for 37 city buses worth ₹17 crore that have been lying in a dilapidated condition in the depot on the Tajpur road for the last over eight years. Even as committees have been formed over the years to conduct a viability survey of the buses to find out whether these can be put to use again or not, no concrete steps have been taken at ground level. The matter was also discussed during the meeting of the Board of Directors of Ludhiana City Bus Service Limited held in Zone D of the MC on Tuesday. Officials from the administration and the police department also participated in the meeting. Pardeep Sabharwal , MC commissioner, said a committee was formed to conduct a viability survey a few months ago and the secretary, RTA, was also a part of the committee. The committee members have sought 10 more days for completing the survey. The required recommendations will be made to the higher authorities in the local bodies department as per the report of the survey. If these buses can be used in some way, it will also generate employment opportunities. The buses have been dumped at the site for over eight years now and are lying in a dilapidated condition with many of the parts being stolen in the past. MC officials requesting anonymity said even then the MC would not be able to run the buses on city roads as these are big in size and cannot be run on narrow internal roads of the city which are marred by traffic jams. The authorities have also failed to run the facility at its full capacity. The project was started in February 2011 with the target of introducing 200 buses under the Jawahar Lal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), but the authorities have not been able to properly run 120 buses, which were purchased. Out of the 120 buses, only 83 were transferred to the company and 37 are gathering dust at the depot. Out of the 83 buses in possession of the contractor, only few are being run on city roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-fails-to-explore-viability-of-reusing-37-defunct-buses-101633467256292.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Rainy evenings with thunder to continue in Pune; monsoon may withdraw mid-October||PUNE: The city may continue to witness hotter days and rainy evenings accompanied by thunder till October 9, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. Areas in and around the city are likely to see hotter days and thunder during the evenings while some parts may also witness moderate rainfall till October 6, IMD officials said. However, rainfall will reduce after October 9. The weather department forecasted that the monsoon is likely to withdraw from Pune around mid-October.On Tuesday, Shivajinagar reported a temperature of 32.6 degree Celsius; Pashan reported 32.8 degree Celsius; and Lohegaon 32.3 degree Celsius during the day. Anurag Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said that temperatures will be high during the day. “Evenings will see showers accompanied by thunder. Lightning and intense rainfall is expected to last for not more than one-and-a-half hour,” he said. Kashyapi warned against moving about on roads or taking shelter under trees when there is thunder.The monsoon has not started withdrawing from India yet. “The northwest region of India is likely to see withdrawal of the monsoon from October 6. However, parts of Maharashtra may continue to witness rainfall accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning till October 9,” Kashyapi informed. The monsoon may start withdrawing from the northern part of the state around October 10, he said. “Withdrawal from Konkan and the southern parts may take more time. For Pune city and Mumbai, monsoon withdrawal is likely to be around mid-October,” he added. Speaking about the current weather in Pune city and Maharashtra, Kashyapi said that at present, there are many systems dragging moisture to the state from the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. “Enough moisture is coming from easterlies from some other systems. East central upper air circulation is active. Another system over southwest Bay of Bengal is active which is making wind turn towards the southern part of Maharashtra bringing moisture from the Bay of Bengal. These systems are likely to bring rainfall till October 9,” he said. In all four sub-divisions of Maharashtra, the monsoon conditions are weak, he added. “Fairly widespread rainfall is expected. Till October 9, thunderstorms are likely with isolated heavy rainfall as per warning issued by IMD. For madhya Maharashtra, Nashik, Kolhapur, Satara and Solapur, thunder with isolated heavy rainfall around the ghat areas is likely. In Marathwada and Vidarbha, rainfall is likely to be widespread and local instability may cause thunder in the region,” said Kashyapi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rainy-evenings-with-thunder-to-continue-in-pune-monsoon-may-withdraw-midoctober-101633467136618.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Ahmednagar’s Covid surge adding to Pune’s health infra burden||PUNE: Pune’s neighbouring district and also the largest in the state – Ahmednagar (Nagar) – is now reporting an alarming number of new Covid-19 cases, possibly due to Covid-19 inappropriate behaviour and increased interaction during festivities. On Monday, Nagar reported 347 new Covid-19 cases. Currently, it has the third highest number of active cases after Pune and Mumbai. The increase in the number of cases in the neighbouring district implies an additional burden on health infrastructure facilities in Pune.During a Covid-19 review meeting on Friday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said that the increase in number of Covid-19 cases in Ahmednagar means additional pressure on tertiary care hospitals in Pune. “At least 40% of the patients admitted at B J Medical college hail from Ahmednagar.”According to Ahmednagar civil surgeon Dr Sunil Pokharna however, the current situation is much better than what it was a few days ago. “A few weeks ago, Ahmednagar was reporting more than 600 new Covid-19 cases but now as per the state health department, the numbers have come down to less than 400 new cases daily. We have found that this can be attributed to inappropriate Covid-19 behaviour by people who refuse to wear masks or follow sanitation rules or even social distancing. They hide their medical history or even when they test positive for Covid-19. What we see as of now is the thick tail of the second wave which has not yet receded completely in Ahmednagar district,” Dr Pokharna said.Rajendra Bhosale, district collector of Ahmednagar, said, “The recent surge in absolute numbers could also be because of the increased number of tests we have conducted. We have carried out up to 15,000 tests daily which led to reporting of more cases. Increased interaction among people during festivities could have also resulted in the rise in numbers.” As per Bhosale’s latest order, about 61 villages in the district have been declared as containment zones to avoid any further surge in numbers. Dr Pokharna said, “We have strict instructions from the district collector to ensure that there is no spurt in numbers and also to bring current numbers down from three to two digits. Hence, these measures have been taken. However, the situation is much better than what it was earlier.” Dr Pokharna further said that to increase their tertiary care strength, the hospital is now converting non-intensive care unit (ICU) beds into ICU beds.As of Tuesday, Ahmednagar has 4,280 active cases, which is the third highest with Pune and Mumbai reporting the highest and second-highest number of cases at 8,593 and 6,161, respectively. One of the reasons for the drop in number of new cases in Pune and most other cities has been the increased rate of vaccination. As per state figures, Ahmednagar has an estimated 3,321,684 population above 18 years of age. A total 2,114,176 beneficiaries (63.64%) have got their first dose while 734,875 beneficiaries (22%) have got their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ahmednagars-covid-surge-adding-to-pune-s-health-infra-burden-101633466656630.html
06-10-2021||Other||23 sugar mills cough up ₹125 crore in FRP ahead of crushing season||PUNE: With the sugarcane crushing season in Maharashtra (2021-22) slated to begin from October 15, sugar mills have expedited payouts of pending fair and remunerative price (FRP) to farmers as crushing licenses will not be issued to the mills that have not paid full FRP to farmers. Presently, 154 mills have paid 100% FRP to farmers. Nearly 190 sugar factories, both cooperative and private, are expected to participate in the upcoming season.Shekhar Gaikwad, sugar commissioner, said, “In just a week, FRP worth ₹125 crore has been paid by 23 sugar mills to farmers. Payment of FRP worth ₹100 crore is still pending but I am sure that it will be completed in the next 10 days. Now, 99.09% FRP has been paid in Maharashtra. Sugarcane crushing licenses will not be issued to sugar mills without full payment of FRP.”Earlier, the sugar commissionerate had colour-coded sugar mills based on their payment history. The step was taken to provide a ready guide for sugarcane farmers to decide where to sell their sugarcane. “This list has reached more than 30 lakh farmers in the state. There are four mills which have paid below 60% FRP; eight which have paid 60 to 80% FRP; and 24 mills which have paid 81 to 99% FRP.”Till September 30, the sugar mills in Maharashtra have paid ₹31,243 crore in FRP to sugarcane farmers with payment of ₹100 crore of FRP still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/23-sugar-mills-cough-up-125-crore-in-frp-ahead-of-crushing-season-101633466415536.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Vax 1% of eligible population daily in Oct, state tells civic bodies||PUNE Even as September saw the highest percentage of Covid-19 vaccinations, the state now aims to keep up the pace in October. In September, on average, 750,000 people were vaccinated daily in the state. Now the health department aims vaccinate up to 900,000 people per day. The state has instructed that at least 1% of the eligible population of Pune district must be vaccinated daily.Pune has an estimated eligible population of about 3.93 million and so the administration would have to vaccinate more than 30,000 people daily. The district has seen its highest vaccination drive on July 31, when more than 234,000 beneficiaries got the jab. This is now the highest single-day vaccination number for any district in the state. In September, along with Pune, many districts in the state saw a smooth supply of vaccines and so the issue of shortages has been resolved. However, a shortage of syringes is the new problem for the administrationThe state administration has instructed the district administration to further increase the vaccination drive in October given the upcoming festivities. Dr Pradip Vyas, principal secretary, Public Health Department, Maharashtra, in a letter dated October 4, said, “At present we have less than 36,000 active Covid cases in the State. This number is similar to the second week of February 2021, when the second Covid wave in our state started and ultimately peaked in the the last week of April, 2021. There is real apprehension that with the opening of the economy, increased activity, opening of schools/colleges and ensuing festive season, the number of Covid cases may increase by November 2021, if we are not very careful.”The letter further states: ‘In this situation, it is important to further increase the pace of Covid vaccination in our state. We have vaccinated at an average rate of about 7.5 lakh doses per day in September, 2021. With increased availability of Covid vaccines we can easily achieve an average vaccination rate of up to 10 lakh doses per day in October, 2021. We must try to administer Covid vaccination doses equivalent to at least 1% of the eligible population of your district every day. So if the eligible population of the district is say 50 lakh, then 50,000 doses per day. These are minimum desirable levels and can be further scaled”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vax-1-of-eligible-population-daily-in-oct-state-tells-civic-bodies-101633466356200.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Police patrols to increase during Navratri to ensure no crowding at temples in Pune||PUNE The Pune Police will remain watchful to avoid crowd gathering during the nine-day Navratri festival that starts from Thursday, October 7.With temples across the state also opening on the same day, city police will increase patrolling around major temples in the city.The Pune Municipal Corporation’s order which is on the lines of the state government order states that garba, dandiya and social gatherings are not allowed during the festival.The PMC has urged people to opt for e-darshan instead of visiting temples during Navratri.“We will be keeping a watch on big societies for social gathering and dandiya parties. If huge crowds gather then action will be taken,” said a senior police official from the commissioner’s office, requesting anonymity.The temples have been told to ensure safe distance, and thermal screening is a must for all the devotees.Chaturshrungi temple is ready to welcome devotees maintaining all Covid norms.“There is no separate queue or admission for VIPs this year. The rules issued by the government will be followed,” said a release issued by the temple trust.“Our officers will be keep watch on all temples whereNavratri is celebrated. All the temples have been urged to keep the celebration a low-key affair like the Ganesh mandals did during the 10-day Ganesh festival,” said the police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-patrols-to-increase-during-navratri-to-ensure-no-crowding-at-temples-in-pune-101633465936598.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly elections: Gabria to be SAD candidate from Ludhiana South||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) will again be fielding former cabinet minister Hira Singh Gabria from Ludhiana South constituency during the 2022 Punjab assembly elections.The 74-year-old veteran leader had lost two assembly elections in 2012 and 2017 respectively, the first against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjit Bains from Atam Nagar constituency and thereafter against Bains’ elder brother Balwinder Singh Bains from Ludhiana South constituency.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, during his previous visit to the city, had announced candidates from nine constituencies of Ludhiana district, but left the South constituency hanging.Former mayor Hakam Singh Giaspura’s son Jaspal Singh Giaspura and Youth Akali Dal (YAD) district president Gurdeep Singh Gosha were also in the race, but it was Gabria who finally clinched the ticket. Before offering the seat to Gabria, SAD pacified the disgruntled elements and appointed two-time councillor Jaspal Giaspura as the leader of opposition in the municipal corporation (MC) general hHouse.Gabria, who had once acted as a patron for Bains brothers and paved way for their induction in SAD, is now considered to be their biggest political opponent. He has been among those who have been aggressively attacking Simarjit Bains over the rape charges against the latter.Earlier, the party was planning to field Gabria’s son Rakhwinder Singh from the South constituency, but the decision was changed after inputs from workers in the area, said sources. Gabria is believed to enjoy a considerable hold on the Dalit and Ramgarhia population living in the area.When contacted, Gabria said SAD has the best chance of winning the election. “People are fed-up of Congress and the ongoing circus in the party. People of both South and Atam Nagar constituencies have realised that Balwinder Bains and his brother Simarjit Bains have amassed a lot of wealth but done nothing for people of the area. People are pinning their hopes on SAD to usher in an era of progress and development. I am thankful to the party for offering me a ticket so that I can serve the people here,” said Gabria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-elections-gabria-to-be-sad-candidate-from-ludhiana-south-101633465818864.html
06-10-2021||Pune||CBI judge sentences 4, including ex-bank manager, to rigorous imprisonment in Pune||PUNE A special Central bureau of investigation (CBI) judge from Pune sentenced four people, including a former senior manager of a bank, to rigorous imprisonment (RI) on Tuesday, for discounting 246 bills against a letter of credit payable towards Bank of India, leading to the misappropriation of ₹300 crore.The four included SR Hegde, chief manager Canara Bank, Deccan branch; Ganesh Kolhe and Ganesh Gaikwad, both former account assistants to companies Varron Aluminium Pvt Ltd (VAPL) and Varron Auto Comp Pvt Ltd (VAPCL); and Manoj Salvi, proprietor of Ratna Metal Mart.Hegde was sentenced to five years’ RI and a ₹1 lakh fine. Kolhe was sentenced to three years’ RI and a ₹1.5 lakh fine. Gaikwad and Salvi were both sentenced to three years’ RI and ₹1 lakh fine each. The companies VAPL and VAPCL were each fined for ₹1 crore, according to a statement issued by CBI.“CBI had registered the case on 23.02.2017, on a complaint from Bank of India in the matter of discounting 246 bills against a Letter of Credit (LC) issued by Canara Bank, Deccan Gymkhana branch, Pune to the tune of Rs.300 crore (approximately). It was alleged that the accused hatched a conspiracy and in pursuance of the conspiracy, the Managing Director of both the companies VAPL and VACPL got issued fraudulent Letters of Credit (LC) on February 29, 2016 through the then chief manager of Canara Bank, Deccan Gymkhana Branch, Pune. It was further alleged that 246 forged bills were submitted in the Bank of India and got the same discounted fraudulently in the name of the other co-accused companies. Further, the money received from these fraudulent transactions was again allegedly transferred to the accounts of Varron Group of companies and also dishonestly/fraudulently utilised for reducing their earlier liabilities with State Bank of India,” read the CBI statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cbi-judge-sentences-4-including-ex-bank-manager-to-rigorous-imprisonment-in-pune-101633465517201.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||A month before PSEB exam, Class-10 students in Ludhiana still await textbooks||Though there is just a month to go before the first session of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB)’s Class-10 examination is to be held, students of a few government schools in Ludhiana are yet to get the complete set of textbooks for session.PSEB, like the Central Board of Secondary Education, will be conducting the Class-10 boards in two sessions—the first in November and second in March.The education department, meanwhile, is busy preparing the students for the National Achievement Survey (NAS), which is conducted by the Union ministry to ascertain the intellectual levels of students across the country. Schools are ranked on the basis of the results of this test.The department recently sent NAS practice books to government schools across Ludhiana even as students are awaiting the NCERT textbooks. As per information, Class-10 students in Ludhiana have not received textbooks of English literature, Punjabi (Vangi), drawing, painting and SST..Students of Class-7 are yet to get the English grammar and geometrical drawing books. In Class-8, students are waiting for the textbooks of Hindi, English grammar and Science while in Class-9, students haven’t received the books of Maths and English grammar.The issue had also been raised by parents during the parent-teacher meeting on September 29 and September 30. Sunita Kumari, the mother of a Class-9 student of a government school in the district, said, “I was asked to buy the mathematics book from a private book shop by the subject teacher of my child. The teacher told me that since my child previously studied in a private school, we (parents) can at least afford his books. When I objected to this, she told me that the books will be available soon.”Meanwhile, the principal of a government senior secondary school said that the department had extended the deadline for new admissions till September 30, and those who recently got enrolled are the ones without books. “Most of the students have all the textbooks. Only a few new admission kids are yet to get the complete set. They will get it soon,” said the principal.Meanwhile, PSEB chairperson Yograj Sharma claimed that over two crore books were printed and sent to schools this March and subsequently supplementary copies were also sent.“We completed our job in March itself but if students are yet to get the books, the district education officials are responsible. There is no shortage of books from our side. Still, I will check with the Ludhiana education officials and do the needful,” said Sharma.Meanwhile, deputy district education officer (DEO) Charanjit Singh said, “Schools should inform us on time about any issue related to books. It is our duty to provide books to the students, and parents should not be asked for the same. We will send a directive to all school heads to check the requirement so that we can make arrangements,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-month-before-pseb-exam-class-10-students-in-ludhiana-still-await-textbooks-101633465516164.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Two electrocuted by illegal ‘live’ wire in Kamshet||PUNE Two people, including a minor boy, were electrocuted to death in Kamshet on Tuesday. The two were looking for a bull from the neighbourhood that had gone astray when they came in contact with a ‘live’ wire installed around a field in Uksan Mala village of Kamshet, Pune. The two were identified as Avinash Khomaji Bagad (16) and Ravindra Sitaram Bagad (23), both residents of the same village.“They were part of a group of six-eight people looking for a bull that had managed to cut itself loose and had gone astray. This is what the locals are telling us. The lines were definitely illegal. This method is used to electrocute animals that try to enter the fields and destroy crops,” said senior police inspector Sanjay Jagtap of Kamshet police station.The Pune rural police are in the process of booking the person who had installed the wire against the law that prevents illegal extensions to electricity lines.The incident happened one week after four people were taken into custody in a case registered at Paud police station for causing death of another man in the same way.The deceased was identified as Vithoba Pandhurang Sathe (65), a resident of Bhalgudi village in Mulshi and was a farmer by profession.Sathe was electrocuted to death by the ‘live’ wire fencing on his neighbour’s paddy field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-electrocuted-by-illegal-live-wire-in-kamshet-101633465036128.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Body of 7-year-old found two days after he went missing in Kolhapur||PUNE The body of a 7-year-old child was found near his house in Kolhapur on Tuesday, two days after he was reported missing by his parents. The child was identified as Aarav Rakesh Kesare (7), a resident of Kapshi village in Shahuwadi area of Kolhapur district. He is survived by a father who and the child’s mother, who is a housewife. The body of the child was found 100-150 metres in the area behind his house. The locals claim to have seen turmeric and vermillion near the boy’s body which has raised suspicion of it being a case of superstitious killing. However, police have not confirmed the motive yet and suspect that the turmeric was used for ornamental purposes to misdirect the investigation.“Right now it is not confirmed whether it was a superstitious killing. The investigation is on from all angles. It is not right to call it a superstitious killing as it lacks confirmation. There are multiple teams working on this,” said Shailesh Balkawade, superintendent of Kolhapur police. “Strangulation was found to be the cause of death in the post mortem, as per the doctors. There are multiple angles being explored,” said inspector Vijay Patil of Shahuwadi police station, where the case has been registeredThe boy was reported missing from the vicinity of his house on October 2. His parents and his elder sibling were at home when he went missing. A case under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Shahuwadi police station. The case came to light one month after another child was found to have been killed in Kagal area of the district. The child had also been missing for four days before he was found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/body-of-7-year-old-found-two-days-after-he-went-missing-in-kolhapur-101633464736117.html
06-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 4 of family hurt after fire breaks out in dhaba||Four of a migrant family, including two minors, were injured after fire broke out at a dhaba in a narrow street in New Madhopuri area of Ludhiana following an LPG cylinder leak on Tuesday. Fortunately, the cylinder did not explode.The victims have been identified as Mohammad Izrail, 36, his wife Kulsum, 29, and daughters -- Romana, 11 and Sarawari, 9. Romana’s condition is said to be critical as she has suffered 30 to 35% burn injuries on her face, chest and arm. She was referred to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). Sarawari and Kulsum suffered injuries on theri back, arms and legs. Waiting outside the emergency ward of CMCH, Izrail, who hails from Bihar, said his family had started the dhaba business just a month ago. “I, along with my wife and two daughters, was cooking food while my two sons – Ajajul, 6, and Amarud, 14 – were playing outside, when the fire broke out due to a cylinder leak. Within a matter of seconds, the whole dhaba was engulfed in flames.”“We rushed outside, but my elder daughter, who had been washing the utensils, got stuck inside. We rushed back and pulled her out but she was suffered severe burns,” said Izrail, adding that he, along with his wife and younger daughter, were injured in an attempt to save the older daughter.“My daughter is alive but doctors said her condition is critical and will be under observation for two days,” he added. Izrail said he had lost goods worth around a lakh in the fire. CMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Amit Gulrez said Romana is conscious but there are chances of swelling in the respiratory passage. “She will remain under observation for at least 48 hours due to the risk related to respiration. She will also have to undergo plastic surgery due to the face injury.”Neighbours came to the rescueSoon after the fire broke out, the neighbours rushed to the rescue of the family members and tried to douse the flames with the help of water pipes, sand etc. A fire tender reached the spot in a few minutes. Sub-fire officer (SFO) Atish Rai said the blaze was controlled in about 20-25 minutes. The neighbours were later seen rushing the family members to a nearby hospital on two-wheelers. Shunty, the owner of the building in which the dhaba is located, said some social workers are bearing the cost of the victims’ treatment. One of the neighbours, Vipan, said, “Luckily, the cylinder did not explode; if it had, the nearby commercials and residential buildings would have also caught fire as the dhaba is located in a narrow street.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-4-of-family-hurt-after-fire-breaks-out-in-dhaba-101633464556054.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Road rage: 3 arrested for attempted murder after attack on couple in car in Pune||PUNE Three men have been arrested and remanded to police custody for trying to kill a car driver and his wife during an argument, after the accused brushed against the victims’ car in Ambegaon on Sunday night.The injured were identified as Triveni Ruptakke (28) and her husband Atul Ruptakke, both resident of Vetalnagar in Ambegaon Budrukh.The arrested men were identified as Ritesh Vijay Kondhare (23), a resident of Bibwewadi, Omkar Suresh Tambe (28), and Nilesh Shrimant Thorat (20), both residents of Padmavati, Pune, according to the police.“They were remanded to police custody till October 7. We are investigating whose car it was that they were driving and where they got their weapons from. The couple is at home and is stable,” said assistant inspector Ashish Kavthekar of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station, who is investigating the case.Around 7:30pm on Sunday, the couple was driving near Jay Shivaji Mitra Mandal in Ambegaon Budrukh when the car that the accused were driving brushed against the couple’s car, causing a mark on it, according to the police.The woman got out of the car and confronted the men who then decided to attack out of rage. One of them attacked the man with a sickle when the woman tried to save her husband she injured her right hand in the process.The men then pushed the couple on the ground and beat them up with cricket bats while some of them broke the windows of their car, according to the police.While fleeing the spot, the men threatened to find and kill them both, according to their complaint.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 34 (common intention), 504, 506, 506(2), and 427 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act and Section 37(1)with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/road-rage-3-arrested-for-attempted-murder-after-attack-on-couple-in-car-in-pune-101633464496109.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab deputy CM tells health dept to implement citizens’ charter in all hospitals||Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni on Tuesday directed the health department officials to implement citizens’ charter in all government hospitals to sensitise people about the facilities being provided by the state government. Chairing a meeting of top officials of the department to review schemes and projects, Soni also asked them to take stern action against officials and medical staff indulging in any illegal practice or laxity. “No irregularity or corruption will be tolerated,” he said. The deputy CM also asked all senior officers posted at the state headquarters to make two field visits in a week, besides starting temporary recruitment in the civil engineering wing of Punjab Health System Corporation to complete all the ongoing projects on time. PHSC officials have been told to complete the initial work for setting up of new maternity centres within a week and ensure the completion of ongoing projects by the November-end. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Alok Shekhar, mission director, National Health Mission, Kumar Rahul, PHSC managing director Amit Kumar were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-deputy-cm-tells-health-dept-to-implement-citizens-charter-in-all-hospitals-101633464256160.html
06-10-2021||Other||Harassment of SC woman: Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes asks SSP, Jagraon to submit report by October 16||Following an alleged incident of assault on a woman of the SC community wherein she was beaten up by an ‘upper caste’ man, the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission has sought a status report from senior superintendent of police (SSP), Jagraon, by October 16.Dr Tarsem Singh Sialka, a member of the commission, said Harinder Kaur, wife of Malkiat Singh of Dakha, had lodged a complaint with the commission alleging that a woman had been beaten up by an upper-caste man. The woman also alleged discrimination by local police and demanded justice from the commission, he added.He said that it has also come to the notice of the commission that the police had registered a case against the victim instead of listening to her. Sialka said a notice has been issued and a status report has been sought from SSP by October 16.Shopkeepers seek reconstruction of potholed road, submit memo with zonal commissioner Slamming the municipal corporation (MC) over the dilapidated condition of old GT Road from Rekhi Cinema Chowk till Clock Tower, Rekhi Cinema Chowk Shopkeepers’ Association submitted a memorandum with MC zonal commissioner (Zone A) Jasdev Sekhon on Tuesday. Seeking restoration of the road reconstruction work, the shopkeepers rued that the road was dug in May for laying of storm sewer lines. However, the civic body had failed to reconstruct the road even after the work was completed, they said. They rued that dust arising from the potholed road enters their shops and even the commuters face a lot of trouble due to its dilapidated condition. Association member Chanderkant Chadda said, “Earlier, the authorities had claimed that the road cannot be constructed during monsoons but now that the rainy season is over, there is no reason for delay.” Zonal commissioner Sekhon stated that the officials of the bridges and roads (B and R) department have already been asked to commence the road reconstruction project, and the work is expected to begin in a day or so.PAU inks pact with Forest Research Institute, DehradunPunjab Agricultural University has entered into an agreement with Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehradun, for research, transfer of research, technology, and exchange of academic affairs. RS Sidhu, registrar, PAU, and NK Upreti, group coordinator (research), FRI, signed the MoU on behalf of their respective organisations. Man held with 210gm heroin The Special Task Force (STF) arrested a 45-year-old man with 210gm heroin from his possession on Monday night. The accused has been identified as Raj Kumar alias Raja of Ghoda Colony. Inspector Harbans Singh, in-chrage at STF Ludhiana, said the accused was nabbed following a tip-off. A case under Sections 22/61/85 of NDPS Act has been registered. Customs Commissionerate celebrates ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’To commemorate India’s 75th year of independence, Customs Commissionerate, Sahnewal, celebrated ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ on Tuesday. A Khadi and Gramodyog Exhibition was organised at Custom House, Sahnewal, to pay homage to Mahatma Gandhi. An inter-school painting competition on the theme ‘Freedom Struggle’ was also held. Damanpreet Kaur and Shital Kumari of Government Senior Secondary Smart School (Girls), Sahnewal, won the first and second prize. Rahul of Government Senior Secondary Smart School (Boys), Sahnewal, secured the third prize. All participants were given swachhta Kits containing Khadi and Gramodyog products.World Architecture Day celebratedIndian Institute of Architects Ludhiana Centre (IIALC) celebrated World Architecture Day on Monday. The theme was: Clean environment for a healthy world. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, who was the chief guest, shared his views about the role architects play in building a safe and healthy society. Sanjay Goel, director of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) and chairman of The Indian Institute of Architects Punjab Chapter (IIAPC), stated that architects play a professional role in building safe and sustainable infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/harassment-of-sc-woman-punjab-state-commission-for-scheduled-castes-asks-ssp-jagraon-to-submit-report-by-october-16-101633464136075.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Act swiftly against farmers’ killing in UP: SAD core committee to Centre||The core committee of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday asked the Centre to expedite action against the killing of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday, and also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the three agriculture laws at the earliest. In a meeting of the party’s highest decision-making body, presided over by SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, it was resolved that to contain unrest and ensure no more lives are lost, the farm laws should be repealed. Expressing shock over no concrete action being initiated against those responsible for the brutal murders, the committee demanded a judicial probe into the incident and inflammatory speeches by Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra. It also condemned the Uttar Pradesh government for stopping the party delegation, led by Prem Singh Chandumajra, from proceeding towards Lakhimpur Kheri. AAP govt interfering in Sikh matters The core committee took strong notice of the interference by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi in the internal affairs of the Sikh community. “AAP government is preventing the constitution of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on one or the other ground, despite the fact that the SAD won the election with clear majority,” said the party spokesperson. “It was shocking that how on flimsy grounds the co-option of Manjinder Singh Sirsa as an SGPC nominee in the DSGMC was stopped,” said Sukhbir, adding that Sirsa’s nomination claim was genuine and it was also certified that he was well-conversant with Punjabi language, but it was made an excuse to reject his nomination. Ex-Milkfed chairman joins SADFormer Milkfed chairman and Congress leader Capt Harminder Singh joined the SAD on Tuesday. Inducting him into the party, Sukhbir also announced him as the party candidate from the Sultanpur Lodhi seat in 2022 Assembly polls. Before joining the SAD, Capt Singh remained with the Congress party for at least 20 years and was president of the rural unit of Jalandhar district. Addressing the media, Sukhbir said Capt Singh had emerged as the consensus candidate of the party from Sultanpur Lodhi. Hailing the work done by former finance minister Upinderjit Kaur, who represented the party from Sultanpur Lodhi in the 2017 elections, Sukhbir said the veteran leader had informed him six months back that she will not be contesting the 2022 elections. Therefore, the party had decided to field Capt Singh from the constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/act-swiftly-against-farmers-killing-in-up-sad-core-committee-to-centre-101633464082294.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||PAU, KVK experts inspect fields affected by pink bollworm attack||A team of Punjab Agricultural University and Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Barnala, inspected the cotton fields affected by the pink bollworm attack in Rureke Kalan village of the district on Tuesday. The team, comprising Amandeep Kaur from PAU and Harjot Singh Sohi from KVK, met farmers and educated them about the insect.Kaur said a survey of fields in the village revealed 30% of the area had been affected.A farmer, Enna Singh, demanded compensation from the government, stating that he cultivated cotton on only 1.5 acre of rented land and the entire crop had been damaged.Gurwinder Singh, another farmer, said they did not receive free pesticides and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann never visited them to enquire about crop loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-kvk-experts-inspect-fields-affected-by-pink-bollworm-attack-101633464081036.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to put a cap on per acre yield of paddy||The Punjab food and civil supplies department is working on putting a cap of 34 quintals on the paddy yield per acre of crop.This is mandatory under central norms that call for integrating land records with grain procurement, to be implemented for the first time in the state. Introducing changes in the procurement system, Centre’s food and public distribution ministry has asked the state to ascertain how much paddy per acre is expected to be purchased by state agencies and the Food Corporation of India (FCI).This would help rein in the illegal practice of pilferage and sale of recycled rice, transported from other states at a cheaper price and mixed with freshly procured paddy for bigger profits.Fixing of per acre yield will also come as an end to the Centre’s open-ended procurement policy, under which the government buys every grain of wheat and rice brought by farmers, far more than the annual requirement, leading to heavy storage costs and subsidy burden.Average limit to be determinedA district-wise report, sought by the state government from the agriculture department, had found a state-wide cap on the yield unfeasible, as there are variations across districts. So, the plan now is to determine an average figure.This year, paddy has been sown over 72.5 lakh acres. Of this 12 lakh acres are occupied by basmati.For procurement, the agriculture department had pegged the total paddy arrival at 190 lakh tonnes, for which a Cash Credit Limit (CCL) of ₹35,700 crore has been received from the Reserve Bank of India. “No concrete decision on the limit for yield has been reached yet. We are working on a consensus for a cap of 34 quintals per acre. This will satisfy the farmers and also follow the rule book,” said an official of the state food department, not willing to be named. But RS Cheema, representing a section arhtiyas as president of the association, said, “Even in the beginning of the procurement process, the purchase agencies are not buying more than 25 quintals. Where will farmers sell the remaining stock?”Contradicting Cheema, an officer of the Punjab Mandi Board, the agency that regulates food grain purchase in state’s 3,000 mandis, said, “The initial arrivals are of the early varieties, which give an average per acre yield of 22 to 25 quintals. After October 10, we are expecting the late varieties with yield of around 35 to 40 quintals,” he said, requesting anonymity, adding that the issue will be addressed then.Land records being linked to database Meanwhile, the state government has completed the process to integrate land record with grain procurement, for 10.5 lakh farmers. Centre had made it compulsory for Punjab to carry out procurement only after taking land details from farmers, who will get the payment (MSP) for their produce (wheat and paddy) only when the revenue record of their agriculture land is linked with the Public Finance Management System (PFMS).In rabi (wheat) procurement season this year, the state had started the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system through PFMS, by transferring crop payment directly into farmers’ bank accounts, bypassing the traditional system of routing payment through the arhtiyas (commission agents).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-put-a-cap-on-per-acre-yield-of-paddy-101633464079686.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab chief minister meets Amit Shah, condemns violence in Lakhimpur Kheri||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday took up with Union home minister Amit Shah the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh in which eight persons, including four farmers, were killed during a protest on Sunday. Channi, who called on Shah at the latter’s residence in Delhi in the evening, conveyed his deep anguish over the tragic incident and the manner in which Congress leaders going to meet the victims’ families were stopped or arrested. “Met Home Minister @AmitShah & told him that the system of arresting our leaders should stop & the barbaric killings in UP (Lakhimpur Kheri) will not be tolerated,” the chief minister tweeted. He also sought the Union home minister’s personal intervention to resolve the farmers’ imbroglio, requesting him to repeal the farm laws that have led to protests. This was Channi’s first meeting with Shah after taking over the reins of the state on September 20 from Capt Amarinder Singh, who had to resign following a bitter tussle with Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and some other detractors. The new CM also drew the home minister’s attention towards the illegal trafficking of drugs and weapons from across the border into the state, urging him to seal the border. This initiative would help Punjab break the supply chain of drugs, he added. He also raised the demand for reopening of Kartarpur Sahib Corridor, urging the home minister to take an early decision in this regard to enable devotees to pay obeisance at the sacred place. Shah assured the chief minister that they will soon take a decision to open the corridor after detailed deliberations, according to an official release. Punjab Congress working president Kuljit Singh Nagra travelled with the chief minister to Delhi. Equates violence to Jallianwala Bagh tragedy Before leaving for Delhi to meet Shah, Channi, along with some ministers and legislators, staged a protest at Gandhi Smarak Bhawan in Chandigarh, where he said the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri reminded him of the Jallianwala Bagh tragedy. Alleging that the killing of the farmers was intentional, the chief minister asked the BJP to respect the democratic ethics and values, rather than perpetrating the rule of “danda raj (coercion)” to stifle people’s voice. “It should not force the country’s youth to draw inspiration from martyrs like Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev and Udham Singh for restoring democracy in the country,” he said. He also slammed the UP government for arresting Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who wanted to meet the victims’ ‘families at Lakhimpur Kheri. Cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Rana Gurjit Singh, Pargat Singh, Sangat Singh Gilzian and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa were among those present. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu was absent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-chief-minister-meets-amit-shah-condemns-violence-in-lakhimpur-kheri-101633464078443.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Blockade at Delhi borders: Supreme Court notice to 43 farm unions||The Supreme Court has issued notice to 43 farmer unions on an interim application filed by the Haryana government seeking their impleadment in a case pertaining to unblocking of inter-state and national highways. The farmers’ unions, sought to be made a party to the case, are steering the protest over the enactment of three central agri-marketing laws and squatting at the doorstep of the national capital. The matter has been listed for October 20. The apex court while hearing a petition, which sought unblocking of the highways leading to the national capital, had on August 23 said the central, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments must co-ordinate to ensure that the inter-state roads and national highways do not remain blocked due to farmers’ protest. However, when the protesting farmers did not turn up for talks on September 19, the state government moved an application to make them respondents in the case. As per an application filed by the state government, the state president of Krantikari Kisan Union, Punjab, Darshan Pal; president Bhartiya Kisan Union, Rakesh Tikait; national president of Swarai Abhiyan, Yogendra Yadav; president of Bhartiya Kisan Union Ekta, Ugrahan, Joginder Singh; Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch’s Kavitha Kuruganti, president, Kisan Mazdoor Sangh Committee’s Satnam Singh were among the 43 entities sought to be made respondents in the case. The state government in its application before the apex court said the dharna on Singhu and Tikri borders had been organised by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which was a body of number of kisan unions. The application said to resume free flow of traffic on these roads for the convenience of general public, a state-level committee called a meeting on September 19 and asked the farmer leaders to join the meeting. Unfortunately, the farmers did not come forward for discussion. “A plea for impleading the farmer leaders as respondents was made and the SC permitted the state government to move an appropriate application for impleadment, and accordingly the present application is being filed,” the application said, adding that to resolve the issue and in view of the facts narrated, it is necessary that the parties as mentioned may kindly be impleaded. The apex court, on a petition filed by a Noida-based woman, Monicca Agarwaal, had said the solution lied n the hands of central and the state governments concerned. The bench said they must coordinate to ensure that if the protests were on, at least the inter-state roads and national highways were not blocked in any manner whatsoever, so that to and fro on those roads does not cause great inconvenience to people using those roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/blockade-at-delhi-borders-supreme-court-notice-to-43-farm-unions-101633464076148.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Pune SP College’s Vidya Avasare wins INSA award for 2021||PUNE A national award in the field of science given by the Indian National Science Academy (INSA) for 2021 has been awarded to Prof Vidya Dnyaneshwar Avasare, from the Sir Parshuram Bhau (SP) College, Pune. Prof Avasare is head of department (HOD) of chemistry at the college and has been a teachers for the last 25 years. The INSA award is a cash prize of ₹50,000 and a book grant of ₹25,000 for broadly relevant books for educational purposes. The award was instituted to recognise and honour teachers who have inspired students to take up careers in Science and Technology. Prof Avasare said, “This award is very prestigious in the science field nationally. I am honoured to receive this award, because it is important for college faculties to get recognised nationally for quality research and teaching. I would be happy that my students as well as other faculties would take inspiration and contribute to the field of science.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-sp-college-s-vidya-avasare-wins-insa-award-for-2021-101633464016117.html
06-10-2021||Pune||MPSC examinations to be held on January 2 at 37 centres in state||PUNE The Maharashtra Public Service Commission’s (MPSC) State Service Preliminary Examinations for 2021, for 290 posts in various cadres, will be held on January 2, 2022, as per a notification on the MPSC official website on Tuesday.For the last several months aspirants have been demanding this examination be held and vacant posts be filled. Students have been preparing for the MPSC exams for the last two years. This examination will be held at 37 centres across the state. Candidates eligible and willing to appear for this examination should submit their applications on the official website between October and October 25, 2021.The examination will be held for various posts under the MPSC - deputy district magistrate Group A, deputy superintendent of police or assistant commissioner of police – Group A, assistant state tax commissioner, block development officer or equivalent posts, assistant director, Maharashtra Finance & Accounting Services, industry deputy director technical and several other posts. At least 15,000 posts in various state government departments have been vacant since 2018. On July 5 this year 24-year-old Swapnil Lonkar died by suicide in Hadpsar. His suicide note he blamed the MPSC for delayed recruitment process as he had cleared exam attempts, both in 2019 and 2020. The final got delayed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mpsc-examinations-to-be-held-on-january-2-at-37-centres-in-state-101633463717252.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three deaths, 19 fresh Covid cases in Punjab||ChandigarhThree more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Tuesday as 19 fresh cases surfaced, taking the state’s infection count to 6,01,752, according to a medical bulletin. So far, the infection has claimed 16,525 lives in the state. The fresh deaths were reported from Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar and Ludhiana.Jalandhar and Ludhiana reported three cases each, followed by two each in Sangrur and Mohali. The number of active cases dropped to 261 from 272 on Monday. Twenty-six people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,84,966, as per the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-deaths-19-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-101633463716085.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||No specialist officer deployed to monitor mining operations in Punjab||The Punjab irrigation department’s mining wing has not deployed even a single specialist officer to supervise the mining operations in the state even as the states are bound to do so according to the provisions of the central law. Section 18 (J) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, directs states to deploy qualified geologists or mining engineers to supervise mining operations. However, the department has been relying on civil engineers, who lack expertise, skill and technicalities of mines and minerals, to oversee the mining operations in the state. The eight geologists the mining department has on its roll are deployed in ‘insignificant’ posts with executive engineers of the irrigation department’s drainage wing heading mining operations in all districts. They have been given charge of mining officers to supervise mining operations, said officials. Earlier, the mining operations were headed by general managers, who had expertise and skill in the commerce sector as the mining wing was functioning under the department of industries and commerce. But in July 2018, the state government had shifted the mining wing under the irrigation department. A mining wing official said, “Deployment of civil engineers for supervision of mining operations is like making doctors perform the work of lawyers. Besides, it is also in violation of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act Act. “Only a geologist has the expertise on identification and exploration of mines and minerals. Only they know how to extract minerals without leaving any harmful impact on the environment. A civil engineer can only check adherence to mining rules and regulations,” he added. A geologist of the department said, “Apart from sand, other minerals also exist in Punjab and only we have expertise to explore them and make them a source of revenue for the state exchequer.” Sarvjit Singh, principal secretary, water resources department (mining wing), said, “The geologists are always there to help, advise and assist the civil engineers. We will look into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-specialist-officer-deployed-to-monitor-mining-operations-in-punjab-101633463656518.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||During Covid crises, over 14,000 industries closed down In Punjab||The Covid-19 pandemic proved catastrophic for the state industry as a total of 14,429 units shut down during this period, reveals the data shared by the All India Trade Forum (AITF). The data has been compiled from the annual revenue report of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL). With electricity being the base raw material for industries, the data reveals that during the Covid pandemic, as many as 10,617 small power, 3,210 medium power and 422 large power units were closed in the state. “But the state government never turned up to give any relief to the industries. The load of small power connections decreased from 10,99,243 KVA to 10,55,227 KVA and that of medium industries from 20,29,163 KVA to 16,08,963 KVA and from 67,52,580 KVA to 58,74,316 KVA of large industrial units,” said Badish Jindal, president of theAITF. The data reveals that in 2012, the number of small power connections was 90,372, which is now 91,546. The number of medium connections was 26,361 and in 2021, it increased to merely 29,069. Similarly, in the large power consumers, the number of connections was 6,577, which increased to a meagre of 6,697 during the same period. The total number of regular industrial connections increased from 12,3310 to 12,7312 during the last eight years. Besides, there are 2,475 medium and 2,572 large seasonal units which consume negligible power. Thus, the number of regular industries merely increased to 4,002 whereas during the same period the number of residential connections increased to 1477113, reveals data. The number of commercial connections increased to 1,92,437 and number of agriculture connections increased to 2,31,975 in Punjab. Even the population growth in the state during the same period increased from 2,77,43,338 to 3,05,01,026. This shows that even after the growth in population of about 27.57 lakh, the number of industries increased merely to 4,002. On the other hand, neighbouring Haryana collected ₹5,618 crore GST in August 2021 whereas Punjab collected ₹1,414 crore in the same period. In 2011, the VAT collection was ₹12,200 crore in Punjab and ₹11,082 crore in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/during-covid-crises-over-14-000-industries-closed-down-in-punjab-101633463596064.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||GST revenue growth robust in Punjab, surpasses pre-Covid levels||In a sign of sustained improvement in business sentiment, Punjab has reported a robust growth in the goods and services tax (GST) collection in the first half of financial year 2021-22 with a hefty increase in revenue from the pre-Covid levels. The GST revenue, including state goods and services tax (SGST) and integrated goods and services tax (IGST) in the first six months (April to September) of the current fiscal stood at ₹7,851 crore, which is 67.55% more than in the corresponding period a year ago, and 54% higher than the mop-up in the pre-pandemic year of 2019-20, according to the indirect tax data compiled by the state taxation department. The state’s GST collection was ₹5,097 crore in the April-September period of 2019-20, but it dropped to ₹4,685 crore in the same period of 2020-21 after coronavirus broke out, bringing business activities to a halt and battering the economy. The jump in revenue in the current fiscal indicates a sustained recovery after strong economic rebound after the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with pent-up demand driving sales across sectors. The taxation department expects the positive trend to continue in the second half of the current fiscal as well. Increased demand, anti-evasion measures Taxation commissioner Nilkanth S Avhad said the GST collection in the first six months of 2021-22 was indicative of growth in consumption and better enforcement and increased compliance. “Anti-evasion activities, including increased supervision, data analysis, plugging loopholes and on-road detention, have also contributed, but there is a lot more that needs to be done,” he said. The department officials have detained 3,000 vehicles and imposed penalty of ₹76 crore in the past six months for various violations. Despite the rebound, the GST revenue continues to be way below the protected revenue of ₹2,739 crore per month, putting it among the states with the highest revenue shortfall and dependent on compensation from the Centre for almost half of its indirect tax revenue. At the time of switching to the GST, the Centre had guaranteed 14% year-on-year growth over the 2015-16-base and the state was to be compensated for any shortfall. The indirect tax regime was implemented from July 1, 2017, and the compensation is scheduled to end on June 30, 2022, unless it is extended by the GST Council. The state posted a 25% year-on-year increase in the GST collection in September, taking it to ₹1,316 crore in September 2021 from ₹1,055 crore in the corresponding month of previous fiscal. Rising fuel prices swell VAT kitty The value-added tax (VAT) mop-up from petroleum products has also seen a 66% year-on-year surge in the April-September period, increasing to ₹4,024 crore this year from ₹2,426 crore in the corresponding months of 2020-21. The jump is primarily on account of rising fuel prices as 90% of VAT revenue in government kitty comes from diesel and petrol, and the remaining 10% is from aviation turbine fuel, and liquor. With fuel prices at unprecedented levels, ₹627.43 crore were collected from VAT in September 2021 as against ₹444.70 crore in the same month last year, showing a 41% increase. In September 2019, the VAT revenue was half of last month’s collection at ₹317 crore. At ₹2,907 crore, the excise collection has also reported an increase of 18% in first six months this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gst-revenue-growth-robust-in-punjab-surpasses-pre-covid-levels-101633463356233.html
06-10-2021||Pune||EVs fail trial run for garbage collection: PMC||PUNE Four electric vehicles supplied by the state-owned Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have failed a trial run, as per the civic body’s vehicle department.The vehicles were used for solid waste disposal.Hitendre Kurane, superintendent engineer, vehicle department said, “During the trial period, we found that the EVs are not operating properly. They are toppling over. The garbage carriage capacity is also less as compared to existing garbage collection vehicles. We sent a report to the company. We are not interested in using EVs for garbage collection right now.”Due to increasing fuel prices, PMC is seriously considering the use of EVs. The share of outsourced EV vehicles is currently at 30 per cent of PMC’s fleet and PMC wants to increase to 40 per cent. Currently, PMC spends ₹20 crore on fuel.The city generates 2,100 tonnes of solid waste daily, which is collected and transported to processing plants located in different parts of the city. The PMC motor vehicle department spends ₹90 crore per year for maintenance of vehicles, which includes fuel, repair, maintenance, and salaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/evs-fail-trial-run-for-garbage-collection-pmc-101633463297326.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 58-year-old man dies during scuffle||A 58-year-old man died in a scuffle with two men at Sarabha Nagar Main market on Monday evening. Kin of the victim alleged that the accused had thrashed him to death. The victim was identified as Satish Kumar of Harnam Nagar. His sons Dinesh Kumar and Gaurav earn a living by charging children for taking rides in their battery-operated cars.Dinesh said that on Monday, his brother Gaurav could not go to work, due to which his father went along to help him out. He added that they indulged in a spat with Anupam Sharma and his brother Deepak Sharma, who also run the same business, over a minor issue.Further, he added that the matter was resolved after locals’ intervention. But at night, the accused came to him and started thrashing him. When his father tried to intervene, the accused hit him as well, following which he fell on the road and died.Dinesh informed the police and rushed his father to the hospital, where he was declared dead.The police suspect that the victim died of a cardiac arrest as there were no injury marks on his body. His viscera has been sent for the chemical examination to the forensic science laboratory to ascertain the cause of death.Inspector Daljit Singh, SHO at Division Number 5 police station, said it is suspected that the man had suffered a cardiac arrest. The police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and will take appropriate action according to the viscera report of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-58-year-old-man-dies-during-scuffle-101633463296176.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man shot dead in Patiala village||A 32-year-old man was shot dead at Bosar Kalan village in Patiala on Monday night. The deceased has been identified as Varinder Singh, who was travelling with his wife to his village from Sanaur, where he owned a mobile shop. The police said the accused, who was riding a motorcycle, started honking, following which the victim gave him a side to overtake. “But instead of overtaking, the accused rammed his motorcycle into the victim’s car. Varinder came out to see the damage to his vehicle when the accused fired multiple gunshots leaving the victim dead on the spot,” the police said. The victim’s wife told the police that the accused fled the spot, but again came back to kill her too. “She managed to save her life by locking the doors of the vehicle from inside,” the police said. Later, she took her husband to the Rajindra Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Amritveer Singh, SHO, Sanaur police station, said a case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC had been registered and further investigations were on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-shot-dead-in-patiala-village-101633463177307.html
06-10-2021||Other||Kashi CP inspects police outposts...in plain clothes||Attired in a red kurta and black jeans, commissioner of police, Varanasi, A Satish Ganesh, walked through several localities of the city to get a reality check of the functioning of the police force and its behaviour with the common man. Ganesh inspected several police outposts from Sigra to the Lanka area. Ganesh interacted with commoners on the roads and asked how police personnel behave with commoners, if they remain present at police outposts, if they listen to people in case of a complaint, and so on. At a police outpost, three police personnel were glued to mobile screens. At another police outpost, the police outpost in-charge was not present on duty even at noon. He also inspected police assistance booths where personnel were found absent at several such booths. In addition, there was negligible presence of police at various intersections of the city. Ganesh said that during peak hours, the civil police personnel have been instructed to help the traffic police manage traffic. He said that he wanted to find out the style of functioning of police personnel deployed in the field so that it could be improved. The CP said, “Strict action will be taken against personnel absent from duty and those having a lackadaisical approach towards duty.” The screws of the subordinates will be tightened at the next crime meeting, he said, and indicated action against station in-charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kashi-cp-inspects-police-outposts-in-plain-clothes-101633463176159.html
06-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: AAP stages protest over Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Lambasting the union and the Uttar Pradesh (UP) government over the alleged killing of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in UP, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath in various assembly constituencies of the city on Tuesday.Seeking arrest of the union minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra Teni, and his son Ashish Mishra, the AAP leaders stated that the ‘BJP goons’ are openly killing the farmers in a bid to suppress their voice against the three farm laws.The protests were organised at Jalandhar Bypass, Samrala Chowk, Basti Jodhewal Chowk, Grain Market near Gill Road, and Shimlapuri Area.Aman Mohi, AAP in-charge, Lok Sabha constituency, demanded that the union minister and his son should be arrested immediately and the former should be removed from the union cabinet for fair inquiry into the matter.Daljit Singh Grewal (Bhola), in charge of Ludhiana east constituency, said the BJP should realise that the farmers will not recede until the farm laws are repealed. AAP has always stood with the farmers and will continue to do so, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-stages-protest-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633463116015.html
06-10-2021||Pune||State owes PMC ₹1,095 crore in GST, stamp duty dues: Rasane||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Tuesday, appealed to the state government to clear outstanding dues of ₹1,095 crore, pending for the last three years.These dues cover GST and a one per cent share of stamp duty. Standing Committee chairman Hemant Rasane has written a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding the dues, especially with the PMC facing a fund crunch.Rasane said, “As 23 villages have been merged in the city, the civic body’s GST compensation increased, but state government has not handed it over. Even at the time of abolishing GST, state government put an additional one per cent stamp duty to compensate municipal corporations, but PMC is not getting it.”Rasane added, “In 2017 the state government merged 11 villages with PMC. Again this year, 23 more villages have been added. Properties registered from these areas are paying additional stamp duty, but state government is not handing it over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-owes-pmc-rs-1-095-crore-in-gst-stamp-duty-dues-rasane-101633462937318.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Singh Sidhu warns of march to Lakhimpur Kheri||Chandigarh Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday warned that the state unit would march to Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri if Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is not released and Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son is not arrested. Sidhu, who held a protest earlier against the violence in which eight persons, including four farmers died, has given time to the UP government till Wednesday. “If by tomorrow, the Union minister’s son behind the brutal murder of farmers is not arrested, and our leader @PriyankaGandhi being unlawfully arrested, fighting for farmers is not released, the Punjab Congress will march towards Lakhimpur Kheri! (sic)” he tweeted. Priyanka was detained by police on Monday in Sitapur (UP) as she was going to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet family members of the farmers killed in violence during a protest.AAP slams Modi, Yogi govtsAccusing the Modi-led Central government and the Yogi government in Uttar Pradesh of “throttling” the democracy, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday staged protests in all the assembly constituencies of the state. In a statement, AAP MLA and Kisan Wing Punjab president Kultar Singh Sandhwan said the party leaders and volunteers demanded Union minister of state Ajay Mishra’s dismissal and the arrest of his son for the UP incident. “The AAP stands firmly with the farmers and the kin of the victims,” he said.AAP delegation detainedA delegation of the AAP on its way to Lakhimpur Kheri district was stopped and detained by the Uttar Pradesh police and administration at Nighasan police check post on Tuesday.The delegation, led by AAP Punjab affairs co-in-charge Raghav Chadha and leader of opposition in Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, included MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Baljinder Kaur and Amarjit Singh Sandoa. Sandhwan was detained on his departure from Lucknow, according to a party release. Eight persons, including four farmers, died in the violence that broke out during a protest two days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-warns-of-march-to-lakhimpur-kheri-101633462936119.html
06-10-2021||City||Former legislator floats new political party in Meghalaya||Former Nongkrem legislator Ardent Miller Basaiawmoit on Tuesday announced the floating of a new regional political party christened ‘Voice of the People Party’ (VPP) to bring a “real” change in the state. The party will be officially launched in November following which it shall seek a symbol from the Election Commission of India, officials said.The former president of the Hill State People Democratic Party (HSPDP), one of the oldest regional parties in the state, said that he shared a common ideology, belief, and conviction with his team and hence the common desire to ensure an alternative option of true governance to the people if chosen to lead in 2023.“As concerned citizens of the state we cannot sit idle and turn a blind eye to the situation of the state,” Basaiawmoit told journalists at a press conference. He asserted, “We all have witnessed how the state has failed in every aspect with the present government, as the current political leaders of the state lack political will to bring changes in the state.”He said the VPP wants to first unite the people and together work towards reviving the state. He rued that even as the state will be celebrating its 50 years of statehood, yet it is lacking behind in all fronts shamefully. “The only solution is a new set of leaders with the conviction and dedication to serve the people and put them first always,” Basaiawmoit said.He said the failure of the present MDA dispensation to serve the people is the main reason to float the new party. “We have been talking of change but where is it? We need to see real change and this is what we want to achieve and we appeal to the people to come forward and join us in our mission.”The president also informed that an ad-hoc team has been constituted to take matters forward. It includes Dr Kara H Shen as vice president, Dr Ricky AJ Syngkon as general secretary, Dr Batskhem Myrboh as assistant general secretary cum spokesperson, Dr Peter Daniel S Khariong as finance secretary, Winston Tony Lyngdoh as organizing secretary and Rocky Marak as organizing secretary in-charge Garo Hills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/former-legislator-floats-new-political-party-in-meghalaya-101633460272447.html
06-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Two of snatchers’ gang arrested with weapons||The Zone-1 police of Ludhiana commissionerate arrested two members of a gang who were involved in snatching and burglary incidents. According to the police, three members of the gang are already lodged in jail, while one of them is on the run.The arrested accused were identified as Gurwinder Singh and Jaswant Singh, residents of Haibowal Kalan. The police have recovered one revolver, one .12 bore gun, a Maruti Alto car, three bikes, including a Royal Enfield bullet, a scooter, two laptops, four tabs, three LED TV screens, one mobile phone, and 15 gm gold ornaments from their possession.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarter) J Elannchezhian said the accused used to snatch gold jewellery from women and execute burglaries. The accused had executed burglaries in various areas, including Bank Colony, Joshi Nagar, Durgapuri, Chandar Nagar, and Jain Colony. The JCP added that three members of the gang, including Paramjeet Sigh Grover, Jashmeet Singh, and Vicky, are already lodged in jail.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 1) Pragya Jain said that as the festival season is around the corner, the police have identified some hotspots including, Kesar Ganj Mandi, Gurdev Nagar, Pratap Singh Wala area, Shivpuri, and some localities of Haibowal like Bank Colony, Joshi Nagar, Durgapuri, Chandar Nagar and Jain Colony, and increased surveillance there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianatwo-of-snatchers-gang-arrested-with-weapons-101633462695945.html
06-10-2021||Pune||Pune plant to process sanitary napkins, diapers; second such plant in world||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation has sanctioned the setting up of plant to process used sanitary napkins and diapers at Uruli. The capacity of this plant will be 8 metric tonnes per day. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “It is the second plant in the world where sanitary napkins and diapers will be process to create other byproducts The first such plant is in Italy.” Rasane added: “Procter and Gamble will set up the plant at the garbage depot, for which PMC has allotted land. The company will maintain and operate this plant for three years.”Used sanitary napkins and diapers are a big challenge for the PMC in terms of garbage disposal.As per the solid waste management department, five tonnes of daily garbage consists of sanitary napkins and diapers. Development works in police residential coloniesThe Standing Committee of the PMC has okayed development works in residential colonies housing police personnel, which are owned by the state government and managed by the public works department. PMC has not been able to spend money on this project as these areas are maintained by the state government. However, now given that police face a lack of amenities in their colonies, the standing committee approved basic works like roads, footpaths and other works in these societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-plant-to-process-sanitary-napkins-diapers-second-such-plant-in-world-101633462636068.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||19 tonne of unverified paddy seized in Mansa||The Mansa district police have seized a truck laden with 19 tonnes of unverified paddy stock. A press release issued by SSP Narinder Bhargav on Tuesday said the truck was carrying paddy from Hanumangarh in Rajasthan. The truck that was impounded on Monday on Sardulgarh-Sirsa road had no record of the consignment. Police said occupants of the truck, Pal Singh, Gurmeet Singh and Sunny Futela were arrested. Meanwhile, the state food and civil supplies department seized a truck carrying 500 quintals of rice being brought to Punjab illegally from outer states for recycling and bogus billing, said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. The truck, which carrying rice from a firm in Delhi to a rice mill in Ambala, was intercepted seized in Ghanour constituency of Patiala district after it entered the through internal roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/19-tonne-of-unverified-paddy-seized-in-mansa-101633462516020.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||BKU starts indefinite dharna outside Manpreet’s residence||Demanding adequate compensation to the peasantry of the cotton-growing belt, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta- Ugrahan) faction started an indefinite dharna outside the residence of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal at Muktsar district’s Badal village on Tuesday.BKU state secretary Harinder Bindu said the farm outfit demands ₹60,000 per acre, apart from the compensation of ₹30,000 per farm for labourer families for job loss.“Pink bollworm attack has caused widespread damage of the cotton crop in the south Malwa. The economy of the rural belt has crippled and farmers and farm labourers are left with no resources. We will continue the agitation until the state government announces compensation,” she said.Activists, including women from five districts Bathinda, Mansa, Muktsar, Fazilka and Faridkot gathered at Ghudda village in Bathinda in a large number before proceeding towards Badal village.During a protest march, they raised slogans against “taya-bhatija” (referring to SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal and his nephew Manpreet). They lamented the state government for a delay in extending support to affected villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bku-starts-indefinite-dharna-outside-manpreet-s-residence-101633462276195.html
06-10-2021||Lucknow||Union minister distributes free LPG connections||Union Minister of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday distributed free LPG connections to under privileged women under the PM Ujjawala Yojana (PMUY) in Kakori near Lucknow. Kaushal Kishore, minister of state for Housing and Urban affairs and Jai Devi Kaushal, MLA from Mahilabad, were also present on the occasion. The event was organized as part of ‘Sewa hi samparn hai’ campaign of the BJP to mark PM Modi 71 st birthday. Referring to other welfare measures of the Modi government, Puri stated that the Central schemes started by the Prime Minister were yielding results and people were benefiting from them. The union minister added that Mahatma Gandhi had laid emphasis on cleanliness and PM Modi was fulfilling this vision with the Swacch Bharat Mission. Puri pointed out that from 2004 to 2014 ₹1.57 lakh crore were spent on urban schemes. But in the last seven years, about ₹12 lakh crore were spent on them. About three crore people living in urban and rural India will get houses under these schemes. Talking about the petroleum sector, Puri stated that the number of CNG stations in Lucknow had increased by 400 percent, while the number of retail outlets and LPG penetration in the city had gone up by 33 percent in last seven years. Puri also spoke about expansion in the Metro network in the country, particularly in Uttar Pradesh. He also pointed out that about 90 crore people had been given free Covid vaccination. Kaushal Kishore spoke about various welfare schemes, benefitting the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/union-minister-distributes-free-lpg-connections-101633462216016.html
06-10-2021||Noida||Traffic police launches special drive for cab verification in Gautam Budh Nagar||The traffic police in Gautam Budh Nagar has launched a drive for verification of cabs to check these vehicle-related incidents, officials said on Tuesday.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said there are instances when commuters are looted after taking a lift, or passengers who don’t make online bookings -- a valid process -- snatch away cabs from drivers.“There are 13,000 registered cabs in Gautam Budh Nagar. We have launched a verification drive for all the private cabs and taxis in the district. We will verify the registration paper of a cab, pollution certificate, insurance, and driver’s credentials,” Saha said, adding that verification of all the drivers is also important for the safety of the commuters.“People with criminal records or tainted pasts will not be allowed to drive cabs. We will make a database of these vehicles and the drivers, which will be used when needed,” he said.Such drivers will also be sensitised to only ferry people who book cabs following a valid process. “These drivers cannot offer lifts to unknown people without a valid booking process, like online bookings,” Saha said.After a cab ride is booked online -- through a mobile application -- it is easier to trace the suspect(s), police said. There are several cases where the suspects pretend to be commuters, and later snatch cabs from the drivers.Anurag Kulshrestha, president of TRAX -- an NGO working towards road safety -- said that the verification of cabs and drivers is a good move. “But most of these cabs have a national capital region (NCR) permit. This means a vehicle registered in Noida can ply in Delhi and Gurugram, and vice versa. Hence, only verifying cabs in Noida may not yield the desired results. The police department should sensitise all cab drivers and also install CCTV cameras at important roads or points for safety,” he said.On September 30, 2021, two suspects allegedly snatched a Volkswagen Vento from a driver -- Ram Dhiraj -- in Noida. Dhiraj, a resident of Sangam Vihar in New Delhi, said that he had come to Greater Noida Sector 36 to drop a passenger that morning. “I was returning to Delhi when the two suspects signalled me to stop the car for lift near Pari Chowk. The suspects asked me to drop them to Noida Sector 37. They snatched my car at gunpoint near Kalindi Kunj,” Dhiraj said. A case has been registered against the suspects at the Sector Beta 2 police station. The car has not been found yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traffic-police-launches-special-drive-for-cab-verification-in-gautam-budhnagar-101633462157542.html
06-10-2021||Other||11,886 MT paddy arrives at mandis in Ludhiana||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Tuesday directed the sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) to visit the grain markets in their jurisdictions daily to ensure smooth and hassle-free paddy procurement.To assess arrangements for paddy procurement in the mandis, the deputy commissioner took stock of operations in the Salem Tabri grain market and expressed satisfaction.He asked the officers to make sure that every single grain gets procured and lifted without any delay. He said that 11,886 metric tonnes of paddy had arrived in the grain markets of Ludhiana till Tuesday, and payment worth ₹4.20 crore has also been made to the farmers.He said that the state government has evolved an effective mechanism to ensure the lifting of paddy within 48 hours of the procurement.The DC stated that arrangements have also been made to ensure that the payment of grains is also made to the farmers within a stipulated time frame.Sharma said sufficient arrangements in mandis, including sheds for the farmers, potable water supply, and equipment to monitor the quality of paddy in procurement centres, have been ensured.He said that apart from 108 regular grain markets in Ludhiana, the administration has also marked 94 temporary yards and 203 mandi yards in mills to decongest the markets and ensure social distancing during the operations.He interacted with the farmers, asked them about the procurement operations, and appealed to them to bring moisture-free grains to the market and avoid burning paddy stubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11886-mt-paddy-arrives-at-mandis-in-ludhiana-101633462156450.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai likely to witness higher temperatures, thunderstorms this week||With the official southwest monsoon season having ended on September 30, temperatures in the city are on their way up, touching a maximum of 34.5 degrees Celsius for two consecutive days on October 4 and 5, weather officials said. This is two degrees higher than normal, after temperatures remained consistently at normal or below normal in the last week of September, according to the India Meteorological Department’s automatic weather station in Santacruz. The night-time minimum temperature, too, remained 2 degrees above normal at 26 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The city saw heavy thunder and lightning activity on Tuesday evening, between 7 pm and 8 pm, along with light to moderate rains in a few locations. IMD officials said that the withdrawal of the monsoon over Mumbai and the rest of the Konkan coast is unlikely before October 15, and also warned that the intensity of rains may also pick up briefly between October 10 and 11.As per the met department’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, daytime temperatures may rise to as much as 37 degrees by October 11 and nighttime temperatures are expected to remain between 26 and 27 degrees Celsius. In October 2020, the city had experienced a maximum temperature of 35 degrees Celsius on the 10th, 28th and 29th of the month. The highest October temperature was recorded at 38.6 degrees Celsius in 2015.A meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai warned that the weather is likely to get muggier in the next few days. “The temperature will rise by at least a couple of degrees while the city remains under a cloud cover due to delayed monsoon withdrawal, so the heat will remain trapped closer to the ground and the relative humidity levels will go up. There are chances of moderate thundershowers on Wednesday, and a thunderstorm with more intense rain may occur between Thursday and Friday. There are no signs of monsoon withdrawing from Maharashtra yet as the withdrawal is expected to only start from the northeast October 6 onward,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-likely-to-witness-higher-temperatures-thunderstorms-this-week-101633462099675.html
06-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Now, ropeway project to link Metro stations pegged at ₹450 crore||The proposed ‘urban passenger ropeway’ link between Vaishali and Mohan Nagar Metro stations will now cost ₹450 crore, instead of ₹487 crore, according to the revised detailed project report (DPR).Officials of the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) said that the 5.1km route will link Mohan Nagar station of the Delhi Metro’s Red Line with Vaishali station on the Blue Line. The distance between the two Metro stations will be covered in 20 minutes by ropeway, the officials said.“With minor revision, the detailed project report of the project is almost final now. The project cost is now ₹450 crore. Once it is approved by the government, we will float a global tender for selecting an agency to execute the project. The agency will make an investment of about 60% of the cost. The rest of the cost will be shared by the Centre and UP agencies, including the authority,” said Krishna Karunesh, authority’s vice-chairperson.Ropeway is a transport system for ferrying goods or people especially used in mountainous areas or mines, wherein the carrier cars are suspended with the help of moving cables, powered by a motor system.The GDA has opted for the ropeway project in order to reduce the per kilometre construction cost which is higher in case of a metro connectivity.The DPR has proposed four stations for the ropeway at Mohan Nagar, Sahibabad, Vasundhara and Vaishali. At the two starting and ending points, it will be connected to the respective metro stations with the help of skywalks of 150 metres which will be constructed by the authority, the officials said, adding that the ropeway project will be based on 27 pillars, and will move over the Regional Rapid Transit System project alignment near Sahibabad.According to the DPR, a passenger will have to spend a minimum fare of ₹20 and maximum of ₹30 for travelling the entire distance. It is also estimated that the ropeway system will be used by 80,000 passengers in a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-now-ropeway-project-to-link-metro-stations-pegged-at-450-crore-101633462097045.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Residents of southern sectors meet UT adviser||Voice of Housing Societies (VOHS), which represents various housing societies in Sectors 48, 49, 50 and 51, met UT adviser Dharam Pal on Tuesday regarding the issues they are facing. VOHS convener MN Shukla said, “Issues like conversion from leasehold to freehold, stamp duty, unearned increase and completion certificate were discussed.”Shukla said that the adviser discussed the issues in detail with them and has marked their representation to the UT finance secretary. “The adviser has assured us that in case the issue remains unresolved, he will hold a joint meeting to find a solution to our issues.”The society had on Sunday held a meeting in Sector 49 with the representatives of various societies and discussed these issues with the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections in mind.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSPO held in 2009 cheating case The proclaimed offenders and summon staff of Chandigarh Police arrested a PO who had been absconding in a cheating case registered in 2009. He has been identified as Jagmohan Kumar, a resident of Ropar. He was booked in a in November 2009 at Sector 17 police station and declared a PO by the district court in November 2010. He will be produced before the court on Wednesday.Citizens’ body writes to health minister Members of Clean Air Punjab have written to Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni, who also heads the health ministry, urging him to take up the issue of air pollution prominently. The citizens’ body also urged the health minister to direct all urban local bodies to issue timely health advisories publicly and alert citizens on “bad air” days, which will help save vulnerable groups from severe health impacts of air pollution. Third counselling for Class 11 students from todayThe UT education department will organise the third counselling for admission to Class 11 in government schools from October 6 to 12. The application form can be downloaded on www.chdeducation.gov.in and submit it on admissionxiut@gmail.com. No List of allotment of seats will be uploaded online on October 16 on the department website.Aayushi card launched for cancer patientsMunicipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg launched the “Aayushi card” for cancer patients at Ivy Hospital in Mohali on Tuesday. He said this card would help the patients get check-ups on time. He added that we must follow a healthy lifestyle to prevent the disease.UT cop bags bronze in bodybuilding c’ship Inspector Baldev Kumar of Chandigarh Police has won a bronze medal at the 12th WBPF World Bodybuilding and Physique Sports Championship, 2021, held at Tashkent, Uzbekistan. Director general of police (DGP) Praveer Ranjan took to twitter to congratulate the winner. PU engineering students demand return to campusFinal-year masters of engineering (ME) students of Panjab University’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) and University Institute of Chemical Engineering Technology (UICET) have written to the dean students’ welfare (DSW) asking that they are allowed to return to campus. They have said that the varsity has allowed final year students from other departments to return to campus, but neglected engineering students, who are in need of laboratories and hostel accommodation as much as others.Executive body of AAP women’s wing constituted Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Chandigarh announced a new executive body of the women’s wing on Tuesday. Anita Sharma has been appointed president, Kamta Dameja as vice-president, Kamlesh Chaudhary as general secretary and Mamta Kainth as secretary. Senior AAP leaders congratulated the new office bearers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-residents-of-southern-sectors-meet-ut-adviser-101633462038476.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers worried as rain delays paddy, cotton harvest in Malwa||Punjab’s cotton and paddy growers are left worried about the loss of quality of their ready-to-harvest produce after untimely rain lashed south Punjab on Monday evening.According to an official survey conducted by the field staff of the state agriculture department, Muktsar was the worst-hit district where about 10% damage to the paddy was assessed. Muktsar agriculture officer Gurpreet Singh said Malout, Lambi and Gidderbaha bore the maximum brunt of rains. Farmers of Bathinda and Mansa districts said they were already braving losses caused by pink bollworm attack and the inclement weather would hit them further. Picking of cotton is underway, whereas paddy harvesting in Malwa is yet to pick up. The wet conditions will now stall reaping till the weekend. According to the Punjab Agricultural University’s observatory at the Bathinda-based regional research centre, Bathinda recorded 70mm of rainfall on Monday evening. Strong winds were reported from Bathinda, Fazilka, Muktsar and adjoining places. Unsold raw cotton at several mandis of Muktsar, Bathinda and Fazilka was damaged due to sudden showers in the evening. Officials of the state agriculture department said rainfall at this juncture would affect the quality of cotton bolls and paddy grains. “Initial field inputs suggest lodging of cotton and paddy crops at several places across the state. Rains are undesirable for kharif crops as paddy and cotton are ready for harvest,” said Bathinda chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh. Cotton harvesting would be stalled for at least five days following rain in various parts of the Malwa region, said Manjit Singh, who also holds the dual charge of Mansa district. “Unfriendly weather conditions will also push paddy harvesting, which is yet to gain momentum, by four days. Farmers are being advised to delay harvest,” he said. Sharanjit Singh from Mann Khera village of Mansa district said inclement weather would be a double whammy for farmers. “Pink bollworm attack has done considerable damage to the crop. Late harvesting of cotton and paddy will further delay wheat sowing in the area. We are keeping our fingers crossed to tide over these challenging times,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-worried-as-rain-delays-paddy-cotton-harvest-in-malwa-101633461976508.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Key accused in Tarn Taran blast case dies||AmritsarThe main accused in the Tarn Taran blast case, where two persons were killed, died during treatment at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH), Amritsar, Tuesday. The deceased, Malkit Singh, alias Sher Singh, of Kotla village in Amritsar was among nine persons against whom the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had filed a chargesheet in March last year. Malkit had not been keeping well since his arrest in October 2019. Two of the accused — Vikram Singh, alias Vicky, and Harpreet Singh, alias Happy — were killed on the spot when a powerful explosion took place at Pandori Gola village of the district in September 2019. However, their third accomplice, Gurjant Singh suffered an injury. Police investigation had found that all three accused were trying to retrieve ammunition, which was concealed underground, to unleash terror activity in the state. Malkit was arrested later after the investigation found that he along with his co-accused had concealed the ammunition underground. He had kept the ammunition in his possession for several days, besides testing them, the NIA investigation had said. During investigation, it was found that the accused were radicalising pro-Khalistan youths who had formed a terrorist group under absconding accused Bikramjit Singh Panjwar, alias Bikkar. The members of the group carried out secessionist activities on ground as well as on social media to instigate youth to agitate for the secession of Punjab. Malkit’s family members have alleged that he was ill-treated in jail and died due to the lack of proper care. However, the jail authorities have denied the charges. “Malkit was admitted to the GNDH. He was discharged from the hospital on October 2 with an instruction that he should be taken to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, on Tuesday. He remained in jail on October 2, but his health deteriorated on October 3. We shifted him again to the GNDH where he died during treatment,” said an assistant jail superintendent of Amritsar, who didn’t wish to be named. He said: “Barring a few days, Malkit remained in hospitals since his arrest. We left no stone unturned for his treatment.” Amritsar jail superintendent Parvinder Singh didn’t respond to repeated calls. In July 2020, Malkit’s family had approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking a bail on medical grounds. The court had dismissed the plea. Earlier, the NIA court in Mohali had ordered the Amritsar jail authorities to get the accused treated from a specialised doctor at the GNDH, and in case the required treatment was not available there, he should be treated from the PGIMER, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/key-accused-in-tarn-taran-blast-case-dies-101633461798063.html
06-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh cabinet nod to amendment to integrated township policy||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday gave its approval to the state government’s proposal for an amendment to para-14.8 of Integrated Township Policy-2014 (License Based System).The state government in a press statement said, “Integrated Township Policy-2014 (License Based System) has been issued for the UP Awas Vikas Parishad and all the development authorities for the development of housing schemes through private capital investment in the urban areas of the state.”Under this policy, the minimum area of the integrated township should be 25 acres and the maximum area, including extension, should be 500 acres. According to the Integrated Township Policy, under the approved DPR of the project, approval of the layout plan and development agreement with the concerned agency will be done in a phased manner.As per para 14.8 of Integrated Township Policy, urban development fee will be payable by the developer at the time of DPR approval of the project. In the Town Planning and Development Act-1973 and Urban Development Charges Rules, 2014 also there is a provision to levy urban development charges only on submission of application for obtaining development permit.The Uttar Pradesh Town Planning and Development Act, 1973, and Urban Development Charges Rules, 2014, have an overriding effect on the Integrated Township Policy, 2014. Therefore, in case of an integrated township, recovery of urban development charges should be done on the basis of layout plan in place of DPR, in para-14.8 of Integrated Township Policy-2014, Town Planning and Development Act-1973 and Urban Development Charges Rules, 2014. It is proposed to amend the provisions of in para-14.8 of Integrated Township Policy-2014 (License Based System).The amendment will help the developers in the real estate sector. The pending integrated township projects will be completed expeditiously. The developers will be encouraged to invest in the real estate sector and will encourage planned development and employment generation, the state government said.Atal’s statueThe state cabinet gave its approval to the installation of the statue of former PM Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee on the premises of Kanpur circuit house. The proposed expenditure on the installation of the statue will be ₹37.35 lakh.STRC bus stands’ developmentThe state cabinet also gave its approval to the state government’s proposal to amend certain provisions of the approved bid document for the development of 23 bus stations of UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) on public-private partnership (PPP) model. In the first phase, 17 bus stands will be developed on design build finance operate and transfer model by PPP Guidelines-2016 issued by the department of infrastructure and industrial development.Free zones for vehicle movementThe state cabinet gave its approval to the state government proposal for amendment in sub-section (3) of section 10 of the Uttar Pradesh Motor Vehicle Taxation Act, 1997. Under an agreement between Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, the cabinet decided to declare some areas located on the border of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh in Chitrakoot district as free zones for uninterrupted movement of vehicles of both the states in each other’s state. The vehicles will be exempted from taxes.Exemption on stamp dutyThe state cabinet approved the decision of the state government to provide exemption on stamp duty of more than ₹500 for registration of EWS units to be constructed in residential projects, developed by private developers under the arrangement of government order dated December 5, 2013.Widening of route The state cabinet approved the widening and strengthening of Mohansarai Deendayal Upadhyay Nagar-Chakia Marg in Varanasi district. This route is the main road connecting BHU, DLW, Varanasi Cantonment railway and bus station, Sarnath as well as Chandauli, Azamgarh, Ghazipur, Gorakhpur districts with Varanasi. The widening of the road will ease the movement of traffic in the city. The cabinet also gave its approval to the proposal for the expenditure of the four-lane widening and strengthening of Varanasi-Bhadohi-Gopiganj road in Varanasi district. The densely populated market of the city as well as industrial areas Chandpur, Lohta, Bhatti Korouta, Akelwan Parampur are located on this route. The widening of the road will free the city from traffic jams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-cabinet-nod-to-amendment-to-integrated-township-policy-101633461797011.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Armed miscreants loot ₹20 lakh from bank in Karnal||Three armed miscreants looted ₹20 lakh from Bank of Baroda’s Nissing branch in Karnal district on Tuesday.As per bank officials, the miscreants snatched the gun of the bank security guard and opened fire but no one got hurt in the incident.According to police, branch cashier Sunita said the masked miscreants came on a bike at around 4pm and held the bank officials hostage at gunpoint.They took ₹20 lakh from the bank, including ₹15 lakh that they took from the strong room, and fled after firing shots.A bank official who was in the toilet during the robbery informed police but by the time police reached, they had managed to flee after locking the staff in the strong room.Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) has started investigation in the case and police teams are working to arrest the accused.He said an FIR was registered as per the statement of the bank officials and police are investigating CCTV footages to get clues about the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/armed-miscreants-loot-rs-20-lakh-from-bank-in-karnal-101633461795946.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers block highways over slow, conditional procurement||Upset over poor and conditional procurement of paddy in the grain mandis in Haryana, farmers blocked highways.In Kurukshetra, farmers blocked the Delhi-Chandigarh NH-44 causing traffic jam for several kilometres on one of country’s busiest highways. The farmers lifted the blockade from NH-44 following an assurance from the government to speed up procurement operations from October 6. Thousands of commuters remained stranded for several hours as the blockade lasted for more than six hours.The protesters of Kaithal district blocked the Hisar-Chandigarh highway at the Pehowa Chowk. They lifted the blockade by the evening. Local gurdwaras were serving langar to the commuters stranded due to traffic snarls.Following the farmers blocking the highways for hours, the Kurukshetra police issued an advisory for the commuters travelling on NH-44 and NH-152 Ambala-Hisar highway.The commuters of NH-44 were advised to travel on diverted routes from Shahbad-Ladwa-Indri to Karnal and people travelling on the link road NH-152 were advised to travel via Thol-Jhansa and Malikpur link road.Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said the matter has been taken up at the headquarters level and the issue will be resolved soon.The protesters alleged that the government agencies are not procuring the produce and most of the paddy is lying in the mandis unprocured for the past couple of days despite the government claiming that procurement was started in all mandis in Haryana from October 3.Ramesh Kumar, of Kaithal district, alleged that he is waiting for buyers of his produce since September 30 and nobody has come to buy his paddy yield.Haryana BKU (Charuni) spokesperson Rakesh Bains said the government agencies are not procuring the paddy lying in the mandis for the past several days on pretext of high moisture content.Bains said the government has imposed a limit to procure 25 quintal per acre whereas the average per acre yield of Parmal varieties remains around 35 quintal. He said the protest will continue until the government makes changes in the procurement norms.BKU president Gurnam Singh Charuni has threatened to intensify the agitation again and asked his supporters and farmers to again gherao the houses of BJP-JJP MLAs and MPs on October 6 if the paddy lying in mandis is not procured.As per officials associated with procurement agencies, rice millers have not joined the procurement process yet as they are opposing the new norm of depositing 5% of the total value of paddy to be provided to them for milling under the custom-milled rice policy.“As the government and rice millers have not reached any consensus yet, lifting of paddy could not be started in mandis,” said a mandi official, pleading anonymity.Additional chief secretary to Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, Anurag Rastogi said procurement of paddy in mandis of Haryana was started from October 3 and gate passes for procurement of about 3.60 lakh tonne paddy were generated on e-Kharid portal of Haryana.However, the ACS did not provide the figures of total paddy arriving in mandis and lying unprocured but said the situation will be normalised in the next couple of days.BOXWhat farmers wantPaddy lying in mandis before beginning of procurement should be procured firstPaddy with higher moisture content of permissible limits of 17% should be procured with deduction in MSPPer acre limit of procurement should be increased from 25 quintal to 30 quintalProcured paddy lying in mandis should be lifted immediately to make space to accommodate more paddy in mandis||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-farmers-block-highways-over-slow-conditional-procurement-101633461556578.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Former Chandigarh MPs’ sons make their presence felt in city politics||As the municipal corporation election campaign heats up, sons of two former Lok Sabha members from Chandigarh are making their presence felt, which many political analysts say is indicative of a coming generational change in the city’s politics.In the Aam Admi Party (AAP), former MP Harmohan Dhawan’s son Bikram Dhawan has taken over as the vice-president of the local unit. Meanwhile, in the Congress, former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal’s son Manish Bansal is actively taking part in the party affairs and even presides over campaign meetings.Both had played a prominent role in the 2019 Lok Sabha election campaigns of their fathers as well. Manish, in fact, had been managing the former MP’s elections from behind the scenes. “I have been working for the party in all elections. Generally, I am busy with my business. But during elections, we all Congressmen must work for the party’s success,” said Manish.Bikram too claimed that he has been dedicatedly working for the party since the last Lok Sabha elections, and has “actively worked in the election campaigns of my father”. However, the increased presence of these two has been met with opposition within their parties. In the Congress, former city unit chief Pardeep Chhabra’s move to join the AAP was attributed to his differences with the party leadership on Manish’s role in the party affairs.In the AAP, though no differences have come out in the open yet, many insiders are questioning the move to give official position to Bikram while long-term party workers were left out in the recent rejig.‘No dynastic politics at play’ Both the parties have categorically brushed any dynastic politics in the rise of these two sons.Downplaying Manish’s presence in the party’s meetings and campaigning, Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla said: “He doesn’t hold any party position. He mostly attends party and public meetings as a cover for Pawan Bansal, when he is not in the city.” Manish said: “I don’t hold any post in the party. I am working like any other ordinary Congressman for the party’s victory in the MC elections. I don’t know why people are reading too much into it.” Bikram himself admits that questions have been raised within the party and outside over his appointment. “Many have connected my appointment with my father’s return to active politics. Also, it is seen as continuation of dynastic politics. But nothing could be further from the truth. I don’t have any political ambitions. I am here only for the party’s win in MC elections,” he said.Chhabra, who is now the Chandigarh AAP co-incharge, said: “Neither Harmohan nor Bikram wanted any position for him (Bikram). He is here to support the party and his father.”Meanwhile, taking a dig at both opposition parties, Bharatiya Janata Party state president Arun Sood said: “In our party, too, families do work for the organisation’s cause, but they are not promoted just because they are sons or daughters of senior leaders. Take the city’s example; neither mine, nor Sanjay Tandon’s nor Satya Pal Jain’s family members are being promoted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-chandigarh-mps-sons-make-their-presence-felt-in-city-politics-101633461499828.html
06-10-2021||Other||Akhilesh to go on ‘Vijay Yatra’ from Oct 12 for UP 2022 polls||Aiming to connect with the masses ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday announced the ‘Samajwadi Vijay Yatra’ from October 12 in the state. This will be his third solo state-wide rath yatra for Assembly elections in the state.“Whenever he took out a yatra (solo) for Assembly elections, SP has come out with flying colours. After his 2001 Kranti rath yatra, SP returned to power in 2002, and after 2011 yatra, SP again returned to power and he became the chief minister for the first time,” said SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.He said that the objective of the Vijay Yatra was to make people aware about the “corrupt, autocratic, oppressive, and suppressive” policies of the BJP government and to restore real democracy. He said the SP president is going to take out the ‘Samajwadi Vijay Yatra’ to uproot the inhuman and insensitive government in the state. The yatra will go all over the state intermittently till the 2022 UP assembly polls and which will make the party win yet again.When asked from where the yatra would begin, Chaudhary said it would be announced soon and the routes will be announced shortly before every leg of the yatra.Akhilesh Yadav has a plush, modernised rath with a hydraulic podium that takes him to the roof of the bus to address rallies on the way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akhilesh-to-go-on-vijay-yatra-from-oct-12-for-up-2022-polls-101633461498681.html
06-10-2021||Noida||Action plan to check pollution in Ghaziabad readied, 10 hotspots identified||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has chalked out an action plan for Ghaziabad to combat air pollution in the upcoming winter season and also identified 10 major hotspots affecting the air quality of the city. Officials said 18 departments have been tasked to undertake certain steps to reduce air pollution. According to government data, Ghaziabad is listed among 16 non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh with high levels of air pollution. Cities are declared non-attainment if, over a five-year period, they consistently do not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for PM10 or NO2 (nitrogen dioxide). “In our action plan for the upcoming winter season, the district administration has roped in 18 departments and given them specific roles, which are to be completed in a time-bound manner. These roles include sprinkling water on roads, central verges, formation of quick response teams to tackle instances of garbage and crop residue burning, checking environment norms related to construction works, night patrolling, using smog guns and dust suppressants, etc,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. The district magistrate has directed the departments to complete the tasks by October. The UPPCB has also identified 10 major pollution hotspots across the city and zeroed in on the pollution generating sources in each of them. The 10 hotspots are Sahibabad, Kaushambi, Raj Nagar Extension, Delhi Meerut Road, Loni, Bhopra-Delhi border, South Side GT Road, Sanjay Nagar, Vasundhara, and Siddharth Vihar“The 10 hotspots are the ones where infrastructure projects are being undertaken or are affected by high volume of traffic, road dust, industrial activities, burning of waste, dumping of construction and debris, among other issues. In 2020-21, the PM10 and PM2.5 concentrations reduced in the city. We will be closely monitoring the situation this year too,” said Sharma. According to statistics of the pollution board, in 2019-2020, Ghaziabad recorded an annual average PM10 concentration of 218 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm), while it reduced by 14.5% in 2020-21. Likewise, the PM2.5 concentrations stood at an average of 53.04mpcm between April and September this year, compared to 64.20 mpcm during the same period last year. The standard limit for PM10 and PM2.5 is 100mpcm and 60mpcm, respectively. Residents and environmentalists said that the city has been battling high levels of air pollution over the last few years, which are compounded by factors such as crop residue burning in neighbouring states. “The action plan is a short-term measure. It must be enforced in totality and if possible, be formulated under the guidance of environmental experts. In the long term, it is advised that a detailed study of meteorological, demographic factors, constructions and green areas be taken up to understand why pollution is impacting the city so badly for the past 5-6 years now,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer. The list of 10 hotspots also features Kaushambi township. Members of the Kaushambi Apartments Residents’ Welfare Association (Karwa) have petitioned the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and even moved the Supreme Court to resolve different pollution-related issues affecting the township.“They make plans every year, but results show that the city often reaches ‘severe’ air quality due to pollution in winter. We have been fighting a legal battle against the agencies since 2015 in the NGT and now, in the Supreme Court. Now, they (government agencies) have realised the seriousness of pollution-related issues and included Kaushambi in the list of hotspots,” said VK Mittal, president of Karwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/action-plan-to-check-pollution-in-ghaziabad-readied-10-hotspots-identified-101633461495895.html
06-10-2021||Other||Bikru ambush: Allahabad HC rejects bail plea of Rekha Agnihotri||The Allahabad high court on Monday rejected the bail plea of one Rekha Agnihotri, who is one of the accused in the Bikru ambush in which eight policemen including a deputy superintendent of police (DySP) and three sub-inspectors (SIs) had been killed by slain gangster Vikas Dubey and his accomplices. It is alleged that Rekha Agnihotri along with other women exhorted the accused to kill the police personnel and it was alleged that she along with other women was heard saying that no one should be left. The ambush took place on July 3, 2020, when police went to arrest Vikas Dubey from his house in Bikru village of Kanpur Nagar. Vikas Dubey and his associates opened indiscriminate fire on the police force, which led to eight police personnel being shot dead and six others getting grievous gunshot injuries. Rejecting the bail application of Rekha Agnihotri, justice Samit Gopal observed, “The dare devil manner in which the incident took place leaves much to be said. The incident cannot be committed with just a handful of people. It was a pre-planned incident wherein all the aspects appeared to have been designed and persons were entrusted with their jobs which had been performed by them independently and even collectively. The bail application of co-accused Khushi, identically placed co-accused, has been rejected by a coordinate Bench of this court. In the present matter, the involvement of the applicant is there. Her participation is also there for which there are eyewitnesses also”. A case against the applicant was registered at police station Chaubepur, district Kanpur Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bikru-ambush-allahabad-hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-rekha-agnihotri-101633461385114.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rain adds to Haryana farmers’ woes||Light to heavy rain accompanied by high velocity winds on Monday night reported in parts of the northern districts of Haryana have increased the worries of paddy growers.As per reports, rains in the parts of Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Yamunanagar and Ambala districts have flattened the crop. Farmers said unseasonal rains would not only affect the yield but will also increase the harvesting cost.“Rains have flattened not just the matured crop but also the lateral Basmati varieties that were in the milking stage and will have an impact on the yield,” said Dharambir, of Nilokheri in Karnal.Moreover, rains have also affected harvesting and procurement operations badly as thousands of quintals of unprocured paddy lying in the open in mandis got drenched.As per reports, Karnal city reported 45mm rainfall and Kurukshetra’s Shahabd and Pehwa received 14 and 12mm rain on Monday night.According to farmers, the moisture content in paddy lying in grain markets has increased due to rains and farmers alleged that there were no arrangements of sheds and most paddy is lying in the open and uprocured.“The government agencies did not come to buy my paddy of two acre yet but last night’s rain has increased the moisture content again and now I have to wait for two-three days again,” said farmer Ram Pal, waiting for buyers of his 60 quintal paddy in a grain market in Kurukshetra district.Officials of the state agriculture department said rains are harmful for paddy at this stage as it will affect harvesting as well as procurement.“Rain and wind have flattened the crops and will increase the harvesting cost as most crop is ready to harvest but now the farmers will have to wait for a few more days to start harvesting,” said Aditya Dabas, deputy director of Haryana agriculture department in Karnal.He advised the farmers to avoid harvesting in the next 2-3 days as rains have increased the moisture content.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-adds-to-haryana-farmers-woes-101633461381191.html
06-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana man rapes minor girl on pretext of marriage||A 32-year-old married man kidnapped his neighbour’s 15-year-old daughter on the pretext of marriage and raped her for three days.The victim filed a complaint on Monday, following which the police lodged an FIR against the accused.The victim stated that she used to visit her neighbour’s house and had befriended the accused. On September 26, he abducted her on the pretext of marriage. The accused took her to a room where he raped her for three days. On September 29, he dropped the victim near her house and fled. After reaching home, the complainant told her parents about the incident and filed a complaint after a few days.ASI Radhey Shyam, who is investigating the case, said that a case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 366-A (procuration of minor girl), 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was lodged against the accused. A hunt is on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-rapes-minor-girl-on-pretext-of-marriage-101633461195892.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two cases of house theft in Mauli Jagran||Thieves decamped with cash and valuables from two houses in Mauli Jagran while the families were asleep, the police said on Tuesday. Mohd Nadeem, 25, of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, reported thefts of ₹50,000 cash and gold jewellery. He said that his father was sleeping on the ground floor with the door open. When he woke up in the morning, he found ₹50,000 cash, gold chain, gold necklace, six pairs of gold tops and one mobile phone stolen from the almirah of his house on October 4. A case under Section 380 of the Indian Penal Code was registered.In another case, 21-year-old Sahubham was arrested on the complaint of one Kasim Ahmed, 31, of Charan Singh Colony, Mauli Jagran. Ahmed said that he has a job in Delhi and had returned home on October 3. He said that his daughter woke him up at about 3.30am saying that the almirah had been ransacked. On checking, it was found that jewellery including two pairs of gold studs, one maang tikka, gold gents ring, two silver rings, gold set, three nose pins, two pair silver anklets and one mobile phone were stolen.A case under Sections 380, 457 of the IPC was registered. Sahubham was earlier arrested in two separate cases of thefts registered in Mauli Jagran. He was presently out on bail and is habitual of consuming alcohol and drugs, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-cases-of-house-theft-in-mauli-jagran-101633461079414.html
06-10-2021||Other||Narendra Giri’s death probe: Court extends CBI custody of three accused by 14 days||PRAYAGRAJ: The chief judicial magistrate’s court (Prayagraj) on Tuesday granted Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) 14 days more custodial remand of the three accused -- Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep Tiwari -- in connection with the death of Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad’s former chief Narendra Giri. The CBI had filed an application before the Prayagraj court seeking further custodial remand of 14 days of the three accused. CJM Harendra Nath granted extension of the accused persons’ custody. After getting the remand extension, the agency is now focusing on scientific investigations and recovery of evidence from various places which the three accused can point out in Prayagraj and Haridwar, besides quizzing those persons whose names have surfaced in the investigations so far. “The CBI is now laying stress on scientific investigations of the case and recovery of clues from Anand Giri’s mobile and laptop, besides connecting the dots to collaborate sequence of events for unearthing clues,” said an official privy to the investigation.According to investigating official, during the seven days remand, Swami Anand Giri claimed innocence when questioned by the CBI officials. Anand Giri ruled out suicide angle as cause of the death of his guru and instead claimed that he was murdered. He also named some persons who might be involved in the foul play and revealed names of those individuals who have already been quizzed by CBI officials while some are yet to be grilled. During this period, the CBI also took Anand Giri to Haridwar and recovered his laptop and mobile. However, CBI officials failed to find any morphed photograph or video as mentioned in the purported suicide note found in the room where Mahant Narendra Giri’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan in the evening on September 20. Now, CBI may carry out narco analysis test of Anand Giri and some other persons to smoke out truth and get clues to crack the mysterious death of Mahant Narendra Giri. However, for the test, the CBI will require consent from the accused, officials shared. CBI officials have so far questioned around 30 people, whose names surfaced during probe, questioning of the accused and call details found from the mobiles of Mahant Narendra Giri and Anand Giri. CBI has collected scientific evidences from Baghambari Gaddi Math, Bade Hanuman temple and other possible places on the basis of which the investigations will be carried forward. Meanwhile, Anand Giri’s advocate Vijay Kumar Dwivedi said that Anand Giri had full faith in CBI investigations and judiciary. CBI probe will soon clear the mystery behind Mahant’s death. CBI team also kept a watch on ‘Shodashi’ of Mahant Narendra Giri and ‘pattabhishek’ of Balbeer Giri at Baghambari Gaddi Math on Tuesday. The CBI team questioned the sewadars and seers at the Math after the ceremony was over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/narendra-giri-s-death-probe-court-extends-cbi-custody-of-three-accused-by-14-days-101633461019763.html
06-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to start e-bus trial run this month, passenger operations from November||The city is set to get 20 air-conditioned electric buses which will operate on four identified routes from November, officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said. The development comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday flagged off 75 e-buses in Lucknow under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles (FAME II) scheme for seven cities of Uttar Pradesh, including Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Jhansi and Ghaziabad. The corporation officials said that the city will receive 20 low-floor buses of its scheduled 50 buses under the e-bus project and trial run will be initiated within this month. “The PM flagged off e-buses for several cities, including Ghaziabad, and it paves way for the city to receive 20 buses in the first phase. We will initiate trial run of the project within this month to assess any operational issues. By the next month, we will start with the passenger operations,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner and one of the directors of the Ghaziabad City Transport Services Limited (GCTSL). Headed by divisional commissioner (Meerut), GCTSL is a special purpose vehicle formed for the purpose of operation of e-buses and has on board officials of different departments. “The work for the required infrastructure and charging stations is ready. For the trial run, we will rope in two buses to assess operational issues on different routes,” Tanwar added. For the operation of buses, the officials have identified four major routes which will cover a distance of about 88km per trip. The first route spanning 33km (one side) will connect some place near Anand Vihar to Muradnagar while the second route of 20km will connect Anand Vihar to ALT Centre in Raj Nagar. Another 20km route will connect some place near Dilshad Garden to Govindpuram while the fourth route of 15km will link different points from Tila Morh to New Bus Stand. The municipal corporation has allotted 25,000 square metres of land at Akbarpur-Behrampur near Vijay Nagar where a maintenance depot has come up for the e-buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-to-start-e-bus-trial-run-this-month-passenger-operations-from-november-101633461016169.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Year on, husband booked for dowry death in Sector 29||Almost a year after a Sector-29 resident died under mysterious circumstances, the police have booked her husband for dowry death.The complaint was lodged by one Hemant of Yamunanagar after his sister’s death in October last year. Hemant alleged that her sister’s husband Gulshan used to harass and ill-treat her for not fulfilling dowry demands. He had told the police that his sister had married Gulshan of Sector 29 in December 2014. It was the second marriage for both Gulshan and Gauri. Hemant had told the police that he suspected that his sister was administered some medicine that led to her death.The police said that in October last year, Gauri had fallen unconscious and was rushed to the hospital where she was declared brought dead. No suicide note was found. Considering the allegations of her brother, a postmortem was done by a board of doctors but still the cause of death was unclear.After police failed to lodge a case, Hemant approached the court and the case under Sections 304B and 498A of the IPC was registered against Gulshan. He is yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/year-on-husband-booked-for-dowry-death-in-sector-29-101633460957779.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjit Singh murder case: HC dismisses plea for transfer of trial; says allegations imaginary||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday dismissed a plea seeking transfer of trial in Ranjit Singh murder case terming the allegations imaginary and based on surmises and conjectures.With this, trial court can now pronounce judgment, stayed two days ahead of final order on August 24 by the HC, in the case involving Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim.“The petitioner (Ranjit’s son), in the garb of transfer petition, cannot be permitted to have bench of his choice or to get result of trial as per his wishes. With advancement of technology and activism on social media, the allegation levelled by such litigants needs to be scrutinised carefully. On asking of apprehensive litigant, transfer of trial at fag end would result in browbeating the judge and interference in fair administration of justice,” the bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan said in the 20-page judgment.The plea filed in August by Jagseer Singh had sought directions for transfer of the case to any other court in the region.The son had questioned adjournments granted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court a number of times since joining of the special judge and also levelled allegations against CBI public prosecutor KP Singh for “interfering” in the “administration of justice” and “influencing” the proceedings. The HC bench observed that on mere apprehension trial cannot be transferred and that apprehension must be reasonable and not imaginary. The power of transfer is to be sparingly exercised. There cannot be a straight jacketed formula for transfer of trial, it said, adding that the petitioner watched and participated in trial before special judge since April 2021, when he was transferred and has now approached the HC when the matter is reserved for final order. Referring to the complaint made against the judge in some other case, the bench said no adverse inference can be drawn against the special judge as the affected party in that case was Enforcement Directorate, which has not raised any question. Moreover, the bail in question was granted by his predecessor and he only confirmed that order. As of the allegations of judges’ proximity with public prosecutor, the bench said allegations are on “hear-say”. The bench also took note of CBI terming the transfer of public prosecutor when judge too was transferred to Panchkula as “routine administrative decision” and petitioner not levelling allegations against CBI but against the public prosecutor. The court also said the presence of public prosecutor in the court during trial is duly explained since he is a regular public prosecutor in CBI court at Panchkula and senior public prosecutor and a special public prosecutor have been specifically appointed to represent CBI in this case only. The court also did not find any substance in the allegations that the CCTV footage of a particular date have intentionally not been sent. As of allegations of the special judge showing undue hurry to conclude the trial, the court said there was no substance in the allegations as enough time was given to CBI counsels to present their side. The special judge, in his report, had termed the plea as a “case of interference in the judicial process”, to which the petitioner’s lawyer had objected to. “If the trial is transferred on the basis that filing of comments by the special Judge would affect the outcome of the trial, the trial of such pressure would not only end with the transfer but will proceed to the next judge also. Moreover, a judge is aware of the powers bestowed and how to conduct fair trial,” the bench observed rejecting the contention of the petitioner. Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra. As per the CBI, he was murdered as Ram Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter highlighting sexual exploitation of female disciples on the Dera premises. The dera head is lodged in Rohtak’s Sunaria jail serving life term. There are mainly three cases of the period 2002-03 registered against the Sirsa-based dera chief. In two cases, one related to sexual exploitation of female disciples and second of murder of a journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati, Ram Rahim has been convicted. The third case is of Ranjit Singh’s murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ranjit-singh-murder-case-hc-dismisses-plea-for-transfer-of-trial-says-allegations-imaginary-101633460898192.html
06-10-2021||Noida||20-year-old woman kidnapped by 3 neighbours in Noida Sector 168, case registered||A 20-year-old woman has been allegedly kidnapped by her three neighbours in Sector 168, police said on Tuesday.The victim’s father, a resident of Chhaprauli village in Sector 168, said that she was kidnapped on September 30. On the basis of a complaint by the father, police registered an FIR against three men at Expressway police station on October 2. According to the complainant, the three suspects had quarrelled with him in an inebriated condition on September 29. “They had also threatened to kidnap my daughter. Next day, my daughter, a domestic help, went to work in Sector 168, but she did not return home. We launched a search in the neighbourhood but could not trace her. We suspect involvement of these three persons,” he said. The suspects are natives of Kalanda Gadhi village in Bulandshahr, police said, adding that they have been at large since the incident.Yatendra Kumar, station house officer, Expressway police station, said that a case was registered against three persons under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 366 (kidnapping) and 504 (intentional insult). “The three suspects lived in the neighbourhood. Primary investigation shows that one of the suspects was known to the woman. He allegedly kidnapped the woman while two other suspects assisted him. We have put the suspects on electronic surveillance and will soon arrest them,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/20yearold-woman-kidnapped-by-3-neighbours-in-noida-sector-168-case-registered-101633460895723.html
06-10-2021||Noida||Noida may have received its last monsoon spell of 2021 on Tuesday: Weather analysts||Weather analysts said that the 5mm rainfall between 8.30am and 5pm in Noida on Tuesday was “likely the last spell of 2021 monsoon, and that the city is likely to be dry from Wednesday”.“As expected, the (Tuesday rainfall) was the last spell of this monsoon, and was caused due to mixing of winds in the transition phase. Different wind directions -- like easterly, southwesterly, and westerly -- got mixed, leading to thunderclouds and rainfall at some isolated pockets in the city. The easterly winds will thus be withdrawn from Wednesday, and the region will receive only dry and warm westerly winds. Temperatures during the days may slightly rise for a few days, and the monsoon will be withdrawn following the arrival of westerly wind,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.However, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday did not mention about the “last spell of 2021 monsoon” or further rainfall. “The sky is likely to be cloudy, and the maximum and minimum temperatures may hover around 35 degrees Celsius and 26 degrees Celsius,” said an IMD official on Tuesday.Noida recorded the last rainfall -- of 38.5mm -- on September 24, and 1mm on September 25.On Tuesday, the city saw a slight dip in mercury -- over one degree Celsius -- following the light drizzle in the evening, said officials. The IMD recorded the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida on Tuesday at 35.2 degrees Celsius and 25.4 degrees Celsius, against 36 degrees Celsius and 25.7 degrees Celsius a day earlier.The Safdarjung monitoring station, which is considered average for the national capital region (NCR), the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 35.4 degrees Celsius and 26.4 degrees Celsius -- one degree below and five degrees above the season’s average, respectively. The humidity levels oscillated between 81 and 56%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-may-have-received-its-last-monsoon-spell-of-2021-on-tuesday-weather-analysts-101633460838677.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula records Covid death after 43 days||A 67-year-old woman, who was suffering from brain tumour and hypertension, succumbed to Covid-19 in Panchkula on Tuesday, becoming the first to die of the virus in the district in 43 days. It was on August 23 when Panchkula had reported the last fatality.Meanwhile, a 38-year-old woman died in Chandigarh, taking the tricity’s daily death toll to two. The patient resided in Sector 40 and was also suffering from diabetes and hypertension. She was brought dead to the PGIMER, stated a release. Chandigarh had last reported a virus-related fatality on September 22.Even as Mohali recorded no death on Tuesday, as many as four people have lost their lives to the virus in the district in the past six days.The tricity also reported six new cases, with four people testing positive in Chandigarh and two in Mohali. Panchkula reported no case for fifth time in six days. The active caseload in the tricity stands at 70, with 38 patients in Chandigarh, 28 in Mohali and four in Panchkula.Chandigarh’s caseload has reached 65,247, including 64,389 recoveries and 820 deaths. As many as 68,749 people have been found infected in Mohali so far. Among them, 67,653 have recovered and 1,068 have died.In Panchkula, of the 30,739 total cases, 30,357 patients have been cured and 378 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-records-covid-death-after-43-days-101633460837445.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh jail inmate to serve another year after drugs seized from his cell||A Chandigarh district court has awarded one-year jail to an Amritsar resident undergoing an 11-year sentence in a drugs case at the Burail jail after opium was recovered from his cell in 2019.The convict, identified as Parwinder, 48, was arrested along with an accomplice with 1-kilogram heroin at the bus stand in Sector 43 in 2011. He was found guilty and sent to jail In 2014.In 2019, during routine checking at the Burail jail, 45 grams of opium was recovered from Parwinder’s cell. A case was registered at the police station in Sector 49 on June 4, 2019.In court, Parwinder claimed false implication. He alleged the jail authorities had a grudge against him and planted the contraband as he had filed numerous complaints against them for allowing prohibited material in the jail. However, the court of additional district and sessions judge Jagdeep Sood found him guilty. “The instances of drugs are on alarming rise and the drugs have directly affected the youth and entire social fabric of the society (sic),” ruled the court, while sentencing Parwinder to one-year jail and imposing a fine of ₹25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-jail-inmate-to-serve-another-year-after-drugs-seized-from-his-cell-101633460836001.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Resident of southern sectors meet UT adviser||Voice of Housing Societies (VOHS), which represents various housing societies in Sectors 48, 49, 50 and 51, met UT adviser Dharam Pal on Tuesday regarding the issues they are facing. VOHS convener MN Shukla said, “Issues like conversion from leasehold to freehold, stamp duty, unearned increase and completion certificate were discussed.”Shukla said that the adviser discussed the issues in detail with them and has marked their representation to the UT finance secretary. “The adviser has assured us that in case the issue remains unresolved, he will hold a joint meeting to find a solution to our issues.”The society had on Sunday held a meeting in Sector 49 with the representatives of various societies and discussed these issues with the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections in mind.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSPO held in 2009 cheating case The proclaimed offenders and summon staff of Chandigarh Police arrested a PO who had been absconding in a cheating case registered in 2009. He has been identified as Jagmohan Kumar, a resident of Ropar. He was booked in a in November 2009 at Sector 17 police station and declared a PO by the district court in November 2010. He will be produced before the court on Wednesday.Citizens’ body urges health min to take up issue of air pollutionMembers of Clean Air Punjab have written to Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni, who also heads the health ministry, urging him to take up the issue of air pollution prominently. The citizens’ body also urged the health minister to direct all urban local bodies to issue timely health advisories publicly and alert citizens on “bad air” days, which will help save vulnerable groups from severe health impacts of air pollution. Third counselling for class 11 students from todayThe UT education department will organise the third counselling for admission to Class 11 in government schools from October 6 to 12. The application form can be downloaded on www.chdeducation.gov.in and submit it on admissionxiut@gmail.com. No List of allotment of seats will be uploaded online on October 16 on the department website.Aayushi card launched for cancer patientMunicipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg launched the “Aayushi card” for cancer patients at Ivy Hospital in Mohali on Tuesday. He said this card would help the patients get check-ups on time. He added that we must follow a healthy lifestyle to prevent the disease.UT cop bags bronze in bodybuilding c’ship Inspector Baldev Kumar of Chandigarh Police has won a bronze medal at the 12th WBPF World Bodybuilding and Physique Sports Championship, 2021, held at Tashkent, Uzbekistan. Director general of police (DGP) Praveer Ranjan took to twitter to congratulate the winner. PU engineering students demand return to campusFinal-year masters of engineering (ME) students of Panjab University’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) and University Institute of Chemical Engineering Technology (UICET) have written to the dean students’ welfare (DSW) asking that they are allowed to return to campus. They have said that the varsity has allowed final year students from other departments to return to campus, but neglected engineering students, who are in need of laboratories and hostel accommodation as much as others.Executive body of AAP women’s wing constituted Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Chandigarh announced a new executive body of the women’s wing on Tuesday. Anita Sharma has been appointed president, Kamta Dameja as vice-president, Kamlesh Chaudhary as general secretary and Mamta Kainth as secretary. Senior AAP leaders congratulated the new office bearers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-resident-of-southern-sectors-meet-ut-adviser-101633460718880.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||24-year-old booked for molesting minor in Zirakpur||The Dhakoli police have booked a 24-year-old mobile shop owner for molesting a minor girl who came to her shop for mobile repair on Tuesday.The accused was identified as Rajesh Kumar, alias Raju, of Krishna Enclave in Dhakoli.As per the complaint, the 17-year-old victim was alone in the shop when the accused held her hand and started molesting her. He proposed to her for friendship and even said that he would give her a phone free of cost. He also threatened her that if she narrates the incident to anyone, he would kill her.After reaching home, the victim narrated the incident to her father who then lodged a complaint. A case under Sections 354 and 506 of the IPC was registered against the accused, who is absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/24yearold-booked-for-molesting-minor-in-zirakpur-101633460655810.html
06-10-2021||Other||Indian Army’s cycle expedition flagged-off from Prayagraj||Red Eagle Division of the Indian army flagged off a cycle expedition from Chandra Shekhar Azad Park in Prayagraj on Tuesday. The expedition is a part of the “Swarnim Vijay Varsh” celebrations and “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsava”.The cycle expedition comprising 25 cyclists from the Red Eagle Division would cover 210 kms over a span of two days while taking halts at Fatehpur and Kanpur before culminating into a boating expedition at Kanpur on October 7. The cycling expedition also aims to spread the message of “Swachch Bharat” and educate the masses about the importance of cleanliness as a way of life, said PRO (Defence), Prayagraj Shantanu Pratap Singh. The boating expedition would be flagged in at Sangam on October 10 and the “Swarnim Vijay Varsh” would conclude with a colourful cultural programme comprising Dhediya dance, a skit on “Namami Gange” and patriotic group songs at Prayagraj Boat Club.The flagging off event on Tuesday was followed by inauguration of an impressive photo exhibition on the 1971 Indo-Pak War, Weapons Display, screening of a war movie and a Painting competition. A display by the army band was also a highlight of the event. The event was organised to commemorate 75th year of Independence and 50th anniversary of Indian Armed Forces victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indian-army-s-cycle-expedition-flagged-off-from-prayagraj-101633460596075.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity sees protests against Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Protests against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence continued in the tricity on Tuesday.In Chandigarh, the Congress staged a sit-in protest in Sector 35. Expressing anger over the death of farmers, former Union Minister Pawan Bansal said, “In a democracy like this, you cannot suppress anyone. If farmers were protesting against three agriculture bills, then you cannot suppress their voice.”Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla, said, “Prime Minister Modi is reaching Lucknow today, but he should go to Lakhimpur Kheri and talk about justice for the deaths of innocent farmers. They should remove their minister from the cabinet.” He demanded that the son of the Union minister of state for home be arrested soon. Meanwhile, Chandigarh Youth Congress held a silent protest outside Gandhi Bhawan in Sector 16 to demand the immediate release of INC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was arrested by UP Police while she was on her way to meet farmers after Lakhimpur Kheri violence.AAP burns effigies of Modi, Yogi Members of the Aam Aadmi Party’s Kharar unit on Tuesday burnt effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. Under the leadership of party constituency in-charge Anmol Gagan Mann, they raised slogans against the government and in support of farmers at Kharar bus stand. Teachers of Panjab University (PU) took out a candle march on Tuesday at the varsity campus over the death of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. A number of teachers, students, ex-senators and civil society members participated in the candle march. Protests were also held in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-sees-protest-against-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633460359899.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi committed to reforms in road infrastructure, says Sisodia||The Delhi government is known for its reforms in the education and health sector, but it is equally committed to the infrastructure improvement, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday at a global workshop .The workshop, being organised by Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi, state government’s think tank, in partnership with WRI India, is an attempt by the Delhi government to learn from global examples such as Seoul, Singapore and New York as it begins work on redesigning 540km of road network in the capital. The city government will look at how these cities transformed streets in a short span, and mitigated challenges such as building consensus to reduce space for cars on roads.Singapore’s 45-minute city master plan; London’s ambitious streetscape plan to develop temporary cycle lanes and low traffic neighbourhood and Seoul’s bold move to demolish flyovers or turn them into dedicated cycling corridors were some of the ideas discussed by experts at the workshop.Apart from international cities, experts from Indian cities also shared details about street redesign projects executed in Bengaluru and Mumbai.“The government is currently identified with its social reforms in education and health sector, and it is committed to focus on infrastructural reforms and road redesigning with similar vigour,” Sisodia said.The Delhi government’s road redesign project, PWD minister Satyendar Jain said, is aimed at developing streets in Delhi at par with international standards.One of the key challenges before any government agency executing such a project is building public consensus to shrink car space to provide pedestrian pathways and cycling tracks. Sisodia asked experts about how these global cities went about addressing this issue.Shashi Verma, director of strategy and chief technology officer at Transport for London (TfL), said, that large scale public consultation is essential and governments have to play a proactive role in giving voice to public transport users, who are in substantial numbers.Alex Williams, director of city planning at TfL, said London has focused on increasing the use of bicycles and buses. He said effort have been made to make buses more reliable and consistent with 24-hour operations, which has reduced the traffic congestions due to private motor vehicles and made roads safer for cyclists and pedestrians.Experts from New York, Singapore, Bogota, Seoul said large scale public consultation has been an important factor in their transformation journey.Sharing that Seoul places public transport and pedestrian mobility as top priority areas in its transport policy, GyengChul KIM, CEO DMROC, said that political will and support from the leadership are significant to redesign and implement such a transformative program. He said flyovers have been demolished in Seoul to provide pedestrian friendly infrastructure.Experts said that a good integrated public transport system is essential for the success of road redesign projects.Ong Eu-Gene, Director at Land Transport Authority, Singapore, shared the island city-state’s decision to be a “car-lite” nation and how it implemented the road repurposing project. He also spoke about the land transport master plan-2040, which was prepared in 2019, that focuses on making Singapore a 45-minute city. He said “Rail network is the backbone of the nation’s public transport system to enable the 45-minute city.”Jasmine Shah, vice-chairman of DDC Delhi, said most of these cities have managed to transform their streets in a short span of 15-20 years. “All of them cited political leadership as critical to making the transformation happen. Under the leadership of CM Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi government is determined to building world-class streets in the national capital.”While experts spoke on the need for traffic calming measures, upgradation of street infrastructure, dedicated pedestrian pathways and cycling corridors, Michael Replogle, former deputy commissioner of policy, New York City Department of Transportation, stressed on the need to integrate data driven processes in redesigning roads, recording progress and revising yearly priorities.Sharing the example of New York’s Speed Camera Program, he said most vehicles that received penalty for one traffic violation, did not receive another within a calendar year in areas where the program was implemented. He said speed limit restrict and strong enforcement and data driven technology has played a significant role bringing down road fatalities.Dario Hidalgo, senior transportation consultant in Bogota, said that Delhi could learn from Bogota’s initiatives, as the two cities have similar population density.In India, too, cities have started work on transforming streets. Jana Urban Space (Jana USP), a sister concern of Janaagraha, present the work done by them with help from government agencies in redesigning 229kms of road infrastructure in Bengaluru and three other cities.During the conference, Jana Urban Space presented the TENDER SURE project being currently implemented to redesign 50km of roads in Bengaluru in collaboration with BBMP. Officials from Mumbai also participated in the programme and shared details of their experiences in setting up the Mumbai Street Lab to implement design interventions in road redevelopment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-committed-to-reforms-in-road-infrastructure-says-sisodia-101633460239132.html
06-10-2021||Noida||59 kids among 86 dengue patients in Gautam Budh Nagar||In Gautam Budh Nagar, children below 18 years comprise more than 60% of the total dengue cases, according to the latest data, officials said on Tuesday.Amid an increase in the infection, Gautam Budh Nagar reported 86 dengue cases till Tuesday (October 5), out of which, 59 are children -- all from Postgraduate Institute of Child Health in Noida -- between the age of five and 18 years.“The 59 infected children -- none critical -- have recovered following treatment. Out of the remaining 27 cases among adults, seven are still undergoing treatment,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Last week, officials identified two dengue hotspots in the district. “Localities in Barola and Chalera villages of Noida were identified as hotspots after 10 dengue cases were reported from there. Health teams have taken containment measures, and are making door-to-door visits to inspect larvae breeding sites and clear those at the earliest,” Sharma said.In the past one week, the district health department has also issued notices to 32 private premises with mosquito breeding sites, he added.“At present, there are five rapid response teams in the district -- one at the district level, and four at the block level -- which have been tasked to ensure that no mosquito breeding takes place. Since dengue mosquitoes usually bite during the day, all the office authorities in the district have been asked to stay vigilant and avoid collecting water in containers where these mosquitoes are likely to breed,” Sharma said, adding that the department is conducting fogging and anti-larvae medicine spraying drives in the district.“The health teams are screening densely populated localities to eliminate chances of mosquito breeding. Dengue is an urbanised disease, and these mosquitoes breed indoors -- in artificial or man-made containers. So, the teams are focusing on such areas. The teams are also going door-to-door to check on people suffering from fever, and are also taking their samples for dengue and malaria testing,” added Sharma.Meanwhile, there are no fresh cases of scrub typhus or leptospirosis in the district. The total tally of scrub typhus in Gautam Budh Nagar is four, after a private hospital in Noida had reported one fresh case last week. Two leptospirosis cases were also reported. “All three patients of scrub typhus (1) and leptospirosis (2), reported from private hospitals in the district, have recovered,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/59-kids-among-86-dengue-patients-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101633460237771.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||2 killed in separate cases over trivial matters in Delhi, suspects held||Two men were murdered in the city in two separate incidents between Saturday and Monday, allegedly over trivial issues, the police said on Tuesday, adding that the suspects in both cases have been arrested.In the first murder on Saturday night, reported from central Delhi’s Anand Parbat, a 19-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by a group of five persons, including two minor boys, over ₹300 that the man had borrowed from one of them and was not returning. In the second case, a 25-year-old rickshaw puller was stabbed to death with an ice pick allegedly by another rickshaw puller after their vehicles “grazed each other” in south Delhi’s Sarita Vihar on Monday night.This is the third case of murder over a trivial matter reported in the city since Saturday. On Sunday night, a 30-year-old woman, who ran a grocery shop in south-west Delhi’s Dabri, was stabbed to death allegedly by a plumber over the money he owed her for groceries. The woman was attacked on a busy lane in the market and the assault was captured by CCTV cameras, the footage of which was widely circulated on social media soon after. Locals overpowered the suspect and thrashed him before a police team reached there.The mob also attacked the police personnel, but they managed to rescue the 45-year-old plumber, who was later arrested for murder, police said.In the Anand Parbat case, deputy commissioner of police (central) Sweta Chauhan, said the deceased, Shailendra Kumar, had borrowed ₹300 from a man named Ravi a few days ago and was not returning it. The two exchanged heated words over phone and Ravi’s juvenile friend, who was previously involved in a crime, decided to teach Kumar a lesson. On Saturday afternoon, Kumar was with his friend Vinod Kumar in Gali No-11, when five persons, including Ravi and the juvenile, overpowered him and stabbed twice in his thigh. Kumar died of excessive bleeding. A murder case was registered and Ravi and his associate Vishal were arrested, while two juvenile accused were apprehended. The fifth suspect is on the run, the police said.The Sarita Vihar murder,police said, took place near the LIG flats on Monday around 8.30pm. Police said the 25-year-old rickshaw puller, identified by his first name as Arvind, was stabbed with an ice pick by rickshaw puller Awdhesh (single name), following an altercation over “their rickshaws allegedly grazing past each other”. Both lived in Sarita Vihar with their families and ferried passengers between Sarita Vihar colony and the nearby Metro station, police said.Police said Awdhesh allegedly stabbed Arvind with an ice pick before fleeing the spot. Arvind was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Awdhesh was arrested and booked for murder, said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Esha Pandey.In 2020, 472 murders (including 53 deaths in the Delhi riots) were reported in Delhi, according to the National Crime Records Bureau, down from 571 in 2019. Police said every year, about 20-25% murders in Delhi are a result of “ sudden provocation” or over trivial issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-killed-in-separate-cases-over-trivial-matters-in-delhi-suspects-held-101633460115783.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Flying squads to check recycling, bogus milling of paddy||Amid ongoing paddy procurement in Punjab, the Mohali administration has constituted flying squads to check for recycling and bogus milling in the district. Deputy commissioner Isha Kalia said the Punjab Government has decided to constitute these squads at the market committee level, so that recycling and bogus milling can be brought under check. She said that teams comprising officials of civil admininstration, mandi board, taxation and excise and police departments will conduct surprise visits throughout the district and submit daily status reports. Health dept inspects sweets shops Ahead of the festive season, a team of the district health department on Tuesday checked various sweets shops in Nayagaon and a manufacturing unit belonging to a reputed sweet shop in Chandigarh. A total of seven samples were taken during the inspection and stale sweets and raw material including 10 kg patisa, 20 kg rasgulla and 40 kg sugar syrup were destroyed. Some vehicles supplying milk products to the area were also intercepted and checked. District health officer Dr Subhash Sharma said that during the checking, shopkeepers were instructed to follow the guidelines issued by the district administration and health department to curb the spread of Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-flying-squads-to-check-recycling-bogus-milling-of-paddy-101633460057271.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Sundar Nagar, Golf Links, Bengali Market to stay in Lutyens’ Bungalow Zone||The Centre on Tuesday informed the Delhi high court that the matter of the exclusion of eight neighbourhoods of the national capital from the Lutyens’ Bungalow Zone (LBZ) has been remanded back to the Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC) as the commission’s earlier recommendation -- to exclude these areas -- has been rejected. Justice Rekha Palli, who was hearing a clutch of petitions seeking the implementation of the DUAC recommendations, was informed by the DUAC counsel that a meeting of the commission has been scheduled for October 7 to review the Centre’s action.Spread over an area of over 28 sq km, the LBZ is governed by a strict building law that does not allow construction of basements and caps the number of floors.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the residents of the areas that were proposed to be excluded, contended that the rejection of the DUAC recommendation was mala fide and without any due application of mind by the Centre.Several plot owners and residents of Sundar Nagar, Golf Links, Bengali Market, and Panchsheel Marg, who are desirous of reconstructing or making alterations to existing buildings, have approached the high court seeking a direction to the ministry of housing and urban affairs to implement the recommendations made by DUAC in 2019.The petitioners said one of the recommendations, which was made by the commission, was that certain areas of the city -- including Jor Bagh, Golf Links, Sunder Nagar, Bengali Market, Ashoka Road, Mandir Marg, Panchsheel Marg, Sardar Patel Marg, and Chanakyapuri -- ought to be excluded from the Lutyens’ Bungalow Zone.In the petition concerning the Bengali Market area, the petitioner defended the exclusion on the ground that the area comprised small residential plots of land measuring 212.5 square yards to 500 square yards and the developed properties could not be considered as ‘’bungalows’’ as is commonly understood and as also described in the report submitted by DUAC.In August, the court directed the ministry to decide on the recommendations made by DUAC within three weeks, while bearing in mind the peculiar bungalow style features of the zone and the fact that the recommendations did not seek to interfere with the LBZ guidelines but only suggested the exclusion of some areas that have modern constructions.The court said it expected the commission to examine the queries put forth by the Centre at the time of remand.“Issue is that they (Centre) are not accepting (recommendations). As a court, we will hear the matter at length. We will have an idea (after the commission’’s meeting),” the court said and listed the matter for further hearing to October 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sundar-nagar-golf-links-bengali-market-to-stay-in-lutyens-bungalow-zone-101633459997079.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||150 pollution hot spots in city this year: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai||The Delhi government has identified 150 pollution hot spots in the city this year, up from 13 last year, for stringent monitoring and control measures, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Tuesday.He also launched an advanced ‘green war room’ and green app that will look into the problems pertaining to ‘10 kinds of pollution’ throughout winter. Rai said that based on the complaints received on the green Delhi app last year, the government has identified 150 pollution hot spots where focused mitigation measures will be taken.“The 13 pollution hot spots that we had identified last year were based on consistently high levels of pollution in these areas. These 150 hot spots, however, have been selected based on the complaints of waste burning, open dumping and traffic jams that we received via the green Delhi app. We will be keeping a close watch on these areas this time from our green war room, and immediate action will be taken to control the sources of pollution there,” Rai said.Some of the areas in the list are: Asaf Ali Road, Vijay Nagar Road, Mange Ram Park (Buddh Vihar), Bhagwan Mahavir Marg (Rithala),Vijay Vihar phase-1 (Rohini), Quresh Nagar, Swami Dayanand Enclave, Ajit Vihar, T-block Mangolpuri, Industrial Estate (Mayapuri), Janta Colony (Paschim Vihar), West Punjabi Bagh, Khanpur Colony, Raghu Nagar, Nasirpur and Subhash Market Trilokpuri.Rai said that a 21-member team has been formed to manage the green war room, which will work 24x7 to monitor the pollution situation in the national capital. Through the green Delhi app, citizens can send any pollution-related complaint, which will be forwarded to the green war room for action.The minister said last year 27,000 complaints were received through the app, of which more than 23,000 were resolved. While the app and the war room were launched by the government last year, Rai said, this year they have worked towards improving the technology to make these measures more efficient.He added that the maximum number of complaints on the app came from the three municipal corporations (north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations), Delhi Development Authority (DDA), and the Public Works Department (PWD).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/150-pollution-hot-spots-in-city-this-year-delhi-environment-minister-gopal-rai-101633459995895.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt sanctions ₹79.48 crore for hybrid hearings in 7 district courts||The Delhi government on Tuesday informed the Delhi high court that it sanctioned ₹79.48 crore for setting up the hybrid system for conduct of trials and hearings in the seven district courts in the national capital. The preliminary estimate for the project was ₹227 crore, the court had been informed earlier.Taking note of the submission, a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh directed the city government to file a status report duly containing a chart showing the items that were proposed in the preliminary estimate and the items that were subsequently approved.The court was hearing two pleas by lawyers Anil Kumar Hajelay and Manashwy Jha, seeking hybrid hearings in district courts on in-person hearing days in view of the Covid-19 threat.The high court had earlier asked the Delhi government to file an affidavit on the steps taken by it to provide infrastructure to subordinate courts for conducting hybrid hearings.The bench said the status report, to be filed within three days, must contain details of the amount as well as a chart showing items which have been approved/not approved by the government.“Those items which have not been approved should clearly be highlighted,” the court said and listed the matter for further hearing to October 18.The court had earlier made it clear to the Delhi government that if the proposal to set up infrastructure for hybrid hearings in trial courts and quasi-judicial bodies is turned down on the grounds of expenditure, then the court will examine the expenses incurred by the government on account of subsidies and public advertisements, from April 2020 till date.On Tuesday, appearing for the Delhi government, advocate Shadan Farasat told the court that infrastructure for hybrid hearings in district and state consumer forums will be set up within the next two months.The bench observed that arrangements should be made in such a manner that in case the third wave of Covid-19 comes, people are not required to go to the courts physically.“The bird view is that if at all the third wave of the pandemic comes, people shall not be required to go to courts and the hybrid system shall be put in place.The question is when it will be put in place. Give us a date from when the hybrid system will be in place in the district courts. The problem is that it is taking so long and the whole purpose will be defeated,” the bench said.It also directed the Centre, represented through standing counsel Anil Soni, to file an affidavit disclosing the steps taken by it to facilitate hybrid hearings in tribunals and forums which come under its responsibility.“You are caught sleeping. You don’t know anything it seems,” said the court after the central government counsel failed to answer its query on infrastructure required in forums coming under the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-sanctions-79-48-crore-for-hybrid-hearings-in-7-district-courts-101633459935908.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Labourer falls to his death from 8th floor of under-construction building in Delhi||A 19-year-old construction worker fell to his death from the under-construction site, where he was working since the past few months. Police said he fell off the monkey crane on the eighth floor.According to a senior police officer, on Monday, around 2.20pm, they got information from AIIMS that an injured labourer, Ashrul Haqe, had been wheeled in. When police reached the hospital, they got to know that Haqe had fallen from the eighth floor of an under-construction building and was rushed to AIIMS by a fellow labourer.The injured man was declared brought dead by doctors and his body was shifted to AIIMS mortuary for post-mortem proceedings. A case under Section 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Maidan Garhi police station and further investigation is on, police said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/labourer-falls-to-his-death-from-8th-floor-of-under-construction-building-in-delhi-101633459577033.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi cabinet gives financial nod to ambitious e-health card project||The Delhi cabinet on Tuesday gave the financial nod to the e-health card project, conceived as a repository to store an individual’s entire medical history, which will be connected to a cloud-based health information management system. Anyone with a Delhi voter ID, or a parent with a Delhi voter ID in the case of a minor, will be issued an e-health card from the Delhi government healthcare institutions. There will soon be a provision for self-registration for health cards through a web or mobile-based interface, officials said. The system will not only allow doctors to access a patient’s entire medical records, it will also give patients benefits such as booking consultant appointments online. This comes after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the National Digital Health Mission, under which there will be four main components -- a unique digital health ID, health care professionals’ registry, health facility registry, and electronic health records. Delhi’s programme to create a world-class health management system was first approved by the cabinet in 2018. The health card will have the complete demographic and key clinical details of a person, along with related information about the individual’s eligibility under various health schemes and programmes of the Delhi government. Delhi residents will be able to register themselves for issuance of a temporary e-health card, with a validity of one year, which will be converted to a permanent one once the person’s details have been validated through surveys and all required data is updated subsequently. There will be provisions for getting the card reissued and changing incorrect demographic details. The government will also set up a centralised help desk for the same, officials in the know of the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cabinet-gives-financial-nod-to-ambitious-e-health-card-project-101633459405289.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administrator’s advisory council meeting: Admn to present action-taken reports on October 8||The administration will submit action-taken reports on the recommendations of the nine standing committees of the administrator’s advisory council members in a meeting on October 8.The administration has scheduled the meeting in nine slots, one for each committee, starting from 10am. There will be a presentation of 15 to 20 minutes followed by a discussion.“UT administrator Banwari Lal Purohit has asked for a review of the recommendations of each of the standing committees and action taken by the administration thereon,” said a senior UT official.Notably, this is the first time when a special advisory council meeting is being convened to assess only the implementation progress of the recommendations or decisions of the committees.For long, members of the council derided the ineffectiveness of the council and unresponsiveness of the administration to their suggestions. “In the last advisory council meeting chaired by former UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, some of the members demanded that the administration should regularly submit action taken reports. It was also suggested to break-up the advisory council meeting into smaller groups to make it manageable. There are 60 members in the council in addition to senior UT officials,” the official further stated.In the first introductory meet of the council on September 2, after Purohit took over as the UT administrator, the issue of its effectiveness came up again. The administrator had assured that steps will be taken to streamline its working including submission of action taken reports.The council’s two-year tenure, which ended on August 5, was extended to March 31, 2022. The present 60-member council was constituted in August 2019. The apex advisory body of the administration last met in February this year. In its two-year tenure, the council proved inconsequential in the delivery of any crucial decisions or resolving long standing issues of the city.Headed by the UT administrator, it is responsible for advising the administration on development issues and policy matters affecting the city, and gives a platform to the residents to air their views.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administrator-s-advisory-council-meeting-admn-to-present-action-taken-reports-on-october-8-101633459403513.html
06-10-2021||Lucknow||PM Narendra Modi lauds woman beneficiary’s candidness||Lucknow: During Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interaction with beneficiaries of PM Awas Yojana here on Tuesday, a woman beneficiary informed him that she was able to carry out digital transactions only partially, earning appreciation from Modi for speaking the truth. The PM said this was very good. Modi asked Ram Janki Pal from Kanpur whether she got the benefits of PM Swanidhi Yojana. “Yes, I have got a loan of ₹10,000 under the PM Swanidhi Yojana. We have put this money into our business,” said Pal, who disclosed her family was into the business of supplying milk. The PM then asked her if she made digital transactions. Only partially, she said, sending the audience into a peal of laughter. She also said her house, being handed over to her on Tuesday, was constructed two years ago. The PM asked Vimlesh of Agra whether she would celebrate Diwali in the new house and she replied in the affirmative. Vimlesh said she had a ‘kuchcha’ house and the new house had been constructed at the same place. The PM asked Babita of Lalitpur, a home maker, if she scolded her husband when the latter returned home. She said yes, again causing laughter among the audience. The PM asked her to get benefits from the PM Swanidhi Yajana as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-narendra-modi-lauds-woman-beneficiary-s-candidness-101633459397232.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: East corporation outsources Ambedkar sports complex for five years||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), has given its advance approval for outsourcing the Ambedkar Sports Complex in Trilokpuri for a period of five years. The company to which the complex will be outsourced will be responsible for its maintenance, security, operations and management for the duration and will pay ₹ 55,750 a month to the corporation, the officials said. The EDMC mayor, Shyam Sundar Agrawal, said the sports complex comprises two indoor badminton courts, a football ground, a cricket ground and gym. “The agency will be responsible for infrastructure development and day-to-day operations. If the performance of the outsourced agency will be satisfactory, its contract period may be extended for another five years with the approval of the commissioner and mutual consent of both parties,” he said. Echoing similar views, EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand said the company will be responsible for the maintenance, security, water and electricity, parking management, manpower and cleanliness of the premises. “Since the land and the constructed building belong to the EDMC, the outsourced agency will not have any right over the land or building. The agency, however, has been given a free hand to renovate and upgrade the premises of its own accord. But, all renovation and upgrade plans are required to be approved by the competent authority,” he said. Anand further said the agency will have to provide free coaching to children studying in the primary schools of the EDMC. “They’ll also be allowed the use of sports and related equipment available in the sports complex. The agency will have to promote physical education and sports through new programmes and develop the sports complex as an institution of excellence. No social functions will not be allowed in the sports complex,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-east-corporation-outsources-ambedkar-sports-complex-for-five-years-101633459395967.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Audit RRTS plan to ensure seamless travel, Kailash Gahlot to NCR transport corp||Transport minister Kailash Gahlot has directed the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) to conduct an independent audit of its Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) plan to ensure that passengers from different modes are able to travel seamlessly. The first RRTS corridor, connecting Delhi to Meerut, will have three stations in Delhi, including the terminal station at Sarai Kale Khan.Gahlot reviewed the progress of the RRTS corridor on Monday and directed NCRTC officials to speed up the construction work and ensure timely completion of the corridor. The 82km long, high-speed corridor would have total 25 stations, including three in Delhi at Anand Vihar, New Ashok Nagar and Sarai Kale Khan. The RRTS is anticipated to take off the roads nearly 1 lakh vehicles, thereby decongesting major roads in Delhi, the minister said.“It is a matter of great pride that Delhi is developing as a hub for transport, and in spite of the high density and restricted land availability, we are able to explore and optimise the land usage without compromising the vehicular movement. But to us, pedestrian and passenger safety and convenience are the highest priority and NCRTC has been advised to conduct an independent audit for pedestrian and commuter safety and circulation within and around the stations,” Gahlot said in a statement.The government said that Multi-Modal Integration (MMI) is a major aspect of the RRTS stations, and is crucial in easing traffic flow. It said MMI works on the principle of minimum interchanges, with maximum efficiency in terms of distance a person has to travel, level changes, waiting times, along with adoption of smart and safer technologies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/audit-rrts-plan-to-ensure-seamless-travel-kailash-gahlot-to-ncr-transport-corp-101633459336281.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Situation in UP similar to Jallianwala Bagh massacre: Sharad Pawar slams BJP govts||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led governments in Uttar Pradesh (UP) and the Centre for “misuse of power” over the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri during a farmers’ protest that had left eight people dead on October 3. He demanded a probe into the incident by a Supreme Court (SC) judge and likened the violence to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre during India’s freedom movement. Pawar has assured the farmers that they are not alone and that the Opposition is with them. “Our country gives the right to protest. Accordingly, farmers gathered at Lakhimpur Kheri and were holding a silent protest. At that time, people related to those in government – be it UP or at the Centre – tried to suppress their voice and [the protesters] were mowed down by a jeep, which led to the loss of six-eight farmers’ lives. Those in the BJP government at Centre and in UP are responsible for this act.” Pawar’s comments came a day after the UP Police booked Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni and his son Ashish for murder and criminal conspiracy in connection with the violence at Lakhimpur Kheri. The farmers at the spot have alleged that Ashish mowed down four cultivators with his SUV during the protest on Sunday and triggered the violence. Ashish denied the charges and had said that he was not in the car. He blamed the farmers for torching vehicles and thrashing others, including the car’s driver and two BJP workers, to death. A local journalist also died in the violence. Four of the eight victims of the violence, were farmers. It was the bloodiest clash since protests against three Central farm laws erupted last year. Pawar said he has heard that the government is ready to get the incident probed by a retired judge. “But I want the investigation to be conducted by a sitting SC judge and allow the truth to come out.” Pawar said the UP government has created a situation similar to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and it will have to pay its price one day. He added that the attack on farmers protesting silently “shows the intention of the BJP-led Central government”. “I want to tell them [BJP], today you are in the government and are trying to muzzle farmers’ voices by misusing power. But you will not succeed. You will get a befitting response not only from the farmers in UP but from the entire country,” the former Union minister said. As the BJP-led UP government has stopped Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Member of Parliament Deepender Singh Hooda, Punjab and Chhattisgarh chief ministers from entering Lakhimpur Kheri, the veteran leader said such treatment kills the fundamental rights in a democracy. “They can stop people for a day or two but will not be able to succeed for more than that and the people will show them [BJP] their right place,” he said. The former Union agriculture minister termed the BJP governments insensitive. “The governments, be it UP or at the Centre, are insensitive. Even after farmers were killed, they are not ready to express grief. Moreover, they are trying to give a message that they are treating all those protesting against the government with iron fists,” he replied when asked why Prime Minister Narendra Modi has not yet expressed grief over the killings of farmers. In response to Pawar’s comments, BJP said they have no objections for probe by a sitting SC judge. However, the party said that before blaming it for the incident, the NCP chief should have considered the fact that four BJP workers had also died in the violence. “He [Pawar] should have taken all the details before making such statements as four people who had died in the incident are BJP workers. I am sure BJP workers didn’t go there for a suicide attack. As far as a probe is concerned, we have no problem in getting it investigated with a sitting SC judge or any of the agencies in the country,” said BJP’s state vice-president Madhav Bhandari. Bhandari also recalled the Gowari stampede incident. Around 114 people from the Gowari community were killed and 500 were injured in a stampede at Nagpur when the police had tried to disperse a huge crowd by using a baton charge. Pawar was the chief minister when the incident took place in 1994. “Before comparing the Lakhimpur Kheri incident [to Jallianwala Bagh massacre], he [Pawar] should also not forget the Gowari stampede case,” he remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/situation-in-up-similar-to-jallianwala-bagh-massacre-sharad-pawar-slams-bjp-govts-101633459280566.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon withdrawal set to begin in Chandigarh region||After rain spells across the region, monsoon retreat is likely to start from Wednesday. However, it may take a day or two before the withdrawal is declared in Chandigarh, said the weatherman.“Although conditions for monsoon withdrawal seem likely, but it is too early to say when it will be declared in Chandigarh. Dry weather is expected in the coming days; so it is expected soon,” said an India meteorological department official of Tuesday. Meanwhile, maximum temperature went up from Monday’s 34°C to 34.4°C on Tuesday, the highest it has been in a week. Minimum temperature also saw a fractional increase from 24.6°C to 24.7°C. In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 34°C while minimum temperature will remain between 23°C and 24°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoon-withdrawal-set-to-begin-in-chandigarh-region-101633459279315.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol crosses ₹100/litre mark in Panchkula||The spiralling fuel prices have hit yet another milestone in the tricity with petrol crossing the ₹100 per litre mark in Panchkula. While petrol was priced at ₹100.14 per litre on Tuesday, even diesel rates were at an all time high of ₹91.58 per litre. The prices have gone up by 22% since the beginning of the year, as petrol was available for ₹82.18 while diesel cost ₹74.78 in the week of January.Petrol had already crossed the ₹100 mark in Mohali on June 26. Currently, it is priced at ₹104.81 per litre, while diesel is available for ₹94.18. In Chandigarh, fuel is comparatively cheaper, with petrol at ₹98.80 and diesel at ₹90.8 per litre.Fuel prices have been on the rise since January, though they stabilised between July and September. The impact is likely to be seen on fruit and vegetable prices in the coming days due to the increase in transportation costs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-crosses-100-litre-mark-in-panchkula-101633459278063.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue outbreak: Two teens die in Lalru, take Mohali toll to six||Two children, aged 14 and 16, succumbed to dengue in Lalru on Tuesday, taking the death toll in Mohali district to six in a month. Four of these deaths have been reported in just five days this October. Earlier, three deaths had been reported in September, but one has been ruled out. Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said the district has recorded six deaths while 141 confirmed dengue cases have surfaced in the past one month. On Tuesday alone, 35 new cases were confirmed while 147 suspected cases were reported. “We have an alarming situation at our hands for which anti-dengue drives have already been started. We need full cooperation of the residents,” she said. A mosquito-borne viral disease, dengue is spread through the bite of the female aedes aegypti. The cases mostly start rising during monsoon and peak between September and November. The civil surgeon said inspection, spray and awareness campaign has been going on continuously across the district since March, wherein 13 health department teams have surveyed 1.47 lakh houses and other places. Mosquito larvae were found at 2,560 premises and challans were issued to the violators, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-outbreak-two-teens-die-in-lalru-take-mohali-toll-to-six-101633459276927.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh court frames charges against man who confessed to murder on live TV||A Chandigarh district court has framed charges against Maninder Singh, 32, who was arrested from a news studio in January last year after he, during a live telecast, confessed to having murdered a woman friend at a hotel in the Industrial Area, Phase 2. The court of additional district and sessions judge Narender has framed the charges under Sections 302 (murder), 303 (murder by life-convict), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code. The trial will begin on November 18. According to police, Sarabjit Kaur, 27, a nurse belonging to Sangrur, had checked into a hotel with Maninder on December 30, 2019. She was found murdered in her room on the afternoon of January 1. On January 14, Maninder, who belongs to Chandigarh and was out on bail after being convicted in another murder case, reached the office of a news channel and confessed to Sarabjit’s murder. He also confessed to the previous crime, wherein he had stabbed another woman friend to death, in Karnal in 2010, even as his review petition was pending in the high court. Maninder had alleged that he killed Sarabjit as she was having an affair even as the two were planning to get married. According to police, the two had an altercation, following which he first strangled her and then slit her neck with a knife. After committing the crime, he had been on the move, staying in various places in Punjab. On surfacing at the news channel’s office, he had said that he wanted to surrender as police had allegedly held his parents captive. As soon as they got the information, cops rushed to the channel’s office and arrested Maninder while the programme was still being telecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-court-frames-charges-against-man-who-confessed-to-murder-on-live-tv-101633459275724.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Won’t make false promises: Maharashtra CM on BJP’s criticism over no relief to farmers||In an apparent jibe at opposition leaders, who are currently touring the flood-affected areas in Maharashtra, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said that he would not make false promises even if he is being criticised. CM’s statement came amid criticism by Bharatiya Janata Party leaders, including Devendra Fadnavis, that the state government has not given any relief package to farmers who were affected due to floods in parts of Marathwada and Vidarbha.Speaking at a workshop on understanding the state budget for legislators, Thackeray said that the government has to look at their treasury while making any announcements following a natural disaster. “The disasters hit not just the villages but also the state’s economic situation and we are moving forward by finding a way out of it. Many a times, we feel that these things should be given or done…. But it’s not my nature to make any false promises that I can’t fulfil just to comfort people after the disasters. I will never commit such a sin. I won’t even care if I am being criticised for it,” said Thackeray. He further stated, “Visiting spots and comforting people is one part, the other thing is to take stock of what is in our kitty and then give [relief].”Fadnavis, Pravin Darekar and other BJP leaders are touring the affected areas in central Maharashtra. They have targeted the Thackeray-led government for failing to provide any immediate relief to the farmers who have lost their standing crops and have damaged houses due to the floods last month.Speaking on the budget presentation in the legislature, Thackeray said that couplets and verses of saints are recited during the presentation, but the behaviour of legislators is completely contrast. “Even the saints would not like it [behaviour]. I once talked with Devendra ji [Fadnavis] about it. To what extent can we stoop low and what is happening in the House? The ruling parties will keep changing. But when we express an opinion, we expect a suggestion from you. This is not the wrestling arena. If something small happens, then ruckus is created [in the House]. It is not right,” he added.The CM also spoke on the behaviour of members in the state legislature, remarking that there is more shallowness these days while speaking in the House. Citing the example of Mrinal Gore, who was the opposition leader in 1988-1989, CM said that she verified information she got before speaking in the House. “Now, there is more shallowness which creates a lot of noise... Are we going to look for depth in our thoughts? There should be some meaning to the words that we speak [in the House],” said Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wont-make-false-promises-maharashtra-cm-on-bjp-s-criticism-over-no-relief-to-farmers-101633459217218.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Out on bail, bank robber strikes in Maloya||Out on bail in the last year’s Mohali bank robbery case, a 30-year-old man along with a female accomplice looted a Maloya youth at gunpoint after posing as a cop on Monday. He has been arrested while the woman is still at large, Chandigarh Police said on Tuesday. The robber has been identified as Sandeep, alias Khurmi, of Sector 38 West. He along with two men had robbed ₹4.8 lakh from an all-woman branch of Punjab National Bank in Mohali on June 17, 2020. At the time, he was out on parole. After his arrest, he was lodged in the Ropar jail, from where he was recently released on bail.Active in crime since his juvenile years, Sandeep had also escaped from the Amabla jail with help of Lawrence Bishnoi gang members in 2016. He is facing at least 12 cases of robbery, extortion and attempt to murder in Chandigarh and Mohali, said police. Posed as cops, tried to extort youthIn the fresh case, Sandeep along with his female accomplice forcibly entered the house of the complainant, Priyanshu, in Maloya Colony in the wee hours of Monday. The two allegedly introduced themselves as Panchkula police officials, and tried to extort money from Priyanshu after claiming that he had been booked for rape and murder.After Priyanshu, a student who stays with his mother, refused to accompany the suspects or pay any money, the two pointed a pistol at him and made him sign on blank papers. They also robbed him of ₹15,000, a mobile phone, wallet and debit card. Police managed to arrest Sandeep within a day. They recovered an automatic pistol along with four live cartridges, a fake identity card of the defence ministry, miscellaneous documents related to various departments and police uniform along with a belt and pair of brown shoes besides ATM and PAN cards along with ₹7,740 in cash. A case of robbery, cheating and criminal intimidation has been registered at the Maloya police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-out-on-bail-bank-robber-strikes-in-maloya-101633459215725.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Four teams to compete in Rama Atray memorial cricket meet in tricity area||The fourth edition of Rama Atray Memorial Cricket Tournament for Women will be held in Chandigarh and Panchkula from October 8 to 12.Punjab Cricket Association, UT Cricket Association, Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association and Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association teams will be taking part in the tournament.The five-day event will be played on league-cum-knockout basis and all the matches will be of 50 overs each innings. Matches will be played with the white balls and coloured clothing.The winners will get a cash prize of ₹40,000 along with the winners’ trophy and runners-up will get a cash prize of ₹20,000. There will be awards for player of the match for each match, best batter, best bowler and best all-rounder of the tournament award. The league stage matches will be held on October 8, 9 and 11 while the final will be held on October 12 at the cricket stadium in Sector 16.Tournament scheduleOctober 8: J&K vs UTCA at GMSS-26; Punjab vs HPCA at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, PanchkulaOctober 9: J&K vs Punjab at GMSS-26; UTCA vs HPCA at Tricity Cricket GroundOctober 11: HPCA vs J&K at GMSS-26; UTCA vs Punjab at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, PanchkulaOctober 12: Top two teams (final) at Sector 16 Cricket Stadium||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-teams-to-compete-in-rama-atray-memorial-cricket-meet-in-tricity-area-101633459155653.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Amid 2nd Covid wave, revenue collection of Maharashtra at 35% in first half of fiscal||The second wave of Covid-19, followed by the lockdown, has hit Maharashtra’s finances badly. The state’s revenue receipts in the first half of the ongoing 2021-22 fiscal has merely been 35% of its budgeted estimates of ₹3.69 lakh crore. Almost all the key contributing sectors, including stamp duty and registration, excise, Goods and Services Tax (GST) and vehicle taxes, have been hit badly, and the situation may lead to the rise in the fiscal deficit and hamper the development outlay this year.Against the estimated revenue of ₹3.69 lakh crore, including grant in aid from the Centre, the state’s collection until September 30 is ₹1.29 lakh crore. Of the estimated revenue, the state’s own tax and non-tax revenues expected in the ongoing fiscal are ₹3.12 lakh crore against which collections by the end of the first half of the fiscal is ₹1.11 lakh crore.Most of the state’s tax revenue comes from GST, sales tax, excise, stamp duty- registration and taxes of vehicles among others. The generation of GST in the first six months has touched ₹41,438 crore against the annual estimated collection of ₹1.18 lakh crore. The collections slightly dropped to ₹7,113 crore in September from ₹8,647 crore in August. The revenue from stamp duty and registration has been consolidated to ₹11,311 crore against the annual estimate of ₹32,000 crore, while excise duty collected in first six months stands at ₹6,618 crore against the estimated annual collection of ₹19,500 crore. The state government expects the revenue generation to improve in the remaining half of the fiscal. “The current fiscal is much better than FY (financial year) 2020-21 as the revenue receipts in till last September were just 28.33% because the collection was ₹98,438 crore against the annual estimates of ₹3.47 lakh crore. The first lockdown was stricter than the lockdown during the second wave from February-March this year. During the pre-Covid years, the revenue collection for the first six months would be around 44%. We expect the revenue to improve in the remaining six months as the third wave, in case it hits, is not expected to be as severe as the earlier two waves. The collection in Q-2 (quarter 2) of the current fiscal improved in comparison to the receipts in first three months,” an official from the finance department said.The state government is wary about the rise in the fiscal deficit and hampering of the development works. The state has estimated a revenue deficit of ₹10,226, which could increase substantially because of the drop in the receipts. The dues of more than ₹38,000 crore towards GST compensation from the Centre may also lead to the reduction in funds for development works. “The spending on the development projects had been less than 50% of the outlay, while this year, too, it is not expected to be more than 70%. This year’s allocation for the development works is around ₹1.30 lakh crore. The ramping up of the health infrastructure in anticipation of the third wave has resulted in huge spending over and above the budgeted allocation for health infrastructure. This will need diversion of funds from other departments,” another official said.State excise commissioner Kantilal Umap said, “The second wave coincided with the beginning of new fiscal, resulting in a major drop in the excise duty in first six months. The situation is not as bad as it was last year as our half-yearly collections from the excise duty is 28% more to the corresponding period of last year. We, however, hope to achieve our target of ₹19,500 crore as traditionally the sale of liquor improves after October. Also, we get around ₹1,100 crore from the licence fee in March.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-2nd-covid-wave-revenue-collection-of-maharashtra-at-35-in-1st-first-half-of-fiscal-101633459097669.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt again sends doorstep ration delivery file to LG||The Delhi government has once again sent the file regarding doorstep delivery of ration scheme to Lieutenant Governor (LG) Anil Baijal for approval, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said in a statement on Tuesday.The move comes after the Delhi high court on September 27 gave conditional approval to the government to cut food grains supply to those Fixed Price Shops (FPS) where patrons have opted for doorstep delivery of ration, instead of collecting it from the shops.In a note on the file sent to the LG, Kejriwal said he sincerely hoped that Baijal will review his decision to stop implementation of the doorstep delivery scheme, so that the orders of the high court can be implemented and doorstep delivery of ration can be processed for the beneficiaries opting it. “People are asking if pizza, burger, smartphone and clothes can be home delivered then why cannot the poor citizens of Delhi get their share of ration home delivered,” Kejriwal wrote in the note.The chief minister also said that the scheme will help disband the ration mafia in the capital.The LG office did not comment on the matter.Taking note of the government’s submission that “an overwhelming majority has opted for supply of rations at their doorstep”, a high court bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said that authorities could supply only such quantities of ration to FPS that are required for those who want to collect it from shops, while the rest can be held back by the government for door-to-door delivery.The Delhi government submitted to the court that beneficiaries of door-to-door scheme will also have the option of reverting to the old scheme of collecting their rations from the shops.The court’s order came on a petition by the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh -- a body of the fixed price shop owners -- in which they had challenged the doorstep delivery of ration scheme. The high court will hear the matter now October 27.The Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme has been stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre. The scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections— the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament.The Delhi government, on March 24, passed a Cabinet decision to remove the name “Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna” for the scheme and to implement doorstep delivery of ration as part of the existing NFS Act, 2013.In June, the government sent the file back to LG, contending that its provisions are in accordance with the NFS Act, and that it will simultaneously implement the Centre’s “One Nation, One Ration Card” scheme. However, a decision is pending on the matter.Nearly 7.2 million people in Delhi are eligible for subsidised food. They include 1.7 million ration card holders and nearly 3 million priority households. There are also other food-insecure categories identified by the Delhi government.Free food grains for those without ration cardThe Delhi cabinet on Tuesday approved the extension of its ongoing scheme to offer free food grains to non-ration card holders.“A cabinet meeting was held today at the Delhi secretariat under the chairmanship of Kejriwal. In the meeting, it was proposed to provide free food grains to non-PDS beneficiaries, keeping in mind the needs of migrant workers and economically weaker people, till the continuation of the Covid-19 pandemic, which was approved by the Delhi Cabinet unanimously,” a government spokesperson said.Currently, the distribution of food grains to non-ration card holders is done at 282 schools identified by the education department, three municipal corporations and the NDMC. But in the coming days, schools are likely to open in Delhi because of which an alternative arrangement is being planned.“Registration for ration can be done by visiting the Delhi government’s Ration E-coupon Corona Relief Portal. During the distribution of ration, four civil defence personnel will be deployed at each distribution centre for security and compliance with the Covid-19 protocols. It is estimated that around 100 distribution centres will be required. One centre per circle with the provision of 30 additional centres will be opened in areas where migrant labourers live. These additional 30 centres will be made operational as per the demand of the people,” the government said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-again-sends-doorstep-ration-delivery-file-to-lg-101633459037268.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Four men held in Delhi for stealing cars after exchange of fire||Four men were arrested on Tuesday for stealing two cars from a company’s godown in Mundka on Saturday, the police said.Two of them were arrested after a dramatic chase, following an exchange of fire with police in Mundka area early Tuesday.Police said four men stole two cars from a company’s godown in Mundka on Saturday and choked the security guard when he tried to stop them. On Tuesday, When a policeman tried to chase them, they attempted to kill him by hitting him with a car and injured a few bypassers in the process.Police said that the arrested men were identified as Ravi Dalal and Himanshu. During questioning, they revealed the names of the other two suspects, Vicky and a juvenile, who were also caught on Tuesday.Talking about the incident, police said that on Saturday, they got a PCR call regarding the theft of two new cars from the stockyard of a car company in Mundka.Police said that the security guard at the stockyard, Manoj Kumar Mishra (45), told them that on the intervening night of October 1 and 2, he was on duty from 8pm to 8am.“Around 3am, when I was in the guard-room, I heard a noise. When I stepped out of the room to look around, some people suddenly attacked me. They beat me up brutally and confined me in the guard room. They even robbed me of my phone and other belongings,” the guard said.He added that they strangled him, but when he became unconscious, they left him for dead and fled after stealing the cars.DCP (Outer) Parvinder Singh, said that a case was immediately registered under sections 394 (Voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Mundka police station and teams were formed to investigate the matter. “During the investigation, Section 395 (punishment for dacoity) of the IPC was also added to the case,” said Singh.Police said that during the investigation, they found that new cars are temporarily stored, before being distributed to showrooms, at a stockyard at Hirankudna village in Mundka. Last month, approximately 100 new cars of a well-known company were parked in the stockyard. Due to heavy rain, the godown was waterlogged and five cars were suspected to be damaged.On September 26, these five cars were placed in the middle of the plot and their keys were kept in the security guard’s room, police said. They added that the suspects were after these particular cars.DCP Singh said that over the weekend, the police team checked about 175 CCTV cameras in Delhi and nearby areas in Haryana. The Haryana Police was also informed about the incident.On Tuesday, around 7.30am, the team received information about one of the suspects being spotted at Rohtak road. The team, including ASI Satender, constable Naveen, constable Krishan, and constable Ravi Anand, spotted one of the stolen cars at a petrol pump on main Rohtak road.When the team tried to apprehend the two persons sitting in the car, the driver reversed the car, hit the policemen as well as bystanders, and sped away.ASI Satender fell while constable Krishan tried to hang onto the door on the driver’s side. To shake off the constable, the driver turned the car into the wrong lane and smashed the side of the car against a parked truck. When that failed to dislodge the constable, the men took off running in different directions.The other policemen, in the meantime, chased down one of them in a vacant plot. He then took out a pistol from his pocket and opened fire. In retaliation, Satender also fired three rounds in the air while Krishan and Naveen overpowered him. He was later identified as Himanshu. The other accused, Ravi Dalal, was also nabbed shortly thereafter. A case under relevant sections was then registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-men-held-in-delhi-for-stealing-cars-after-exchange-of-fire-101633459035704.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Air quality panel orders formation of 38 dust control cells||At least 38 dust control and management cells have been formed in the Delhi-NCR, to effectively and regularly monitor the progress of dust control measures in the region, a statement issued by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) said on Tuesday.The statement read, “Pursuant to the directions issued by CAQM, 17 dust control and management cells have been set up in Uttar Pradesh, 11 in Delhi, eight in Rajasthan and two in Haryana.”The commission said that these cells were formed to effectively tackle dust pollution emanating from roads, right of way and open areas spread across the NCR.“The dust control cells will regularly monitor the compliance of road dust control measures by the authorities concerned and will also keep track of the progress of measures undertaken. Apart from this, exhaustive reports prepared on a monthly basis by the cell will help in the fight against dust pollution more systematically,” the CAQM said.The commission has also formulated a 10-point dust monitoring parameter, which includes measures such as optimum utilisation of road sweeping machines, scientific disposal of dust collected in designated sites and landfills, water sprinkling to suppress dust especially after mechanised sweeping, augmentation of mechanised sweeping and sprinkling capacity, proper management of roads to ensure potholes-free roads, laying or repairing roads in a manner which extensively supports mechanised sweeping and conversion of non-paved roadsides into paved one or into a green area, greening of central verges.Other parameters include, laying cemented roads over bituminous roads especially in industrial areas and identification of hotspots of road dust and target-specific implementation of road dust control measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-quality-panel-orders-formation-of-38-dust-control-cells-including-11-in-delhi-101633458975892.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 9 snatchers among 116 anti-social elements arrested during special drive||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they arrested 116 anti-social elements, including nine snatchers, four thieves and an auto-lifter, in the northwest district in a 24-hour special combing and area dominance exercise code-named “Operation Sajag” carried out between Sunday and Monday.Another 912 people were detained for indulging in suspicious activities and later released after verification, police said, adding that a total of 96 unclaimed vehicles, parked at unauthorised places, were also seized.“The one-of-its-kind initiative that we have named ‘Operation Sajag’ was launched to keep a check on criminals and other anti-social elements to establish confidence among the public through higher visibility of police personnel on streets and residential neighbourhoods. During our 24-hour combing and area dominance drive, police personnel between the ranks of ACPs and constables remain in the field,” said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani.Two of the nine snatchers, identified as Sumit and Himanshu, were involved in 30 and 29 crimes respectively, including snatching, theft and offences under the arms act, added the DCP.“The operation resulted in the arrest of two notorious snatchers, Sumit and Himansu, both from Bharat Nagar area, while they were fleeing after snatching the mobile phone of a man who was returning home on a cycle rickshaw. Another snatcher, Mehul, was caught with an iPhone that he had snatched from a passerby. Altogether, we caught nine snatchers in the operation,” said DCP Rangnani, adding that more such special drives will be carried out in the future.Some of the district’s police staff were deployed at strategic locations for carrying out intensive checking of vehicles and individuals at police pickets.Others moved on foot, on two-wheelers and in four-wheelers, keeping a watch on suspicious persons and their activities. The main focus areas were dark and vulnerable stretches, highways and Ring Road, slums, market places, parks and shopping malls, said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi9-snatchers-among-116-anti-social-elements-arrested-during-special-drive-101633458739248.html
06-10-2021||Chandigarh||Indian Golf Union tour: 8-year-old Ojaswini Saraswat adds another feather to cap||Mohali Golf Range trainee Ojaswini Saraswat added another feather to her cap by winning the Indian Golf Union (IGU) feeder tour sub juniors’ girls E category, which concluded at the FRIMA Golf Course in Dehradun on Sunday.Eight-year-old Ojaswini had scores of 36 and 34 for a total of 2 under par 70 in the 2 day tournament where the par score for 9 holes was 36. She had four birdies and one eagle in the two rounds and won by a staggering 12 strokes from her nearest competitor.Ojaswini trains under Arjuna awardee Harmeet Kahlon and now leads the IGU Merit List in her category. A student of Manav Rachna International School, she also plays at Chandigarh Golf Club Course.It was for the first time that an IGU event was held in Dehradun. Over 80 junior golfers from all over North India, in particular from Uttarakhand, Haryana, Delhi-NCR, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and Rajasthan competed in the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indian-golf-union-tour-8-year-old-ojaswini-saraswat-adds-another-feather-to-cap-101633458737933.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||We brought an ordinance to combat pollution in NCR: Bhupender Yadav||With the spectre of air pollution once again haunting the Capital as stubble burning starts in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana, the Centre is hoping the situation this year will not be as bad as previous years.In an interview with HT, Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav said the new agency to curb bad air in NCR, Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM), will take its remit seriously and also give legal status to the regional airshed (area affected by similar meteorology and topography that restrict the dispersion of pollutants).Edited excerpts:How prepared is the government this year to tackle winter pollution? You have had several meetings with state governments, what is the feedback that you have got and what is your assessment?The most important step that our government has taken is that we have brought in an ordinance to monitor and control air pollution in the national capital region. And the agency that has been created through this ordinance, CAQM, is doing its work effectively. To solve Delhi’s air pollution problem, legal status needed to be given to the (regional) airshed. This happened through the ordinance. Several measures have been taken by the government to manage the primary pollution sources in the region, including vehicles, industries, construction etc. To maintain transparency in pollution data, we have also launched an online portal called PRANA (Portal for Regulation of Air-Pollution in Non-Attainment Cities), which is a platform that provides information on how cities are curbing pollution levels and historical data on air pollution mitigation milestones achieved since 2018. While pollution control is the government’s job, it is also a matter that concerns the public and there needs to be a joint responsibility. We have issued over six advisories and over 40 directions related to air pollution since the commission took over.Will you be able to reduce stubble fires this year?We started working around mitigation measures to control stubble burning in July. The ministries of agriculture and animal husbandry, the Central Pollution Control Board, and our task force have worked together. We also monitored the work that has happened in various states to reduce the incidents of stubble burning, and we saw that state governments also took this matter seriously. Starting July 29, we have held several meetings with all agencies concerned to keep a close watch on the action taken to prevent stubble burning.We are also working on larger, solution-based plans, such as converting the paddy stubble into biofuels and decomposing it. To curb the practice, we have also come up with machinery advancements (under the Promotion of Agricultural Mechanization for in-situ management of crop residue). The central government has assigned nearly ₹700 crore, and we have made service centres and hiring centres as well. I believe that the central government and state governments have worked in coordination to tackle this issue, but CAQM is mapping these incidents closely.Farmers from Punjab and Haryana have highlighted that unless the government gives them some kind of direct subsidy, the practice of stubble burning is likely to continue. What is being done in this area?I don’t believe that is the case. Whichever farmer unions and pollution control boards I have interacted with, I have got good feedback. We understand that this is an issue that would require collective participation and work is being done based on the feedback that we are getting.Punjab, one of the states where stubble fires are reported, just saw a major political shake-up, and the state is also going into elections next year. Do you think all this will in any way impact the action against stubble burning this year? I don’t think so. These are two separate concerns. Political matters are there, but our duties and responsibilities as governments are separate. It is our collective responsibility and all agencies are serious.The ministry of environment, forest and climate change has also been working on revising air quality standards. By when can we expect some clarity on this?Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already announced our plan for the holistic improvement of air quality in over 100 cities. For this purpose, we have also launched the PRANA portal. We are conducting some studies to assess the current air quality standards and see if they can be revised. Our focus is on air quality monitoring also.Are we on track to achieve the national clean air programme (NCAP) target which aims to achieve a 20% to 30% reduction in PM 2.5 concentrations compared to 2017 annual levels in over a hundred cities by 2024?We are working tirelessly to achieve NCAP targets. The best example of this is our work to convert all industries to piped natural gas in NCR. We have also taken out a policy to promote electric vehicles, taken steps to control stubble burning, etc.Last year, there was a lot of confusion over the role of CAQM and CPCB in enforcing the Grap (graded response action plan) measures because of which Delhi saw several spells of ‘severe’ air when no action was called in by any monitoring body. Will things be different this time?CAQM and CPCB are working together. CAQM has come up with a system of regular updates, where the action taken by states and other agencies will be closely monitored. CPCB will also be helping the CAQM in their efforts.Can people flag violations? Yes, people can send in their complaints to CAQM. There is an online portal for this.The Delhi government has said that they have requested the Centre to ban firecrackers in the neighbouring states as well so that a spike in pollution levels during Diwali can be avoided. Are you considering this?We will be closely monitoring the pollution levels, but no decision has been taken on this yet. As and when the situation arises, we will see what measures need to be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/we-brought-an-ordinance-to-combat-pollution-in-ncr-bhupender-yadav-101633458678005.html
06-10-2021||Lucknow||Urban conclave will help take achievements to people: Rajnath||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said the three-day “Azadi@75 – New Urban India: Transforming Urban Landscape” conference-cum-expo” inaugurated on Tuesday would turn out to be an opportunity for working out a roadmap for urban areas besides taking achievements to the people.He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi was working in a mission mode to realise his dream for new India. He said comprehensive development of urban areas was taking place in accordance with the PM’s vision. He said urban areas were being developed as was the need of the hour. Singh said as chief minister of Gujarat, Modi had focused on development and he was doing so as PM too. He said the people were getting benefits of ease of doing business and ease of living.Union minister of petroleum and natural gas and urban housing Hardeep Singh Puri said “Swachh Bharat Mission” and AMRUT Yojana would play an important role in making India self-reliant. He said there was an expansion of air connectivity and eight airports were now functional in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/urban-conclave-will-help-take-achievements-to-people-rajnath-101633458676095.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||SC to hear after Diwali break Delhi govt’s plea on who controls bureaucrats||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said it will hear after Diwali break the Delhi government’s plea on the contentious issue of who should control administrative services and bureaucrats in Delhi.“List this matter after Diwali vacation,” said Chief Justice of India NV Ramana after senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, requested for an early hearing of the case. The top court reopens on November 8 after the Diwali break.Requesting for an early hearing, Mehra said that two judges had in February 2019 differed with each other on the aspect of administrative control of officers in the national capital territory of Delhi, following which the issue was referred to a three-judge bench.“Since the entire administrative control vests currently with the Centre, it is an important issue and impedes on the ability of the Delhi government to govern and implement its policy,” submitted Mehra, requesting the court to list the matter for hearing as early as possible.On February 14, 2019, the two-judge bench of the top court delivered a split verdict on the question of powers of the GNCTD and Union government over services and referred the matter to a three-judge bench.In the split verdict, justice Ashok Bhushan held that the Delhi government has no power at all over administrative services. On the other hand, justice AK Sikri said the transfer or posting of officers in top echelons of the bureaucracy (joint director and above) can only be done by the central government while for other officers, the mandate of the Lieutenant Governor would prevail only in case of a difference of opinion.Governance of the national capital has witnessed a power struggle between the Centre and the Delhi government since the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) came to power in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-to-hear-after-diwali-break-delhi-govt-s-plea-on-who-controls-bureaucrats-101633458616250.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Rahul Gandhi’s tweet on minor deleted: Twitter to Delhi HC||Microblogging platform Twitter on Tuesday informed the Delhi high court that it has removed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s tweet, revealing the identity of the nine-year-old Dalit girl in the alleged gangrape and murder in Delhi cantonment, and that his account is now operational without the objectionable tweet.However, a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh, while hearing a plea seeking action against Gandhi for posting the pictures of the minor victim’s parents, issued notice to Twitter and asked them to file an affidavit as the petitioner’s counsel objected to Twitter’s submissions. “We are making it explicitly clear that we are not issuing notice to other respondents (Gandhi and the city police). Notice is being issued only to respondent no. 4 (Twitter),” said the court.The bench was hearing a plea by petitioner Makarand Suresh Mhadlekar, a social activist, who alleged in the petition that by posting the photograph with the parents of the child victim, Gandhi violated the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, which prohibit disclosing the identity of minor victims of sexual offences.The nine-year-old Dalit girl died under mysterious circumstances on August 1, with her parents alleging that she was raped, murdered and cremated by a crematorium’s priest and his accomplices in southwest Delhi’s Old Nangal village. Citing disclosure statements of two accused in the case, the Delhi Police had last month informed the court that the girl died due to “suffocation” during the sexual assault.During the proceedings on Tuesday, senior advocate Sajan Poovaya, representing Twitter, told the court that Gandhi’s tweet with the pictures was in violation of their privacy policy and hence it was deleted.However, this was objected to by advocate Gautam Jha, counsel for the petitioner. The petitioner claimed that Gandhi was trying to gain political mileage.Senior advocate R S Cheema and lawyer Tarannum Cheema appeared for Rahul Gandhi.The plea has sought initiation of appropriate legal action against Gandhi by the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The matter will be heard on November 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rahul-gandhi-s-tweet-on-minor-deleted-twitter-to-delhi-hc-101633458317327.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Court denies bail to Olympian Sushil Kumar in Chhatrasal stadium murder case||A Delhi court on Tuesday denied bail to wrestler and two-time Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar in connection with the murder of co-wrestler Sagar Dhankad at Chhatrasal stadium on May 4, saying that “when renowned people commit such heinous offence, then the detrimental effects on the society are enormous”.Additional sessions judge Shivaji Anand, while dismissing the bail application, said Kumar was clearly visible on the video footage beating the victims. “Prima facie, the applicant/accused (Kumar) is visible in the video as reflected in the photographs taken out of the same video footage: He is clearly visible and seemed to be causing severe injuries,” the judge said.The court noted that a video was recovered from the phone of the co-accused Prince, where Kumar was seen carrying a stick and beating the victims.The judge also said that the expert from forensic laboratory, Gandhi Nagar, where the phone was sent for examination, has opined that there was no sign of tampering with the footage.Dhankad, a wrestler, Bhagat Singh and Jaibhagwan alias Sonu Mahal were allegedly abducted and beaten by Kumar and his accomplices inside Chhatrasal stadium on the night of May 4. Dhankad succumbed to his injuries, but others survived the assault.The police have filed the charge sheet against Kumar and 12 others for murder, abduction, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy, destruction of evidence, criminal intimidation, culpable homicide not amounting to murder, house-trespass, rioting and voluntarily causing hurt. Additionally, Kumar has also been booked for robbery, dacoity and dishonestly receiving stolen property. Five suspects are yet to be arrested in the case.Kumar, a Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award winner, was arrested on May 23.The court, in its order, said there are a total of 17 accused and charge sheet has been filed only against 13 of them, while investigation is ongoing with respect to the remaining accused is still going on. It said that given the number of injured persons to be five, a lot of information has to be gathered and hence minor discrepancies in making out the statements cannot be ruled out.“Some discrepancies in the statements may occur but they do not seem to be detrimental to the whole case of the prosecution. This is not an appropriate stage to consider the whole facts in detail; only prima facie cases are to be seen and the minor discrepancies in statements are not sufficient to warrant bail. The victims were lifted from different places at gunpoint.“As per the charge-sheet, it was a daring and awful act of the accused persons that they openly caused such brutal injuries to the victims without having any fear and as per the charge-sheet, they are having firearms as well as other weapons like sticks, dandas etc,” the court said.Kumar’s counsel, Pradeep Rana argued that the police made a false case against his client and presented a “guilty image” of him.Rana said that leaks to the media were allegedly facilitated on an “unprecedented level” and “false information was fed to the media” in order to wrongfully establish a connection between Kumar and gangsters.Additional public prosecutor Atul Shrivastava opposed the bail plea, saying the accused allegedly hunted 27-year old Sagar Dhankad like wild animals.“They were behaving like wild animals on a hunt. They hunted him (Sagar) like wild pigs. He was flailing on the floor while they mercilessly beat him,” Shrivastava said.The public prosecutor further said there was delay in registration of the FIR as the witnesses were not in a position to give statements.The police, in its charge sheet, have told the court that Kumar was counselled by the experts who said that the former Olympian showed no signs of remorse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-denies-bail-to-olympian-sushil-kumar-in-chhatrasal-stadium-murder-case-101633458315754.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 6 ITIs, Indira Gandhi Technical varsity to get driving schools on campus||In a first, six Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and the Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women (IGDTUW) will have dedicated driving schools inside their campuses as part of a project to ensure the next generation of drivers “learn the skill properly” and “act responsibly” on the roads, said officials from the state transport department on Tuesday. “The idea is to start introducing driving as a life skill and there cannot be a better place to do so than having driving schools inside educational institutions. We have held high-level meetings with several colleges and the government’s education department, and have so far finalised seven institutions, which will have driving schools in the first phase,” said Ashish Kundra, Delhi’s transport commissioner. Officials said three more educational institutions will be roped in for the project, which is likely to be launched by January next year. According to official estimates, every year, around 12,000 students graduate from the seven institutions identified for the project in Delhi. “In the driving course that will be offered at these colleges or universities, a student will have to complete 31 hours of theory and practical classes. At least 21 hours will be theory and 10 hours will be practical. It will be flexible so that a student can attend it post college hours,” said a senior transport official on condition of anonymity. Once a student has completed the driving course, s/he will be eligible to appear for the driving test on the same track and a licence will be issued. Currently, applicants can get a learners’ licence from home by giving an online test.According to the state transport department’s website, Delhi currently has 64 authorised driving schools. However, the actual number of driving schools in the city is much more, said officials adding that many such schools operate without following the set procedure of clocking 31 hours of theory and practical classes.In October 2018, the Delhi government started a project of issuing learners’ driving licences to students of Delhi Technological University and Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-6-itis-indira-gandhi-technical-varsity-to-get-driving-schools-on-campus-101633458255883.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Ambedkar University of Delhi releases first admission merit list||New Delhi: Ambedkar University of Delhi (AUD) on Tuesday released the first set of cut-offs for admission to 13 undergraduate courses. Along with the cutoffs, the university has issued merit lists for individual courses.BA (Honours) in Psychology has the highest cut-off at 98.75% for candidates in the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi. This is a point increase from last year when the highest cut-off under the first list for the same course was 97.50%. For candidates outside NCT, the cut-off for BA (Honours) in Psychology is 99.5%.For BA (Honours) in Economics, the cut-off for applicants from NCT is 97.25%, recording an increase of 1.25 percentage points from last year when the cutoff for the same course was 96.5%, recording a marginal increase of .75 percentage points from last year. The cut-off for students from outside Delhi is 97.75%.For BA (Honours) Mathematics, the cut-off, this year, is 97.25% for NCT candidates—recording a marginal increase of over 4 percentage points from last year when the cutoff was 93%. Candidates from outside NCT need to secure 97.75% for admission. Additionally, candidates should have scored at least passing marks in Mathematics in their Class 12 examination.The list is provisional and final admission will be subject to verification of marks and other requisite documents at the time of admission.The merit list has been drawn on the basis of marks in the best of four subjects (including subjects as specified in the minimum eligibility criteria as per the programme).In courses such as English, History, Mathematics, Psychology, and Sociology, the number of students on the merit list stayed between 65 and 68.For other BA courses such as global studies, law and politics, social sciences and humanities and sustainable urbanism, the number of students in the merit list for the general category ranged between 100 and 105.Students can apply for admissions under the first cut-off list between October 6 and 7, from 10am till 5pm. Fee payment also needs to be made during this window itself. In the list released by the university, it said that the dates of physical document verification were liable to change and students should keep a tab on the university website for any unforeseen change in schedule. The second cut-off list is expected on Friday.The unitary non-affiliating state university, which has 85% reservations for students from national capital territory, has separate cut-offs for students from Delhi — giving them an edge over students from other states. Apart from applicants from NCT, the university also has a quota for co-curricular activities and single girl children.The university offers nine BA (Honours) programmes in Kashmere Gate Campus, and four BA courses and four vocational studies courses in Karampura Campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ambedkar-university-of-delhi-releases-first-admission-merit-list-101633457415705.html
06-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Builder-buyer meetings from Oct 7 to resolve issues of homebuyers||The Greater Noida authority has decided to start meetings of homebuyers and realtors at its office in Sector Knowledge Park-IV. from October 7, days after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed the authority to address the grievances of homebuyers.Narendra Bhooshan, CEO of Greater Noida authority, said, “We have decided to hold builder-buyers meeting so that the issues plaguing the realty sector can be addressed properly. The realtors or their representative will be present at these meetings so that they can discuss and find a solution for the issues that homebuyers are facing.” On October 7, buyers from Nirala Group, that is executing Greenshire housing project in Greater Noida West’s Sector 2 ,has been called for the meeting. Next in line for the meeting is Paramount Limited’s Paramount Emotions in Sector 1 on October 8. A meeting will be convened between representatives of SGP Infratech’s Radha Sky Garden in Sector 16B and buyers on October 11. On October 18, prospective home buyers of Angle Infra Height from Sector 16C have been asked to attend a meeting that will be followed by a meet of Casagreens realtors and home buyers on October 21. Homebuyers alleged developers of housing projects are not addressing their issues related to possession, registry, maintenance and other grievances.“We have called 10 buyers from each housing project in view of the Covid-19 protocols so that they can discuss their issues comfortably. Once their issues are resolved, we will call the next set of buyers from different housing projects,” said Santosh Kumar, officer on special duty of the Greater Noida authority.The authority said it will make sure that the developers address the issues in a time-bound manner so that the buyers are not inconvenienced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-builder-buyer-meetings-from-oct-7-to-resolve-issues-of-homebuyers-101633457235716.html
06-10-2021||Noida||Noida doctors perform rare heart surgery on Iraqi patient||Hani Jawad Mohammad (56), an Iraqi patient who was suffering from terminal heart failure in 2018, has got a fresh lease of life. A rare case, Mohammad has fully recovered and his heart is functioning without an artificial pump or left ventricular assist device (LVAD), thanks to the doctors at Noida’s Fortis Hospital who treated him. LVAD is an artificial device designed for patients with end-stage heart failure. It mimics the functions of a natural heart and pumps blood throughout the body in patients whose natural heart is too weak to perform the function itself. In 2018, Hani came to Noida’s Fortis Hospital with terminal heart failure. “He was breathless and could not do routine activities, such as taking a bath, without help. Since no surgical procedure was possible, he was put on the heart transplant list. While waiting for the donor heart, the patient’s condition started deteriorating and he became so critical that he required life-saving machines to keep him alive. It is then that we decided to put him on LVAD or artificial heart,” said Dr Ajay Kaul, chairman of Fortis Heart & Vascular Institute, Noida. The device is placed inside the heart and runs on batteries attached outside the body. A small hole has to be made to connect the machine’s wire with the batteries, said doctors. In 2019, Hani developed a driveline infection around the point on his chest where the wire was connected. “We treated the infection and during a routine checkup, we found that his heart had recovered completely and that was very uncommon. We reduced the speed of the pump. His heart was still functioning at optimum capacity, but we kept the pump running to be on the safe side. We asked him to come again after six months for a follow up. We observed him over the next one year as we wanted to be very sure that the heart is functioning properly without the support of the pump,” said Dr Kaul adding that by November 2020, they had turned off the device. Finally, in August this year, it was decided after due consultation with the patient that the artificial heart would be explanted. “The explantation procedure was carried out at Fortis Hospital, Noida in September. It is a novel surgical procedure which was conducted for the first time in India successfully. The patient was discharged within five days and is doing very well,” said doctors.According to medical experts, the explantation surgery has not been recorded in medical literature so far. “LVAD is considered as the last resort for patients with terminal heart failure and is planted on them who are on the waiting list for heart transplant. Generally, when the patient undergoes a heart transplant, the LVAD is removed. In some cases, as the devices have become technologically more advanced, they can also be used as destination therapy where the patient can continue lifelong with the LVAD in his heart. In cases of terminal heart failure, the heart is so weak that without LVAD, it is unable to function. But in this case, the heart has recovered and is able to function without LVAD. So far in India, no such case has been recorded in medical literature,” said Dr Dheeraj Sharma, associate professor, cardiac surgery, Postgraduate Institute of Child Health, Noida. In the past two years, Hani has become a father of two children and has also named one of his sons after the doctor who treated him. “I owe my life to the team of medical experts at the hospital who treated me. As a mark of gratitude, I named my newborn son after the head doctor Ajay Kaul. When I came for treatment, I was unable to even stand and was on wheelchair but today, I can do everyday activities without any trouble,” said Hani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-doctors-perform-rare-heart-surgery-on-iraqi-patient-101633456815909.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||No imminent threat of third Covid wave, allow physical meeting of civic body: HC to Maha govt||In light of the Covid-19 threat diminishing and lockdown norms being relaxed substantially, the Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the state to reconsider its order asking the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) not to conduct standing committee meeting physically and take a decision on it within five days. The court also directed the chairman of the BMC’s standing committee to permit members to physically attend the standing committee meeting being conducted at 2pm. The order was passed in a public interest litigation filed by two BJP counsellors who claimed that their voices and views were not being considered through the online mode and hence wanted the meeting to be held physically. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice M S Karnik while hearing the PIL filed by Vinod Mishra and Makarand Narwekar, members of the BMC’s SC, was informed by advocates Amogh Singh and Jeet Gandhi that the PIL was filed challenging the December 21, 2020 and June 28, 2021 notifications of the state government which stipulated that SC meeting of the BMC should be held through video conferencing. The advocates referred to the October 20, 2020 order of the HC wherein the bench had expressed that the SC meeting should be held physically and not through VC. It was further submitted that as VC meetings were being conducted to bulldoze agendas involving crores of rupees of public money without deliberations, the PIL sought urgent hearing as the chairman of the SC while issuing the agenda for the October 5 meeting had announced that it would be held through VC. The advocates further submitted that as the lockdown conditions had been relaxed substantially across various sectors the chairman of SC should be directed to allow members to attend the meeting scheduled to be held at 2 pm physically and also sought setting aside of the two state government notifications as the need for VC meetings did not exist anymore. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for the BMC however submitted that the VC mode did not disallow any members from placing their say on the issues on the agenda and hence the claims of the petitioners were not maintainable. After hearing the submissions the bench observed, “The prevailing situation in Mumbai does not point to any imminent third wave of the pandemic. Schools and colleges have re-opened, and children are attending the schools and colleges physically. All the courts in the State of Maharashtra are functioning as in the pre-pandemic days…In such a situation, it defies logic as to why only a few of the Standing Committee members including its Chairman would be permitted to attend the meeting physically and the rest required to attend through the virtual platform. If any member of the Standing Committee wishes to participate in the meeting physically, he should be allowed to do so.” The court then directed the department of the state to take an appropriate decision within five days as to why physical meetings could not be conducted by the civic corporation and also directed the decision to be taken before the next SC meetings and disposed of the PIL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-imminent-threat-of-third-covid-wave-allow-physical-meeting-of-civic-body-hc-to-maha-govt-101633455795561.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC audits 31,065 hospital bills, brings down Covid treatment cost by Rs20.81 crore||In the past 15 months, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has audited 31,065 private hospitals bills of Covid-19 patients amounting to ₹522 crore. After auditing, the civic body has managed to reduce an amount of ₹20.81 crore, of which ₹2.73 crore were reduced after inspecting 405 complaints of overcharging in 35 private hospitals . Since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020, several private hospitals have been accused of overcharging Covid-19 patients. HT in a series of articles has highlighted the plight of patients who were charged ₹1 lakh per day for their treatment in the first wave. After receiving several such complaints, the BMC appointed 70 auditors in June 2020 to audit medical bills. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), said between June 2020 and August, almost 4% of the audited amount has been reduced from bills or refunded to patients. “We are auditing bills from 35 private hospitals with each having two auditors. Once the officers review the bills, they instruct the hospitals either to reduce the amount from the current bill amount or refund it to the patients,” said Kakani. In May 2020, the state capped Covid-19 treatment charges. According to a state government order, charges for a Covid-19 patient in the general isolation ward shouldn’t exceed ₹4,000 a day, the maximum charge for an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) is capped at ₹7,500 a day, and for ventilators, it is ₹9,000 a day. Despite this, the patients have been complaining of inflated bills. On April 14, Sudhir Mishra, 51, a businessman was admitted to a private hospital in Andheri, after he was detected with Covid-19. When he was discharged on April 26, the hospital handed over a bill of ₹15 lakh. On May 12, he had to get admitted again when he developed mucormycosis also known as black fungus. “The fungus had spread in his mouth so the doctors had to remove his palate to stop it from spreading to his brain which would have killed him. Even after the surgery, he had to stay in the hospital for another 15 days as a precautionary measure. When he was discharged, we were given a bill of ₹22.5 lakh,” said Manisha Sudhir Mishra, 47, his wife. “Cumulatively, we had to pay over ₹37 lakh by selling our ancestral properties in our native town in Uttar Pradesh,” she said. They still have a debt of ₹12 lakh which they had to take from their family members. The auditors revealed they find several types of discrepancies in bills which add to the financial constraints of patients. For instance, when patients are admitted, tablets like aspirin, B-Complex, and paracetamol are included in the package. Despite this, they are again charged separately for the same medicines. Again, for a patient’s treatment, a hospital requires five personal protective equipment (PPE), including N-95 masks. But while billing, hospitals charge the patients extra for the masks. “If a hospital has given one drug to a patient, they are charged for the whole strip. While discharging, they do not even provide the remaining medicines to the patients. Also, a medical staff examines multiple patients wearing the same PPE, but patients are charged individually for the same PPE. Private hospitals use different creative ways to add up to the bills,” said an auditor who is responsible for a hospital in western suburbs. Also, the BMC has received 405 complaints of overcharging in the past 15 months worth ₹19crore. All complaints of patients have been found to be correct, as per the data of the civic body. “People can file a complaint before paying the bills or after it. There are no restrictions on it. Whenever we get any complaint of overcharging, our auditor inspects the bill within 48 hours,” said a senior health officer from BMC. Nearly 75% of Covid-19 patients who were treated at private hospitals in the state were overcharged, despite a price cap by the Maharashtra government, revealed a study conducted by Jan Arogya Abhiyan along with Maharashtra Corona Ekal Mahila Punarvasan Samiti. Talking to HT, Shakuntala Bhalerao of Jan Arogya Abhiyan said last week, “Introducing a price cap was a good step, but it was not implemented. We are calling upon the state to conduct a detailed audit and get the hospitals to return the overcharged amount to patients in one month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-audits-31-065-hospital-bills-brings-down-covid-treatment-cost-by-rs20-81-crore-101633453035472.html
06-10-2021||Patna||LJP factions get new names, symbols; Chirag group happy with ‘Paswan’ tag||Days after barring them from using the name of the Lok Janshakti Party or its symbol “bungalow”, the Election Commission of India (ECI) Tuesday allotted names and poll symbols to the two warring factions of the party, led by Jamui MP Chirag Paswan and union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, respectively, as an interim measure ahead of the October 30 bypolls for two assembly seats in Bihar.The ECI, following a request from Jamaui MP Chirag Paswan, has given his faction the name of Lok Janshakti Party (Ram Vilas) and the election symbol “helicopter” while the Paras faction has been allotted the name of Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party and “sewing machine” as its symbol, a statement from the poll panel said. Chirag had moved the ECI for an early settlement of the issue as his faction wanted to contest the bypolls for two assembly seats in Bihar, Tarapur in Munger district and Kusheshwarsthan in Darbhanga districts.The Chirag faction seems more than happy with the addition of his father and LJP founder later Ram Vilas Paswan’s name in the faction led by him. “We welcome the EC decision. It is a vindication of our claim that we are the real holder of Ram Vilas Paswan’s legacy. Some parties wanted to sabotage our election prospects, but truth has finally won,” said LJP (Chirag group) spokesperson Ashraf Ansari.“It’s a blessing in disguise,” said another leader who supports Chirag.Experts also agree. “Late Ram Vilas Paswan was a tall leader of Dalits and he still has a strong following, which was reflected during Chirag’s Aashirvad yatra. Union minister Pashupati Paras could not get the same response,” said Gyanendra Yadav,associate professor of sociology, College of Commerce, Patna.The LJP, which had won six seats in the Lok Sabha in 2019 parliamentary polls, split in June this year after five of the MPs rebelled against Chirag and approached the Lok Sabha Speaker to recognize Paras as LJP’s parliamentary party leader. The Speaker assented to their plea. Later, Paras was inducted in the union cabinet too.The LJP had contested the Bihar assembly election in 2020 alone and fielded candidates against chief minister Nitish Kumar’s party, the Janata Dal (United). Although LJP won just one seat, it’s believed to have caused serious damage to JD (U), which could win only 43 seats, its lowest tally since Kumar came to power in Bihar in 2005.Chirag has once again decided to field candidates from two assembly seats going to bypolls. Both were represented by JD (U).Meanwhile, Paras too welcomed the Election Commission’s decision of allotting his faction of the Lok Janshakti Party the name Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party. “I welcome the Election Commission’s decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ljp-factions-get-new-names-symbols-chirag-group-happy-with-paswan-tag-101633450756935.html
06-10-2021||Mumbai||Higher temperatures, thunderstorm likely this week in Mumbai||With the official southwest monsoon season having ended on September 30, temperatures in the city are on their way up, touching a maximum of 34.5°Celsius (C) for two consecutive days on October 4 and 5. This is two degrees higher than normal, after temperatures remained consistently at normal or below normal in the last week of September, according to the India Meteorological Department’s automatic weather station in Santacruz. The minimum temperature at night, too, remained 2 degrees above normal at 26°C on Tuesday. The city saw heavy thunder and lightning on Tuesday evening, between 7pm and 8pm, along with light to moderate rain in a few locations. IMD officials said the withdrawal of the monsoon over Mumbai and the rest of the Konkan coast is unlikely before October 15, and also warned that intensity of rain may also pick up briefly between October 10 and 11.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, daytime temperatures may rise to as much as 37°C by October 11 and night temperatures are expected to remain between 26-27°C. In October 2020, the city had experienced a maximum temperature of 35°C on the 10th, 28th and 29th of the month. The highest October temperature was recorded at 38.6°C in 2015.A meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai warned the weather is likely to get muggier in the next few days. “The temperature will rise by at least a couple of degrees while the city remains under a cloud cover due to delayed monsoon withdrawal, so the heat will remain trapped closer to the ground and the relative humidity levels will go up. There are chances of moderate thundershowers on Wednesday, and a thunderstorm with more intense rain may occur between Thursday and Friday. There are no signs of monsoon withdrawing from Maharashtra yet as the withdrawal is expected to only start from the northeast October 6 onward,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/higher-temperatures-thunderstorm-likely-this-week-in-mumbai-101633449975151.html
06-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC lifts cap on pilgrims to Char Dham shrines||Uttarakhand high court on Tuesday lifted the daily limit on the number of pilgrims who can visit Char Dham yatra following the state government’s plea that the limitation should be lifted as the Covid-19 cases have come down significantly in the state. On September 16, the court had lifted its June 28 stay on Char Dham yatra, paving way for the start of yatra from September 18 to the four revered Himalayan shrines with Covid-19 curbs and capping on the daily pilgrim numbers. The HC had limited the number of daily pilgrims to Char Dhams - 800 for Kedarnath, 1000 for Badrinath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri. Dushyant Mainali, one of the petitioners, who is appearing in person in the case, said the counsel of the state government made two pleas before the court. “First that daily limitation on pilgrim influx to Char Dham shrines should be lifted and second is that mandatory registration for e-passes on the Char Dham Board portal should also be done away with. The court agreed on the first plea and lifted the daily limitation on the pilgrim numbers but declined to entertain the second plea, stressing that through registration, the government can keep a tap on the pilgrims,” he said. Mainali said the court also directed the state government to increase healthcare facilities on Char Dham routes and shrines. The case regarding Char Dham yatra is being heard by the HC in a bunch of PILs which have been filed by Sachdanand Dabral, Dushyant Mainali, Anu Pant and Rajendra Arya related to various issues regarding the fight against the Covid-19 epidemic in the state. The matter was heard on Tuesday by a division bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and Justice Alok Verma. The Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board has so far issued over 69,600 e-passes to the devotees of other states as per the SOP. According to the Board officials, till Monday over 41,000 people have visited Char Dham shrines Kedarnath, along with Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri, collectively called Char Dham, attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. On June 28, the HC had stayed the cabinet decision of the Uttarakhand government to allow Char Dham yatra from July 1 for the locals of the three districts where the four revered Himalayan shrines are located. However, the state government approached the Supreme Court and filed a Special leave petition against the decision, which it later withdrew and again approached the court with a plea that Char Dham yatra should be allowed as Covid-19 cases had come down significantly. On June 20, the state government had announced the opening of Char Dham yatra in two phases- from July 1, for locals from three districts. Earlier on April 29, the state government had postponed Char Dham yatra, which was scheduled to start on May 14. Following the decision, only portals of these shrines were opened for ritual worship by the local priests. Portals of the Yamunotri shrine were opened on May 14 and that of Gangotri on May 15. The portals of the Kedarnath shrine were opened on May 17, while the portals of Badrinath were opened on May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-hc-lifts-limitation-on-daily-pilgrim-influx-to-char-dham-shrines-101633436055922.html
06-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police bust racket involved in pirating NCERT books||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they have arrested a 38-year-old man and busted his racket that was allegedly involved in printing pirated National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) books for classes 6 to 12.“The poor quality pirated books were being supplied in the market at cheaper rates causing huge revenue loss to the NCERT. Such books are directly supplied to sellers for selling them as genuine ones. The sellers were offered a high-profit margin...,” said deputy police commissioner (crime) Rajesh Deo.Police said 5,000 pirated books, nearly 80,000 printed sheets of paper, from which 12,000 pirated books can be prepared, 166 metallic plates used for printing, two latest offset printing machines, and a large number of plain papers containing NCERT watermark were seized.Deo said the NCERT books have been in huge demand as the Union education ministry has made them mandatory for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) affiliated schools. He added the move came amid allegations that schools were allegedly compelling students to purchase costly books of private publishers.“...Schools were allegedly getting hefty monetary benefits from the publishers in lieu of prescribing their books. Consequent to the government’s move, there was a sudden rise in demand for the NCERT books. Unscrupulous elements exploited the situation by getting pirated books printed...”Also Read: Delhi govt again sends file on doorstep delivery of ration to L-G for approvalThe crime branch was tasked to collect information regarding racketeers involved in such illegal practices. Last month, the special investigation unit-2 (SIU-2) of the branch received information that a publication unit in Mandoli was involved in printing pirated NCERT books.On September 18, the team along with vigilance and production officers of the NCERT raided the printing unit and seized finished and semi-finished pirated books. A case of cheating, forgery, and under the Copyright Act was registered and raids were conducted to nab the alleged mastermind of the racket, Manoj Jain.“We arrested Jain on October 4 (Monday) and booked him in the case. He is the owner of the printing press that was raided and also owns a similar setup in East Nathu Colony in Shahdara. The Mandoli unit...suffered losses due to Covid-19. To manage the losses, and gain maximum benefits, Jain started printing pirated NCERT books...,” said Deo. Police were trying to identify other people involved in the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-bust-racket-involved-in-pirating-ncert-books-101633430833972.html
