07-10-2021||Lucknow||Akhada Parishad meeting on Oct 25, may elect new president||PRAYAGRAJ: The Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP)—the powerful apex decision-making body of the country’s 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders—may elect its new president on October 25. A meeting of the ABAP had been convened on Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani premises in Daraganj locality by the body’s general secretary Mahant Hari Giri to discuss the issue, informed ABAP office-bearers. Head of the Baghambari Gaddi Math Mahant Narendra Giri, who had been serving on the post since 2014, was found dead in a room of the Math on September 20 following an alleged suicide, leaving the post vacant. The meeting has been convened at a time when the Akhadas are keen to get necessary preparations underway for the Kumbh-2025 to be held in Prayagraj and get set for the important meeting of the body that takes decisions on the mega religious fair three years before its formal starts. Usually this meeting follows a meeting with the state chief minister in which various proposals passed by the ABAP regarding Kumbh are put before him for implementation. “The meeting of the Akhada Parishad has been convened on October 25. The names put forth for appointment as the next president of the Akhada Parishad would be discussed in it. Whoever gets backing of two-third members of the 26-member Parishad would be elected as its new president,” said Mahant Hari Giri, who is also the chief patron of Juna Akhada.. The body has two representatives each from the 13 recognised Akhadas of the country. Senior seers shared that with just over three years remaining for Kumbh-2025, electing a new ABAO president was a top priority for the Akhadas. They shared that as per the traditions followed till now, whichever monastic order’s office -bearer passes away in harness, the name proposed by it is appointed to the post till the end of the five-year tenure. Mahant Narendra Giri of Niranjani Akhada was first elected to the post in 2014 and was then re-elected for another five years at Haridwar in October 2019. This, seers said, could mean that a senior saint of Niranjani Akhada whose name was proposed by the monastic order could be elected to the top post of ABAP till 2025.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhada-parishad-meeting-on-oct-25-may-elect-new-president-101633631226624.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Pune RTO extends deadline for doctor registration to October 30||PUNE The Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) has extended the deadline for doctors to register with the transport body to provide medical certificates for applicants for driving licences. So far only 15 doctors have registered and so the deadline has been extended till October 30. As per a new set of rules given by the state transport department, any doctor who wants to register with the RTO for licence-related work needs to visit the RTO office for authentication. They will then be provided with a user ID and password to access the Sarathi portal. Verified doctors can upload the medical certificates of applicants once they apply for licences. “We have received registrations of 15 doctors till now and compared to the number of applications that come daily for licences, it’s very low. So we need more doctors to register with the RTO to carry out the online work smoothly. Our appeal to all the doctorsis to come forward and help Pune RTO,” said a senior RTO official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rto-extends-deadline-for-doctor-registration-to-october-30-101633630986910.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: HC seeks response on plea alleging poor conditions at Lok Nayak Hospital||The Delhi high court on Thursday sought the response of the Delhi government on a plea highlighting the alleged poor conditions in the Lok Nayak Hospital, and said the city dispensation needs to “gear up” to improve the situation at the government-run hospital, which was also the largest facility in the national capital for the treatment of Covid-19.Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea filed by an individual named Ashish Pandey, who was admitted to the hospital recently, asked the city government to “set out steps to improve the working of the hospital”.“We are not out of Covid. Every day, ministers are saying “please take care”. This (LN hospital) is one of your ‘so-called’ prestigious hospitals. I expect the hospital to gear up now,” the judge said.Pandey in his plea claimed that no Covid-19 test was conducted on him at the time of admission on September 27, and there were two-three patients on each bed and three patients were taken to the ultrasound lab at the same time.Pandey also alleged that “dead bodies were lying on the bed for 15-20 hours” while patients lay on the floor.Admonishing the city government, the court said, “Just because you come on media, it doesn’t mean it is working. This is not the first time that we are hearing it,” Palli said.“Some of these (allegations) must be true. I don’t want to doubt him. He is not in the business (of medicine). There is no competition. There are limitations but you need to gear up.. I am not saying you have to become something 100 per cent perfect,” the judge further said.The petition has alleged that “each ward having around 72 beds, had only two second year postgraduate doctors under the supervision of one senior resident, reflecting the shortage of doctors as for more than 250 patients (due to double/ triple occupancy of beds), there were only two postgraduate students and one senior resident doctor”.“None replied to my representation. I am not asking for everything under the sun but there is complete inaction (on part of LN hospital),” Pandey submitted.Delhi government counsel Anuj Aggarwal sought time from the court to file a response to the petition.The petitioner has also prayed for a direction to constitute a high-powered committee to look into issue and monitor the various lapses at LN hospital and take necessary action at the earliest.The plea also alleged that the hospital authorities have a “careless, callous and unbothered attitude” and due to shortage of guards and other auxillary staff, LN hospital authorities wereunable to provide security for wheelchairs and stretchers. The matter would be next heard on December 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-seeks-response-on-plea-alleging-poor-conditions-at-lok-nayak-hospital-101633630684269.html
07-10-2021||Pune||28% schools reopen in Pune district; the least in Maharashtra||PUNE: Pune district has reported the least number of schools reopening so far across Maharashtra, with only 28% schools having reopened in urban areas of the district. The students’ attendance in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has been among the lowest across the state.Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Laxmanrao Apte Prashala, said that her school has reported an at least 60% turnout since it reopened. “However, many parents still fear Covid-19 while sending their wards to school. And many parents who are in their native village have chosen to continue online classes for their children. Students who have a good internet connection and a better environment at home, prefer online education,” Sinnarkar said.“Also, many parents may be thinking about sending their wards to school after the upcoming festivals are over. However, what we have seen in our schools suggests that families with one smartphone at home prefer that their children attend offline classes. The children are also able to respond more effectively with offline classes,” Sinnarkar said.About the least number of schools reopening in Pune, Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune District Principals’ Association, said that due to recruitment examinations, some schools in the city have delayed reopening.“Moreover, this week also has holidays. Some schools have scheduled their reopening next week. Due to the Navratri festival, Thursday was also a holiday. All these are the reasons for less number of schools reopening. The number is likely to increase in the coming days,” Gaikwad said.He added that rural areas have a larger number of students attending offline classes. “As schools in rural parts were also already functional, Classes 5 to 7 are also seeing a good turnout. Also, students face a variety of issues during online lectures and hence, offline classes have a better turnout in rural parts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/28-schools-reopen-in-pune-district-the-least-in-maharashtra-101633630624898.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena gives ticket to wife of late MP Mohan Delkar for LS bypoll||Kalaben Delkar, wife of late Dadra and Nagar Haveli Member of Parliament Mohan Delkar, joined the Shiv Sena on Thursday along with her son Abhinav in the presence of party chief and Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray. The party has decided to field the late MP’s wife in the bypoll on the Lok Sabha seat of Dadra and Nagar Haveli on October 30.The by-poll was necessitated after Mohan Delkar died by suicide at a hotel in Marine Drive on February 22. The seven-term MP left behind a 14-page suicide note, accusing government officials and a few private persons of forcing him to take the step. A case was registered against the Union Territory’s administrator Prafull K Patel, who was a junior minister in the Gujarat government under then CM Narendra Modi, and other officials. The Sena had raised the issue of Mohan Delkar’s death in the Lok Sabha and in Maharashtra, demanding action against the officials named in his suicide note.A Shiv Sena functionary said that party’s chief spokesman Sanjay Raut was instrumental in getting Kalaben Delkar, Abhinav and their supporters to the party. Kalaben Delkar is expected to file her nomination on Friday.According to the functionary, the party saw an opportunity to increase its tally in the Lok Sabha, especially on a seat from outside Maharashtra. “Mohan Delkar had a tremendous support in his constituency because of the work that he did over the decades. At the same time, there is an anti-BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) wave there given the circumstances of the MP’s death. We will be able to grow our organisation through the Delkars in the Union Territory,” said the functionary. Currently, Sena has 18 MPs in Lok Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-gives-ticket-to-wife-of-late-mp-mohan-delkar-for-ls-bypoll-101633630324177.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||15 dead, 26 injured in Barabanki bus-truck collision||Fifteen people died and 26 others sustained injuries when a double-decker bus collided head on with a truck near Baburi village under Dewa police limits of Barabanki district on Thursday morning, said Barabanki district and police officials. Barabanki district magistrate Adarsh Singh and superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad said the district administration with the help of local police were carrying out rescue operations.The bus carrying 70 passengers was going to Bahraich from Delhi when the accident took place, said the SP, adding that the collision took place as the bus driver tried to avoid hitting a stray cow. While nine persons were killed on the spot, 26 people were injured in the incident and rushed to hospital where six more died during treatment, he added.As per the SP, rescue teams rushed the injured people to hospital. He said 11 critically injured people were sent to King George’s Medical University (KGMU) trauma centre in Lucknow, four others were sent to Barabanki district hospital. Others, who had suffered minor injuries, were discharged after treatment, the SP added. “I am deeply saddened to hear about the death of many people in a horrific road accident in Barabanki, Uttar Pradesh. I express my condolences to the families of the deceased and wish the injured a speedy recovery,” President Ram Nath Kovind tweeted in Hindi.Expressing his grief, chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed Barabanki officials to provide best possible treatment to the injured. He also announced an ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each to the kin of the deceased and ₹50,000 each to the injured.Local police officers said primary investigation suggested that the truck coming from the opposite side lost control and rammed into the bus. SP Yamuna Prasad said a helpline number 9454417464 had been issued. He said people concerned could call on this number to get details of any deceased and injured person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/15-dead-26-injured-in-barabanki-bus-truck-collision-101633629844420.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Southeast Delhi district launches campaign for cleaning of Yamuna stretch||With a target to clean the stretch of Yamuna under its jurisdiction in three weeks, the Southeast Delhi district administration on Thursday launched a campaign with participation of over 700 volunteers, according to an official statement.The campaign was flagged off by chief guest Rajendra Singh, better known as 'Jal Purush' of the country, and over 1,000 volunteers participated in it picking up trash from the water of Yamuna and its banks, said Vishwendra, District Magistrate of South East Delhi district."Any effort of conservation starts with cleaning the water body," Singh said and gave a slogan "Yamuna Nadi Ki Jung Mein Hum Sab Sang Mein".He also asked the district administration and civil society to clean and rejuvenate the river and volunteered his presence and participation in any such endeavour.The district, under "Clean India Programme", an initiative of Ministry of Sport and Youth Affairs in association with Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan, has scheduled 'Clean Yamuna Campaign' of cleaning the river till October 27, through mass public participation."The event aims to clean the stretch of river Yamuna falling in the territorial jurisdiction of district Southeast Delhi in coming 21 days," the statement said.Sanjeev Khirwar, divisional commissioner, appealed to all concerned to participate in the effort of the district administration to improve the aquatic health of the river.Around 1,000 volunteers from Nehru Yuva Kendra Sangathan (NYKS), South Delhi Municipal Corporation, Civil Defence along with NGOs, resident welfare and market associations and other stake holders participated in the drive at Yamuna Bank near Samshan Ghat, Sarai Kale Khan.Apart from the volunteers, two JCBs and an amphibian water hyacinth plucking and waste collecting machine were used for cleaning the river, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/southeast-delhi-district-launches-campaign-for-cleaning-of-yamuna-stretch-101633629192534.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Cruise drugs case: Congress demands action against NCB officers for violating norms||The Maharashtra Congress on Thursday demanded action and an internal inquiry against the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officers involved in the cruise drug party raids for “violation of rules” related to the handling of the accused in the case. The party has also pointed at the discrepancies in the statement by NCB officers in relation to the private persons present during the raids and seizure of drugs from the crime scene.Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant also said NCB officers have been evading questions related to the involvement of private persons in the raid and questioned the connection between NCB and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).State minorities minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik had on Wednesday levelled serious allegations against NCB. He had produced videos and pictures of NCB’s raids on the cruise on Saturday and said that BJP functionary Manish Bhanushali and another private person, KP Gosavi, had illegally been involved in the agency’s action. Malik said the duo was seen taking Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan and another accused, Arbaaz Merchant, to the custody after their arrest for alleged consumption of drugs. NCB had raided a cruise off the Mumbai shore and arrested Aryan, Arbaaz and others for alleged drug abuse at a rave party on Saturday night.“NCB officers have not been able to explain why the private persons, including an office bearer of BJP, were involved in the raids and why he [BJP worker] was handling the accused. NCB’s handbook states that the officer designated should handle the accused and they have the authority to produce the accused in the court. Without prior written permission, the custody cannot be given to anybody else. Section 59 of the NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act has clearly stated that the officer violating the set rules related to the handling of the accused may attract criminal action and imprisonment of up to 20 years or a fine of ₹ 1 lakh or both. The NCB officers have grossly violated the set rules and an inquiry is needed into it. We demand that the director general of NCB conduct an internal inquiry and take necessary action,” Sawant said.He added that the statements of the NCB officers are contradictory. “NCB officers said he [BJP worker] was an independent witness while, Bhanushali said he was an informer. Similarly, the statement related to the drug seizure from the crime scene had discrepancies. The state government, too, should inquire into the entire episode which appears to be a conspiracy to defame the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and Bollywood,” he said.BJP leaders have said that Malik has been targeting NCB owing to a grudge for action against his son-in-law by the investigating agency. They have also said that leaders from the ruling parties are targeting NCB to hinder the action against drug peddling. “Bhanushali had given a tip-off in the interest of the country by endangering his life. MVA leaders have been targeting him. Malik is the leader of the party which has home portfolio. Why was [BJP leader] Kirit Somaiya stopped from lodging a complaint against corruption by a minister,” questioned BJP leader Ashish Shelar. Leader of opposition and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said instead of raising questions over the presence of private people, Malik should reply whether the party took place or not and if there were drugs in the party?NCP hit back at BJP and said the latter should reply to the questions raised on the raids instead of making vague and political arguments. They should also clarify in what capacity the BJP office-bearer was involved in the procedure of the raids, said NCP.“Both the BJP and NCB have claimed that the allegations were made because my son-in-law (Sameer Khan) was arrested in January. But the fact is that we have been questioning NCB’s action since last November. NCB officers also said that the allegations were levelled out of prejudice mindset and anybody who has anything to object can approach the court. Are NCB officers speaking the BJP’s language? Isn’t is BJP that always says that people can approach the court instead of replying to questions raised against them,” said Malik.“A BJP office-bearer was seen arresting the accused in videos during the NCB raid. Instead of replying to this, they are making vague arguments,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-drugs-case-congress-demands-action-against-ncb-officers-for-violating-norms-101633629604387.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Sidhu, other Punjab Cong leaders, ministers allowed to go to Kheri||Several Punjab Congress leaders, including state ministers and MLAs, were allowed to head towards Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, hours after they were detained at a police station in Saharanpur on Thursday.Punjab Transport Minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring said the UP police would escort them to the city where they would meet the families of farmers who were killed in violence that erupted during a protest Sunday. Congress district unit president in Saharanpur Muzaffar Ali Gurjar said 15 to 16 people, including Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, left for Lakhimpur Kheri in four vehicles at around 9 pm. Earlier on Thursday evening, Sidhu, some cabinet ministers and MLAs of Punjab were taken into custody by police on UP-Haryana border in Shahjahanpur when they were going to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the kin of those killed in Sunday’s (October 3) violence there. Other Congress party members accompanying Sidhu were also taken into custody.They were taken to Sarsawa Air Force station in Saharanpur while hundreds of protestors continued their protest at Shahjahanpur border where the police heavily barricaded the road to prevent their entry to UP.Speaking to media persons before he was taken into custody, Sidhu asked, “Why has the UP government not arrested Union MoS’s son Ashish Mishra who is an accused in the case of mowing down farmers? Is the minister’s son above law?” Demanded his arresting, Sidhu also accused the UP government of not taking action against those who ran over a group of farmers in Kheri.“You are teaching us law. Accused Mishra is roaming scot-free and you are stopping MLAs and MPs (from going to Kheri). We will not tolerate the dictatorship. We are soldiers of Rahul Gandhi,” Sidhu said.Earlier, hundreds of protesters from Punjab led by cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu, some cabinet ministers and MLAs reached the border on Thursday evening.Police had barricaded roads by placing tractor trollies, barricades to prevent them entering UP. The officials said only 5 people could be allowed as Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which prohibits the assembly of more than five people, had been enforced in Lakhimpur Kheri after the October 3 violence.Former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda and Congress’s Haryana unit chief Kumari Selja also arrived there along with hundreds of their supporters on Thursday afternoon. They wanted to go to Lakhimpur Kheri but police stopped them at the border. Confirming it, Shamli SP Sukirti Madhav said they returned after staying at border for over an hour. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sidhu-other-punjab-cong-leaders-ministers-allowed-to-go-to-kheri-101633629425896.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Jayant accuses BJP of being anti-farmer||Agra: National president of Rashtriya Lok Dal Jayant Chaudhary on Thursday targeted the BJP governments, both at the centre and in the state and blamed them for being anti-farmer. He also blamed union home minister Amit Shah for backing the guilty in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and urged farmers to unite for the 2022 state assembly election. Jayant Chaudhary was in Khair town of Aligarh on Thursday when the RLD’s ‘Ashirwad Path Yatra’ arrived there. He addressed a public meeting and alleged that farmers in Uttar Pradesh were being attacked, as was evident from the recent incident in Lakhimpur Kheri. “Crime is rising in Uttar Pradesh and in such a scenario farmers need to unite to uproot the present government,” said Jayant. He reminded the farmers of his grandfather late Chaudhary Charan Singh and asked them to unite in his name. Jayant assured Rs. 12,000 to farmers under Chaudhary Charan Singh Krashak Samman Yojna that he proposed. “Ghastly killing of farmers took place in Lakhimpur Kheri and sons of farmers protecting the nation’s borders were termed terrorists. The accused minister was summoned to Delhi but was backed by the union home minister. BJP leaders are unable to understand the pain that a farmer undergoes,” said Jayant. Urging people to be wary of the BJP, Jayant said that the ruling party in the state would play the Ram Temple or Taliban card to secure votes by misleading the voters. “The BJP had assured to double the income of farmers in 2022 but nothing of this sort happened, even though 2022 is approaching. On the one hand, fund was provided to farmers under PM Samman Yojna and on the other, money in multiples was realized from them by enhancing the prices petrol and diesel,” he alleged. Jayant also attacked Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath for welcoming cine actress Kangana Rannaut, who, he said, had termed farmers as ‘terrorists’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jayant-accuses-bjp-of-being-antifarmer-101633629424351.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||MVA plans strategic tie-up or seat adjustment for mini Assembly polls||With significant gains in the bypolls to the local body elections in six districts, the three ruling partners in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition – Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – are mulling a strategic tie-up or adjustment of seats in next year’s elections to most civic bodies and district councils. The development has come after the ruling parties got a sense from these bypolls that the electorate are not completely against them because of the issues related to reservation, OBCs and Marathas, series of allegations of corruption and lockdown due to Covid. The bypolls held to fill 85 district council (DC) seats and 144 panchayat samite (PS) seats, which fell vacant after the Supreme Court quashed the OBC quota for want of empirical data in March this year, saw Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suffering a setback. The BJP’s tally of DCs dropped to 22 from 31, while three ruling parties – Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress – improved their tally by 10 to 46 seats that fell vacant. Similarly, in PS, too, the Congress emerged to top position by winning 36 seats, while the BJP could win 33. The NCP and Sena won 18 and 23 seats, respectively, from the total 144 seats. Although the ruling parties fought the elections separately they claimed to have a better coordination at the local level to ensure they do not dent each other beyond a certain a limit. “In Washim, the Congress, NCP and even Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi had an understanding while fighting against the BJP in the bypolls and it worked. We are not going to have an alliance of three parties as it will cost us dear at local level and restrict the expansion of the parties. We have amicably decided that we will fight separately. In some local bodies, two parties will come together, while in some we will have strategic understanding in picking the candidates. Our common target will be to keep the BJP out of power and for it we will do whatever needs to be done,” said a Shiv Sena leader, requesting anonymity. Following these bypolls, 23 of 27 municipal corporations, 27 of 36 district councils, 300 of 362 nagar panchayats and more than 290 panchayat samitis are scheduled to go to polls in the first half of 2022. The elections are touted as a mini assembly poll and would serve as a testament to the performance of the MVA government. The BJP currently holds the highest number of local bodies in rural as well as rural bodies won during its five-year rule in the state until 2019. The ruling parties got a morale boost after bypoll results, as it was considered to be a litmus test for them after the OBC quota in these polls was quashed. The Opposition had created a picture that the electorate from the OBC communities is unhappy with the ruling parties and it was their failure to keep the quota intact. The ruling party leaders believe the reservation issue has not gone against them. Besides, the MVA partners were worried over the reaction of voters to issues such as scrapping of Maratha reservation by the apex court, series of allegations of corruption against MVA ministers and continuous lockdown imposed to check the spread of the epidemic. The three parties want to contest separately where they are strong to deny the BJP more space and also prevent local workers of the parties from going to the BJP. Congress has already announced to go solo in all forthcoming elections, though the announcement had not gone down well with two other ruling parties. “We are strong in rural areas in district councils and panchayat samitis and have comparatively less presence in urban areas. During the recent bypolls, all three parties gained their ground and will continue to do so in the forthcoming polls too. Our stand is clear, if we contested in alliance of three parties in corporations in Mumbai and Pune, with fewer seats, it will prove detrimental in our bid to expand the party. We have left it to our local units to decide whether they want to join hands with other two parties,” said a Congress leader. Although the Congress has made up its mind to go solo, the Shiv Sena and NCP are likely to join hands in many municipal corporation elections, including Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli, Pune, Nashik and districts of Konkan. In some of the districts like Kolhapur, Washim, Congress and NCP may come together. In these districts, the remaining party may play second fiddle. “The decision over the alliance will be taken when the elections are declared. It depends on the local equations and situation, and based on the reports we get from our sampark pramukhs and other leaders in-charge of the respective areas. We would definitely want to fight the polls together in major cities in MMR together, but at least the alliance of two of the ruling parties will definitely be possible. We have clarified within the party that there would be not alliance or tacit understanding with the BJP at any cost. The BJP is a common enemy for all three parties,” said Shiv Sena leader Sachin Ahir. Political analyst Prakash Bal said if the three ruling parties fought the local body polls together, they can eat into the BJP’s space. “The Congress should accept that it has weakened in the state and should compromise on seats to fight collectively. It will help the party in winning more seats in Mumbai and other parts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-plans-strategic-tie-up-or-seat-adjustment-for-mini-assembly-polls-101633629364200.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Many new names from UP in BJP’s new national executive||Several new names from Uttar Pradesh figure in Bharatiya Janata Party’s 80-member new national executive though the bigger surprise was the missing names of party veterans like party’s Sultanpur Lok Sabha MP Maneka Gandhi, her son and Lok Sabha MP from Pilibhit Varun Gandhi as well as former UP minister Vinay Katiyar. It wasn’t immediately clear why Katiyar was dropped from BJP’s top body. However, in Varun’s case it is being linked to the series of tweets he made on the Lakhimpur violence case. His latest tweet with a video of the incident that sparked violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, read: “The video is crystal clear. Protestors cannot be silenced through murder. There has to be accountability for the innocent blood of farmers that has been spilled and justice must be delivered before a message of arrogance and cruelty enters the minds of every farmer.” “I am not aware of the facts of any individual case but it’s a generally acceptable rule that one shouldn’t be publicly criticising a party or organisation that one serves,” a UP BJP leader said.The Congress has been at the forefront of the struggle for justice in the Kheri incident with party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visiting Lakhimpur along with chief ministers of two party-ruled states where they announced ₹50 lakh each from Congress-ruled states of Punjab and Chhattisgarh as compensation to victim farmers’ families.Maneka Gandhi’s name being dropped from the BJP body too has evoked surprise for she too hadn’t said or done anything publicly to attract party leadership’s ire. The first meeting of the BJP’s new executive was scheduled to be held on November 7, party leaders indicated. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expectedly on top of the list with Uttar Pradesh mentioned ahead of his name due to his being the Lok Sabha MP from Varanasi. Similarly, former BJP chief Murli Manohar Joshi too figures in the list from UP with defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh right after him. Others from UP who figure in the list are Union minister and Chandauli MP Mahendra Nath Pandey; party’s Lok Sabha MP from Amethi and Union minister Smriti Irani; Union minister Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti; state’s law minister Brajesh Pathak; state’s labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya; state’s forest minister Dara Singh Chauhan; Muzaffarnagar MP and Union minister Sanjeev Balyan; Bareilly Lok Sabha MP Santosh Gangwar; minority affairs minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi (who hails from Rampur), and Dr Anil Jain. Two leaders from UP in the national BJP body as vice presidents include Rekha Verma from Sitapur, MP and former Uttarakhand governor Baby Rani Maurya, who hails from Agra. Another UP leader who figures in the list is Arun Singh, the national general secretary of BJP, while party MPs Vinod Sonkar and Harish Dwivedi are in there as national secretaries. Rajesh Agarwal from Bareilly in UP is the national treasurer while Lok Sabha MPs Hema Malini (Mathura), general (retd) VK Singh, Union minister of state BL Verma; former UP BJP chief Laxmikant Bajpai; UP’s backward welfare minister Anil Rajbhar and Anurag Sharma, MP, figure in the list as national invitees. Also from UP is Amit Malviya, the national in-charge of IT and social media. Rajya Sabha MPs Sudhanshu Trivedi, Syed Zafar Islam, Gaurav Bhatia and Prem Shukla are in there as national spokespersons. Lok Sabha MP Rajkumar Chahar, BJP’s national farmers’ wing chief, is also from UP. BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda announced the party’s new national executive on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/many-new-names-from-up-in-bjp-s-new-national-executive-101633628944089.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Temples decked up for Navratri, devotees queue up for ‘darshan’||Lucknow As the Shardiya Navratri began on Thursday, temples all over the city were decked up, with special kirtans, bhajans and Durga Saptashati recital underway. Special prayers for the elimination of corona were also held in several temples. Prominent temples had already mandated that following Covid protocol was a must for devotees wishing for darshan and puja. Devotees thronged Chowk’s Badi Kali Ji temple , Sandohan Devi temple, Durga Mandir, Khajua, Chandrika Devi temple and Kali Badi but were allowed inside in limited numbers by the volunteers of the temples. Many of these temples had made arrangements for live streaming of ‘aarti’ via social media. Volunteers were seen requesting people to watch ‘aarti; and other programmes on web. No devotee was allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum of Kaliji temple in Chowk, Chandrika Devi Temple in Bakshi Ka Talab, Sandohan Devi temple in Chaupatian and Kali Badi in Ghasiyari Mandi, Kaiserbagh . Only five devotees at a time were allowed to enter the temple after thermal screening and use of sanitizer at Chandrika Devi Temple in Bakshi Ka Talab. . Annual ‘Navratri Mela’ and ‘kanya bhojan’ were cancelled to check overcrowding. Kalash Yatra A Kalash Yatra was taken out from Siddhwashwar Dham Tapasi Baba Ashram, which covered areas around Faridi Nagar before culminating at the Ashram. Former PWD minister and president of Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Shivpal Yadav visited the ashram and performed puja of Goddess Durga. Priest of the temple Neeraj Yadav blessed Shivpal Yadav on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/temples-decked-up-for-navratri-devotees-queue-up-for-darshan-101633628704829.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Kangana meets UP minister, to begin promoting ODOP scheme soon||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh here on Thursday met actor Kangana Ranaut who has been appointed the brand ambassador for the promotion of UP government’s “One District, One Product” (ODOP) scheme.Singh, who is the minister for micro, small and medium enterprises, investment and export, textile, khadi and gram udyog, discussed with the actor how ODOP scheme could be promoted in a better way. Ranaut was of the view that aspirational aspects of consumers should be addressed through her advertisements.“We had a good discussion. I briefed her how micro and small industries are coming up and shaping the state’s rural economy. Kangana ji said she wanted to begin shooting for the scheme promotion as quickly as possible,” the minister said.Singh also made a presentation before the actor, who had recently met chief minister Yogi Adityanath, about the ODOP scheme at a five-star hotel. The minister said that ODOP scheme was unique as it sought to promote local products globally.“There are products in UP which one can’t usually find elsewhere, say ‘Kala Namak’ rice variety for example. UP is full of amazing things. Many of these products are now GI-tagged which means that they are certified as being specific to a given region in UP,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kangana-meets-up-minister-to-begin-promoting-odop-scheme-soon-101633628224765.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||UP BJP sends postcards to PM Modi on two decades of service||LUCKNOW: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cadre began writing letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who completed two decades as public servant on Thursday. The activity is part of the party’s plan ‘mere postcard PM ko’ (my postcard to the PM).’The UP BJP cadre, right from state level functionaries to booth-level, visited booths where they discussed the various bold initiatives undertaken by the PM. Top leaders launched the campaign with BJP’s national vice president and UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh visiting Kanhaiya Madhavpur booth in Lucknow (west) assembly segment and party chief Swatantra Dev visiting another booth in Lucknow (east) assembly segment to discuss various initiatives of PM Modi. “From scrapping Article 370 to introduction of CAA, surgical and air strikes to striking down the instant triple talaq divorce law, all has become possible due to PM Modi’s indomitable will and his desire to help the poorest of the poor,” the UP BJP leaders said during their interactions with the cadre at the booth level. UP BJP general secretary JPS Rathore said on the occasion party leaders and cadre across the state wrote postcards for the PM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-bjp-sends-postcards-to-pm-modi-on-two-decades-of-service-101633627924049.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt allows use of loudspeakers for Ramlila, Dussehra till midnight||The organisers of Durga Puja, Dussehra, Ramlila and other religious functions will be allowed to use loudspeakers till 12 midnight, the Delhi government said on Thursday. The department of environment said in an order that the timing for the use of loudspeakers has been extended up to October 16 in “public interest.”"Lt Governor of Delhi has considered the request in public interest and has accorded permission to use loudspeakers and public address systems between 10 pm and 12 midnight with immediate effect up to October 16," an order read.The organisers will, however, still require separate permission from the Delhi Police to use loudspeakers.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has already relaxed some of the restrictions on gatherings and large congregations, which were imposed in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, for the festive season till November 15.In its latest guidelines, the DDMA has prohibited fairs and food stalls during festivals and people will be allowed to sit only on chairs by following proper social distancing. The DDMA has also banned Chhath celebrations in public places and river banks in the city, triggering a backlash from Manoj Tiwari, a member of Parliament from Delhi. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader will take out a ‘Rath Yatra’ from Saturday to interact with people of Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh settled in Delhi and gather their opinion on holding Chhat puja at public places, reported PTI.“There is no chance of Covid spread when people celebrate Chhat in public places because devotees get into only knee-deep water while offering prayers,” he said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-allows-use-of-loudspeakers-for-ramlila-dussehra-till-midnight-101633625271793.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Aksa beach in Mumbai to get an anti-erosion wall; environmentalists remain vigilant||A year after it was deferred by the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) last year, a proposal by the Maharashtra Maritime Board (MMB) for “sea front development and beatification at Aksa beach” was given limited nod in June, with permissions granted only for construction of an anti-sea erosion wall and parks and recreational grounds, as per the provisions of Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ), 2011. The minutes of MCZMA’s last meeting, held on June 10 and 11, were accessed by HT only this week, as the authority’s website remained inaccessible owing to a technical error between June and early October.While according permission for the works in its 155th meeting earlier this year, MCZMA had clearly stated that other activities proposed by MMB, including parking spaces, gyms, volleyball courts and a food plaza, were prohibited in view of CRZ regulations. MCZMA also instructed MMB to ensure that no construction takes place on the beach itself.Since MCMZA’s approval, however, similar seafront developments (by public works department) at Versova Beach and Girgaum Chowpatty (by the municipal corporation) have been found to be in violation of CRZ regulations, with large portions of the sandy beaches being reclaimed or used as dumping grounds. Environmentalists have raised the issue at multiple levels, including with local legislators and parliamentarians. “A trend seems to be emerging wherein authorities apply for CRZ clearance to carry out some permissible activities, and then during the execution, they end up violating the protected area. Take Versova, for example, where pretty much half of the sandy beach has been completely reclaimed under the guise of building an anti-sea erosion wall, and a promenade-like space has come up within the protected area. Similarly, at Girgaum Chowpatty, too, reclamation work is happening in the CRZ-1 area. Aksa Beach has also been on the radar for development, and it is important for citizens to remain vigilant so that we do not lose another sandy beach in Mumbai,” said environmentalist Zoru Bhatena, who has mounted official responses to happenings at both Girgaum and Versova.However, he also commended MCZMA for deferring permissions to MMB for the construction of non-permissible utilities at Aksa. MMB’s proposal is currently awaiting a nod from the Maharashtra State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA). “The permissions to go ahead with anti-erosion wall were given as part of CRZ clearance already granted for essential maintenance work in March 2019. The proponent later sought amendment in CRZ clearance, which has been granted with strict limitations. MMB has not been allowed to carry out any work on the beach itself,” said an environment department official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aksa-beach-in-mumbai-to-get-an-anti-erosion-wall-environmentalists-remain-vigilant-101633627625228.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Temperatures rise for fifth straight day in Mumbai||The mercury in Mumbai went up to 35.8 degrees Celsius on Thursday, after rising and remaining consistently above normal for five straight days. On Wednesday, the temperature had soared to 35.1 degrees Celsius, from 34.5 degrees Celsius recorded on Monday and Tuesday. Rising temperatures are typical in the city in October, which marks a period of transition between the monsoon and the winter seasons.“As the monsoon prepares for withdrawal, the cloud cover becomes thinner and there is more penetration of sunlight, leading to high temperature. This is why Mumbai skies had a yellowish colour on Thursday,” said a meteorologist with the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.As per IMD’s forecast, the daytime maximum temperature will remain between 35 and 36 degrees Celsius for at least the next week. “There may be some respite if there are thundershowers during the day, but there will be a steeper rise in temperature after October 15/16, when monsoon is expected to withdraw from the city,” the official said.Last October, the city had recorded a maximum temperature of 35 degrees Celsius on the 10th, 28th and 29th of the month. The highest October temperature ever recorded was 38.6 degrees Celsius in 2015. The phenomenon of October heat is typically exacerbated by a slowing down of onshore winds after the monsoon and a reduction in relative humidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/temperatures-rise-for-fifth-straight-day-in-mumbai-101633627504203.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Fire engulfs shop in Market Yard, one rescued||Fire engulfed a shop in a commercial complex at the Market Yard area of Pune in the early hours of Thursday.One person was rescued from the shop located near gate number 4 by the fire brigade officials. Two core tenders and officials worked for around an hour before the fire was brought under control.Murlidhar Mohol, mayor of Pune city, took to social media to appreciate the efforts of the fire brigade officials.The source of the fire could not be ascertained immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-engulfs-shop-in-market-yard-one-rescued-101633627264076.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Jewar airport project: Farmers ask Noida authority to compensate for acquired land||Farmers, who have given their land for the Noida airport project, demanded on Thursday that their issues related to plots and compensation should be addressed on a priority basis.Nearly 300 farmers raised the demands during a meeting organised by Gautam Budh Nagar administration, Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), and Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh at the Jewar tehsil compound on Thursday.“Many farmers are yet to get plots and compensation against their land acquired for the airport project. We have submitted our complaint before the administration, and hope that our issues will be attended to and resolved without delay,” said Arif Khan, a farmer from Nagla Shareef village.The displaced farmers said they have been facing issues in getting the electricity connection and other basic services at the Airport township developed at the Jewar Bangar village.“The township needs to have separate cremation grounds for members of the Hindu and Muslim communities. The administration is yet to make sure that we get electricity connection without trouble. We had a power connection at our village house, and we were promised that the connection would be shifted to our new place in the township easily. But now, we are facing issues in getting a new electricity connection,” said Ramesh Kumar, a farmer from Rohi.The district magistrate, Suhas LY, assured farmers that the officials will look into this matter at the earliest. “We have provided plots and other benefits to farmers whose lands were acquired for the airport project. But if they face problems, we will look into each of their problems on a case-to-case basis and resolve those. Some farmers who left the village long ago may have some issues with their plots. The additional district magistrate, XXX, will look into the cases and take appropriate action.”According to the Yeida, more than 90% of the families affected by the airport project have started constructing houses in the rehabilitation township. “Out of the 3,003 plots that have been allocated in Jewar Bangar, construction work of nearly 2,730 plots has started. Many families have started living in their new houses,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of Yeida.Also, according to MLA Singh, “We had organised this meeting to solve the issues of the farmers, if any. Such meetings will also take place in future, so that these farmers do not face any difficulty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jewar-airport-project-farmers-ask-noida-authority-to-compensate-for-acquired-land-101633627204217.html
07-10-2021||Noida||G Noida: Three years on, damage to govt hospital’s basement goes unrepaired||The basement of Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida has been facing infrastructure issues since 2019, said authorities on Thursday. GIMS, one of the biggest medical institutes in western Uttar Pradesh, is spread over 15 acres in Kasna region. The hospital building’s basement is waterlogged and has been developing cracks since 2019. As a result, a major portion of the basement remains unused.Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS, said that the infrastructural flaws in the basement pose a huge risk to the five-storey building of the hospital where thousands of patients come everyday for treatment. He said he has been speaking to the authorities regarding the issue for the past few years and, last week, wrote to the Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate, requesting him to expedite a solution. “Groundwater keeps flowing into the second level of the basement and the whole area becomes waterlogged. During monsoon, the situation worsens as humidity increases. This has led to seepage in the walls of the building. Some areas of the basement have also developed cracks,” said Dr Gupta. He added that in his letter to the DM, he has explained that experts have termed the building unsafe. In 2019, a team from IIT Roorkee inspected the building and in 2020, it submitted its report to Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) and GIMS officials. “The report said that the building is unsafe and suggested repair work worth ₹23 crore to fix the issues. The Public Works Department has been selected by the Directorate of Medical Education and Training in 2020 to ensure the repairs. In my letter to the DM, I requested him to write to the higher authorities to release funds so that the repair work can be initiated,” said Dr Gupta. When chief secretary of UP Rajendra Kumar Tewari visited GIMS recently on September 3, the status was that GNIDA will provide the funds for repairs, said Dr Gupta. “At the time we had discussed the matter with Mr Tewari and the GNIDA was ready to provide the funds. However, at GNIDA’s recent board meeting, the fund disbursal was not approved and it was decided that the directorate will provide them,” he said. According to the GNIDA CEO, the funds are to be released by the Directorate of Medical Education and Training, Uttar Pradesh. “We had taken up the issue at the GNIDA board meeting, but it was found that since the institute is a state-level medical facility and not a city-level one, the directorate will have to release funds for its repairs,” said Narendra Bhooshan, GNIDA CEO. Officials of the directorate could not be reached for comment.Bhooshan added that the designer who was given the contract for designing GIMS building by the GNIDA was suspended and his payment forfeited after designing flaws were found in the building in 2019. However, according to the consultant who designed the building, the designs were proof-checked by IIT Delhi’s team as well as GNIDA authority officials. “After approval of the building design, GNIDA engineers supervised and executed the construction of the building via third-party contractors. Still, the designing consultant is being punished for the building flaws which is unfair,” said the consultant, who requested to remain anonymous.Meanwhile, Suhas LY, DM, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that he had written to the principal secretary of medical education regarding the matter earlier this year. “This is a long-standing matter which has often been taken up with the medical education department of Uttar Pradesh government. Since a complete overhaul is required--which demands huge expenditure--the government needs to look into it. I have already written to the principal secretary of medical education regarding the issue earlier this year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/g-noida-three-years-on-damage-to-govt-hospital-s-basement-goes-unrepaired-101633627144390.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to launch week-long special Covid-19 vaccination drive from October 8||The Maharashtra government has declared to launch “Mission Kavach Kundal”, a seven-day special campaign to boost its Covid-19 vaccination drive, starting from October 8. It has set a target of vaccinating minimum 1.5 million people a day. It is also looking to prioritise covering the first doses of all citizens at the earliest. This will help in reducing the severity of the Covid-19 infections even if the potential third wave hits the state, said state health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday.He also declared to provide monetary assistance of ₹50,000 each to the kin of those who died due to Covid-19 infection during the pandemic. The state government has made a provision of ₹700 crore for the same. The decision was taken, following the directives of the central government.“The state government has decided to undertake a special drive to boost vaccination in Maharashtra. Between October 8 [Friday] and October 14, we will be holding ‘Mission Kavach Kundal’ under which the state has set a target of administering 1.5 million doses a day at least. The drive will help us cover the citizens to get vaccinated in less time,” Tope told reporters on Thursday.The most beneficiaries covered in a day in the state is 1.4 million. As many as 1,439,809 doses were vaccinated on September 8.According to the statistics provided by the state health department, the targeted population for vaccination in Maharashtra is 91.5 million. Of them, 60 million have been covered with first dose and 31.5 million is yet to be vaccinated, while those fully vaccinated are 25 million.“If we could give priority for first doses and cover the remaining 31.5 million than the entire population will covered with first dose and the threat of severity after infecting with the virus will be reduced… I have directed the officials to work on mission mode and cover 2 million to 2.5 million in a day in the coming days,” he said.He informed that they have enough stock of doses at present and expecting more as union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya has promised him there won’t be any shortage in supply. “We have 7.5 million doses, as of now, and another stock of 2.5 million doses is expected to reach. The union health minister in a telephonic conversation has promised to provide enough stock as the Centre has also set a target to cover 10 million doses by October 15,” health minister said.The state has planned to mobilise people by taking staff from departments such as women and child development, school education, rural development and revenue to boost the drive, he said, adding, they will also rope in NGOs such as Rotary Club and Lions Club to create awareness.“The state government has also decided to provide financial assistance of ₹50,000 each to the next of kin of those who could not survive after infecting with Covid-19. Anyone having death certificate with mention of Covid-19 infection after RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) test will be held eligible for the monetary help. The amount will be granted from State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF) as directed by the central government. A provision of ₹700 crore has also been made,” Tope said.Total number of Covid-19 deaths in the state is 0.14 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-launch-week-long-special-covid-19-vaccination-drive-from-october-8-101633627028619.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad civic body set to geo-tag all its properties to prevent encroachment||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC) has decided to geo-tag all its properties to prevent encroachments, officials said on Thursday.The development comes after a committee of officials identified nine persons, who allegedly encroached and sold land meant for the first political training institute in Uttar Pradesh to the poor people. The institute was proposed to come up over a corporation land -- over an area of nearly 3.03 hectares -- adjacent to the Raj Nagar Extension road. Out of the total 3.03 hectares, 1.37 hectares was encroached and houses were constructed there.A proposal for the institute, with an estimated cost of ₹168 crore, was cleared by the Uttar Pradesh state cabinet in October 2018.In October 2020, the GMC got the encroachment removed, with nearly 14 houses constructed on the land meant for the proposed institute. Overall, the GMC officials said, 101 people constructed houses in a locality -- Shanti Nagar -- over the government land.Later, a committee was constituted and it was found that some nine persons had grabbed the government land worth ₹3.51 crore and later sold it to some poor people. The inquiry committee also got access to sale deeds and other documents which were provided to them by the occupants of the houses.“We have initiated proceedings to debar the illegal occupants from the government land. The cost of the land will be recovered from the properties of identified people who sold the government land. We have initiated proceedings to lodge an FIR, and will also be recommended for action under the Gangster Act,” said MS Tanwar, commissioner of GMC.The suspects have been identified as Om Tyagi, Indu Tyagi, Suraj Paswan, Rajnish Chaudhary, Brijesh Tyagi, Babita Tyagi, Mahesh Sharma, Ajit Singh and late Inder Pal.The GMC officials, meanwhile, said that they are developing a system to geo-tag lands to identify those easily. “With geo-tagging, we will get information about encroachment of our land. We will introduce this system soon to protect government lands from encroachments. In the past one year, we have freed nearly 57 hectares of government land at different locations in Raj Nagar Extension, Crossings Republik, and Vijay Nagar, valued around ₹1,700 crore,” Tanwar added.The political training institute is proposed to be constructed by the Construction & Design Services, a unit of the Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam, and part of the project was approved by the Uttar Pradesh housing department. The facility will train and impart education to politicians and activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-civic-body-set-to-geo-tag-all-its-properties-to-prevent-encroachment-101633626544203.html
07-10-2021||Gurugram||Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, elevated road expected to turn Sohna into next major realty hub||Completion of major road infrastructure projects is set to turn Sohna into the next big real estate hub of the National Capital Region (NCR), as evidenced by takers for the micro market despite an overall slowdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to experts and realtors.With the Haryana portion of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway and the Sohna elevated road likely to be finished by next year, experts believe that the real estate sector will get a major boost as these infrastructure will improve accessibility, create jobs and allow people to move about with ease.Developers who had invested in Sohna around five to six years ago said these two road projects will boost housing demand as it would take residents only 15 minutes to reach Rajiv Chowk in Gurugram.Vinod Behl, a real estate expert, said Sohna is centrally located in the NCR, and the growth of any real estate destination largely depends on that area’s connectivity, physical and social infrastructure, established residential and commercial developments in the neighbourhood and its proximity to corporate and industrial hubs, the major centres of employment. These key drivers significantly influence the price of a property and its future appreciation. In that respect, Sohna scores quite high as a micro market of Gurugram, he said. “The area is contiguous to south Delhi and Gurugram, besides providing access to Palwal, Faridabad and Alwar. He said connectivity to the Jewar airport in Uttar Pradesh, when it becomes operational, will enhance the area’s potential as a realty hub,” said Behl.As per the details shared by the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP), there are 10 affordable group housing projects, 15 projects under the Deen Dayal Awas Yojana, three commercial projects, and 19 group-housing projects in Sohna, besides six to seven commercial projects.Around 800 acres have been licensed in Sohna since 2012, with maximum licences issued in 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2019.Sohna is spread across an area of 27 square kilometres and is divided into 38 sectors for urban development by the government of Haryana. Lower plot costs, in comparison to Gurugram, is one of the reasons for developers taking up projects there over the past seven years.According to Santosh Kumar, vice-chairman of Anarock, a real estate consultancy, Sohna has witnessed significant real estate activity since 2013 and supplied around 30,000 housing units till the third quarter of 2021. “Popularly known as south Gurugram, Sohna emerged as a favourable affordable destination owing to its proximity to various business centres and industrial clusters,” he said.Data made available by Anarock reveals that the maximum real estate activities in Sohna took place in 2014, 2015 and 2017, when 12,000, 6,000 and 4,000 housing units were launched, respectively. The launch of new projects has been muted over the past four years, largely due to unfavourable market conditions.As far budget segmentation is concerned, Kumar said that 55% of the projects are in the mid-segment ( ₹40 lakh to ₹80 lakh), 26% are in the affordable segment (below ₹40 lakh) and 16% in the premium segment ( ₹80 lakh to ₹1.5 crore).The numbers also suggest that of the 29,270 units launched, 30% have been completed while 46% will be ready by the end of next year. The average property price in Sohna is around ₹4,100 per square feet (sqft), a slight increase from ₹3,798 per sqft in 2015.Mubeen Khan, a city-based real estate consultant, said that while properties in Sohna were available for ₹3,500-5,000 per sqft, the area was more focussed mid-segment housing. “In comparison, Gurugram is more about premium housing, with average price of a flat being more than ₹75 lakh,” Khan said.The developers say better connectivity with Gurugram, Delhi and other parts of the country will help this micro-market grow faster. “By 2031, around 640,000 people are going to reside in south Gurugram. With the increase in population and led by multiple government initiatives, Sohna is expected to witness heightened demand for residential spaces in the time to come. Sohna is aligned with the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, Palwal-Sonipat Orbital Rail Corridor, linked to KMP [Kundli-Manesar-Palwal] and new elevated road to Gurugram will boost housing in the city,” Pradeep Agarwal, managing director of Signature Developers, which has a major presence in the town, said.According to Behl, what makes Sohna attractive for both end-users and investors is the lower entry point, with good scope for price appreciation that has seen risen significantly over the past seven years.Improved connectivityDevelopers and experts were particularly enthused after Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari visited Sohna on September 5 and announced that work on the Haryana portion of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway and Sohna elevated road will be completed by mid-2022, even as officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) clarified that the Sohna elevated road would be completed by June 2022.The stakeholders admitted that while the past three to four years witnessed a slowdown across the country, the Sohna micro market and projects on Sohna Road remained attractive due to affordability and good prospects. “Last year, it was Sohna and New Gurugram micro markets which had emerged on the top as far as supply and price of properties is concerned. Once the elevated road is completed, home buyers in Gurugram will have great options to buy affordable houses, plots and also premium housing in this area,” Sanjiv Thakur, a real estate consultant, said.Although developers admitted that the launch of new projects has been slow over the past two years due to a weak market caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdowns, they are optimistic that the two new road projects will lead to a turnaround and greatly contribute to Sohna’s growth.“Owing to its proximity to different business centres and industrial clusters, it promises good connectivity and planned infrastructure upgrades. The proposed link between the new Jewar airport and the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is the newest and most crucial connectivity factor, boosting real estate on Sohna Road,” Amarjit Bakshi, the chairman and managing director (CMD) of Central Park, said.Market trendAccording to studies by real estate consultancies, homebuyers’ preferences are changing, as many as preferring to reside in gated communities on the outskirts of the cities. A report released by Anarock last year stated that almost 57% of home launches in NCR in 2020 took place in areas on the outskirts of Gurugram, such as Sohna and Sohna Road, besides areas under the Yamuna Expressway in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Budh Nagar.“Sohna, Sohna Road and Dwarka Expressway are some of the most preferred areas among the buyers. Previously, most of the sales in the periphery were made by investors or buyers planning to relocate in future. However, they are now willing to accept the distance between their homes and their workplaces due to boost in infrastructure and connectivity,” an excerpt from Anarock’s report stated.Echoing this viewpoint, Ashish Tandon, president, sales and marketing, SS Group, said that these two expressways will enhance connectivity and boost demand for real estate. “The improved connectivity and decongestion will push up the prices of residential properties, generate employment opportunities and usher in a socio-economic transformation of the region,” he said.Basic infrastructureWhile most of the stakeholders are bullish about Sohna’s emergence as a housing hub, there are others also who suggest caution as the area is still lacking in physical, social and recreational infrastructure.“Roads are good but we need much more to survive and thrive in a city. There is need for schools, colleges, malls, hospitals, and similar recreational spaces. It will take a long time for this area to emerge as a subcity of Gurugram,” Ramesh Menon, the chief executive officer of Certes Realty, said.He said that the supply of housing in Delhi is likely to increase by next year, and this will also impact the growth of peripheral areas. “The private players and Haryana government will have to do lot of work to boost infra in Sohna to ensure its transformation into a city,” Menon said.Officials of DTCP, however, said that work on setting up the infrastructure is being taken up on priority. “The focus is to build required infrastructure in proportion to population growth. We had envisaged that Sohna will develop as a key micro market and this is happening. We will work with all stakeholders to ensure that this town grows into a city,” RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), said.Bhath said that large-scale exercises are also being taken to prevent the illegal development of colonies and farmhouses in and around Sohna. “We are going to ensure that sanctity of Sohna master plan is maintained,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/delhimumbai-expressway-elevated-road-expected-to-turn-sohna-into-next-major-realty-hub-101633626244219.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Rise in narcotics activities: Each Maharashtra district to have anti-narcotics cell||Against the backdrop of the recent seizures of the drug haul in Gujarat and raids on a cruise rave party in Mumbai, state home minister Dilip Walse Patil held a review meeting and directed to constitute anti-narcotics cell in each of the districts.The high-ranking officials from Mumbai and Maharashtra Police forces apprised the home minister about the rise in the cases related to consumption and peddling of drugs. The officials also expressed concerns over the spurt in the criminal cases committed under the influence of the drugs. The home minister has asked the police force to chalk out a programme to curb the activities. He also directed police to set up anti-narcotics cell in each district.“Police need to thoroughly investigate the narcotics cases and take strict action against the people involved in them. They should be more vigilant to bring narcotics activities under control. The peddling of drugs has reached villages. The consumption of drugs among school and college-going youth is on the rise. Some medicines are being used as drugs. There are complaints of online marketing of such medicines. The defunct industrial units are used for narcotics-related activities. To curb such activities, the police should implement joint drive with the help of food and drug administration and industrial departments,” Walse Patil said.Director general of police Sanjay Pandey said that a joint meeting of the heads of all departments of the police force will soon be convened to discuss the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rise-in-narcotics-activities-each-maharashtra-district-to-have-anti-narcotics-cell-101633626067535.html
07-10-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Oxygen plants opened, production capacity at 6,000 LPM||Two oxygen plants, set up to provide adequate medical oxygen to combat the next wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, at Civil Hospital in Sector 10 and Tau Devi Lal Stadium were inaugurated on Thursday.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said that the district can now produce 6,000 litres per minute (LPM) of medical oxygen, as 12 plants at government facilities and 11 in private hospitals, all having 100-500 LPM capacity, have been set up. Work on seven more plants at private hospitals is currently underway.“With the start of these two new plants, the city now has the capacity of producing 6,000 LPM of oxygen. We have directed private hospitals with more than 50 beds to set up plants by the end of December,” Yadav said. Officials said that the plant at Civil Hospital, which has a capacity of 1,000 LPM, was among 35 such plants in the country inaugurated virtually by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday. According to the state government, 39 plants have now been set up with the PM Cares Fund. The plant at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium, which has a capacity of 1,650 LPM, was inaugurated by mayor Madhu Azad. It has been set up under a corporate social responsibility initiative by Power Grid Corporation of India Ltd, a spokesperson for the district administration said. Dr Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said that with the opening of these plants, the city is becoming self-reliant in oxygen production and would be able to meet any eventual requirement in case of Covid-19 spread in the future. “The plant in Civil Hospital will ensure that oxygen can be supplied to 100 beds continuously. The plant at Tau Devi Lal Stadium is equipped to fill oxygen cylinders and it will also ensure adequate supply of gas to the temporary hospital at the stadium,” he said. A shortfall in medical oxygen was a major issue faced by the district, besides several locations in the country, during the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak earlier this year. Many deaths were also attributed to the shortage, following which the Haryana government and district administration made it mandatory for hospitals with more than 50 beds to set up oxygen plants. According to the data shared by the Haryana government last month, 39 pressure-swing absorption (PSA) plants had been commissioned in the state and it had achieved 98% of the target, of 40 plants, under the PM Cares Fund. On September 29, health minister Anil Vij said that of the 40 PSA plants, 39 plants have been made functional. Besides this, the Centre has offered to fund 22 additional oxygen plants for Haryana. On Thursday, Yadav said that all 40 plants have been made functional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-oxygen-plants-opened-production-capacity-at-6-000-lpm-101633626065847.html
07-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG to start round-the-clock vigil of illegal waste dumping points||Officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Thursday said that round-the-clock surveillance to check unauthorised dumping of waste and keep tabs on secondary waste collections points is likely to start by the month-end. The move will coincide with the implementation of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) and help prevent dumping of construction and demolition waste, officials said, after a meeting was held on Thursday to discuss sanitation issues. “Officials of Ecogreen (the MCG’s concessionaire for waste management) apprised us that even at their own secondary waste collection points, violators are dumping waste illegally. MCG officials also said that at least 20 points have been identified where dumping of waste is being carried out at vacant plots on a large scale,” a senior MCG official, who attended the meeting, said. MCG officials said that issues pertaining to the Bandhwari plant, Grap measures, as well as Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) targets, which were originally listed for discussion during Thursday’s meeting, will be discussed next week.The official cited above said that MCG officials were directed to first compile a list of all illegal dumping points and subsequently, constitute teams for surprise inspections to initiate legal action against violators.“Besides these tasks, the teams will also set up CCTV cameras at each of the identified unauthorised dumping points as well as secondary waste collection points, each of which will be monitored by MCG officials,” the official said, wishing not to be named.After Ecogreen officials carry out the door-to-door collection of waste from households, they dump all the waste at a garbage centre located within a sector or a large residential area. Such garbage centres are known as secondary waste collection points.In July, Ecogreen and MCG had identified at least 19 unauthorised dumping points across the city, at Umang Bharadwaj Chowk, a plot opposite Pataudi Road police station, a plot near Kapashera border, below Daulatabad flyover, a plot near Sheetla Mata Mandir, and near Sector 9 Huda market, among others.Unauthorised dumping of waste, including illegal dumping of construction and demolition (C&D) waste, is one of the major factors contributing to air pollution. With the MCG set to implement Grap measures from October 14, officials were directed to set up CCTV cameras at each authorised point by the end of this month and to also identify more such sites in the city where surveillance can be initiated. Among other key decisions taken during the meeting was a direction issued to Ecogreen for maintaining a fleet of backup vehicles for door-to-door waste collection so that the service is not affected. The MCG also decided to set a 150-tonne waste material recovery facility (MRF) at Badshahpur within two months. “In a nutshell, recycled waste is segregated from household garbage at an MRF. We have already constructed the first such facility at Rajiv Chowk, and are aiming to set up one in all 35 wards of the MCG by early 2021,” an official of the MCG’s sanitation wing, who attended the meeting, said.The MCG also decided to construct four composting plants, specifically for converting horticulture waste into compost, in each of its four zones. Officials also decided to start a drive from next week to check use of single-use plastic and polythene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-start-round-the-clock-vigil-of-illegal-waste-dumping-points-101633626064099.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Devotees throng religious places in Mumbai; experts suggest caution||Six months after places of worship were closed down on account of the rising number of Covid cases in the second wave of the pandemic, devotees across religions were able to offer their prayers as part of a larger community on Thursday.Prominent places of worship like Mumbadevi Mandir, Siddhivinayak temple, Mahim Church as well as both the Mahim and Haji Ali dargahs saw huge crowds of devotees – including politicians – throng these places, even as the institutions adopted strict Covid-19 guidelines to prevent crowding and maintain physical distancing. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued orders on October 1 which reinforced the restrictions put in place by the state: no religious place was allowed to offer “prasad” or sprinkle holy water; devotees were to be allowed only in specific time slots; and all sites could be full up to only 50% capacity. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray accompanied by his family members visited the Mumbadevi temple in South Mumbai on Thursday morning. He was followed by Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and Water Resources minister Jayant Patil visited Siddhivinayak temple. Minority development minister Nawab Malik and port Development minister Aslam Shaikh went to Mahim and Haji Ali dargahs respectively.Raj Chakravarty, a designer based in Andheri visited the Mata Rani temple in Andheri on the first day of the Navratri festival. “We were asked to wear the mask at all times and we were sprayed with sanitiser. It is good that the temple authorities are taking due precautions,” he said.“We are allowing only 250 people per hour and only through online booking. Citizens are following the rules and there is no chaos,” Adesh Bandekar, chairman of the Siddhivinayak Temple Trust said. The temple, which is open from 7am to 7pm every day will allow 2500 devotees daily, Bandekar said.Suhail Khandwani, Managing Trustee, Mahim and Haji Ali Dargah said that restrictions imposed are working very well. “We are allowing only 25 people inside the dargah at a time.” Both places are open from 6am to 10pm every day, and is being sanitized every four hours.Bishop John Rodrigues, rector, Mount Mary Church at Bandra said all precautions were taken on Thursday. “We took people in batches of eight for veneration of Mother Mary. During our two prayer services, we took just 60 people in the church though our capacity exceeds 180 people. In addition, our volunteers took all caution to ensure that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour was observed.” With schools reopening and now places of worship too, medical experts have asked people to remain extra vigilant to prevent the spike in Covid-19 cases.Dr Rahul Pandit of Fortis Hospital, Mulund, who is also a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force said in view of the easing of restrictions, there was an urgent need for stringent observation of Covid appropriate behaviour. “The authorities need to keep watching for any surge in cases and act accordingly. They need to take localised timely actions to contain the spread of the Covid-19 virus,” said Dr Pandit. “Since there is more movement, citizens should adopt Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and even the authorities need to enforce it strictly,” he added.In September, the government had allowed the reopening of religious places with strict safety protocols in place. Late in the month it announced that all places of worship would reopen on October 7, the first day of the Navratri festival, an auspicious nine-day festival among Hindus. Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 2681 Covid-19 new cases with 49 deaths. Mumbai’s tally of new cases was 453 with five deaths thus bringing its total death toll to 16,141. The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,570,472.There were 147,320 tests done on Thursday while the number of recoveries clocked at 2,413. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 33,397 while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 139,411.There are currently 33,397 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 8818 patients followed by Mumbai with 5711 active patients and Thane with 4156. The death toll has now reached 139,411 with Pune leading with 19,496 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16.141 and Thane with 11,383.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/devotees-throng-religious-places-in-mumbai-experts-suggest-caution-101633625943974.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Social impact survey for second stage of Jewar airport completed||A team from the Gautam Buddha University has finished studying the social impact assessment on farmers’ families whose land is to be acquired for phase 2 of the Jewar airport project, officials said.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration is working on expediting the process of land acquisition for phase 2. As part of phase 1, 1,334 hectares of land has been successfully handed over to concessionaire Zurich International AG.“We have completed almost all works related to land acquisition and handover under phase 1. Now we are expediting the process to acquire land for phase 2 of the project. We will issue public hearing schedules village-wise in the next two days. Once public hearings are completed, we will move on to the next stage of land acquisition,” said Balram Singh, additional district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.The Uttar Pradesh government is likely to appoint an official to supervise rehabilitation and resettlement works under phase 2 soon. After public hearings in villages, the administration will invite objections and seek consent of farmers.“Once we will have consent of at least 70% farmers, we will notify Section 11 before starting the acquisition according to procedure,” said Singh.The team from Gautam Buddha University found out that 3,800 families are likely to be displaced during phase 2.“The administration must make sure that farmers get their plots, funds and other benefits properly without delay,” said Sanjay Kumar, a farmer from Ranhera.A total of 1,363.45 hectare has to be handed over the to the subsidiary of the Zurich AG for the next stage of the project, of which 1,185.69 hectare is private land. The social impact assessment team had visited six villages under phase 2-- Karoli Bangar, Kureb, Mundhera, Birampur, Dayanatpur and Ranhera. The team completed its field visits by August 31 and started compiling its report thereafter. Nodal officer of the team and head of department of political science and international relations department at the university, Dr Vivek Kumar Mishra, said, “In our report submitted to the administration, we wrote that the farmers want to give their land for the airport as they feel it will provide them and their families better opportunities.”The motive of the study was to assess and detail the socio-economic profile of the villagers affected by the project and the impact on their livelihoods.The acquisition of private land in the six villages will require almost ₹2,891 crore. The administration has already received ₹1,084 crore from Uttar Pradesh government. The remaining amount has to be arranged by the Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/social-impact-survey-for-second-stage-of-jewar-airport-completed-101633625584097.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Two arrested for kidnap, rape of minor girl in Greater Noida||Two people were arrested on Thursday for allegedly kidnapping a 16-year-old girl and raping her in Greater Noida’s Kasna area on August 8 this year.  The suspects were identified as Bhupendra (25), and Bhagat alias Kallu (26), both residents of Kasna village. The girl’s father works at a brick kiln in Greater Noida. Sudhir Kumar, station house officer of Kasna police station, said on August 8, the two suspects kidnapped the girl and took her to an isolated place. “They offered her cold drinks laced with sedatives and raped her when she lost consciousness. They also recorded a video of the assault and threatened to make the video viral on social media platforms if she disclosed about the incident to her family or police,” said Kumar. Police said the girl was scared and did not reveal anything to her family members for a few days. “On September 28, the girl complained of pain in her abdomen. When her parents took her to a hospital, the doctors said she was pregnant. Following this, the girl narrated the incident to her family who then filed a case against the suspects. Police said the suspects were booked under Sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person) and 376 (rape) of the IPC and Sections 5 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. “The two suspects were on the run since the incident. On Thursday, they were arrested from near Sirsa roundabout. They were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-arrested-for-kidnap-rape-of-minor-girl-in-greater-noida-101633625404444.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Seven on way to Agra injured as car hits truck on Yamuna Expressway||Seven people were injured after the car they were travelling in collided with a truck on the Yamuna Expressway in Jewar on Thursday morning. The victims have been admitted to a private hospital in Jewar. Umesh Bahadur, station house officer (SHO) of Jewar police station, said the seven injured were going to Agra from Greater Noida’s Rabupara in a car. “There were six members of a family and a driver in the car. When they reached Dayanatpur village, the driver lost control of the vehicle. The car collided with a truck stationary truck and all the occupants were injured,” said Bahadur adding that the car was mangled in the accident. Some passerby informed police and a team reached the spot. The injured were identified as Sonia (33), her daughter Diya (11) and son Nikhil (10), a neighbour Preeti (30), and her son Prem (10), and daughter Saloni (11). The car driver was identified as Harvansh (27), a resident of Greater Noida.Police said that Sonia, Nikhil and Prem have received serious injuries in the accident while four others sustained minor abrasions. “The truck driver had parked the vehicle on the roadside as the vehicle had broken down. The car driver could not spot the truck and rammed his vehicle. We have seized the truck; the driver managed to escape,” said the SHO. Bahadur said police have not received any complaint in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/seven-on-way-to-agra-injured-as-car-hits-truck-on-yamuna-expressway-101633625344208.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Permission mandatory for political events, burning of effigies in Ghaziabad||A day after Ghaziabad district magistrate RK Singh extended prohibitory orders till November 30 in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, he issued an amended order on Wednesday (October 6) saying that “political processions or carrying and burning of effigies by any political party will not be allowed in the district without the administration’s permission”, officials said on Thursday.Members of political parties are also barred from holding assemblies or events, or carrying or burning effigies of members or leaders of opposite political parties without prior permission from the administration, they added.According to the latest prohibitory order, five or more persons will not be allowed to gather at a public place, and a person cannot give speeches -- verbal, written or through any public address system -- which may hurt sentiments of any group or caste.“The district magistrate has extended the prohibitory order, and according to the new order any event -- Ramlila, Durga Puja, protests, or public gatherings/events among others -- will not be allowed in the district without the permission of the district administration... The latest order will be applicable till November 30, 2021, and it has been issued to ensure that law and order is maintained,” said Vipin Kumar, additional district magistrate (city).According to the order, people are also barred from organising events at houses or public places without the administration’s permission. It has also directed the “admins of WhatsApp and other social media groups to ensure that nobody posts any unverified information in groups, and if they must inform the officials concerned in case of violations”. Political groups and people concerned are also barred from putting up banners, posters, etc., at electricity and telephone line poles.This order, with additional conditions, also came into effect as “there has been a major political backlash after eight persons, including four farmers, died during a violent protest in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 (on Sunday)”. Representatives of various political parties have been protesting against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh, and have been conducting various political events ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.In Ghaziabad, the farmers protesting against the three controversial farm laws at the UP-Gate were also angered by the developments in Lakhimpur Kheri, and their leaders have come to the district following the unfortunate incident. On October 4 (on Monday), farmers and supporters of opposition parties staged demonstrations at the district headquarters in Ghaziabad.The violence in Lakhimpur Kheri has opposition parties up in arms, and they have been attacking the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the state and at the Centre, demanding justice for the farmers who were killed during the Sunday violence.Farmers claim that a car from convoy belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish ran over protesters who were coming back after holding a demonstration against the Centre’s three farm laws, in Tikonia area on October 3. The minister has denied the allegations, and instead claimed that the protesters started pelting stones due to which the driver of the car lost balance and the incident took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/permission-mandatory-for-political-events-burning-of-effigies-in-ghaziabad-101633625284055.html
07-10-2021||Pune||FYJC admissions: 47,083 seats still vacant in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad||After the completion of three regular rounds, and one special round of admission to Class 11 (first year junior college - FYJC), the education department has now started its first-come first-Served (FCFS) rounds of admission. On October 8, a fifth round of FCFS admissions will begin. As of now, a total of 66,122 admissions have taken place and 47,083 seats are still vacant in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.In this fifth FCFS admission round, students averaging 50 per cent in their Class 10 marks are eligible for admission. The FCFS rounds will finish on October 14.There are seven categories in the FCFS process – from students with 90 per cent marks or more down to those with 35 per cent marks.“Students are not coming forward for admissions, hence a large number of vaccant seats,” said Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, Pune, who is in-charge of the admission process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fyjc-admissions-47-083-seats-still-vacant-in-pune-and-pimprichinchwad-101633625043862.html
07-10-2021||Patna||Girls from shelter homes in Bihar bag jobs with star hotels||Ten girls from shelter homes in Bihar, including four rescued from the infamous Muzaffarpur shelter home, have been selected to work with star category hotels and a hotel management institute in Bengaluru after the completion of their one-year diploma course in hotel management in December this year, a senior official of Bihar’s social welfare department said. In all, 14 girls selected from shelter homes in Bihar were sent to Eurindian Academy of Hotel Management in Bengaluru by the state government in December 2020. The social welfare department had initiated this step as a part of its aftercare programme meant for the girls at shelter homes and had signed an MoU with the Bengaluru-based ECHO Centre for Juvenile Justice under which the NGO had to make the girls complete their one-year diploma course in hotel management and ensure their placement in star category hotels.“While four of them have been selected by Radisson group of hotels, four others have been added in the team of professionals at Eurindian Academy and two others have also got placement in another good hotel,” said Rajkumar, director at Bihar’s social welfare department. “The rest four have to wait for another few months for placement since they are still minors,” he said. “They now have the option to either get back to Bihar and wait for the right time or join internship at any organisation in Bangalore,” he said. “The Bihar government spent around ₹14 lakh for the entire programme. The department also kept monitoring physical and mental health of the girls through online interactions,” Rajkumar said. The official said another batch of 30 shelter home inmates will be sent to the Eurindian Academy in December this year. “This time, there will also be five boys in the team. They have been selected for the training and course programme on the basis of their behaviour and inclination towards growth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/girls-from-shelter-homes-in-bihar-bag-jobs-with-star-hotels-101633624865079.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Noise pollution, PM10 levels much higher than average in Kaushambi township||The UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) conducted a five-day special pollution monitoring drive from September 17 to September 21 at three locations of Kaushambi and found high levels of noise pollution and also particulate matter 10 (PM10) in the township. The exercise was carried out at Kaushambi police post, near Meenakshi Hospital and Panchmani apartments on the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), where members of the Kaushambi Apartments Residents Welfare Association (Karwa) are contesting a petition with regard to the air and noise pollutions in the township. According to official figures, the five-day average PM10 levels were 119.688 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm), 145.364 mpcm and 80.004 mpcm at the three locations, respectively, and higher than the standard limit of 100mpcm of PM10. Officials said the results of the PM2.5 levels for all five days could not be obtained properly due to some technical issues. Data obtained by the pollution board showed that the average daytime noise levels were 71.96 decibels at Kaushambi police post (commercial zone), 70.87 decibels near Meenakshi hospital (silence zone) and 66.73 decibels at Panchmani apartments (residential), respectively. The daytime standard noise levels at commercial, silence and residential zones is 65 decibels, 50 decibels and 55 decibels, respectively. On the other hand, the night time noise pollution levels were also high with Kaushambi police post recording 68.07 decibels against the average of 55 decibels for a commercial zone, 61.94 decibels near Meenakshi hospital against the standard 40 decibels in silent zones and 56.40 decibels at Panchmani apartments, 11 decibels higher than 45 decibels that is the average for residential areas. “The PM2.5 levels could not be ascertained due to some technical issues. The hospital area also has residential and commercial establishments nearby. So, it can be considered a mixed zone. There was some rainfall on the days we were monitoring the air and noise pollution levels. The higher levels of PM10 could be the result of infrastructure works going on near Kaushmabi,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. “For other pollution related issues, different departments are taking up measures as directed under the environmental management plan for the township. Another round of special monitoring is underway this week. All the results will be compiled and submitted before the tribunal with reasons,” he added. The Kaushambi township comprises 22 high-rise residential towers and is adjacent to Delhi’s Anand Vihar border. It is just opposite to the inter-state bus terminus at Kaushambi and Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area. In its order on August 23, while hearing Karwa’s petition, the NGT directed the divisional commissioner (Meerut), the district magistrate of Ghaziabad, the SSP of Ghaziabad and the regional officer of UP pollution control board, to personally appear for the hearings. “We have been contesting petitions against the Ghaziabad agencies since 2015 and it is now that they have started implementing the directions. We will assess their works in the long term and apprise the court. Ghaziabad city is already high on pollution levels and ours is also a hotspot in terms of pollution. The PM10 and PM2.5 levels are already high here,” said V K Mittal, president of Karwa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noise-pollution-pm10-levels-much-higher-than-average-in-kaushambi-township-101633624863840.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Buzz about possible reshuffle in top UP bureaucracy as chief secretary empanelled for post at Centre||There is a buzz about a likely reshuffle at the top level of the UP bureaucracy following the empanelment of chief secretary RK Tiwari and two other IAS officers of the Uttar Pradesh cadre for holding secretary-level posts at the Centre.The names of Tiwari and other two officers Juthika Patankar and Manoj Kumar Singh figure on the list of 12 IAS officers that the appointments committee of the Union cabinet has approved for their empanelment for secretary level posts at the Centre vide an information note issued on October 6, 2021.A 1985-batch IAS officer, Tiwari leads chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s team in the state government’s fight against Covid-19. The empanelment list has led to the buzz about Tiwari’s likely appointment at the secretary level with the central government.Tiwari has a long tenure of service with him (till early 2023). A change on the top post, if any, may provide an opportunity for some officers of the 1986 and 1987 batches working in Uttar Pradesh.It remains to be seen whether Tiwari goes on deputation to the Centre and who will be the new chief secretary if he does so.“Empanelment is only eligibility for appointment at the Centre. Giving a posting is the prerogative of government,” said Tiwari.People aware of developments said much will depend on the Centre’s decision about the likely appointment of Tiwari in the coming weeks. It may take a few weeks to a few months as the empanelment of an officer for any post at the Centre is followed by the process of his/her consent being sent to the Centre before being given an appointment for posting there. The state government also takes a call about relieving the officers once they get a posting at the Centre.Juthika Patankar and Manoj Kumar Singh, who have also been empanelled for posting as secretary at the Centre, are IAS officers of the 1988-batch of the Uttar Pradesh cadre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/buzz-about-possible-reshuffle-in-top-up-bureaucracy-as-chief-secretary-empanelled-for-post-at-centre-101633624624710.html
07-10-2021||Pune||ICMR develops silicosis test kit for early detection||A silicosis screening test kit for early detection of the disease was jointly developed by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), National Institute for Occupational Health, Ahmedabad and ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune.Silicosis is a long-term lung disease caused by inhaling large amounts of crystalline silica dust, usually over many years. Silica is a substance naturally found in certain types of stone, rock, sand and clay. Working with these materials can create very fine dust that can be easily inhaled.As per ICMR Officials, India has a huge burden of silicosis among the unorganised workforce. And this kit will help in the early detection of Silicosis and silico-tuberculosis.“This kit is first of its kind in the Southeast Asia region which will be effectively detecting Silicosis and silico-tuberculosis,” said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/icmr-develops-silicosis-test-kit-for-early-detection-101633624504206.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Two men booked for assaulting PMPML bus driver in road rage incident||Two men, travelling in a car, intercepted a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus driver and abused and assaulted him, claiming that the bus rammed their car while moving to the right into a Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor on the Pune-Satara road.According to the Sahakarnagar police, Sudhir Kagade ( 37), the bus driver has lodged a complaint in this regard.Kagade said that he had stopped his bus on the BRT route at Ahilya Devi chowk when he was accosted by the accused. They reprimanded him for rash and negligent driving and abused him. Later they assaulted him with a sharp object and fled.Assistant police inspector Kiran Madane said that two accused had been booked in the case.The police have invoked Indian Penal Code (IPC) 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty as such public servant, or with intent to prevent or deter that person or any other public servant from discharging his duty as such public servant ), 504( intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace, or to commit any other offence) and 34 ( common intention).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-men-booked-for-assaulting-pmpml-bus-driver-in-road-rage-incident-101633621923657.html
07-10-2021||Ranchi||J’khand Cong contingent makes U-turn after being stopped at UP border||Workers and leaders of the Jharkhand Congress led by state unit chief Rajesh Thakur, who had left for violence-hit Lakhimpur-Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, were denied entry into the state, leading to a six-hour-long sit-in protest at Wyndhmganj-Garhwa border in the wee hours of Thursday. However, the UP administration did not budge and the Congress contingent, comprising ministers Banna Gupta and Badal Patralekh, returned to capital city Ranchi on Thursday morning.Atleast eight people were recently killed in Lakhimpur-Kheri allegedly after a car belonging to Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni mowed them down during a farmers’ protest.Attacking the UP government, that had barricades put up at the border it shares with Jharkhand, the state unit chief said they were stopped despite informing the UP government of its plans. “We were going to Lakhimpur-Kheri to support the farmers and strengthen the protest being led by our leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rahul Gandhi. The UP government did not allow us entry despite the fact that two state ministers were part of the contingent, and we had informed the state government on Wednesday itself of our plans. Besides, the policemen at the border had no clue as to what to do and why they were stopping us,” said Thakur. He attacked the UP government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath of “subverting democracy by force”. “The Yogi government and the BJP wants to subvert democracy by using brute force of police, but we will not budge. We will chalk out our plans again and reach Lucknow and Lakhimpur whenever required,” Thakur said. Reacting to the same, the BJP had on Wednesday described it as “political tourism” of the Congress ministers.“Agriculture minister Badal Patralekh is very concerned about farmers in UP, but he is least bothered about pending dues to farmers against paddy procurement and black marketing of fertilisers in the state ,” said Jharkhand BJP general secretary Aditya Sahu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-cong-contingent-makes-u-turn-after-being-stopped-at-up-border-101633621865247.html
07-10-2021||Patna||JAP-Cong alliance talks hit a hurdle||The talks of alliance/merger between former Madhepura MP Rajiv Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav‘s Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) and Congress seem to have hit a hurdle for now with JAP deciding to field candidate in Kusheshwarsthan assembly seat in Darbhanga district, which is set for bypoll along with Tarapur assembly seat in Munger district on October 30.Soon after his release from jail in a 32-year-old kidnapping case on Tuesday, Yadav had praised Congress. “In Bihar, we will support Congress in the assembly by-elections,” he had said.However, on Wednesday, his party announced the candidature of Yogi Choupal from Kusheshwarsthan. Sources in JAP said Congress had almost finalised the name of Pappu Yadav as the candidate from Tarapur but wanted his party to merge with Congress. “Yadav too was ready for it, but some Congress leaders blocked the move,” said a JAP leader, wishing not to be quoted. “A dejected Yadav left for Delhi and has deferred any further decision till his meeting with Congress leaders, including Rahul Gandhi,” the JAP leader said.However, before Yadav’s departure for Delhi, JAP state unit president Raghavendra Kushwaha announced the candidate for Kusheshwarsthan. Kushwaha said that decision to contest the bypoll was to maintain the party’s independent existence. “At the most, there will be an alliance with any party, but definitely no merger,” he said. Talking to HT, Yadav, however, blamed some state Congress leaders for stalling the move to give him the ticket from Tarapur. “Congress has suffered and reached in such a position because of these leaders who are working as B team of both BJP and the RJD,” alleged Yadav.“They have been feeding wrong information about me as they are afraid of being exposed once I join the party. It is the same group of Congress which worked against my wife and former MP Ranjita Ranjan during last Lok Sabha polls,” he said. Yadav, who is in Delhi, is likely to meet Rahul Gandhi and is hopeful of “positive outcome.” “I keep on interacting with Rahul Gandhi on and off. I have given up my demand for Tarapur seat,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/japcong-alliance-talks-hit-a-hurdle-101633621863951.html
07-10-2021||Patna||Four new sites in Bihar in protected monuments’ list||Four new sites in Bihar have been declared as state protected monuments and their development and upkeep will now been handled by the directorate of archaeology of the culture department, officials said. These include archaeological remains discovered on the banks of Chandan river in Amarpur block of Banka district, the huge mound discovered at Guwaridih-Bariarpur in Bhagalpur district, the ancient Lord Shiva temple at Dumaria village in Gopalganj district and mausoleum of Qamar Ali and Sultan Ali and Dulhin Mandir at Sherghati in Gaya.The mound at Guwaridih village in Bhagalpur district was brought to the notice of the government by some locals in November 2020. The remains of the ancient wall at Chandan river has been a chance finding. It was noticed during Chhath festival last year when some villagers were cleaning the banks. Both these places had drawn attention of chief minister Nitish Kumar, who had visited the sites of Guwaridih and Chandan river and asked officials to get the sites protected. The monuments at Sherghati, the tombs of Qmar Ali and Sultan Ali are said to be more than 400 years old. The two Alis were commanders of Mughal emperor Aurangzeb who came here as the army men but settled here. Another monument at Sherghati is Dulahin Mandir, which is more 150 years old temple and was built by Rani Ganesh Kunwar, the matriarch of a local landlord family in the 19th Century. “All these tombs, temples and mounds were declared state protected monuments last week. The directorate had decided to bring these monuments under the purview of the state archaeology and had issued notice two months ago, asking people to submit any claims they might have over the site. With the no such claims made by any one, these have officially been declared the state protected monuments,” said Deepak Anand, additional secretary of the culture department who is heading the state archaeology. The tombs and temples are in a bad shape and need redevelopment while the archaeological sites in Bhagalpur and Banka districts will mainly need conservation, he said. Official said that with these additions, Bihar now has 34 state protected monuments. “The state has been rich in archaeological sites, temples and tombs of great personalities. We try to preserve these to preserve our heritage and culture,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/four-new-sites-in-bihar-in-protected-monuments-list-101633621805590.html
07-10-2021||Patna||Wish to simplify working at govt offices, says BPSC topper Gourav Singh||After attempting twice to crack the exam and getting a satisfactory rank, the 65th Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) exam topper Gourav Singh secured the first rank in his third attempt with sheer grit, and now wishes to improve the working at government offices for convenience of people.A resident of Rohtas district, 28-year-old Singh has been selected for the Bihar Administrative Service.The BPSC topper said he had expected to qualify the exam, but never imagined that he would emerge as the topper. “This was my third attempt at the BPSC exam. My rank was not satisfactory in the second attempt, while I could not clear the preliminary exam in the first attempt. I was sure to crack the exam this time, but I never thought of securing the first rank,” said Singh, who was on cloud nine after the results were announced Thursday. He gives the credit of his success to his mother Shashi Singh, who, he said, stood strong by his side after the demise of his father Manoj Singh in 2001. Singh’s paternal house is in Uttar Pradesh, but he moved to his maternal house in Rohtas along with his mother, who is a government school teacher. Singh has pursued mechanical engineering from Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology. Talking about his study strategy, he said, “The syllabus for the civil services exam is known to us and study material is available in the form of books. We just need to organise and categorise them for effective learning and revision. I prepared for the exam through self-study, but took plenty of test series at my coaching centre for improving my knowledge and score.”He also thanked his friends and seniors for their support in his journey.As an administrative officer, Singh now aims to improve the condition of government offices.He said, “I am concerned about the condition of government offices. Majority of them lack basic amenities and common people have to make several visits there for work. I want to simplify and systematise the working at government offices for convenience of people.”Singh also aspires to crack the Union Public Service Commission exam in the coming future.“First, I wish to serve my state and contribute my services for its growth. If I get time for preparation after my duties, I will try to crack the UPSC exam in the future,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/wish-to-simplify-working-at-govt-offices-says-bpsc-topper-gourav-singh-101633621803832.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Youth in custody for impregnating girl on pretext of marriage||A court in Pimpri-Chinchwad remanded a man (20), to three days in police custody for allegedly eloping with and impregnating a girl belonging to the scheduled caste under the pretext of marrying her. Prerna Katte, assistant commissioner of police, Chakan division of Pimpri-Chinchwad police, said, “He knew already that she belonged to this caste. He eloped and later on refused to marry her. He is in three-day custody till October 8.”The series of events took place between June and October during which time, the girl got pregnant. She is 18 years and seven months old and has alleged that the accused cheated and raped her under the pretext of marriage.A case under sections 376(2)(n), 366, and 420 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with relevant sections of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 was registered at Dighi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/youth-in-custody-for-impregnating-girl-on-pretext-of-marriage-101633621626201.html
07-10-2021||Other||Brutalised body of minor girl found in Kaimur||Body of an 11-year-old girl, who had gone missing Wednesday evening, was recovered in a brutalised condition from a village school in Bihar’s Kaimur district on Thursday, the police said, adding the medical report was awaited to confirm if she was raped.Two persons were detained after the girl’s father, a tea shop owner, alleged that three natives of West Bengal working as labourers at a construction site had raped his daughter, police said.A police official said the body was found semi naked and it seemed the assailants had inserted hot iron rods in the mouth of the girl.Superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Kumar confirmed there were signs of brutality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/brutalised-body-of-minor-girl-found-in-kaimur-101633621624986.html
07-10-2021||Patna||Buying helmets with two-wheelers now mandatory: Bihar transport dept||To enhance the habit of wearing helmets among riders, the state transport department has mandated all automobile dealers to sell helmets along with two-wheelers.Transport minister Sheela Kumari held a meeting on Thursday with all district transport officers (DTOs) to strictly implement the sale of helmets with two-wheelers. She said the decision was taken to reduce injuries and fatalities during road accidents.Transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agrawal said, “All automobile dealers have to ensure the two-wheeler buyers purchase helmets certified by Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) along with the vehicle. All DTOs will constitute teams to carry out surprise inspections at automobile showrooms to ensure availability of certified helmets at their stores.”Riders are yet to develop the habit of wearing safety headgears while several of them wear poor quality helmets just to pass traffic checkpoints and skip from a penalty, he said adding that wearing a certified helmet is recommended for better protection.A senior transport official, said, “Customers will have to pay an extra amount for the helmet. Those who already own a helmet will have to submit their photograph wearing it to the dealer.”As per the department, at least 347 people died in 2020 and 525 in 2019 in road mishaps because of not wearing helmets.Agrawal has directed all DTOs to arrange awareness programmes on helmets and road safety at their respective districts. He said that the direction was issued in the light of provisions made in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, and Motor Vehicle Act,1988. As per Motor Vehicle Act, two-wheelers riders have to pay a fine of ₹1000 for not wearing a helmet while riding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/buying-helmets-with-two-wheelers-now-mandatory-bihar-transport-dept-101633621383791.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Physics, maths optional for engineering: No clarity over guidelines yet||Almost six months after the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) said that physics and mathematics in Class 12 are optional for those seeking admission to engineering courses, the Maharashtra Common Entrance Test (MH-CET) for admission to engineering courses in the state are being conducted only for those who have studied the subjects.With no clear guidelines from the regulator on how to conduct admissions to engineering courses for students, who haven’t studied physics and maths in Class 12, the CET cell has gone ahead with the entrance exam as usual. Exams were held between September 20 and October 1. “There has been no notification or guideline on whether and how to make any changes in the entrance exam process. So, for the admissions to the academic year 2021-22, maths and physics in Class 12 are mandatory for those taking the MH-CET. If we receive any guideline or notification from the state or the AICTE, we will modify the exam,” said CD Joshi, commissioner, CET cell. Until last year, admissions to engineering courses were done for students who studied maths and physics, apart from one of chemistry, biotechnology, biology and/ or technical vocational subject. However, in April, AICTE released its approval process handbook 2021-22— a legal document as per the All India Council for Technical Education Act, 1987. In it, the apex body regulating all technical courses and institutions made maths and physics in Class 12 optional for those seeking admissions to engineering courses. It said this was to bring in diversity in engineering courses. The regulator said that institutions should conduct ‘bridge’ courses to induct students, who did not study maths and physics in Class 12. “After the handbook was released, there have been no guidelines from the state government or AICTE on what kind of bridge courses institutions have to come up with. Neither has there been any guideline on how to conduct entrance exams for such students,” said an official from a premier engineering institute in the city. Anil Sahasrabudhe, chairperson, AICTE, said, “As of now, there’s no mandate that all institutes must admit students. In the handbook, we have opened the doors for students who may not have studied maths and physics. So, if any university or institute wants to do it they can. At the moment all engineering admissions are done based on state and central level entrance exams designed for physics, chemistry and maths students. What institutes can do this year, it to allow students without physics and maths to take the same entrance exams. If they clear the exam, they can get admissions.” SS Mantha, chancellor of KL Deemed to be University in Hyderabad and a former chairperson of AICTE, said, “In my opinion physics and maths are building blocks of engineering courses that cannot be exempted. However, the approval process handbook released by AICTE is binding on state governments and the regulator expects that institutions follow the rules.”Vaibhav Narwade, a professor and member of the Board of Studies of the department of computer engineering at the Ramrao Adik Institute of Technology Nerul, Navi Mumbai, said, “The state government runs a centralised admission process. They may consult with AICTE and decide the procedure. I don’t think colleges will face problems during admissions.”However, in the absence of any clear guidelines on how to conduct bridge courses, institutions remain clueless. “Institutions are expected to build bridge courses, but physics and maths are not courses that can be bridged. If the regulator has come up with a rule, then it is also the responsibility of the regulator, state government and institutions to formulate and issue operating guidelines on how to conduct such courses. Any such course will need to have a procedure, there’s a cost attached them, the curriculum has to be designed, proficient resources have to be brought on board to teach such courses,” said Mantha.Sahasrabudhe said that a committee was working on details on how to admit students. “The committee is looking at nitty-gritty such as courses can be opened up for which students. For example, maybe mechanical engineering will require both physics and maths, but biotechnology may not require physics, but biology may be allowed. These broad guidelines will be issued after the committee has worked on these details,” he said, adding that the guidelines can be expected by the end of December.The changes in the AICTE handbook 2021 were an attempt at reviving the dipping demand for engineering courses in the country. In Maharashtra, almost half of all engineering seats have been going vacant for want of takers for the past three years. In the academic year 2020, around 45% of seats remained vacant at the end of the admission process and 49% were vacant the year before. Incidentally, in 2019, a report released by employability assessment company Aspiring Minds found that more than 80% of all Indian engineers were unemployable for any job in the knowledge industry. The report found that only 3.84% of engineers had the required technical, cognitive and linguistic skills to be in a software-related job in a startup.In 2014, the Maharashtra government had commissioned an analysis of the drop in demand for engineering colleges in the state. GD Yadav, then the vice-chancellor of the Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai, had then presented a report suggesting “appropriate criteria to reduce the intake and closure of some of the programmes including mergers of branches with fancy nomenclature into the mainstream.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/physics-maths-optional-for-engineering-no-clarity-over-guidelines-yet-101633621324009.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body seeks vaccination status from housing societies in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started issuing request letters to housing societies in the city asking them details of the vaccination status of the eligible population in their society, including maids, gardeners, milkmen etc.According to BMC officials, this will help them issue certificates to societies where all members are fully vaccinated and also help them understand the need for hyperlocal centres to vaccinate the unvaccinated.In one such notice issued by the BMC to the housing society, it states, “As everyone is aware of the current Covid-19 scenario in the country and the threat of the third wave, there is a need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. This includes maintaining social distance, washing hands frequently and getting vaccinated. The virus has not been completely eradicated and caution is needed to prevent the surge. The vaccination is the only way forward to prevent this. Hence, kindly request you to provide vaccination status of your society members, maids, security guards, milkman, laundry person, gardener etc.”Mrudula Ande, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC’s R North ward that covers Dahisar and Borivli area said, “We have over 1,900 societies in our ward, and we have initiated the exercise to understand the situation of vaccination in these societies. Ultimately, this will only help in reaching the goal of 100% vaccination status.”Ande added, “By this exercise, we can also understand the vaccination session pattern required and which area requires how many vaccine doses. We will also be issuing certificates to societies where all the eligible members are fully vaccinated. We are taking help from the elected representatives and are taking up similar drives in the slums too.”In the city, there are around 40,000 housing societies and around half of the city’s 12.4 million population resides in slums. On Monday, the BMC launched the logo, that has a QR code pasted on it. This logo will be given to societies having all their adult population fully vaccinated. These certificates will be pasted outside the housing societies indicating that the society is safe. Similarly, the BMC also plans to set up vaccination centres in clusters of 15-20 societies after getting the required data. Meanwhile, on Thursday, 87,229 citizens were vaccinated taking the total to 12,912,602. Out of the total, 4,507,809 citizens are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-seeks-vaccination-status-from-housing-societies-in-mumbai-101633621145277.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Man in custody for killing 6-year-old son in Kolhapur over wife’s suspected affair||The Kolhapur police arrested the father of the six-year-old child, who was found dead in Shahuwadi area on Tuesday, for his murder and trying to mislead the investigators by making it look like a human sacrifice, according to a statement issued by the police on Thursday.The arrested man was identified as Rakesh Kesare while the child was identified as Aarav, five years and seven months of age, according to the police.Kesare does centering work on construction sites and works in hotels to make ends meet.The man had pretended to have looked for his son hours after he is suspected to have killed and covered the disposed of body with leaves, according to a statement issued by Shailesh Balkawade, superintendent of Kolhapur police.“The mother had gone to the beauty parlour and the child came home after playing. The man suspected the woman of having an affair and suspected Aarav to not be his son. He was enraged that day and killed the child over the suspicion,” said police inspector Vijay Patil of Shahuwadi police station.The man allegedly killed the child and then adorned his body with vermillion and gulaal and other ingredients to make it look like he had been used as human sacrifice.Another case of a child being killed for suspected human sacrifice in Kagal area of Kolhapur was fresh in the public memory of the locals.The man is suspected to have killed the child in the hours between afternoon and evening on October 3. Multiple teams of police landed in the vicinity of Kapshi village from where the child had been reported missing. After a search of two days, the child’s body was found around 20 feet from his house.“After questioning the local residents and taking inputs from the cybercrime cell, the doubt rested on family members and so, they were all called for questioning on October 6. In the process, we learned that the missingd child’s father suspected his wife of having extramarital affair and that the child was not his which was the cause of constant fights between the two,” read a statement from the police.The man will face charges under Sections 302, 201, and others of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with other relevant laws. He is in police custody till October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-in-custody-for-killing-6-year-old-son-in-kolhapur-over-wife-s-suspected-affair-101633621025451.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Ready to vaccinate children against Covid-19, no need for infra upgrade: Mumbai civic body||As schools reopened for classes 8 to 12 earlier this week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has indicated that it is ready to vaccinate the city’s adolescents as soon as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) permits the vaccination programme to roll out to children, and will not require any infrastructure upgrade. “We are fully prepared to vaccinate the children but we have to wait for approval of ICMR and their guidelines. As the footfall of adults has declined with the completion of their immunisation, there won’t be any chaos once we start the vaccination of children,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “We haven’t further chalked down any plan for it yet,” he said. Currently, the city has 325 vaccination centres and around one million children between the age group of 12 and 17 years in the city. Almost 90% of the eligible population in the city (ages 18 and above) have taken at least one of the two-dose anti-Covid vaccines available. This has lowered the footfall of probable beneficiaries compared to the start of the mass immunisation programme in January 2021. Since the start of the pandemic last March, 49,743 infections were seen among children and adolescents -- 13,947 below nine years of age and 35,806 between 10 and 19 years of age. As per a survey conducted by BMC in July among children and adolescents, the sero-positivity rate between the age group of 1 and 4 years was 51.04%. Children in the age group of 5 and 9 years showed 47.33% positivity rate. The highest positivity rate was recorded between 10 and 14 years at 53.43%. In the fourth category, teenagers between 15 and 18 years had a 51.39% positivity rate. “We are expecting that by the end of this year, we will at least have vaccines for children. Once the vaccines get approval from ICMR, children with commodities should be given priority,” Dr Bakul Parekh, member of the State Covid task force said. Zydus Cadilla’s ZyCoV-D and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin have been tested in children and the results of the trials are expected. The national drugs regulator approved ZyCov-D that has been tested in children 12 years and above for emergency use on August 20 this year, paving the way for inoculation of children under the national Covid-19 immunisation programme. While the trials of Covaxin had 525 volunteers between ages 2 and 18 years, the ZyCov-D trials had 1000 volunteers in the age group of 12 and 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ready-to-vaccinate-children-against-covid-19-no-need-for-infra-upgrade-mumbai-civic-body-101633621024190.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Need for more air services in Maharashtra to boost tourism, CM Thackeray tells aviation minister Scindia||To enhance the air connectivity and additional service, the Maharashtra government and civil aviation ministry decided to have better coordination and address issues related to air connectivity in the state. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia held a virtual meeting ahead of the inauguration of Chipi airport in Sindhudurg district on October 9.Thackeray, during the meeting, spoke about the need to start more air services, especially from airports such as Nanded, Kolhapur and Aurangabad, which would boost tourism, said a statement from the CM’s office. The statement added that Thackeray and Scindia also discussed the air transport issue related to the Nagpur, Jalgaon, Akola, Solapur, Gondia, Juhu and Amravati. The statement said, “Discussions were held on enhancing coordination between the state government and the ministry of civil aviation, at the same time, working in a time-bound manner to address the challenges of air transport.”Thackeray and Scindia are expected to inaugurate the Chipi airport on Saturday. Thackeray said that the Chipi airport will boost tourism in Konkan and benefit the state immensely. Thackeray and Union minister Narayan Rane are expected to share the stage during the function on October 9. The two would come face to face for the first time since the Union minister’s arrest in August over his slap remark against the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/need-for-more-air-services-in-maharashtra-to-boost-tourism-cm-thackeray-tells-aviation-minister-scindia-101633620963695.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body gives nod to 86 Navratri pandals, Thane to 91||Compared to last year, Navratri pandals in Navi Mumbai have seen a marked increase this year. Though there won’t be garba or dandiya, the removal of restrictions has come as a relief to 86 pandals set up in the city as opposed to 56 last year.This year, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) received 91 applications of which five were rejected and 86 approved.NMMC officials informed that while some applications were repeated, some of the proposed pandals were on the footpath disturbing the movement of the common public, hence they were rejected.“We are conducting regular checks on people for masks and social distance. We are also appealing to people via social media to follow all Covid norms even when visiting the pandals,” medical health officer, Dr Pramod Patil, said.While the residents of Navi Mumbai are disappointed over not being able to play garba and dandiya with their community members in housing societies or pandals, some of them have planned to dance in their own homes“It’s sad that for the second consecutive year, we are unable to enjoy the festival but we also understand that it is for the larger good. But why kill the festival mood? We have decided to dance at home itself,” said a Vashi resident.Meanwhile, Jaywant Sutar, who organises a pandal at Sector 1, Shirawane in Nerul, has decided to arrange blood donation camps since there cannot be any other celebration. “Usually, we do have scholarships and recognition certificates being given to children and women who do well. But since the last two years, we are not able to do anything for the social cause. Hence, we decided to arrange a blood donation camp.”The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has given permission to only 91 pandals in the city for Navratri. Around 214 pandals had requested permission through online and offline means in the last few days. TMC was adamant on following the Navratri guidelines issued by them including conducting awareness programmes and blood donation camps.“We have issued guidelines to all Navratri pandals based on the SOP released by the State Government. Based on the location of the pandals, we have only permitted a few this year so that social distancing rules and Covid protocols are followed properly,” said a senior officer from TMC.(Inputs by Ankita Menon)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-gives-nod-to-86-navratri-pandals-thane-to-91-101633620847281.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||UP cops can’t find minister’s son, paste notice at his Lakhimpur Kheri house||LUCKNOW: Two people were arrested and are being questioned in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident while the main accused, Ashish Mishra, son of the Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni, was summoned, Lucknow range Inspector General (IG) of police Laxmi Singh said on Thursday.The Lakhimpur police late on Thursday evening pasted a notice at the Union minister’s residence, asking his son Ashish Mishra alias Monu to appear at the crime branch office in reserve police lines, Lakhimpur Kheri, at 10 am on Friday. The notice, issued under Section 160 of the criminal procedure code that relates to summons to witnesses, said Ashish Mishra must appear in person and present evidences that he is aware of about the incident.“Two people are being questioned. They have confirmed the role of three others who are dead. Technically, they have also been accounted for. These people are giving a lot of information,” IG Singh told the media.“If Ashish Mishra does not abide by the summons, legal procedure will be adopted,” IG Singh said, adding that there was no time limit in the summons sent to Mishra.Additional director general (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar later identified the two men arrested as Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey. He said the forensic team has found two missed cartridges and is examining one of the vehicles involved in the incident.People aware of the development said the two persons arrested on Thursday were claimed to be close aides of Ashish Mishra and more raids were going on.The police action came only a few hours after the Supreme Court on Thursday told the Uttar Pradesh government to submit a report within a day on how many arrests have been made so far in connection with the case.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday, in the bloodiest clash since the farmers’ protest over the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws started last year.The farmers were allegedly knocked down by a convoy of vehicles, one of which belonged to Mishra. Two BJP workers -- Shubham Mishra and Shyam Sunder -- and a driver -- Hari Om Mishra -- were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and lynched by angry protesters. A journalist working for a private TV channel, Raman Kashyap, also died in the violence. The farmers allege that Mishra’s son was in the convoy.People familiar with the development said a forensic team recovered a bullet from the incident site. Police officials, however, did not elaborate.The IG added that the incidents of firing or any fire arm injuries were not confirmed in the post-mortem report of the eight deceased. She said the team further examined the site on Thursday and the police will proceed with evidences that are coming up during the investigation.The Lakhimpur Kheri violence has triggered a major political storm with the opposition leaders demanding the removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra, who on Wednesday met Union home minister Amit Shah in New Delhi. On Thursday, the junior home minister was the chief guest of a workshop organised by the home ministry’s Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) but the media was not allowed to cover it as had been planned initially.The minister has been claiming that his son was not in the car that ploughed through the protesters. He claimed the driver lost balance after being attacked by stone-pelters and then some protesters came under the car. Later, the driver was lynched and the car was set on fire, the minister has claimed. However, the police FIR states that Ashish Mishra was driving the car that ran over the protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cops-can-t-find-minister-s-son-paste-notice-at-his-lakhimpur-kheri-house-101633620785579.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son summoned by UP police||The Uttar Pradesh police on Thursday pasted a notice outside Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s home seeking the appearance of his son Ashish Mishra at the court on Friday. Ashish has been booked for allegedly being in a car which ran over protesting farmers last Sunday in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri.Ashish Mishra Monu has been summoned at the crime branch office in Reserve Police Lines on Friday 10am to produce oral and digital evidence, the notice said seeking his presence.Ashish has been named in an FIR lodged in connection with the October 3 incident under IPC section 302 (murder). Luvkush Rana and Ashish Pandey were arrested earlier in the day. Police officials familiar with the developments told HT that these two are close associates of Ashish Mishra and that Ashish was not traceable.Ashish Mishra was allegedly in the car which carried BJP workers who were en route to welcome Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya, who was attending an event at Lakhimpur Kheri. Farmers were protesting against the presence of the deputy chief minister. A car that reportedly carried Ashish and three others mowed down killing four farmers. Barring Ashish, two workers of the BJP who were inside the car were lynched. Another victim of Sunday’s violence was a local journalist Raman Kashyap. Kashyap’s father told news agency PTI that his son died after being hit by a vehicle when he was covering news of farmers' protest against Maurya's visit to Ajay Mishra's native place.The Lakhimpur Kheri district is under tight security as opposition leaders and farmers’ groups continue to visit the kin of the victims. Though the Yogi Adityanath government assured the victims’ kin justice and announced a compensation of ₹45 lakhs, calls for the Union minister’s son to face charges continue to grow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-union-minister-ajay-mishra-s-son-summoned-by-up-police-101633620165055.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Ambernath police arrest burglar based on tools left behind at crime scene||A hacksaw blade and a pair of pliers left behind by a burglar at the scene of crime led Ambernath police to arrest him within three days of the crime being discovered.According to the Ambernath police, the Rajesh Mobile Store near the Ambernath Railway Station was found to have been broken into on the morning of October 2. The burglar had secured entry into the stock room of the store through the roof and decamped with high end cell phones and tablets worth ₹15 lakh.A survey of the crime scene established that the accused had uprooted one corner of the tin roof and cut through the metal grills underneath to enter and exit the stock room. Before leaving, he had also taken the Digital Video Recorded (DVR) of the Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras installed in the store. While this meant that the police did not have CCTV footage to aid them in their investigation, they did find the first clue in the form of the tools used by the burglar – a hacksaw blade and a pair of pliers.“We first checked the CCTV footage of cameras installed around the burgled store and managed to get some footage of the accused. However, we could not get any visuals that had captured his face. We then started making inquiries in hardware stores in the area and found that someone had bought the same tools two days before the store was burgled. Fortunately, this hardware store had a CCTV camera that had captured the face of the customer clearly,” an officer who is part of the investigation said.The officer added that the footage of the suspect was compared with the footage of the customer who had bought the tools from the hardware store and the police found that several features like height and gait of both the subjects matched. The police then circulated stills of the suspect’s face among their informants, and based on human intelligence, picked up the suspect, identified as Firoz Naeem Ahmed (33) from his Ambernath residence on Tuesday. “We found stolen cell phones and tablets worth ₹10 lakh from Ahmed’s possession, after which we placed him under arrest on Tuesday night. After further interrogation, we also recovered a laptop computer, an iPad, a tablet and three cell phones that he had sold to an electronics dealer, which we suspect he had stolen from some other establishment. Inquiries into this aspect are under way,” the officer said.Ahmed has been remanded in police custody till October 9, the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambernath-police-arrest-burglar-based-on-tools-left-behind-at-crime-scene-101633619704056.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 554 new Covid cases, one death||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 554 new Covid-19 positive cases and one death in the last 24 hours. The one death was reported from Pune rural. and no deaths were reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. No deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 518,467 Covid cases and 9,178 deaths till Thursday. Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reported 267,089 cases so far and a total of 3,499 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 360,845 cases and 6,819 deaths due to the virus. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,146,401 Covid cases. Of this, 1,117,738 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 19,845 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 8,818 active cases in the district. As per the state health department, 2,415 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,394,075. The recovery rate in the state is 97.32%. Across Maharashtra, 2,681 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 49 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%. The state health department stated out of 59,766,957 laboratory samples, 6,570,472 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 11% of patients till Thursday. Currently, 239,587 people are in home quarantine and 1,328 in institutional quarantine. Pune district figures Covid-19 cases: 1,146,401 Recovered patients: 1,117,738 Deaths: 19,845 Active cases: 8,818 New cases: 554 New death: 1||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-554-new-covid-cases-one-death-101633619105241.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||68-year-old struck dies after being struck lightning following sudden rain in Thane district||A 68-year-old man died after being struck by lightning during the sudden downpour in the Thane district on Wednesday night.According to the Mumbra Police, the deceased has been identified as Prabhakar Ambare. Officials said that Ambare was hit by lightning near the Gopaldham building in Ganesh Nagar, Diva. He was rushed to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa, where he was declared dead before admission.“Ambare’s body was later moved to the Thane Civil Hospital for post-mortem examination. The autopsy report was received on Thursday and it confirmed him being struck by lightning as the cause of death,” an officer with the Mumbra Police said, adding that an Accidental Death Report has been registered in connection with the matter. The Thane District Collector’s office has issued a warning, asking people to be cautious and not step out during thundershowers from Thursday to October 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/68yearold-struck-dies-after-being-struck-lightning-following-sudden-rain-in-thane-district-101633619046164.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||PM coined the word divyang: Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday stated that PM Narendra Modi coined the word divyang, instead of handicapped, and, in the last seven years, many programmes were organised for distributing artificial limbs and assistive devices to the differently-abled people within the country, even at the district level.Yogi Adityanath was addressing people at the Sampurnanand Sports Stadium in Varanasi after distributing prizes to cricketers who participated in the T-20 National Divyang Cricket Tournament.He also noted that the day marked the completion of 20 years in public office by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, first as Gujarat chief minister and then as PM, and it coincided with the culmination of the BJP’s Seva Aur Samarpan Abhiyan to mark the occasion.He asked the state’s divyangjan empowerment minister to make preparations to hold a function in which the Uttar Pradesh government will honour the Tokyo Paralympics medallists.Observing that 54 players from India participated in the Tokyo Paralympics, he said the country won 19 medals at the event, including five gold, eight silver and six bronze.The Uttar Pradesh government would soon honour the para-athletes and give them a big amount, Yogi Adityanath added.He praised the para-athletes for not letting disability hinder their pursuit of excellence in sport. “If you have passion and courage, even the biggest obstacles can be overcome,” Yogi Adityanath said.He expressed the hope that India would become a superpower under the leadership of PM Modi and said he sought blessings from Kashi Vishwanath, the presiding deity of Varanasi which is also the PM’s Lok Sabha constituency, and the Ganga for Modi’s success.The chief minister distributed artificial limbs and assistive devices on the occasion.“Today (Thursday), Prime Minister Narendra Modi completed two decades of public service as Prime Minister and Chief Minister. On this occasion, I sought blessings from Kashi Vishwanath and Maa Ganga that the country may touch new heights of success constantly under leadership of PM Modi, may he succeed in making India a superpower,” he said. He extended Navratri greetings to the people and offered Dussehra wishes in advance. Stating that Uttar Pradesh government was giving pension to more than 10 lakh persons with disabilities, he said the government had also increased the amount.Organised by the department of divyang empowerment, UP, the three-day T-20 national divyang cricket tournament began on October 4 and the concluding ceremony was organised on Thursday. Six teams took part in the tournament.The chief minister distributed trophies and prize money to South Zone and North Zone, the winners and runners-up respectively of the T20 National Divyang Cricket Tournament 2021.He also distributed 345 artificial limbs and assistive devices, including 175 tricycles, 30 wheelchairs, 39 hearing aids, 31 ID kits, 20 Braille kits, 10 smart canes, 10 sticks, 20 crutches and 11 calipers.The chief minister also inaugurated the Covid vaccination centre at Dr Sampoornanand Sports Stadium and flagged off seven 20-Tika Express vehicle.Yogi Adityanath also visited a biogas plant built on the premises of a gaushala (cow shelter) at Shahanshahpur, Varanasi. Run by Varanasi Municipal Corporation, the gaushala is about 18 km from the district headquarters.Divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal gave detailed information about the plant. Funded by Pride Confederation (Adani Group), this biogas plant has been built at a cost of ₹30 crore. It has the capacity to manufacture 2500 kg gas, process 30,000 kg of manure and 40,000 litres of liquid fertilizer. Municipal commissioner Pranay Singh was also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-coined-the-word-divyang-yogi-adityanath-101633618804783.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: BSP delegation meets victims’ family members||A Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) delegation led by the party’s national general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Satish Chandra Mishra on Thursday met the family members of the people who died during a protest by farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3.While the BSP delegation was meeting the family members of the deceased, BSP chief Mayawati, in a series of tweets in relation to the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, said the hearing started by the Supreme Court in the case today (Thursday) gave people the hope of relief and proper justice.The attitude of the BJP government in this matter seems to be mostly biased, she alleged.Although the BSP delegation is meeting the victims’ families today under the leadership of party general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP SC Mishra after government permission,due to the involvement of a Union minister and some other influential people in this case, the anger of the people could not be controlled, she said.In a press statement, SC Mishra said he, along with other BSP leaders, met the family members of farmer Lovepreet Singh and journalist Raman Kashyap who died during the protest. The BSP delegation assured family members of all assistance in the fight for justice and other legal matters. The BSP and party chief Mayawati is standing with the farmers in the period of crisis, SC Mishra said.Expressing concern over the failure of the local police in arresting the accused name in the case Mishra alleged big leaders in the central and state government were involved in the case. The BJP is trying to save the accused, he said.Demanding removal of Union minister of state (Ajay Mishra Teni) from his post, SC Mishra said the district unit of the BSP will remain in contact with the family members of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-bsp-delegation-meets-victims-family-members-101633618745115.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Sharad Pawar says IT searches excessive use of power||PUNE: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar reacted strongly to the IT searches at premises linked to Ajit Pawar and kin saying the action smells of excessive use of power and could have possibly been a reaction to his strong position on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, which he had likened to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Speaking to reporters at his hometown Baramati on Thursday, Pawar said, “The way farmers were killed at Lakhimpur Kheri, everyone strongly condemned the incident. Even I spoke about it strongly and likened the incident with Jallianwala Bagh massacre. It has angered those in power and the ongoing developments may have been a result of this.” The NCP chief, who initially desisted from commenting saying the action is still on, also called the searches at his nieces (Ajit Pawar’s sisters) locations as excessive use of power. “I read Ajit Pawar’s statement also. He had said the IT department has powers to carry out operation at his premises, but the searches at residences of relatives (Ajit’s sisters) is an excessive use of power,” Pawar said. Official sources said that searches were conducted till evening across Mumbai, Pune, Satara and a few other cities in Maharashtra and Goa. The premises linked to business groups such as Daund sugar mill, Shivalik and Jarandeshwar Sahakari Sugar Karkhana (Jarandeshwar SSK) and businesses linked to Ajit Pawar’s sisters in Pune and Kolhapur were being searched, they said. Other NCP leaders termed the income tax department’s Thursday searches at premises linked to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and his kin as an attempt to “defame” its leaders. While Virdhawal Jagdale, director at the Daund sugar factory in Pune district, maintained that the mill has complied with all rules while paying taxes. Jagdale, a member of the Pune zilla parishad from NCP, did not deny his association with Ajit Pawar saying that his father was a legislator and that he himself is a NCP leader in the zilla parishad. “The income tax officials arrived around 7am at our factory, which has been in operation for the past 13 years. All through, we have paid taxes and complied with norms. As far as the searches are concerned, I do not know why they are being carried out but we will cooperate with the income tax officials,” Jagdale said. Following the income tax department raids on some businesses linked to members of Ajit Pawar’s family and to real estate developers for alleged tax evasion, Maharashtra NCP president and state cabinet minister Jayant Patil blamed the Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) for trying to defame NCP leaders. Patil told reporters in Pune, “I have been saying for a long time that no sooner BJP leaders take our leaders’ names, actions by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), income tax department and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) follow. There is no doubt that it is a BJP conspiracy to defame our leaders.” Patil wondered aloud why the BJP is ‘so afraid’ of the NCP, which shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra. Ajit Pawar, who is also the state finance minister, said in Mumbai on Thursday that some entities linked to him have been raided. He said that while he has no problem with the income tax department raiding companies linked to him, he is upset that his three sisters were dragged into this. Jarandeshwar SSK was in the news recently after the ED in July attached over Rs65 crore worth of land, buildings, plant and machinery of the sugar mill at Chimangaon-Koregaon in Satara under the anti-money laundering law. The ED claimed that the cooperative-run sugar mill is linked to Ajit Pawar and his family. On Wednesday, BJP leader and former Member of Parliament (MP) Kirit Somaiya visited Jarandeshwar SSK in Satara and Baramati town in Pune, from where Ajit Pawar is an member of legislative assembly (MLA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncp-terms-i-t-raids-as-bjp-s-attempt-to-defame-its-leaders-101633618563625.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Economic Offences Wing of Thane Crime Branch arrest jeweller for running Ponzi scheme, cheating customers||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Thane Crime Branch has arrested the owner of VGN Jewellers, a well-known jewellery chain in the Thane district, for allegedly running a Ponzi scheme and cheating its customers to the tune of more than ₹7Cr.According to EOW officials, the owners of VGN jewellers, Virithgopalan Nair and his wife Valsala, ran their racket from 2006 to 2021, during which time they lured their customers into investing money in a variety of schemes, promising impossibly high returns.The accused had jewellery stores in Dombivli, Ulhasnagar and Mulund as well as a finance company in Kalyan, which were all allegedly used in the offence. During this time, they used the money received from new investors to pay the old ones, EOW officials said.Finally, when they were unable to pay profits or return the base amount of ₹7.99Cr paid to them by 13 investors, an FIR was registered against them with the Kolsewadi police station in Kalyan. The couple was booked for cheating and criminal breach of trust under the Indian Penal Code, along with relevant sections of the Maharashtra Protection of Interests of Depositors (MPID) Act, and the case was subsequently transferred to the EOW for further inquiries.The invoking of the MPID Act is significant because it empowers the investigating agency to attach assets of the accused to reimburse the victims of financial crimes.“After completion of preliminary inquiries, Nair was placed under arrest on Tuesday evening. Inquiries are still under way against his wife. We appeal to any other customers or investors who might have been cheated by the accused to approach us immediately and register a complaint,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (EOW), Sunil Lokhande, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/economic-offences-wing-of-thane-crime-branch-arrest-jeweller-for-running-ponzi-scheme-cheating-customers-101633618323498.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Crowds keep Covid norms and queue up at places of worship in Pune||PUNE Places of worship across the religious spectrum in Pune reopened on Thursday for public worship. Temples in particular drew large crowds as October 7 is the first day of the nine-day Navratri festival.At the famous Dagdusheth Ganpati temple, queues of faithful lined up from as early as 7am. At gurudwaras, churches and mosques in the city the crowds that showed up suggested that these places of worship were sorely missed during Covid lockdowns.At the Dagdusheth temple, state minister Dattatray Bharane performed an aarti in the morning and temple was decorated with flowers. Social distancing and sanitising of hands was in place. “We are taking utmost safety precautions for the public who are coming for darshan. A distance is maintained between two devotees in the queue. Also, no offerings allowed inside the temple,” said Mahesh Suryvanshi, treasurer, Dagdusheth Ganpati mandal. Similarly at Tambadi Jogeshwari temple, a prominent temple in Pune, crowds were witnessed throughout the day. “We have come from Junnar on the first day of Navratri. For the last several months temples were closed and now as they have opened we decided to take come on the first day,” said worshipper Sangeet Vyavahare. At the Chaturshrungi temple on Senapati Bapat road, a worship centre of choice for the faithful during Navratri, barricading and social distancing was in place. The main temple is located on top of the small hill and people have to climb 300 steps to get to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/crowds-keep-covid-norms-and-queue-up-at-places-of-worship-in-pune-101633618023552.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Diesel price inches closer to Rs100 per litre-mark in Pune||The fuel prices once again went up on Thursday with diesel reaching ₹97.54 per litre in Pune and the price of petrol was at ₹108.76 per litre. The compressed natural gas (CNG) prices have remained stable at Rs59.50 per kg.On May 31, petrol prices had breached the mark of Rs100. After four months, diesel prices have also followed this trend. As the Covid induced curbs have been eased, the goods and passenger transport has gone up. Transport associations had been demanding government intervention in the diesel price control but no relief was given.All the transport associations in the state will be attending a meeting in Pune on Saturday (October 9) to discuss several issues related to transporters. Representatives from the associations informed that the topic of increasing transportation rates as the diesel prices are soaring would be one of the key factors in the meeting.“Diesel prices are soaring but the transportation rates haven’t increased in that proportion. Transporters are already in trouble. We have been demanding that diesel should be brought under Goods and Services Tax (GST) to stabilise its price. All the related issues would be discussed in the meeting to be held on Saturday in Pune,” said Baba Shinde, director of the All India motor transport Congress (Maharashtra).“The decision related to the hike in the transportation rate would be taken in the meeting. Diesel prices have been consistently going up and there seems to be no relief. The meeting would be conducted in the Market Yard. Other issues related to the transporters would also be discussed in this meeting,” said Ram Kadam, president of motor goods vehicle association, Pune districtThe hike in fuel prices has made it difficult for the common people to manage their budget.“I have a diesel car and a two-wheeler. But in the light of the soaring fuel prices I have reduced the use of the car as with the additional financial burdens, it is no more viable to use it. When petrol crossed Rs100 I was hoping that something would be done about the fuel prices. But it is disappointing to see that the government does not care. I am afraid soon prices of other goods will also increase,” said Virendra Bhat, a resident of Warje..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/diesel-price-inches-closer-to-rs100-per-litre-mark-in-pune-101633616883544.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Sudden showers on 2 days hamper repair work of roads, potholes in Thane||A week after Hindustan Times highlighted the poor condition of some of the major roads in the city, the potholes still remain to be filled. The road repair and pothole filling work that was initiated by various authorities fell flat after heavy downpour in the city on Wednesday night washed away the materials used to fill the craters. Commuters continue to struggle during peak hours due to traffic snarls faced while dodging the potholes.The Public Works Department claims that the Mumbra Bypass Road has been repaired. “We have filled all the potholes on the Bypass Road and this has resulted in smoother traffic on this stretch of road,” said S Totawar, executive engineer, PWD, Thane. On July 29, a five-foot deep crater had formed on the Thane-bound lane of the crucial road with the road under the bridge being visible through it.However, commuters claim that PWD has done shoddy repair work; “They have only filled the potholes with mud and gravel and no efforts have been taken to level the road or asphalt the stretch,” said Ashrita Gupta, a 46-year-old Kalwa resident.Moreover, the National Highway Authority of India, which looks after the Mumbai–Nashik Highway, has started the pothole-filling work from Majiwada to Vartak Nagar. “We have initiated the filling of potholes on this part of the road and will gradually move towards Vadpe. The huge craters at major intersections of the highway have also been filled. Rest of the work is in progress in the small gaps of dry spell that we get to complete the repair work,” said an officer from NHAI. “Filling the potholes itself has been a respite for the commuters. The huge craters have been levelled and traffic jams are fewer on this stretch. However, such efficiency should be displayed all through by the authorities and ensure that potholes don’t recur,” said Yogesh Jhanjhawal, a 34-year-old Kalyan resident.The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) had started with the road repair work but the unexpected heavy showers have hampered the process. “From Tuesday onwards, we had initiated pothole-filling and road-asphalting works. However, the unexpected heavy showers in the evening for two consecutive days have forced us to temporarily stop the asphalting of roads and only continue with filling of potholes. As of now, it would be difficult to predict the time taken to complete the road repair work as the rains continue to disrupt the process,” said Arjun Ahire, deputy city engineer, TMC.Although the traffic along Ghodbunder Road has seen some respite, the condition of potholes continues to be the same. Efforts were taken to fill the potholes. However, heavy rains caused the potholes to reappear. Commuters face traffic snarls during peak hours while the MMRDA claims that it’s awaiting a dry spell to repair the roads. SVR Srinivas, commissioner, MMRDA, said, “We have already initiated pothole-filling and road repair work. However, as there has not been a continuous dry spell, we are not able to complete the work and the repaired roads have not dried properly leading to only temporary relief for motorists.”Meanwhile, the TMC has imposed a fine of ₹10 lakh against a city-based contractor for substandard road work. “It is the responsibility of the concerned contractor to ensure that the roads are motorable. Making temporary repairs is part of the work order, but a large number of potholes were observed on the roads and this inconvenienced many commuters. A time period of three days was given to the contractor to submit the reasons for the lackadaisical work. As no response was received, the contractor was fined,” said an official from TMC.Two weeks ago, four civic engineers were suspended by the TMC commissioner for the poor state of roads in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sudden-showers-on-2-days-hamper-repair-work-of-roads-potholes-in-thane-101633616467939.html
07-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan MLA seeks removal of Gandhi’s picture from ₹2,000 notes, writes to PM||Rajasthan Congress MLA Bharat Singh Kundanpur wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the removal of Mahatma Gandhi's picture from ₹500 and ₹2,000 currency notes claiming that these notes were used in corruption and in bars.Bharat Singh said Gandhi's pictures on the denominations of ₹5, ₹10, ₹50, ₹100 and ₹200 should be retained as the poor of the nation use it and Mahatma Gandhi dedicated his life towards the upliftment of the poor. He suggested PM Modi replace the father of the nation’s picture in these high-value currency notes with that of his iconic spectacles.“It is my suggestion that a picture of Gandhi's spectacles can be used on ₹500 and ₹2,000 currency notes. Ashok Chakra can also work effectively for this purpose,” the Sangod MLA Bharat Singh wrote in his letter to PM Modi, according to news agency PTI.“Mahatma Gandhi symbolises truth and Gandhi's picture is printed on ₹500 and ₹2,000 notes, which are generally used in practices of corruption and in exchange for bribes. The high-value currency notes are being used in bars which are a disgrace to ‘Mahatma Gandhi’,” he said.“Gandhi's portrait should be removed from ₹500 and ₹2,000 currency notes and it should be used only on small currency notes which are used by the poor,” he further added.The Sangod lawmaker drew attention to the rise in cases of corruption in the nation as well as in his state Rajasthan. He highlighted that a total of 616 graft cases were registered between January 2019 and December 31, 2020, with an average of two cases registered per day. He said that corruption ravaged the nation for the last seven and a half decades.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-mla-seeks-removal-of-gandhi-s-picture-from-2-000-notes-writes-to-pm-101633615428209.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||UP SC finance corpn to get ₹200 cr from its national body||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh Schedule Caste Finance and Development Corporation (UPSFDC) will get ₹200 crore from the National Schedule Caste Finance and Development Corporation (NSFDC) to run its various schemes. The UPSFDC has also decided to provide education loan to students of schedule caste category with the assistance of the NSFDC. Presiding over a board meeting of the UPSFDC on Wednesday, Lalji Prasad Nirmal, chairman of the corporation, said: “Uttar Pradesh Schedule Caste Finance and Development Corporation will get ₹200 crore from its national body for running its various schemes.” “Members of the schedule caste category are facing problems in getting loans from banks. Therefore, we have decided to provide loans to them from our funds,” added Nirmal. The corporation has also decided to upgrade hostel facilities for schedule caste students with corporate social responsibility funds. Nirmal also informed that the UPSFDC has empowered 32.38 lakh youths with self-employment opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-sc-finance-corpn-to-get-200-cr-from-its-national-body-101633615743573.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Spiderman’ thief caught in Kharghar police web||The Kharghar police, along with Unit III of Navi Mumbai Crime Branch, have arrested the wanted ‘Spiderman’ thief as the police referred to him, for stealing valuables from flats in high rises at night by climbing the pipelines and sometimes by going from ducts of the building.Senior police inspector, Sandeepan Shinde of Kharghar police station, said, “The accused, Saif Isa Shaikh, 19, a resident of Mumbra and a lean structured man, is a pro at climbing the pipelines and entering the ducts of buildings, getting inside the flats and doing away with valuables without making a sound. Sometimes, it would be just a mobile phone.”The police also arrested three of his partners identified as Siraj Naem Shah, 21, Shoeb Waris Qureshi, 18, and Mohammad Umar Mohammad Yusuf Shaikh, 43, all residents of Govandi. Qureshi owned a motor bike and rode it with Shah and Saif sitting behind him. The role of Shah was to keep a watch while Saif would go climbing on the building while Qureshi would wait on his bike. After the theft, the stolen valuables were taken to Umar, who is a pro at dismantling any mobile phone in minutes and then selling off the spare parts separately.“The phones were dismantled so as to make the stolen phone untraceable,” Shinde said.After a few such house breaks, during investigation, police had found CCTV footage of the three accused from various locations, while Umar was arrested based on the statement of the three.“Using the footage and data dump of the accused, the trio was nabbed from Govandi,” senior police inspector, Shatrughn Mali from Unit III, Crime Branch, said.While in police custody, two of the four accused were found to be Covid positive and hence they were shifted to a hospital and other two to Taloja jail.“As of now, we have solved seven house break cases wherein they were involved. After the duo recovers, we would take them into police custody to investigate further,” Shinde added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/spiderman-thief-caught-in-kharghar-police-web-101633615683351.html
07-10-2021||Pune||PMPML undertakes survey of Pune-Lonavla route||As only Covid-19 vaccinated people are allowed in the local train between Pune and Lonavla, there is a growing demand from people to start Pune Mahanagar Parivhan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus service to the hill station.The people who are fully vaccinated and completed 14 days after taking the second dose of vaccination are allowed to travel in the local trains as per state government order.“There is a demand for buses on the route from people so we have undertaken a survey, after which analysis will be done about how many people require bus service, how many trips will be required and at what all places buses will have to stop before reaching its destination (Lonavla),” said Chetna Kerure, joint managing director, PMPML.In Pune, from the third week of August, local train service started between Pune and Lonavla. The number of trains has increased to six from October 1.“It will benefit people from Lonavla as right now local trains are the preferred option of travelling and we generally see huge crowds taking train service as it is at affordable rates. If PMPML starts buses till Lonavla and if it provides frequent bus services then it will be helpful. Till now PMPML bus comes till Wadgaon, it should be extended to Lonavla,” said Somnath Jadhav, chief executive officer (CEO), Lonavla.On Thursday, PMPML started bus service from Hadapsar to Morgaon which is a distance of around 59km while from Pune railway station Lonavla is approximately 66km.“The duration of taking a second dose after the completion of 84 days and then completing 14 days is making things difficult for commuters who travel from Lonavla every day. With markets and schools opening up, and even many IT companies have started calling employees to the office for back end work, PMPML bus service will be helpful,” said Jagdish Dhole, IT professional.“PMPML is a city service and currently it is serving 7% of the population from the city and if they are thinking of extending it just on the demand of few people then it is a baseless decision. Before taking any call all the other authorities and RTO should get involved to find out whether investing in this route is profitable or not,” said Sanjay Shitole, honorary secretary, PMP Pravasi Manch, a Pune based organisation that looks after commuter’s rights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-undertakes-survey-of-pune-lonavla-route-101633615323305.html
07-10-2021||Jaipur||Congress opts for MLA’s spouse for Vallabhnagar bypoll, BJP goes for a new face||JAIPUR: The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday announced their candidates for bypolls to be held on Vallabhnagar (Udaipur) and Dhariawad (Pratapgarh) assembly seats in Rajasthan later this month.The candidates were named ahead of the Friday deadline to file nominations for the polling scheduled on October 30. The votes will be counted on November 2.The by-polls were necessitated due to the death of Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar Gajendra Singh Shaktawat and BJP MLA from Dhariawad Gautam Lal Meena.The Congress has fielded Shaktawat’s wife Preeti Shaktawat from Vallabhnagar that is expected to witness a triangular fight with three candidates from the Rajput community in the fray; Preeti Shaktawat, Himmat Singh Jhala of the BJP, and former BJP MLA Randheer Singh Bhindar, who is widely expected to contest as an independent.A senior Rajasthan BJP leader said the state unit had also recommended Uday Lal Dangi for the party ticket “but the leadership gave a ticket to Himmat Singh”.The Congress would stand to benefit if Randheer Singh Bhindar files his nomination paper since Bhindar and Himmat Singh Jhala would primarily be targeting the BJP’s support base for votes, the BJP leader said, pointing that it remains to be seen if someone else from Gajendra Singh Shaktawat’s family also files his papers.In Dhariawad, the BJP has opted to give the party ticket to Khet Singh Meen rather than someone from the family of Gautam Lal Meena.The Congress has named Nagraj Meena for the seat though he lost the last two assembly elections to the BJP, which secured more than 50% of the votes polled in the 2018 elections.Political analyst Manish Godha said the Congress has played the sympathy card on the Vallabhnagar seat, while the BJP has fielded two new faces, which could increase the chances of infighting.The two assembly seats are in the Udaipur division, where the Congress did not fare well in the last assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/congress-opts-for-mla-s-spouse-for-vallabhnagar-bypoll-bjp-goes-for-a-new-face-101633615143383.html
07-10-2021||Pune||NDA Pune pays homage to fallen alumni||The National Defence Academy (NDA) paid homage to four officers who lost their lives in the last one month. A wreath-laying ceremony was organised on Wednesday in honour of Lieutenant Commander Rajnikant Yadav, Lieutenant Commander Yogesh Tiwari, Lieutenant Commander Anant Kukreti and Maj Anuj Rajput. Lieutenant General Asit Mistry, Commandant of NDA, paid homage to the deceased officers at the Hut of Remembrance, along with other officers, civilian instructors and cadets of the academy.Lt Cdr Yadav of 120 course, D Squadron; Lt Cdr Tiwari of 120 course, O Squadron and Lt Cdr Kukreti of 121 course, H Squadron were alumnus of the NDA and commissioned into the executive branch of the Indian Navy.They were not only seasoned mountaineers but also winners of several challenging and prestigious marathons/ultramarathons, participants of multi-dimensional marathons, endurance cyclists, trek enthusiasts and adventure sports enthusiasts.The officers were part of a 20-member expedition that was flagged off at Mumbai on September 3 to climb Mt Trishul (7,120 m). They were caught in the avalanche near the summit on October 2, 2021.NDA fraternity also paid homage to Major Rajput who died in a helicopter crash near Patni Top in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir on September 22.Maj Rajput was an alumnus of the 126 NDA course, M Squadron. After passing out from the Indian Military Academy, he was commissioned in the Indian Army and opted for Army Aviation. He was awarded, the Silver Cheetah trophy during his initial flying course.Defence accounts department celebrates Foundation DayThe Defence accounts department Foundation Day was celebrated on October 1 under the aegis of Dr Rajeev S Chavan, IDAS, NDC, PCDA (O), Pune. The Defence accounts department is more than 270 years old and is the oldest department under the Government Of India with origins traced to the Military Pay Masters under the East India Company. The department is responsible for the audit, payment, financial advice and accounting of all charges pertaining to the Indian Armed Forces under the entire Defence budget of ₹5 lakh crores per annum. The department deals with internal audits and payments for multiple agencies under the Ministry of Defence viz Army, Navy, Air Force, BSF, Para Military Force, OFB, DRDO, Cost Guards etc i.e. the Sentinels of the borders and protector of the planes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nda-pune-pays-homage-to-fallen-alumni-101633615023707.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Pollution body officials take note of crop residue burning near Dasna||Instances of crop residue burning have started surfacing even as the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) initiated works as part of its winter action plan to combat increasing air pollution ahead of the winter season. On Thursday afternoon, HT found crop residue burning in agricultural fields near Dasna and brought the matter to the attention of UPPCB officials. Instances of crop residue burning in neighbouring states deteriorate the air quality in the National Capital Region (NCR). “We have taken cognisance of the information and we will ask officials to visit the field and survey the area near Dasna. Crop residue burning is not allowed; we have informed the officials of the local administration and the agriculture department to check for such instance,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of the UPPCB. “Under the action plan, the gram samitis and the tehsildars have also been directed to keep an eye on such activities in their respective areas. Last year, there were several instances of stubble burning in Dasna area; local farmers were also taken on board to dissuade them from the activity,” added Sharma. According to the official statistics of the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, there were 101 instances of crop residue burning in Uttar Pradesh between September 15 to October 6 last year while 52 such cases have been reported in the corresponding period this year. The CREAMS statistics also said there was only one incident of stubble burning in Ghaziabad during the same period last year while no such cases have been reported this year. “There should be more awareness among farmers; Those indulging in agriculture-related activities need to stop burning crop residue. Moreover, farmers should be incentivised and arrangements should be made to provide them equipment to deal with crop residue. It is with better monitoring and awareness that such activities can be reduced,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist. In the winter action plan, the different departments have been directed to conduct awareness programmes among farmers while involving village panchayats; to explore the possibility of installation of biomass power project or bio manure and enhance vigilance at sources of stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-pollution-body-officials-take-note-of-crop-residue-burning-near-dasna-101633614483387.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kashmiri namda artisan Arifa Jan took the road less travelled to much applause||It was not for Arifa Jan to take the beaten path and try for a government job. Instead, she defied her parents and risked it all to become an art-and-craft entrepreneur, and that too one specialising in the dying craft of weaving namda – a rug made of felted wool. Jan was drawn towards the traditional craft, which is in dire need of revival, while she was studying at the Craft Development Institute (CDI). While she felt she had found her calling, convincing her family of the same was an arduous task. “Soon after passing out from CDI, I decided to set up a stall in New Delhi. However, my parents were against it as they wanted me to strive for a government job. They only let me go when I told them that the exercise will fetch me a job.” “Even my relatives were skeptical as there were no entrepreneurs in our family. My father is a government employee, and mother a homemaker. It was only after I won several awards and a trip to the United States under the Women Entrepreneurship Exchange Programme did my family accept that I had made the right decision,” says the 30-year-old, who has a year-old child. Her husband is also an artisan and deals in Pashmina. Jan, who is a commerce graduate, went on to sell her products in different countries and now works with 20 artisans across the city. Arifa says her art gave her the opportunity to travel far and wide, to the United States and Kyrgyzstan, where she received a lot of appreciation. In 2020, Jan was awarded the Nari Shakti Purskar, which was presented to her by the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind. She also bagged a state award in 2018 and was also nominated as the chairperson of the women’s wing of Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI).She has set up a couple of centres, where she keeps products ready for delivery. However, the lockdown imposed after revocation of Article 370 and the pandemic, she lost several business opportunities. “The government has pledged to help entrepreneurs, but we are facing a lot of impediments on ground. I wanted to setup my own factory but officials are not cooperative. However, I am hopeful that one day she will have all the machines needed to assemble the final product under one roof. It needs a lot of investment, but I am not one to back down from a challenge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kashmiri-namda-artisan-arifa-jan-took-the-road-less-travelled-to-much-applause-101633612503855.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body gets high financial rating of AA+ yet again||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has, for the seventh consecutive year, been given a high financial capability rating of AA+ by India Rating and Research (IRR), a nationally-renowned credit rating and research agency. NMMC is the only civic body in the country to get such a high rating for seven consecutive years.The credit rating for 2020-21 points to the financial strength and capability of the civic body. The high rating indicates that NMMC is financially healthy and is capable of repaying loans. Such a rating would help the civic body source funds for its mega projects and also issue bonds.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “Navi Mumbai has been graded high amongst the cities in the country in the Ease of Living Index. While the civic body has been concentrating on providing the best of services to the residents, despite the Covid pandemic, NMMC did an excellent work in collecting taxes and ensured that the civic body has emerged even stronger.”Dhanraj Garad, chief accounts and finance officer, NMMC, said, “We have been following the `host to host’ project that has ensured that the payment to the suppliers is deposited directly into their accounts. This paperless system has brought about transparency and efficiency in the civic body’s working. The payments to contractors and civic personnel too are happening on time. Besides, NMMC has no outstanding loan or interest with respect to the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-gets-high-financial-rating-of-aa-yet-again-101633612089790.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man offered lift in car gets robbed of phone, ₹21,000 cash||Four persons have been booked for allegedly looting a 65-year-old man on the pretext of giving him lift in their car in Greater Noida on Thursday morning.The victim -- identified as Brijendra Kataria -- is a resident of Sector Beta 1, and works as a manager at a private company. Kataria was waiting for an auto when the four unidentified suspects reached Ryan School roundabout in Greater Noida in a car and offered him lift at 8:30am. “The suspects told me they were going towards Delhi. As I got in the vehicle, they overpowered me and snatched away my cellphone and debit card. They also tied a black band around my eyes and threatened to harm me if I raised an alarm,” Kataria said, adding that they also attacked him with a screwdriver when he put up resistance.The suspects took away ₹1,200 from Kataria’s pocket, and also used his debit card to withdraw ₹20,000 from his bank account. They also damaged his cellphone and SIM card.Kataria was held hostage in the moving car for almost one hour, and was later dumped in Sector Pi-1. With the help of a passerby, Kataria informed the police about the incident, and he was taken to a nearby private hospital.Kataria’s son -- Abhishek Kataria -- said his father usually goes to office in a car, but he decided take the Metro on Thursday. “Unfortunately, he was robbed. He was waiting for an auto to reach the nearest metro station,” said Abhishek.A case has been registered against the suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 392 (robbery) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt). “A police team has launched a search and the suspects will be arrested soon,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.Meanwhile, the Noida traffic police on Wednesday launched a special verification drive for all cab drivers in the district. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), has advised the people not to take lifts in random cabs, and always book cabs online -- following a valid process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-offered-lift-in-car-gets-robbed-of-phone-21-000-cash-101633611846856.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Covid cases in Navi Mumbai on the decline with increase in testing||Even after the Ganeshotsav, when there was a scare of rise in Covid cases, they have actually gone down this week as compared to the previous week even as the testing has been increased. The daily positivity rate is currently at 0.46% as against 0.83 % last week.This week, the average daily cases of Navi Mumbai are 58 as against 64 reported last week. Hence, Navi Mumbai currently has Covid cases down by around 9% as compared to the last week. At the same time, the corporation had increased its testing by 11% this week. While the average testing was 7,810 this week, it was 6,956 last week.“The main reason behind the cases going down is the vaccination coverage that we have achieved. Almost 50% of the people have been jabbed with both the doses and 97% with their first dose. Besides, herd immunity, too, is an important factor that plays a role in bringing down the cases. Even as the cases are down now, the people should continue to maintain the Covid protocols and continue wearing masks. There should not be any chance given for the multiplication of the virus and its mutation” medical health officer, Dr Pramod Patil, said.The doubling rate of the cases, which is 1,524 right now, was 1,382 last week. The Case Fatality Rate for two weeks is 1.80%. Currently, there are 583 active cases, 0.54% of the total cases reported, while the recovery rate is 98%. The overall positivity rate reported in Navi Mumbai is 5.68%.Meanwhile, NMMC has got a new lab in Meenatai Thackeray Hospital, Nerul, for RT-PCR tests. This will act as an extension to the previous lab. With both the labs working together, the capacity of the corporation-run RT-PCR labs will now be of around 5,000 samples daily. The lab will help in tracing and curbing the virus spread in a better way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-cases-in-navi-mumbai-on-the-decline-with-increase-in-testing-101633611845542.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Two arrested for administering fake dengue medicine to children in Noida||Two people were arrested on Thursday for allegedly administrating fake dengue medicines to children in Noida’s Phase 3. The suspects were identified as Harun Kumar (30), a resident of Khoda colony in Ghaziabad, and Lucky Ali (32), a resident of Shahadara in New Delhi.Senior sub inspector of Phase 3 police station Virendra Singh said on Thursday, a man identified as Mohammad Zubair informed police that the two men were administering dengue medicines to children in his neighbourhood. “The suspects told the locals that they were workers of an NGO that was involved with healthcare. A police team conducted a search in Chhajarsi village and arrested two people. Police also recovered four homeopathic medicine vials and eight fake certificates from their possession,” said Singh. The suspects used to charge ₹70 per child for administering the medicines. “Neither are they medical professionals or have any medical degrees, nor were they authorised to conduct any such drive. Investigation showed they were not associated with any such NGO,” said Singh. The two suspects randomly bought homeopathic medicines from a shop and were administering them to children and making money, said police. A case has been registered against them under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and Section 15 of the Indian Medical Council Act , 1956. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Gautam Budh Nagar has reported 86 dengue cases till October 5,of which, 59 are children. Teams from the health department are making door-to-door visits to inspect larvae breeding sites and initiating measures to curb the spread of the dengue. Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said dengue is a mosquito-borne disease and patients getting the disease are treated in hospitals. “We do not run any such door-to-door vaccination/medicine drive for dengue patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-arrested-for-administering-fake-dengue-medicine-to-children-in-noida-101633611423005.html
07-10-2021||Dehradun||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat to visit Kumaon for three-day event on Friday||Rashtriya Swayam Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat will participate in the Sangh’s three-day programme (Toli Baithak) to be held in the Haldwani area of Nainital. He will arrive in the district on Friday evening. The office-bearers of Uttarakhand RSS unit will attend the programmes, said an a party functionary. “Bhagwat will reach Haldwani on Friday evening by train. He will stay here for three days for ‘Toli Baithak’ and participate in various programmes. He will also address a gathering of families on the topic of family values, religious awareness, social harmony to be held on October 10,” said Sanjay Kumar, Sah Prant Pracharak of RRS in Haldwani. The programme will be held on the premises of a private institute in Lamachaur area of Haldwani. Around 2,000 volunteers of the RSS are expected to attend the programme on the first day. He will also chair meetings of state-level office-bearers during his stay in the state. “Only pass holders will be allowed to enter the venue. Common people can attend the family gathering programme. After the programme, Bhagwat will return to Delhi on Monday,” Kumar said. He clarified that Bhagwat’s programme is related to the Sangh Parivar, and it has no political agenda. He denied that the RSS chief’s visit has anything to do with the forthcoming assembly elections in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-to-visit-kumaon-for-three-day-event-on-friday-101633610523563.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Man arrested by Koparkhairane police for cheating people of vehicles||A 31-year-old man from Uran was arrested by the Koparkhairane police last week for allegedly cheating several people by taking their vehicles on rent. So far, the police have recovered 11 vehicles collectively worth ₹1.36Cr from his possession.Police said that the accused, Vaibhav Ananta Koli, used to take vehicles from their owners promising monthly rents. He’d pay them the rent for the initial few months and then secretly sell those vehicles to a third party. He’d then stop entertaining the original owners of the vehicles.Pradeep Tidar, senior inspector of Koparkhairane police station, said, “Last month, we received a complaint from a man who was also cheated using the same modus operandi. We then registered an FIR against the accused and acting on a tip-off, we finally arrested him. So far, we have recovered 11 vehicles from him that he was planning to sell. More people are likely to be arrested in this case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-arrested-by-koparkhairane-police-for-cheating-people-of-vehicles-101633609146543.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||PM dedicates three PSA oxygen plants to people in Kashi||VARANASI Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday dedicated three pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants established under PM CARES at Sir Sunderlal Hospital, Trauma Centre (IMS-BHU) and District Women’s Hospital to the people of Varanasi via video conferencing from AIIMS, Rishikesh. The PM inaugurated 35 such PSA oxygen plants across 35 states and Union Territories (UTs). He also addressed doctors, staff and public present near the oxygen plant located in the trauma centre complex in Varanasi.According to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), with the inception of these 35 PSA oxygen plants, all districts of the country will now have commissioned PSA oxygen plants.Till now, a total of 1,224 PSA oxygen plants have been funded under PM CARES all across the country, out of which more than 1,100 plants have been commissioned, providing an output of over 1,750 MT oxygen per day.Additional director/chief medical officer, Dr VB Singh, informed that the oxygen plants at Sir Sunderlal Hospital and Trauma Centre had a capacity of 960 LPM each. These two were jointly constructed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) under PM CARES. The 1000 LPM oxygen plant at Women’s Hospital was jointly set up by DRDO and Tata group.Medical superintendent of Sir Sunderlal Hospital Prof KK Gupta, trauma centre in-charge Prof Saurabh Singh Acharya and superintendent in-charge of divisional government hospital Dr Prasanna Kumar among others were present on the occasion. Inputs from agency||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-dedicates-two-psa-oxygen-plants-to-people-in-varanasi-101633608663202.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Repair of potholes in Kalyan, Dombivli halted due to sudden rain||The road repair works undertaken on some of the major roads in Kalyan and Dombivli earlier this week came to a standstill on Thursday due to the unexpected downpour. Most of the roads in the twin cities still had huge craters, making it difficult for the commuters. However, following the report in Hindustan Times, the Public Works Department (PWD), has done the patch work at the Gandhare Kalyan (W)-Padgha Link Road earlier this week. This road was in a bad shape till last week with huge potholes.A PWD officer said, “A pothole-filling patch work has been carried out at the Gandhare-Padgha Road when there was no rain. Now that it has started raining again, we will have to wait and see if the work done is washed away. The necessary work will be carried out by our staff.”However, the potholes on the road that connects the Durgadi Bridge and Govindwadi Bypass Road in Kalyan (W) are yet to be repaired.“We had begun the repair work earlier this week as there was no rain. However, unfortunately it started raining again on Wednesday evening. So, we had to halt the work. Now, since it is expected that the rain will continue this week, we will only start the work once it stops raining,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC.As per the KDMC the actual repair work that includes asphalting of the roads would begin after October 15, once the rain stops, and is expected to be finished in a month.On Wednesday, the work of the vital Pune Link Road in Kalyan (E) was undertaken by the civic body. However, the work has stopped now due to rain.“This stretch has both concrete and asphalt portions. The asphalt stretch develops potholes every year. We fail to understand why the civic body is not able to concretise the entire stretch,” said Sagar Munde, a 48-year-old motorist who takes the road to connect to Dombivli for work. This vital link helps one to connect from Kalyan city to Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Navi Mumbai.Koli said that owing to lack of funds, the concretisation of such major roads or the re-asphalting could not be undertaken.“The intensity of rain this time was so high that most of the roads were affected and potholes were developed. We had plans to asphalt the road before Ganeshotsav. However, the rainfall did not slow down and hence the work was not initiated. Our team, however, kept a watch on road conditions and filled the potholes throughout the festival,” said Koli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/repair-of-potholes-in-kalyan-dombivli-halted-due-to-sudden-rain-101633608128467.html
07-10-2021||Jaipur||BJP announces candidates for bypolls to two seats in Rajasthan||The BJP has announced the names of candidates for bypolls to be held on Vallabhnagar and Dhariawad assembly seats in Rajasthan.The party has fielded Himmat Singh Jhala from Vallabhnagar (Udaipur) and Khet Singh Meena from Dhariawad (Pratapgarh) assembly seats. The bypolls have been necessitated due to the demise of BJP MLA from Dhariawad, Gautam Lal Meena, and Congress MLA from Vallabhnagar, Gajendra Singh Shaktawat.Instead of giving ticket to the family member of Gautam Lal Meena, the party has fielded another leader Khet Singh Meena on the seat. Khet Singh Meena has the backing of the RSS, according to party sources. In Vallabhnagar, the party has fielded local Rajput candidate Himmat Singh Jhala who has influence on the community. The Congress is yet to announce the name of candidates. The last date of nomination filing is October 8.Polling will take place on October 30 and counting of votes will be held on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-announces-candidates-for-bypolls-to-two-seats-in-rajasthan-101633606413880.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan GRP hand over runaway teen girl, 2 males from National Capital to Delhi Police||The presence of mind shown by a Ticket Checker (TC) aboard an express train resulted in a runaway teenage girl from Delhi being reunited with her parents earlier this week. The girl, along with her two male friends, was handed over to a team from the Delhi Police on Wednesday.According to the Kalyan Government Railway Police (GRP), the 15-year-old girl, along with her two friends, both in their early 20s, was travelling on board the Delhi Hazrat Nizamuddin-Mumbai Central Express on Monday. The train was nearing Kalyan when the TC approached the trio and asked for their tickets. While they had tickets, they seemed scared and the TC smelled a rat. He asked them where they were coming from, where they were going to and the purpose of their visit to Mumbai. When the trio could not answer even simple questions such as these, he called up the GRP.“We sent a team to take the trio into our custody when the train reached Kalyan. After some questioning, the trio finally admitted that they had run away from home and gave us their addresses. We called up the Delhi Police and found that a kidnapping case had been registered after the girl had gone missing. We apprised the Delhi Police of the fact that we had the girl in our custody,” senior police inspector Valmik Shardul, Kalyan GRP said. He added that the girl was in a relationship with one of the two boys accompanying her and they had eloped with the intention of getting married in Mumbai. The other boy, who is their friend, decided to come along because he wanted to look for work in Mumbai.“As the girl is a minor, she was presented before the Child Welfare Committee and handed over to them till Wednesday, when a team with the Delhi Police reached Kalyan. Meanwhile, the two boys stayed in our custody and all the three were handed over on Wednesday. No case has been filed with us in this regard,” Shardul said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-grp-hand-over-runaway-teen-girl-2-males-from-national-capital-to-delhi-police-101633604227865.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: Satyagraha’s spice factor gave this revolution a ‘united’ flavour||Food is a great unifier. While it is utilised to bring solace to each other and is recognised as a form of comfort, it is also used as a form of resistance.On April 30, 1938, a letter appeared on page four of the newspaper “Jnanaprakash”. The author had used a pseudonym. “Since last few months, clove has been unavailable in the markets of Pune and elsewhere. It is an important ingredient of daily cooking, and depriving people of the spice for political reasons is highly condemnable. I have noticed that members of the Congress party have been threatening merchants to stop selling cloves because of the ongoing Satyagraha. But their Satyagraha is being a menace to the common public, not to mention it is depriving poor dock workers and coolies of their livelihood. I urge all the merchants to procure cloves from Ceylon, if not from Zanzibar, and start selling it immediately”, the letter read.A week earlier, on April 24, 1 938, a small procession in Shukrawar peth in the morning hours had grabbed everybody’s attention. The participants were Congress workers who were visiting every shop selling spices to urge them to stop selling cloves. Most of the merchants had already stopped selling the spice. A few who had some stock in their shops handed it over to the Congress members.This exercise was a part of the Satyagraha, passive resistance, to protect the rights of Indian clove traders in Zanzibar.In the little Sultanate of Zanzibar off the east coast of Africa, there lived 180,000 natives who spoke Swahili, 33,000 Arabs, 15,000 Indians, and 278 Europeans. The Sultan of Zanzibar, His Highness Seyyid Sir Khalifa bin Harub always sought advice from an English Resident on complicated commercial matters. Zanzibar in 1937 provided 80% of the world’s supply of cloves; India, in turn, consumed 50% of Zanzibar’s output.Most of Zanzibar’s Indians used to be in the clove business. As they prospered, they became moneylenders to the natives. Some of them, it was wrongly alleged, usurped lands from the natives when they could not repay the loans. To counter the growing influence of the Indians in Zanzibar, and to repay the Resident, the Sultan, on the advice of the Resident, set up a Clove Growers’ Association. The association’s powers were great: it had an export monopoly and it set its own price; Indians had to pay $750 to the association for annual licences.The colonial offices of the British Government served the threefold purpose of perpetuating the political rule of the British over the colonies, of enriching the British monopolist at the expense of the Indian small trader, and of running colonial administrations with India’s property. The Clove Decree of the Zanzibar Government was such a law designed to further Britain’s economic interests. Under this law, the purchase of cloves from growers in distant areas became a monopoly of the Clove Growers’ Association. Despite its name, the Association was not formed of the growers of clove, but consisted of an advisory body of six or more Englishmen appointed by the Government.The Zanzibar Clove Bill came into operation on August 1, 1 937. As a measure of retaliation, Indian dealers and exporters of clove decided to resort to passive resistance. No Indian was to apply for buying the licence as an agent of the Clove Growers’ Association. No Indian was to engage in the export trade. No Indian was to serve on the advisory board of the Clove Growers’ Association. This basically meant that the Indian population in Zanzibar would go hungry.They expected the Government of India to impose an embargo on the import of cloves from Zanzibar. In their determination to resist the Clove Act, the Zanzibar Indians appealed to the Provincial Governments and Municipalities to assist in the embargo on cloves.They also wrote to Mahatma Gandhi, who extended his support to the cause. A Clove Boycott Committee was created under the leadership of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. The Congress Working Committee met in Wardha in August 1 937 and passed a resolution assuring the Indian clove dealers in Zanzibar of its sympathy in their plight and extending its support in the “heroic struggle” they had then decided to launch upon.The Clove Boycott Committee then declared a complete boycott of foreign cloves. The stringent boycott of imports found resounding support from dock workers who refused to unload ships carrying those cloves. There was extensive picketing at the docks by Congress volunteers to dissuade other workers employed by the merchants to carry on the work.Various merchant associations in Bombay, Calcutta, and Madras had also started an unofficial embargo of Zanzibar cloves on the principle that “any attempt to injure Indian interests for the advancement of British Imperialism” ought to be strongly opposed.On March 6, 1938, Subhash Chandra Bose, appealed to the dealers in clove, both wholesale and retail, to hand over to the Congress Committees, any stock of cloves they might still be possessing. The appeal was a part of a lengthy statement on the boycott of Zanzibar cloves.Bose repeated his appeal when he visited Pune in May, 1 938. Jawaharlal Nehru, too, during his visit to Pune in the same month, appealed to merchants of Pune, not to sell cloves and succumb to the “divisive agenda”.Both Bose and Nehru praised common Indians for supporting the Satyagraha. Clove was an important ingredient of Indian cooking.The boycott of the Zanzibar clove inspired many to carry out similar boycotts. The organisation of Kirana Merchants of Cawnpore called for a complete boycott of the importation of dry fruits in India from Afghanistan. They were opposing the policy stated to be adopted by the Afghan Government who, it was alleged, was creating a monopoly for export of dry fruits from the country by having established the “Sharrkatisamar” (Afghan Dry Fruits Co.) with a state subsidy. The export of dry fruits in India had till then been handled mainly by Indians. Hejib and sons, the most prominent dealer of dry fruits in Pune then, declared in “Jnanaprakash” that he would support the boycott. A similar boycott was called against the import of foreign salt. Merchants from Pune participated for around four months. The clove Satyagraha succeeded, albeit partially. The Clove Growers’ Association was disbanded, and the English monopoly over the clove trade was reduced to half. Meanwhile, the boycott continued everywhere till new shipments arrived in Bombay.The Satyagraha effectively demonstrated that eating and cooking were two of the oldest and most powerful tools for revolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-satyagraha-s-spice-factor-gave-this-revolution-a-united-flavour-101633604103678.html
07-10-2021||Patna||Bodh Gaya in Bihar to get face lift as round-the-year tourist destination||The Union Ministry of Tourism plans to develop Bodh Gaya, a major Buddhist pilgrimage site, as a round-the-year tourist destination and is making efforts to set up required infrastructure and facilities, officials said on Thursday.The officials said the place in Bihar's Gaya district primarily attracts the elderly for religious and spiritual tourism, but efforts are being made to draw the youth as well.A conference on tourism was held in Bodh Gaya on Tuesday and it was attended by Director General of Tourism in the Ministry of Tourism G Kamala Vardhana Rao along with senior central and state officials.Rao said that the government is committed to the development of tourist sites related to Buddhism.He said that to attract tourists from all over the world, there is a need to boost connectivity and infrastructure here, an aspect on which the government is working.The Mahabodhi Temple Complex is located in Bodh Gaya. The Buddha attained enlightenment beneath a sacred Bodhi tree here.There is a need to work on adventure tourism and other new concepts as well to attract young tourists.The conference focused on infrastructure development and boosting air, rail and road connectivity. The Ministry of Tourism, in collaboration with various central ministries and the state governments of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, is developing a Buddhist tourism circuit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bodh-gaya-in-bihar-to-get-face-lift-as-round-the-year-tourist-destination-101633599379921.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Docs from RML unable to get DMC registration due to discrepancy in institute name||Doctors who have completed their post-graduation from Dr Ram Manohar Lohia hospital college recently are being refused employmentas their registration with the Delhi Medical Council (DMC) is pending due to the change in the name of their institute. No allopathic doctor can practice medicine in Delhi without getting registered with the DMC. The institute was earlier called Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and RML hospital. Its name was changed to Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Medical Sciences after it started under-graduate MBBS course in 2019. “NMC (National Medical Commission) hasn’t recognised the new name yet. Newly passed resident doctors of ABVIMS haven’t received their DMC registration numbers even after two to three months. Without that, they are unable to join work and even the RML hospital is not letting them join,” said Dr Manish Jangra, member of the RML Resident Doctors’ Association and general secretary of Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA). Also Read: IIT-Kharagpur boy arrested for allegedly harassing students, teachers in DelhiThe residents of the hospital have written to the medical superintendent urging that they be allowed to join work with an acknowledgement receipt from the DMC. “Due to discrepancy in the name of the institute, Delhi Medical Council is unable to issue the registration certificate. We request you to allow us to join as ad-hoc SR (senior resident) based on the acknowledgement receipt of DMC. We assure that we will submit our DMC registration as soon as the issue is resolved,” said the letter by resident doctors from the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/docs-from-rml-unable-to-get-dmc-registration-due-to-discrepancy-in-institute-name-101633602002885.html
07-10-2021||Kolkata||Durga Puja pandal in Kolkata showcases Lakhimpur Kheri violence, farmers' protest||The violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri during a farmers’ protest has found an honourable mention in the theme of a Durga Puja pandal in the northern fringes of Kolkata. The Dum Dum Park Bharat Chakra Puja Committee unveiled their innovative pandal on Mahalaya, highlighting farm law agitation as well as Sunday’s Lakhimpur Kheri massacre.A giant replica of a tractor being used by farmers to till land is placed at the entrance of the Dumdum Park Bharat Chakra pandal, depicting their struggle. The tractor has two wings attached symbolising freedom from bondage labour.Artist Anirban Das, who conceptualised the theme, told news agency PTI that the names of farmers who died in the course of the agitation have been written in chits of paper on the giant tractor.As you walk in, the sidewalks are adorned by the sketch of a car and a farmer lying on its path, accompanied by a line in Bengali -- "motorgari uray dhulo niche pore chashigulo", which translates to ‘the car leaves behind a swirl of dust while farmers fall under its wheels’.Hundreds of sandals lie on the ground of the pandal, symbolising the scenes from protest in which they face police action. "From the days of Tebhaga movement to recent ones, the pandal showcases several farmers' protests. Shoes in the pandal symbolise people who've been struggling in these movements for ages," the organiser was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.A number of posters have been placed all across the pandal with slogans in English and Bengali. One of the posters read, "We are farmers, not terrorists, farmers are food soldiers", while another read “stand with Lakhimpur Kheri”. The main pandal is decorated with replicas of paddy, hanging from the roof.The puja committee's secretary Pratik Choudhury said they wanted to highlight the exploitation of farmers. “We have sought to narrate the story of the farmers who provide the food to us," he said."The recent incident in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri, where four farmers were knocked down by a vehicle and killed during a protest, happened when our pandal was almost ready. But, we incorporated it," Choudhury added.However, this is not the first time a Durga Puja pandal in Kolkata has depicted the current socio-economic and political issues. Last year, the Barisha Club in south Kolkata built its pandal on the crisis faced by the migrant workers amid the nationwide lockdown.This year, Navratri will be observed from October 7 till October 15. Durga Puja, which is celebrated from 'Sashthi' (sixth day of Navratri) is on October 11 while Dashami falls on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/durga-puja-pandal-in-kolkata-showcases-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-farmers-protest-101633600016354.html
07-10-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta high court relaxes some Durga Puja restrictions for vaccinated individuals||The Calcutta high court allowed some restrictions in this year’s Durga Puja celebrations by allowing vaccinated individuals to offer ‘pushpanjali’ and take part in ‘sindoor khela’. The court, however, cautioned that only 45-60 people will be allowed for the rituals in big pandals and 10-15 people will be allowed in smaller ones.The court has imposed a ban on entry of visitors to Durga Puja pandals this year, too, stating that all restrictions imposed last year will remain in force this time around.“This means the ban on the entry of visitors inside the Durga Puja pandals remains. The court had mandated putting up barricades outside the pandals while putting a cap on the number of puja committee members who can enter a pandal,” Sabyasachi Chatterjee, an advocate, told Hindustan Times.Advocate general Soumendra Nath Mookherjee informed that the West Bengal government has no objection to the court’s order banning visitors. The state government released its own set of guidelines, banning cultural events at or near puja pandals.The advisory also urged organisers to ensure that prasad distribution, pushpanjali, and sindoor khela are held in a planned manner, in small groups, with staggered entry and exit timings to ensure social distancing measures are complied with. Organisers have also been urged to ask devotees to bring flowers from home for pushpanjali so crowding can be avoided."This year Puja is being organised and celebrated in the middle of this unprecedented pandemic. This demands proper and adequate health safety measures for the citizens. Puja Committees must ensure the health and safety norms for themselves and for the participants and visitors," read the advisory issued by the West Bengal government.The five day festival, the biggest one in West Bengal, is slated to start from October 11. Centre has already cautioned states to take appropriate measures during the festive season to ensure Covid-19 cases do not go up after the festivities end. Bengal has recorded a total of 18,848 Covid-19 cases till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-high-court-relaxes-some-durga-puja-restrictions-for-vaccinated-individuals-101633600096736.html
07-10-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee, 2 other TMC MLAs take oath of office in presence of governor Jagdeep Dhankhar||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee took her oath of office in the presence of Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at the state assembly on Thursday. Along with Banerjee, Amirul Islam and Jakir Hossain also took their oaths as newly elected Members of Legislative Assembly (MLA). All three belong to the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC).Banerjee won the bypolls to Bhabanipur assembly constituency by defeating her opponent, Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Priyanka Tibrewal, by a massive margin of 58,835 votes. The two other TMC MLAs, Islam and Hossain, won the Samserganj and Jangipur bypolls, respectively, with a huge margin.The oath of office to all three MLAs was administered by Dhankhar, breaking from convention where the speaker of the assembly administers oaths to legislators while the governor administers the oath of office to the chief minister. On October 4, Dhankhar had withdrawn speaker Biman Banerjee’s power to administer the oath of office to the members of the state legislature, claiming Section 188 of the Constitution empowers the governor to do so.Also Read: As TMC inducts more leaders, Mamata Banerjee may lead anti-BJP allianceThe oath-taking ceremony was scheduled to be held at 11:45am on Thursday but the governor tweeted a correction on Wednesday, stating that it would be held at 2pm instead. Banerjee needed to take oath by November 4 to continue in office as the chief minister.Dhankhar had also administered the oath of office to Banerjee on May 5 at Raj Bhavan, after her party won the state Legislative Assembly elections. Banerjee had lost to her former protege and current BJP leader Suvendhu Adhikari by a thin margin of 1,956 votes. Following which she decided to contest the bypolls from Bhabanipur, her home turf, after party MLA Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the seat, allowing Banerjee to continue in office as the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-2-other-tmc-mlas-take-oath-of-office-in-presence-of-governor-jagdeep-dhankhar-101633599454467.html
07-10-2021||Kolkata||‘Duare Nodi’? Durga Puja ‘tarpan’ offered on waterlogged streets in Bengal's Ghatal||In videos that went viral on social media on Wednesday, a resident of Ghatal locality in West Bengal's West Medinipur district was seen offering ‘tarpan’ on the auspicious occasion of Mahalaya on waterlogged streets near his home, which resembled a river. The customary ‘tarpan’ is a ritual held on Mahalaya, at the onset of Durga Puja festivities, when lakhs of people each year pay their obeisance to their forefathers marking the end of ‘Pitri Pakshya’ on the banks of the river Hooghly or other rivers and water bodies – the latest addition to these being waterlogged streets.Arup Bera – a resident of Ward 2 of the Ghatal municipality area – was seen on Wednesday traversing the flooded streets near his home only to offer ‘tarpan’ on murky waters which were reminiscent of the Bhagirathi-Hooghly riverine system, where lakhs of people observed the same ritual earlier that day.According to reports, the residents of Ghatal usually offer their ‘tarpan’ every year on the Shilabati river (also known as ‘Shilai’), which flows through the districts of Bankura and West Medinipur in West Bengal. However, the region was flooded due to heavy rains this year, which kept the busy town squares entirely waterlogged. Streets across as many as 14 of the 17 municipal wards in Ghatal reportedly remain under water.Also Read | Mahalaya: Birendra Krishna Bhadra heralds the arrival of Durga Puja; here's why an age-old tradition still inspires hopeMahalaya marks the end of ‘Pitri Pakshya’, or the 16-day lunar day period when Hindus pay homage to their ancestors (Pitrs) by offering food, money, and other gifts as a sign of reverence. Although it holds a special significance in the age-old cultural tradition of West Bengal ahead of Durga Puja, the day was solemn under the shadow of a doubt this year.On the one hand, the heavy rainfall across the state in recent days left multiple districts – including East and West Medinipur, and wide swathes of land in Howrah and Hooghly – waterlogged; on the other, the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has virtually ensured that muted celebrations take place throughout the festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/duare-nodi-durga-puja-tarpan-offered-on-waterlogged-streets-in-bengal-s-ghatal-101633503329632.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||IIT-Kharagpur boy arrested for allegedly harassing students, teachers in Delhi||The Delhi Police have arrested a 19-year-old engineering student for allegedly harassing online students and teachers at a prominent school in the national capital. The accused, Mahavir Kumar, attended online classes, joined the school’s WhatsApp groups, and also allegedly shared morphed photographs of the students on social media.A two-month-long police investigation led to the arrest of Kumar, who is from Patna and pursuing a B Tech at the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur or IIT Kharagpur. He alleged spoofed phone numbers of the students and regularly spoke to their teachers. Kumar is accused of harassing over 50 girls and their teachers by creating fake profiles on Instagram. Kumar joined WhatsApp groups and allegedly circulated obscene photographs of the students.Deputy police commissioner (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said they received a complaint from the school principal on August 6 about the alleged activities of the cyber-stalker. “The man was stalking minor girls and also called teachers from different international numbers. The stalker was also spoofing numbers and calling teachers from the numbers of the students. They also informed us in the complaint that the stalker entered WhatsApp groups without the permission of the admin and changed icons. He also posted morphed photographs of many students on different social media platforms,” said Kalsi.Also Read | DU 1st Cut off 2021: 59,000 applications received on final day of admissionsPolice said Kumar allegedly used at least 33 WhatsApp virtual numbers to harass the students and teachers. “We analysed the details of the IP logs of WhatsApp, Instagram, and the email ids used to create the accounts. Through technical surveillance, we traced the suspect and arrested him from his house in Patna, Bihar,” said Kalsi.Kumar first came in contact with one of the students three years ago and started stalking her virtually before targeting other students and teachers. Police said Kumar used fake caller ID and mobile apps to change his voice while contacting the students. They added Kumar has been brought to Delhi and was being questioned. Police were probing if he has harassed other minor girls or women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/engineering-student-arrested-for-cyber-stalking-harassing-delhi-students-teachers-101633593602223.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Alma mater always matters a lot, whether you’re in or out||Our educational journey begins as toddlers with tears in the eyes and pain in the heart against the wish to attend school. Years later, on leaving school as teenagers, our hearts go through the same tear-jerking feeling ironically for starkly different reasons. Built of cherry-red bricks, our school’s building was nestled in a beautiful nondescript town, Talwara, hemmed in by the undulating ridges of the Solah Singhi Dhar. The lush surroundings and manicured lawns offered a pleasing spectacle round the year. The security guard opened the gate only after learning that an alumnus had come to visit his alma mater after ages. Stepping into the campus evoked a sense of déjà vu. Strolling around was akin to walking down memory lane, jammed with a gamut of emotions. The present paled into insignificance for the nostalgic mind was busy spinning its own tales of days gone by. Spending some solitary moments vividly brought about a refreshing world of the past before my mind’s eye. The appearance of the morning assembly ground elicited a broad smile, reminiscent of my queer habit of turning left and right with closed eyes during prayer recitation, corrected by the then class teacher, who light-heartedly called me a fan turning without electricity. Imagining myself as one among the students gathered outside the canteen, the rest seemingly transformed into my old friends sumptuously feasting on yummy bread pakodas and licking tangy chutneys off their fingers. So easy was it for me to visualise many of them smartly dressed in cream shirt and green knickers/skirts, engaged in long-winded conversations, punctuated with giggles. The sight of the water-cooler under the stairs melted my heart into recalling how having played different games, we’d pool its chilled water into our palms before gulping it down to counter the summer blaze. Entering our empty Class 10 classroom unleashed a flood of memories as the eyes went on to picture unforgettable madcap escapades inside the four walls. Our loud and lively laughter, full of life, resonated resoundingly in the room. Standing on the ramparts, I got hallucinations as if the exams were going on! Only after exchanging three golden words, Best of luck, would we step into the hall. After the exam, ambivalent expressions would scan the faces of students who pumped their fists into the air for ticking a right answer by chance or getting disappointed for giving the wrong answer to a simple question. The staff room transformed into a temple where our deities assembled to take periodic breaks. Not only did our teachers slap us on the face to discourage our wrongdoings, but they also gave congratulatory slaps on our backs to encourage our good deeds. The silence of the corridor threw back loud echoes of the rapid staccato of our running boots on the polished floors against the rising toll of the stone bell calling it a day. Having stopped by the woods on a summer afternoon, I willy-nilly stepped out of the gate with a heavy heart in total variance with my inner childish wish to stay there a little longer. It was too moving to reflect within that none of the peers had stood the sweeping vagaries of time. What trailed behind would just be tales; some told, many untold. Soul-stirring and elevating, my stopover boldly underlined that a student might leave his/her alma mater, but the alma mater never leaves the student, rather it stays in the heart forever as indelible and priceless memories. unsharma3116@gmail.com The writer is an Una-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alma-mater-always-matters-a-lot-whether-you-re-in-or-out-101633592342084.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray, others visit temples as religious places reopen in Maharashtra on first day of Navratri||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, his son and state minister Aaditya Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday went to offer prayers at temples as religious places across the state reopened after months of being closed due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The day also marks the beginning of the 9-day Navratri festival.Also Read | Religious places in Maharashtra to reopen from today“I wish you all on the festival of Navratri which began from today. As places of worship are being reopened for devotees at such an auspicious occasion, I went for darshan at the Mumba Devi Temple with (father) CM Uddhav Thackeray, mother (Rashmi Thackeray),” a rough translation of Aaditya's tweet, posted in Marathi, read. The family was accompanied by Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar and deputy mayor Suhas Wadkar, he added. आजपासून सुरू होत असलेल्या नवरात्रोत्सवाच्या सर्वांना शुभेच्छा! या मंगल क्षणी प्रार्थनास्थळे भाविकांसाठी खुली होत असल्याने मुख्यमंत्री उद्धव ठाकरे जी, आई, महापौर @KishoriPednekar जी, उपमहापौर @AdvSuhasWadkar जी यांच्यासह मुंबादेवीचे दर्शन घेतले. pic.twitter.com/4dE0BBvrl2Deputy CM Ajit Pawar, meanwhile, visited the famous Siddhivinayak Temple. He tweeted: “Temples in the state, which have been shut for a year-and-a-half due to the corona crisis, reopened for devotees today. On the occasion of Ghatsthapana and Navratri, went to Siddhivinayak in Mumbai.” कोरोना संकटामुळे दीड वर्षापासून बंद असलेली राज्यातील मंदिरे आज भाविकांच्या दर्शनासाठी खुली करण्यात आली. घटस्थापना आणि नवरात्रौत्सव प्रारंभाच्या निमित्तानं सकाळी मुंबईतील श्रीसिद्धीविनायक मंदिरात जाऊन श्रीगणरायांचे दर्शन घेतले व पूजा केली. नवरात्रौत्सवाच्या मनापासनं शुभेच्छा! pic.twitter.com/x5SIQIjHQCThe Maharashtra government announced on September 24 that religious places across the state will reopen from October 7, the first day of Navratri. Its announcement came in the backdrop of, and due to, falling daily Covid-19 cases in the state. Over the last few days, just over 2000 people have tested positive daily for the viral illness; according to a health department bulletin, there were 2876 fresh infections and 90 deaths on October 6.The improved Covid-19 situation here has also led to the reopening of schools for classes 5-12 in urban areas and 8-12 in rural areas, both of which resumed from October 4. From October 22, theatres and auditoriums, too, can reopen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-religious-places-reopen-in-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-others-visit-temples-101633589552287.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||#Dussehra2021: Ravana effigies lose height, grandeur in Covid times||Gone are the days when Delhiites would get to witness giant Ravana effigies — with some as tall as 125ft — being burnt on Dussehra. Though the city is coming back to life, with the lowest number of Covid-19 cases in months, strict precautions are still in place to avoid the third wave of pandemic. With restrictions on social gatherings, Ravana effigy makers at Titarpur village are witnessing a lull in bookings. Situated between Subhash Nagar and Tagore Garden, the stretch is known to be one of the biggest markets to buy effigies of Ravana, Meghnad and Kumbhakaran.“Jo kaam pehle hota tha, usse toh aadhe se bhi kam hai! Ab woh bade-bade Ravana toh ban nahin rahe, sab chote he le rahe, 5-15-20ft ke... Humne price badha diya hai. Pichle saal 5ft ka ₹1,000 ka mil raha tha aur is saal hum ₹2,000 ka bech rahe. Jis material se banta hai woh bhi toh mehenga ho gaya hai,” says Sonu from Sonu Ravanwala, who’s prepping for Dussehra, which will be celebrated on October 15 this year. The stretch that’d usually be full of effigy makers during this time of the year, now only has a handful of them. Even these few are not doing much business. “Hum pehle at least 90-100 Ravana banate they, ab hum sirf 25-30 bana rahe, woh bhi 5ft ke. Kya karein zyada bana ke, sale hi nahin hogi,” says Vicky Mahapatra from Amit Yadav Rawanwala.In fact, some craftsmen are making these effigies only on pre-orders. “Hum toh bana hi nahin rahe the. Par phir 10-11 logon ke calls aaye, toh humne shuru kiya. Ab din raat kaam kar rahe hai taaki time pe ho jaye,” says Satpal from Satpal Ravanwala.While the sale, storage and use of firecrackers is banned in Delhi, effigy makers say this isn’t a problem for small size effigies. “Chote Ravana toh paper aur bhusa laga kar jal jaate hai,” says Mahapatra, adding, “Is baar humne new designs bhi add kiye hain. Snake wale mukut aur seeng wale Ravana taaki logon ko kuch different lage.”Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dussehra2021-ravana-effigies-lose-height-grandeur-in-covid-times-101633589721465.html
07-10-2021||Kolkata||In Kolkata, Durga idol draped in gold saree worth ₹1.5 lakh||With the onset of Navratri, Kolkata has been illuminated with elaborate pandals and intricately decorated idols of Goddess Durga. The festival, during which Durga Puja is also held, is especially glamorous in West Bengal's capital city where people come up with new themes for pandals every year, which are unique and innovative in their own way.This year, Durga idols were seen shimmering in gold at a pandal by Bandhu Mahal Club in Baguiati, in which one idol has been installed with eyes of 10-11 grams of gold, while another idol has been draped in a saree embroidered with 6 grams of gold."The saree has about 6 grams gold and the eyes of the Durga idol have 10-11 grams of gold. It cost ₹1.5 lakhs and a total of ₹10 lakh have been spent in setting up this pandal," Karthick Ghosh, President of Bandhu Mahal Club in Baguiati told news agency ANI.The committee also recreated Arun Pal's studio in the pandal, as a tribute to the famous idol maker from Kalighat who passed away last year.Director of the committee's PR team, Dipanwita Bagchi said that once the festivities are over, the gold saree will be donated to an underprivileged girl, who is awaiting her wedding.Meanwhile, days ahead of the festival, the West Bengal government issued guidelines cancelling the annual Durga Puja carnival and cultural programmes in view of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.The Mamata Banerjee-led government also set stringent standard operating procedures (SOPs) for all puja committees to maintain. As per the rules, pandals shall have to be spacious and open from all sides with separate entry-exit points and arrangements must be made for ensuring physical distancing.The festival of Navratri will be observed from October 7 till October 15. This year Ashtami falls on October 13 while Dashami falls on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/in-kolkata-durga-idol-draped-in-gold-saree-worth-rs-1-5-lakh-101633582833081.html
07-10-2021||Bangalore||‘Arbitrary and illogical’: BJP's Tejasvi Surya on BBMP's guidelines for Durga Puja||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Tejasvi Surya described guidelines issued by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for the upcoming Durga Puja festivities in the city as “discriminatory, arbitrary and illegal,” as he shot off a letter to the chief commissioner of the civic body, urging the official to revisit the rules and prepare a more “inclusive and logical” set of guidelines, which, he emphasised, should be necessary for management of the Covid-19 pandemic only.Also Read: BBMP issues guidelines for Durga Puja. Check full SOPsIn his letter, shared by news agency ANI, Surya noted with “great concern,” that the restrictions imposed regarding the size of the idol appear to have been taken “without any logical relevance," adding that there was no basis for the idols to be four feet high or lower than that. The BJP MP further noted that the local administration did not have any locus standi to decide what and how much of the Puja was to be done. "I spoke to Chief Commissioner, BBMP & asked him to revisit Durga Pooja rules which are discriminatory, arbitrary & illogical. He assured me that these rules will be reviewed forthwith & sentiments of devotees will be given utmost importance," says BJP MP Tejasvi Surya pic.twitter.com/rky5ocGRfo“The restrictions on dhol/drums take away the very fervour of joy and celebration. None of these rules have any established connection with the spread of the virus,” he further wrote, also adding that if the number of persons allowed at rituals was restricted, then curbing activities such as playing dhols/drums, too, was “devoid of merit.”Surya also complained that the administration only imposed such curbs during Hindu festivals. “However, you turn a blind eye when it comes to celebrations of other faiths. These restrictions are condemnable and patently unconstitutional,” he concluded.The BBMP, on Wednesday, issued guidelines for Durga Puja celebrations in Bengaluru, which will take place from October 11 to 15."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/arbitrary-and-illogical-bjp-s-tejasvi-surya-on-bbmp-s-guidelines-for-durga-puja-101633584676249.html
07-10-2021||Patna||3 top RSS functionaries visited Bihar in last one month||Three top Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionaries have visited Bihar within a month beginning with organisation’s head Mohan Bhagwat’s visit on September 9.On Tuesday, RSS general secretary Dattatrey Hosabale was in Patna in connection with the launch of a book, Locational Conflict in Patna: A study in urban political geography, and he also met senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and organisational functionaries. Earlier this month, he also held a meeting with RSS workers and state-level functionaries in Muzaffarpur.Book’s writer Dr Sanjiv Kumar says it talks about the development of Patna in the last 50-60 years, but particularly analyses the reports published in the Hindustan Times (Patna) from 2004 to 2014 concerning issues confronting the masses, viz. power scenario, tap water supply situation, solid waste management and other civic issues, apparently to trace the changes during the NDA rule.Another senior RSS functionary Ramlal--known for his organisational skills and service as the general secretary of the BJP (organisation) for the longest period-- was in Patna since the beginning of this month. Both Ramlal and Hosabale left Wednesday evening for Ranchi and Delhi respectively. Ramlal is the incharge of the RSS publicity and communication wing since 2019.Also Read: Nitish Kumar confident NDA will win both bypoll seats in Bihar; voting on Oct 30“These are all routine visits in connection with the organisational work. Senior RSS functionaries interact with leaders and workers and the same is happening. Many renowned persons from different fields also meet them,” said an RSS worker. Bihar BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi, deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, health minister Mangal Pandey and several others met Ramlal. However, the BJP leaders refused to comment on the visits.“RSS is an organisation that works for the society in different ways and the senior functionaries keep coming from time to time to take stock and discuss their future plans. This goes on,” said a BJP leader who did not want to be quoted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/3-top-rss-functionaries-visited-bihar-in-last-one-month-101633584061928.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Clear sky in Delhi on Thursday, air quality moderate||Delhi is likely to see clear sky on Thursday with the minimum temperature likely to be at 24 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature reaching 35 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasted.The maximum temperature on Wednesday was 34.9 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, and the minimum was 23.8 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 116. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 114.Also Read: DU application window under 1st cut-off closes, 18k admissions so farAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the moderate category with PM10 as main pollutant because of dry air coming from north-west of India along with local pollution. With presence of high pressure over northwest India, AQI will degrade to be in moderate for the next 3 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clear-sky-in-delhi-on-thursday-air-quality-moderate-101633578241266.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bypoll: BJP pits Brigadier Khushal against Pratibha Singh in Mandi||Kargil war hero Brigadier Khushal Thakur (retd) will be the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Mandi parliamentary constituency where byelections will be held on October 30 along with three assembly segments. Brigadier Thakur, who belongs to Mandi’s Nagwain village, will take on former Congress MP Pratibha Singh, who is late chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s wife, in a keenly fought contest. Announcing the candidatures, state party chief Suresh Kashyap said Neelam Saraik is the BJP candidate from Jubbal-Kotkhai, Baldev Thakur from Fatehpur and Ratan Pal Singh will fight from Arki. Brig Thakur’s Mandi connect Born in 1954, Thakur graduated from the Himachal Pradesh University and holds a PG diploma in computers and human rights. Before joining the Indian Army in 1975, he worked as a patwari (village revenue officer) for three years. During his 34-year military career, he participated in the Indian peacekeeping mission in Sri Lanka against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). While on a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Sierra Leone, he successfully led Operation Khukhri and liberated 234 soldiers, including 225 Indians, who were being held hostage by rebels. As commanding officer of the 18 Grenadiers, which captured Tiger Hill and Tololing, which are of strategic importance to India from Pakistani infiltrators, he shot to fame during the Kargil war. He was awarded the Yudh Seva Medal and his unit received a record 52 gallantry awards. Post-retirement, he has been involved in social work and politics. At present, he is the vice-chairman of the Ex-Servicemen Corporation. He had also led a movement Chandigarh-Manali four-lane affected people demanding compensation for them. He was a frontrunner for the BJP ticket in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, too. Thakur filed his nomination papers on Thursday at Mandi in presence of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, state party chief Suresh Kashyap and other senior leaders. Later addressing a public meeting, Thakur said a solider always remains a soldier. “I may not have any political experience, but I know the issues of the public and their expectations,” he added. CM Jai Ram said that Thakur had won the Kargil and now he has come to win Mandi. Twist in the tale in Jubbal-Kotkhai The BJP changed its strategy in Jubbal-Kotkhai. Earlier, the party was planning to field Chetan Bragta, the son of former minister Narendra Bragta whose death in June necessitated the bypoll. The party decided to go with 52-year-old Neelam Saraik as the high command is against promoting dynastic politics. It was also reasoned that Chetan was merely the head of the party’s IT wing and did not have substantial experience in electoral politics. Saraik’s belongs to a family of horticulturists. She joined the BJP in 1997 and rose in the ranks to become the vice-president of the Shimla district Mahila Morcha in 2004 and remained its president till 2010. Later, she served as general secretary of state Mahila Morcha and is its spokesperson at present. She was pradhan of the Baghar panchayat and zila parishad thrice from Tharola ward in Jubbal and Kotkhai. BJP reposes faith in Ratan Pal Singh in Arki In Arki, the BJP reposed faith in Ratan Pal Singh. He had contested the elections against six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh but lost. Ratan Pal is vice-president of the HP State Co-operative Development Corporation. Wrangling for ticket in Fatehpur In Fatehpur, vice-president Kripal Parmar and local leader Baldev Thakur were being touted as the frontrunners, but the BJP chose to go with Baldev. He is currently a member of state party working committee He had earlier contested the 2012 assembly election on party ticket from Fatehpur, but lost to the Congress’ Sujan Singh Pathania. However, he was denied ticket in 2017 elections and was replaced with Kripal Parmar. Baldev rebelled and contested the election as an Independent, securing over 13,000 votes which ultimately led to BJP candidate Parmar’s defeat as the Congress won the seat. Fake list circulates on social media, BJP files plaintHimachal Pradesh BJP filed a complaint at the Shimla cyber crime police station after a fake list of candidates started doing rounds on social media before the party officially declared its nominees. BJP office-bearer Pyar Singh Kanwar alleged that before the party announced its candidates, a false press release was circulated on social media (WhatsApp) by an anonymous person impersonating BJP national general secretary Arun Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bypoll-bjp-pits-brigadier-kushal-against-pratibha-singh-in-mandi-101633577940786.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Religious places in Maharashtra to reopen from today||Religious places across Maharashtra will reopen from today, day 1 of the nine-day Navratri festival, as announced by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's office (CMO) last month. “All places of worship will reopen from the first day of Navratri, i.e., 7th October, 2021, while observing all Covid-19 safety protocols,” the CMO had announced in a tweet on September 24. All places of worship will reopen for devotees from the first day of Navaratri, i.e., 7th October 2021, while observing all COVID safety protocols. The Thackeray-led government had resisted immense pressure from the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to announce the reopening of places of worship, even as it gradually relaxed Covid-19 restrictions in the state. Last month, the administration had announced restrictions for festivals such as Ganesh Chaturthi and Janmashtami.Also Read | BMC allows reopening of places of worship in Mumbai from Oct 7 at 50% capacityAdditionally, the reopening of religious places comes in the backdrop of, and due to, low number of daily virus cases in the western state. Over the last few days, Maharashtra has seen just over 2000 coronavirus infections each day. On Wednesday, 2876 people tested positive for the viral illness, while 90 succumbed due to it, a health department bulletin showed.The improvement in the state's Covid-19 situation has also led to the reopening of schools here; physical lectures resumed on October 4 for classes 5-12 in rural areas and 8-12 in urban areas. The government has also allowed establishments such as theatres and auditoriums to reopen after October 22 while strictly following all Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/religious-places-in-maharashtra-to-reopen-from-today-101633565809669.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Soldier dies by suicide inside camp in Jammu||An Army man allegedly died by suicide inside a camp in the outskirts of Jammu, officials said on Wednesday. The sepoy was found hanging with a rope at the camp in Domana area on Tuesday evening, the officials said. The body of the deceased was sent to the Government Medical College (GMC) hospital for postmortem and inquest proceedings were started, they said.The motive behind his taking such an extreme step was not known immediately, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soldier-dies-by-suicide-inside-camp-in-jammu-101633566120487.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two youngsters killed as vehicle plunges into gorge in Reasi||Two youngsters were killed when their vehicle skidded off the road and plunged into a deep gorge in Reasi district on Wednesday. The victims Sourav Thakur, 18, of Nagrota and Bachiter Singh, 24, of Mahore. Reasi senior superintendent of police Shailender Singh said, “The accident occurred at Dugga in Sawlakote area, which is a remote and hilly area, between 10.30am to 11 am. There were only two occupants inside the sports-utility vehicle,” he said. The police had a hard time recovering the bodies, which were handed over to family members after post-mortem examination. It is suspected that Thakur, who was at the wheel, lost control of the car, while negotiating a sharp bend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-youngsters-killed-as-vehicle-plunges-into-gorge-in-reasi-101633565759901.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Still with National Conference, says Devender Rana amid speculations of him leaving the party||National Conference provincial president Devender Singh Rana on Wednesday said he was still with the party amid speculations that the businessman-turned-politician was likely to join the BJP.Rana, who was in Srinagar, met party president Farooq Abdullah and vice president Omar Abdullah at their Gupkar residence. He said he had come to condole the death of one of the Abdullahs’ relatives who had passed away in the United States. “I was here for condolences. And it is always a pleasure to meet Farooq and Omar sahib,” he said.For the past few days, speculations have been rife that Rana, who is the younger brother of Union minister Jitendra Singh, was leaving the NC and likely to join the BJP. Rana, however, said he would share with the media his future plans “if there is anything.”The leader is the most prominent Hindu face of the National Conference and had won the Nagrota assembly seat on an NC ticket in 2014, despite the massive Modi wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/still-with-national-conference-says-devender-rana-amid-speculations-of-him-leaving-the-party-101633565219956.html
07-10-2021||Dehradun||PM Modi in Uttarakhand today, to dedicate 35 oxygen plants to nation from AIIMS Rishikesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will arrive in Uttarakhand today, and, during his visit, dedicate to the nation 35 Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants established under the PM CARES Fund, as informed by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) on Wednesday. The ceremony will begin at 11am at AIIMS Rishikesh, the PMO's statement noted.Also Read | PM Modi to dedicate 35 oxygen plants to nation at AIIMS Rishikesh on Oct 7“I would be in Devabhoomi Uttarakhand tomorrow. 35 PSA Oxygen Plants across various states and UTs would be dedicated to the nation. This is vital healthcare infrastructure for larger public benefit,” PM Modi said in a tweet ahead of his visit. I would be in Devbhoomi Uttarakhand tomorrow, 7th October. 35 PSA Oxygen Plants across various States and UTs would be dedicated to the nation. This is vital healthcare infrastructure for larger public benefit. https://t.co/dFfzwSSIOrThe inauguration of these oxygen plants will mean that every district in the country will be host to a commissioned PSA oxygen plant, the PMO statement noted, adding that till now, 1224 such facilities have been funded under PM CARES all across the country. “Of these, more than 1100 plants have been commissioned, providing an output of over 1750 MT oxygen per day,” it read.The statement also noted that the project to commission a PSA oxygen plant under PM CARES was executed while "dealing with complex challenges of hilly areas, islands and territories with difficult terrain. More than 7000 personnel look after operations and maintenance of these plants, the statement said.Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Uttarakhand governor Lieutenant General (Retired) Gurmit Singh and chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami will also be present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/pm-modi-in-uttarakhand-today-to-dedicate-35-oxygen-plants-to-nation-from-aiims-rishikesh-101633563951596.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Congress appoints team to manage bypolls||A day after announcing candidates for four byelections to one parliamentary and three assembly segments, the Congress on Wednesday appointed a 50-member team, including coordinators, observers and a control room team to manage the polls.The Mandi parliamentary constituency and Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segments will go to polls on October 30.As per the notification issued by All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for party affairs in Himachal Rajeev Shukla, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore and Congress Legislative Party leader Mukesh Agnihotri will coordinate between observers, while general secretary (organisation) Rajneesh Kimta will assist them.Former ministers Kaul Singh Thakur, Asha Kumari and Sudhir Sharma, former speaker Gangu Ram Musafir, former state Congress president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu , MLAs, Inder Dutt Lakhanpal Vikramaditya Singh and Vinay Kumar, former MLAs Kuldeep Pathania, Bambar Thakur, Sanjay Rattan and Ashray Sharma have been appointed as observers for Mandi Lok Sabha seat.The nine-member team of observers for the Fatehpur assembly segment include former minister GS Bali, former MPs Chander Kumar and Suresh Chandel, MLAs Rajinder Rana and Pawan Kajal, former MLA Kuldeep Kumar, former Dharamshala Mayor Devinder Singh Jaggi, Karan Pathania and Vishal Chambiyal.Former MP Viplove Thakur, MLAs Harshvardhan Chauhan, Anirudh Singh and Mohan Lal Brakta, former MLA Sohan Lal and Suresh Kumar and Manish Thakur will observe the election of Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segment.Former Ministers Dhani Ram Shandil, Harsh Mahajan and Ram Lal Thakur, MLAs Lakhwinder Rana, Inder Dutt Lakhanpal and Satpal Raizada, former MLAs Rajesh Dharmani and Ram Kumar and Vinod Sultanpuri, Ajay Solanki and Amit Nanda have been appointed as observers for Arki Assembly segment.The control room team will be headed by state general secretary Kewal Singh Pathnaia. Maheshwar Chauhan, Harikrishna Himral, Deepak Sharma, Yashpal Tanaik, Sushant Kapret and Baldev Thakur are other members in the control team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-congress-appoints-team-to-manage-bypolls-101633564679789.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mandi bypoll: Developmental work by Virbhadra to be poll plank, says Pratibha Singh||A day after the Congress announced her candidature from the Mandi parliamentary constituency, former MP Pratibha Singh said her poll planks will be the developmental work carried out by her late husband, six-time Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh, and the BJP government’s anti-people policies. “Though he (Virbhadra Singh) is not among the people anymore, the developmental projects undertaken under his tenure have not been forgotten,” said Pratibha, adding that though Mandi was the home turf of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, no major development works had been undertaken in the district over the last four years, “Development in the state, including the Mandi parliamentary constituency, has virtually come to a standstill. Inflation and unemployment are on the rise and almost all sections of society are angry,” she said. Confident of her chances of winning, Pratibha said, “Mandi is not new turf for me. I have represented the Lok Sabha constituency twice, while my husband had been elected from Mandi thrice.”  “The election will be challenging, but people of the state wanted me to contest the election. People want to pay tribute to Virbhadra Singh for the development he has done in the state. We will also take up farmers and apple growers’ issues,” she said. Pratibha Singh won the first election from Mandi in 2004. In 2012, Virbhadra Singh who was then MP from Mandi, vacated the seat to return as chief minister of Himachal Pradesh and Pratibha Singh fought the 2013 byelection, which she won by a margin of more than 1.36 lakh votes, defeating the incumbent chief minister Jai Ram Thakur who was the BJP candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-bypoll-developmental-work-by-virbhadra-to-be-poll-plank-says-pratibha-singh-101633564141893.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Police begin Probe as fresh video surfaces||Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday began its probe into the death of eight people in violence at Lakhimpur Kheri three days ago and asked local residents to help in the investigation,The development came on a day a new video surfaced and was put out by Opposition politicians. The farmers blame Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni and his son Ashish, who deny the charges.The new 45-second video was clearer than earlier clips that surfaced on Tuesday. It showed a crowd shouting as a Mahindra Thar rams into the crowd. Neither the identities of those in the video nor the source and veracity of the clip could be ascertained.UP police additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar said, “All the videos and photographs of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident surfacing up will be authenticated and included in the investigations.“A seven-member investigation team led by assistant superintendent of police Arun Kumar Singh visited the spot at Banbirpur village under Tikunia police station limit and interrogated some villagers. No arrests were made so far, a senior police official said on condition of anonymity. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday.Additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar said: “All the videos and photographs of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident surfacing up will be authenticated and included in the investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/police-begin-probe-as-fresh-video-surfaces-101633563472071.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Gangsters Tillu and Naveen Bali arrested in Gogi murder||Jailed gangsters, Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuriya and Naveen Dabas alias Naveen Bali, have been arrested for the murder of Jitender Maan alias Gogi inside a courtroom in Delhi’s Rohini courts last month, officials aware of the developments said on Wednesday.Earlier, police arrested two men Umang Yadav and Vinay Yadav for helping the two gunmen, who posed as lawyers and entered courtroom number 207, where they shot Gogi dead during a hearing on September 24. The two gunmen, Rahul Tyagi and Jagdeep alias Jagga, were shot dead by the police team just seconds after they shot at Gogi killing him on the spot.The crime branch is probing Gogi’s murder that capped a decade-long rivalry between him and Tajpuriya. Until his arrest in March 2020, Gogi, a resident of Alipur in outer Delhi, had at least 19 criminal cases, and topped the list of Delhi police’s most wanted men.Police said they are also probing jailed gangster Neeraj Bawana’s role in the case, even as they are yet to find any substantial evidence against him.“Naveen Bali is a key member of Neeraj Bawana’s gang. We are yet to find evidence on Bawana’s role apart from the fact that Bali brought one of the hired killers. The killer posed as a lawyer and entered the court that morning according to the plan,” said a crime branch officer.The officer added that Tillu Tajpuriya and Bali have confessed that joined hands to eliminate Gogi inside the court.To be sure, the confession of the two men before the police will not be admissible as evidence in court.Meanwhile, as a precaution to prevent gang wars in the prison, the jail authorities on Saturday transferred Bali’s brother Rahul Kala to another cell within the jail complex.Kala is another key member of the Neeraj Bawana gang, who has been named in several murder cases registered against Bawana.A second crime branch officer, who asked not to be named, said after Bali’s questioning, police will seek custody of another jailed Uttar Pradesh gangster Sunil Rathi. To be sure, Rathi is yet to be arrested or named as an accused in Gogi murder case.Prison officers have transferred Rathi to another jail within the Mandoli complex because of the threat to his life. Rathi, who was once one of the most wanted men in Uttar Pradesh, murdered gangster Munna Bajrangi inside the Baghpat jail on July 9, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangsters-tillu-and-naveen-bali-arrested-in-gogi-murder-101633561928837.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Judge critical of police probe in delhi riots cases transferred to rouse avenue||The Delhi high court on Wednesday transferred 11 judicial officers, including additional sessions judge (ASJ) Vinod Yadav, who was hearing the north-east Delhi riots cases.ASJ Yadav was transferred from the Karkardooma Court to the Rouse Avenue court; and Special Judge (PC Act) (CBI) Virender Bhatt has been sent to Karkardooma.Yadav has passed several orders criticising the Delhi Police’s probe in the riots, prompting Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana to form a special investigative cell (SIC) to monitor the progress in the cases. He also ordered that police officers who were posted in north-east Delhi during the riots have since been transferred, should be roped in for probe.In one of the orders in July, Yadav imposed a fine of ₹25,000 on the Delhi Police for what the court called a “casual, callous and farcical” investigation into the complaint by a man who was shot in his left eye during the communal riots in February last year.The public notice issued by the Delhi high court listing the names of the judges who have been transferred said: “..the Chief Justice and Judges of this Court have been pleased to make the following postings/transfers in the Delhi Higher Judicial Service with immediate effect.”The transferred judicial officers have been directed to notify the cases in which they have reserved judgments or orders before relinquishing the charge, the public notice signed by Registrar General Manoj Jain said.Last year, the Delhi high court designated two sessions and two magisterial courts for the trial of communal violence cases registered in north-east and Shahdara districts of the national capital.Communal clashes broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, after violence between the Citizenship (Amendment) Act supporters and its protesters spiraled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/judge-critical-of-police-probe-in-delhi-riots-cases-transferred-to-rouse-avenue-101633561674326.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||DU application window under 1st cut-off closes, 18k admissions so far||Applications for admissions under the first cut-off for over 70,000 undergraduate seats in 60 Delhi University colleges ended on Wednesday, with official data indicating that out of around 59,000 applications received till 7 pm, nearly 18,000 students had completed the admission process by paying the fee. The number is expected to increase as students can pay the fee till Friday.Of the 11 courses that saw a 100% cut-off, colleges said most are likely to see a second cut-off.Last year, of the 59,730 students who applied under the first cut-off, 34,814 had paid the fee on the last day of receiving applications, with 6,000 approved candidates remaining to pay the fee.This year, 59,525 students applied for admissions under the first cut-off, of which 17,913 had paid the fee till Wednesday evening and 12,000 approved candidates remaining to pay the fee.At Hindu College, which had set a cut-off of 100% in Political Science, around 150 students will be admitted to the course which has 49 seats in total. “Around 109 students have already paid the fee and 48 more have been approved by the principal. Out of these admissions, at least 100 are in the unreserved category,” said an official from the college’s admissions team.Officials across top DU colleges said admissions were likely to close in subjects like Political Science and Science courses, adding that they will be able to give a clearer picture only on Friday, when the window to pay college fees closes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-application-window-under-1st-cut-off-closes-18k-admissions-so-far-101633561193301.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||‘Permits came too late’: For 2nd year, Delhi will miss 180-year-old Ramlila||Like last year, the over 180-year-old Ramlila organised by the Shri Ramlila Committee (SRC) in Chandni Chowk will not take place, with the members of the committee saying that the authorities in the state granted permission for festivities too late.Started during the reign of Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar, a Ramlila savaari or procession from Chandni Chowk to Ajmeri Gate used to be a highlight of the celebrations before the pandemic.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) gave a go-ahead to Ramlila celebrations, following Covid-appropriate norms such as 50% limit on seating capacity, on September 29 but organisers have to get separate permissions for the festivities.“We had applied for permission for holding both the procession and events at the Ramlila grounds... but got the permission only two days ago. How can we then hold the Ramlila when we don’t have the infrastructure ready at the moment,” said Rajesh Khanna, general secretary of the committee, adding that the preparations for the Ramlila took over a month.Ramlila celebrations usually begin on the first day of Navaratri, which falls on Thursday this year.“The Covid situation is under the control right now. We hope that this continues and we are able to hold the Ramlila in a grand manner next year,” he said.Khanna and other committee members said the Ramlila has only been disrupted thrice in recent history. “Last year, the Ramlila could not take place due to the pandemic. This year too, it will not take place. Before this, it did not take place in the period after Partition, in 1947-48. Ours is the oldest Ramlila of the city and it was supported by the Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar. There have been disruptions but hopefully, we will be able to hold the Ramlila from next year as before ,” said Vijay Saarthi, a committee member.Sanjay Bhargava, president of the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, a traders body, said the Ramlila procession used to be a big highlight during the festival season and drew people from across the city. “Every day around 4pm, the procession would start from Esplanade Road and would end at the Ramlila maidan at Ajmeri Gate. For the entire duration of 9-10 days, residents would come out on the streets to watch the spectacle. There used to be a festive atmosphere for everyone, including residents and vendors,” said Bhargava.He said that the prospects of the Ramlila had dimmed over the past few years, with many residents moving out to different areas. “Pandemic affected the scale of the Ramlila but there are other reasons as well. The charm is gradually fading since people have moved to other areas,” said Bhargava.Meanwhile, other Ramlila committees are also holding muted celebrations this year on account of Covid concerns.Shri Dharmik Lila Committee, which has been organising the Ramlila since 1924, will hold celebrations over a five-day period. “We do not want to aggravate the pandemic situation and so, we will not hold the Ramlila the way we usually do. However, we will hold the Ramlila over a period of five days at the ISKCON Temple,” said Ravi Jain, a functionary of the committee.A Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to requests for comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/permits-came-too-late-for-2nd-year-delhi-will-miss-180-year-old-ramlila-101633560498492.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress protests against election commission outside Chandigarh DC office||The Chandigarh unit of the Congress staged a protest against the state election commission in front of the deputy commissioner’s (DC’s) office in Sector 17 here on Wednesday.The Congress is demanding immediate declaration of the reserved wards for the forthcoming MC elections.HS Lucky, general secretary and chief spokesperson of the Chandigarh Congress, said, “An all-party meeting should be immediately convened and draw for reservation of women and scheduled caste seats should be done.” The protesters demanded that the dates and schedule of the municipal corporation elections be announced immediately so that a fair and level-playing field is given to all.“It appears to us and residents of Chandigarh that the election commission and Chandigarh administration are biased in their approach and not acting neutral,” said Subhash Chawla, president, Chandigarh Territorial Congress Committee.Congress leader and former MP Pawan Bansal’s son, Manish Bansal, also criticised the administration for “acting partial”. Among others present during the protest were leader of opposition in MC Devinder Singh Babla, women wing leader Deepa Dubey and Youth wing incharge Manoj Lobana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-protests-against-election-commission-outside-chandigarh-dc-office-101633560659528.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh toilet scam: Non-bailable warrants issued against two accused||The Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) special court on Wednesday issued non-bailable warrants against two accused in the infamous toilet scam pertaining to the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) wherein the exchequer had incurred losses worth ₹13.66 crore. Warrants have been issued against two of the prime accused — Jimmy Subawalla, director of Selvel Media Services, and Bishwadeep Dutta, general manager of the company — after they failed to appear before the court on Wednesday. The case is now listed for October 11. The court had allowed the application filed on the behalf of Mysa Ganesh, director, outdoor communication, Selvel Media Services, seeking exemption from appearance. The court is yet to frame charges against Subawalla, Dutta, Ganesh and Ramesh Chander Diwan, former superintending engineer, who is also among the key accused. In the chargesheet submitted by the CBI on October 1, 2016, all accused were booked under sections 13 (2) read with 13 (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The toilet scam pertains to the operation and maintenance of 86 public toilets between 2006 and 2014. No need of prosecution sanction of retired officer: CBI CBI had filed a reply to the application moved by Ramesh Chander Diwan, former superintending engineer, seeking discharge from the charges on grounds that prosecution sanction was not taken by competent authority. In its reply, CBI said that in case of a retired officer, the prosecution sanction is not required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-toilet-scam-non-bailable-warrants-issued-against-two-accused-101633560539278.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali police nab drug peddler with 260gm heroin||A Punjab Police special task force (STF) on Wednesday arrested a drug peddler with 260 gram of heroin in his possession. STF Ropar Range’s AIG Kashmir Singh Gill said Jagtar Singh alias Tari was arrested from Lakhnaur village in Mohali. He said he was a resident of Faridkot and currently residing in a rented accommodation in Bhagomajra village here. “We had specific inputs about the drug trade being run from a housing society in Bhagomajra. A team led by ASI Avtar Singh was present at a checkpost near Phase 4 when the accused was on his way to meet a client and nabbed him,” he added. The AIG said Tari’s three-day police remand has been sought and in preliminary interrogation, he revealed that he was earlier booked by the Faridkot police under the Arms Act for firing in the air. He used to work at a sweet shop and joined a bank as a security guard after obtaining an arms licence, the cop said, adding that he later started working at liquor vend. There he met some drug peddlers and to make easy money, entered the smuggling business, he added. A case has been registered against him under Section 21 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act at the STF’s police station in Phase 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-nab-drug-peddler-with-260gm-heroin-101633560059383.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Process set in motion to make Chandigarh an educational, commercial hub: Adviser||Process to transform Chandigarh Beautiful into an educational, healthcare and commercial hub of the region has been set in motion.New facilities and infrastructure will be created in the city to attract educational, health institutions and opportunities for trade and commerce.Confirming the development, UT adviser Dharam Pal, said, “There are three areas where we are focusing on. Making the city a commercial centre in the region besides converting it into an educational and healthcare hub.” The adviser would review the previously planned project of ‘Edu City’. “I will also visit the area where the Edu City was planned for better assessment of the potential and aspects,” Pal said. “Trading can take place even as firms keep their manufacturing units in neighbouring cities like Panchkula. There is no major scope or intention to expand manufacturing in the city. But the trading and commerce part can be centered here,” he added. The city was earlier considered as the educational hub in the region, but in the past few years, Mohali has slowly emerged as a major alternative with a number of private and public-sector educational institutions of national and international stature attracting students from the region. While City Beautiful leads in premium public health infrastructure such as the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Mohali has seen mushrooming of multiple options in the medical education and healthcare sector.“Mohali is being projected as a destination for health tourism with its many private hospitals. Previous attempts of the Chandigarh administration to expand the health infrastructure in the city has failed to take-off,” said a UT official. The administration is looking to overcome the constraint of availability of land through introduction of a land pooling policy. “Bengaluru-based Indian Institute of Human Settlement has been entrusted with the task of formulating a land aggregation and pooling policy. This is expected to bring forth surplus land for development works,” Pal said.Most of the potential vacant land is locked in different pockets predominantly in villages. A major chunk of this land is facing serious threat of encroachments and illegal constructions. “A village development plan is in works which will allow integration of villages in the sectoral plan of the city. It is a challenging task, but will pave way for better development opportunities,” the UT adviser said. International meet in collaboration with UNDPIn one of the steps to realise these objectives, the UT administration will hold an international-level meet in collaboration with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to formulate ‘Chandigarh Vision 2050’. The two-day event is planned to be held within this month.“We will bring in international experts in urban planning, transport, civic and municipal issues on a common platform. Intensive brainstorming sessions will be held to gauge how well we are doing, how to meet future challenges and what is the vision for city’s future,” said Pal. The event will be comprising workshops and seminars on six sectors.As per UT officials, this is the first time when administration is planning such endeavours for the city’s future. ‘Chandigarh Master Plan 2031’ was finalised nearly seven years ago, but a little progress has been made in achieving the goals set therein. Issues related to it will also be delved upon during the meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/process-set-in-motion-to-make-chandigarh-an-educational-commercial-hubadviser-101633559819279.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two oxygen generation plants to be inaugurated today||In an effort to augment the medical facilities in the city amid the possibility of the third wave of the Covid pandemic, two pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants will be inaugurated in Chandigarh on Thursday. One of these plants is among the 35 such units to be virtually inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi under the PM CARES fund across 35 states and union territories.The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has already installed two oxygen generation plants on its campus, each with a capacity to generate 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute (LPM). One of these plants will be inaugurated by UT administrator and Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit and Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher. UT adviser Dharam Pal will also be present on the occasion. Both the plants, however, are already operational. The second plant to be inaugurated is at the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, which is capable of generating 500 LPM. So far, four oxygen generation plants have been set up at Chandigarh’s four government health institutes (including the two plants which will be formally inaugurated on Thursday) with a cumulative capacity to generate 3,600 liters of medical oxygen per minute. Besides, four more oxygen plants are being established at various government hospitals in the UT with the help of donations from non-governmental organisations. Once operational, 2,000 LPM oxygen will be added to the Chandigarh’s in-house generation capacity. During the second wave, the demand for oxygen had suddenly increased with the rise in patient load and the UT administration had to request the Centre to raise its oxygen quota from 20MT to 35MT. “The UT government hospitals are now self-sufficient in generating medical oxygen and we will be able to handle the demand in case of emergency in the third wave. Besides, we are requesting private hospitals of Chandigarh, with the bed capacity of over 50, to set up their own oxygen generation plants so that we do not face any shortage at the time of crisis. We are conducting regular meetings with private hospitals and are helping them to install the plants,” said Yashpal Garg, Chandigarh health secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-oxygen-generation-plants-to-be-inaugurated-today-101633559399262.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Sanitation workers slammed for poor cleanliness in Delhi||The Delhi high court on Wednesday came down heavily on municipal employees, especially safai karamcharis, for not discharging their duty of keeping the city clean and leaving it in a “dismal state of cleanliness”.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh, while hearing a clutch of pleas on the non-payment of salaries and pensions to municipal employees, said the court was not obliged to come to the aid of municipal workers and press for payment of salaries when they were not discharging their functions on the ground.“While on one hand, we are pressing for payment of salaries and pensions, it appears that the municipal employees, especially safai karamcharis, are not discharging their duty. As a result, in the city, there is an increase in cases of dengue; garbage and malba; and broken roads and pavements,” the bench said.“They have to do some work. On the ground, there is nothing. Hundreds of crores (of rupees) is rolled out (as salaries and pensions). This is the dismal state of affairs. What is happening to the city? Where is the sense of responsibility of the petitioners and the municipal corporations? At the end of the day, it is the citizens who are suffering. The city is falling; it can’t go down any further,” the court said.Referring to the cleanliness in Sainik Farms, the court said the area continues to be dirty and shabby.“Not a single piece of plastic has been removed from there. It continues to be just as dirty and shabby... cows are eating all that plastic; they will die,” justice Sanghi said.“We want to make the city world class and there is dirt everywhere,” justice Jasmeet Singh added.Appearing for the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, standing counsel Divya Prakash Pande told the court that the employees go on strike at a drop of the hat and stage protests at the municipal body’s headquarters.The court responded that it would “not exercise its discretionary jurisdiction” if the petitioner employees resort to “unjustified and frivolous strikes”.“You can’t have it both ways. You can’t put a gun to our head.. They will have to take consequences. Enough is enough,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sanitation-workers-slammed-for-poor-cleanliness-in-delhi-101633558984813.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Man held for making fake RTO websites||A 30-year-old Ghaziabad resident has been arrested for creating fake websites of different regional transport offices and duping people of money to the tune of ₹70 lakh. Police said the man, Kapil Tyagi, lived in Raj Nagar Extension, and duped at least 3,300 people through the fake websites.Deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) KPS Malhotra said police on October 2 received a complaint from the director of the ministry of road transport and highways about these fake websites. The official informed the police that there were several such websites all claiming to represent different RTOs and duping people by promising them RTO-related services.DCP Malhotra said police registered a case and traced the bank accounts to which the money was credited by victims. “Analysis of information and documents led to the arrest of accused Kapil Tyagi from his house in Raj Nagar Extension,” Malhotra said, adding that Tyagi, is originally from Muzaffarnagar and has studied up to Class 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-held-for-making-fake-rto-websites-101633558694873.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||E-mails seeking favour sent out from PGIMER director’s fake ID||Police are on the lookout for an unidentified person who created a fake e-mail ID of the PGIMER director to contact faculty members “for a favour”. In his complaint, Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, said a number of emails, mentioning “I need a favour”, were sent to the faculty members on October 4. The matter came to light after the recipients approached the director to enquire about the matter. Following Dr Ram’s complaint, police registered a case under Section 66D of the Information Technology Act at the Sector 11 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/emails-seeking-favour-sent-out-from-pgimer-director-s-fake-id-101633558799662.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Shekhar’s pre-Blue Line chai||Here’s a persuasive reason to patronise a pavement chai place. The owner is so committed to his stall that he has its name tattooed on his arm. Shekhar Chai is engraved on Shekhar’s right arm, in Hindi.The chai is rich with the invigorating flavour of freshly crushed ginger. It is served in old-fashioned earthen kulhad that lends the chai a sensory taste of the wet earth. There’s yet another compelling reason to make this pavement stall your new friend. Shekhar Chai is located in a part of the Capital where it happens to be older than many of the surrounding landmarks. It stands right under the elevated track of the Blue Line Metro—no subway route was here when the modest establishment came up more than 20 years ago. It lies across the road from Pacific Mall—no mall was here either. It is adjacent to many multi-storeys—not one was here earlier.“This was a jungle of kikar,” gushes Shekhar. In his late 20s now, he started giving a helping hand to his father—Sikander, the stall founder—since his childhood days. This afternoon, Shekhar is alone at the stall. “That area used to be full of pigs,” he says, waving towards the aforementioned mall. By now, a few auto rickshaw drivers have gathered for his chai and the talk settles on the locality’s drastic transformation. The verdict isn’t flattering—too much noise and smog now. Shekhar’s is the only dissenting voice. “I have more customers coming to the stall than ever before.”One of the tea drinkers comments on the high cost of living. That triggers Shekhar to crib about the current price of milk compared to what it was 20 years ago. The now-and-then juxtaposition prompts everyone to get nostalgic about the old days. Amid the babble, the optimistic Shekhar asserts that the old lifestyle choices are staging a comeback. He points to his green-friendly kulhads. They had disappeared from tea shops but are showing up again. “We started to import (sic) them from Pilkhuwa (town) as customers were increasingly asking for kulhad wali chai… people are making a U-turn in search of quality.”The discussion ends with the tea. A new round of group chai later might start another impassioned chat session. The stall is open 24/7, and the stands in front of Metro pillar no. 172.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-shekhar-s-pre-blue-line-chai-101633558485415.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||2 new cases Covid cases detected in Ludhiana||Two fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative count of cases to 87,550, health officials said on Wednesday.As many as 85,433 patients have recovered from the disease so far, while 2,103 have succumbed. There were 14 active cases in the district as of Wednesday. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma appealed to residents to continue taking all precautions and follow the guidelines issued by the administration and government. The administration meanwhile celebrated its 3-millionth anti-Covid vaccine dose. Congratulating health warriors, including doctors and paramedics, for their remarkable efforts in this rare feat, municipal councillor (MC) Mamta Ashu and additional deputy commissioner (ADC)-cum-nodal officer vaccination Dr Nayan said this would further strengthen the fight against Covid-19. They said that Ludhiana is already the leading district with 30,41,898 Covid vaccinations, of which 21,58,459 beneficiaries have been inoculated with the first dose and 8,83,439 people got both doses till October 5. As per the data, 82% of the population in Ludhiana has received the first dose of vaccine and nearly 34% people are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-new-cases-covid-cases-detected-in-ludhiana-101633558559191.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi police to file FIR, probe allegations against Tihar jail officers||The Delhi Police crime branch will register an FIR to probe allegations of corruption against Tihar jail officers for allegedly helping former Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra with running a “secret underground office” in south Delhi from inside the prison, officials privy to the development said on Wednesday.The Supreme Court directed Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana to investigate the case. Asthana submitted his inquiry report last week, based on which the top court on Wednesday ordered the suspension of jail officers, and registration of FIR against them.Till late Wednesday night, the crime branch was yet to register an FIR. The prison headquarters was also yet to issue suspension orders of any jail officer. Officials in the crime branch, who asked not to be named, said the FIR is likely to be registered on Thursday after they formally receive a copy of the top court order. Prison officers too said they were yet to receive the copy of the inquiry report, and the names of the officers found guilty.Asthana questioned at least 18 jail officers of different ranks and recorded their statements. It was not immediately known how many officers Asthana has named in his report.“The suspension orders will be issued the moment a copy of the report is made available, and we see the names recommended for action in the report,” one prison officer, who asked not to be named, said.On September 30, HT reported that the police commissioner recorded the statements of at least three jail superintendents, four deputy superintendents and other prison officers as part of the probe. The SC had on August 26 directed the police chief to personally look into the role of prison officials after the Enforcement Directorate(ED) informed the court that jailed Unitech ex-promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra violated prison rules and also ran a “secret underground office” in south Delhi from inside Tihar jail with the help of jail officers.A mid-level jail officer, who asked not to be named, said, “The statement of around 15-18 prison officers were recorded. These prison officials were those who were posted in jail 1 and 7, where the Chandra brothers were lodged. We do not know who has been found guilty in the inquiry. Nobody is speaking a word here. It looks like at least two superintendents and some deputy superintendents will be suspended.”In the last week of September, the jail officers were called to the Delhi Police headquarters and questioned individually by Asthana. After recording their statement, police chief Asthana had also visited the prison complex for an inspection inside jail 7. Asthana and two senior police officers had also reportedly questioned Chandra brothers in two jails of Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-to-file-fir-probe-allegations-against-tihar-jail-officers-101633558260121.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC fails to curb use of plastic bags||With assembly elections scheduled next year, a special drive to impose a complete ban on plastic carry bags in the city has turned out to be a complete failure amid “political interference” in the working of the civic body.Commenced on August 2, the special drive launched on the directions of mayor Balkar Sandhu was conducted for just two days. Now, the MC employees are also showing resistance in continuing the drive suspecting “punishment posting” after MC secretary Jasdev Sekhon was transferred from the city on August 6 allegedly due to political interference.Sekhon was in charge of the 13-member committee formed for imposing the ban and was reportedly transferred from the city after he locked horns with the close aide of a senior Congress leader, who stopped Sekhon from taking action against shopkeepers in the Jawahar Nagar camp area.Though Sekhon was posted back in the city on September 10 after the MC employees’ union raised objections over the same, the drive failed to kick off again.One of the MC officials requesting anonymity said the drive was initiated on August 2 on the directions of the mayor and he assured to defend the employees against the pressure mounted by the plastic industry and politicians. The teams confiscated around 12 quintals of banned bags in two days and issued challans to the tune of ₹2 lakh. However, MC officials are showing resistance to restart the drive suspecting political interference after witnessing what happened with Sekhon. The government also wants to “delay” the action to avoid criticism ahead of the assembly elections. Also, the plastic industry representatives had met the mayor and sought relief during the festive season.The trade and use of plastic carry bags continue at every nook and corner of the city as the MC has failed to impose a ban on plastic carry bags, said the official while adding that the ban could not be imposed till politicians support the MC. Earlier too, drives were initiated but were put to a halt due to “political and plastic industry pressure”.Mayor Sandhu said, “There has been a reshuffle and new IAS/PCS officers have joined the Ludhiana MC. We are working to allocate branches to various officials and a special team will again be constituted for imposing a complete ban on plastic carry bags. There is no political pressure and the ban will be imposed at any cost.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-fails-to-curb-use-of-plastic-bags-101633558379110.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Suspend Tihar officials for helping Unitech promoters, says top court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday ordered the Delhi Police to immediately suspend officials of Tihar Jail and lodge a criminal case against them for helping former Unitech promoters Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra, accused of cheating and diverting money of homebuyers, in carrying out illegal activities from jail.The Chandra brothers, who are presently lodged separately at Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail and Taloja Central Jail, were removed from the Tihar Jail after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) probing alleged diversion of funds by Unitech found that witnesses in the case were being influenced and proceeds of crime dissipated in order to derail the investigation.On August 26, the Supreme Court directed the Chandra brothers to be shifted to Mumbai and ordered Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana to conduct a thorough probe into the matter.Submitting his report in a sealed cover on September 28, Asthana detailed the role played by jail officials in helping Chandra brothers and exposed chinks existing within the jail administration that needed to be remedied at the earliest.Additional solicitor general (ASG) KM Nataraj took the court through the report, which specifically named the jail officials involved and disclosed the next step of the Delhi Police to lodge a criminal case with the crime branch for the offences of corruption by a public servant under the Prevention of Corruption Act, and for destruction of evidence and criminal conspiracy under Section 201 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code.A bench of Supreme Court justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said: “We direct a full-fledged criminal investigation against the persons mentioned in the report and also other unknown persons whose identities will be revealed during investigation… In the meantime, we direct that the officials of Tihar Jail found prima facie complicit in course of enquiry be placed under suspension pending further proceedings.”To ensure such incidents do not occur in the future, the court directed the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) to come up with a proposed action plan on 23 points highlighted in Asthana’s report.“We direct the ministry of home affairs to respond to the suggestions contained in the report of commissioner of police so that remedial steps can be taken immediately, in terms of the report and in view of violation of Jail Manual, for enhanced prison management.”The top court gave the Centre four weeks to submit its action plan.The apex court also examined investigation reports submitted by the Serious Fraud investigation Office (SFIO) and ED. Additional solicitor general Madhavi Divan, appearing for ED and SFIO, said: “Some parties are not cooperating with the probe.” She pointed out to the arrest of three people in the case, including Sanjay Chandra’s wife Preeti Chandra and father, 82-year-old Ramesh Chandra, the founder of Unitech.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Sanjay Chandra, objected to secret reports against him being considered by the court and demanded a copy of the forensic audit report prepared by M/s Grant Thornton to be supplied to him. The bench refused as it said that this report was the basis for ED and SFIO to proceed against the accused that cannot be shared when the investigation was still on. Singh invited the wrath of the court as he accused the judiciary of doing injustice to his clients by not sharing the reports despite Unitech offering 100,000 flats to homebuyers.He disputed the conclusion arrived at by forensic auditors that money was diverted by the company without hearing them once and said the court will have to repent later if allegations are proved wrong during trial. He also questioned the arrest of Chandra’s father and wife by ED when the investigation was pending since 2018.The bench told the senior counsel to mind his words. “There should be some sense of responsibility in addressing the court. Is this the way to argue that you make allegations against the court and say you will have to repent later? Do not remind us of the law of the land. The ED has investigated independent of the Grant Thornton report. So don’t pitch your case too high.”Regarding the fresh arrests by ED, the bench was conscious of its duty not to disclose contents of an ongoing investigation, but rebutted Singh by saying: “There are reasons and reasons to arrest both of them (father and wife). We cannot disclose to you what is in the report, but this much we can say they are not innocent.”Giving further time for ED and SFIO to conduct further probe and file fresh status reports, the bench posted the matter to November. By the next date, the action plan on Tihar Jail by the ministry of home affairs shall also be made available, the bench held.The Chandra brothers are facing prosecution since 2015 in separate cases accusing them of cheating homebuyers of their hard-earned investments in 74 Unitech housing projects.A forensic audit ordered by the Supreme Court in 2018 revealed that the two accused siphoned off ₹1,749 crore to foreign countries which included Cyprus to which an amount of ₹290 crore was traced by auditor Samir Paranjpe, working with Forensic and Investigation Service of M/s Grant Thornton India.The audit report concluded that the Chandra brothers collected more than ₹14,200 crore from nearly 30,000 homebuyers as investment in their 74 projects. It was the claim of Unitech that they spent close to ₹26,000 crore in the projects, beyond what they received from homebuyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/suspend-tihar-officials-for-helping-unitech-promoters-says-top-court-101633557143964.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Govt should challenge high court order on Saini cases to expedite probe into sacrilege violence: Punjab special public prosecutor||Senior advocate Rajwinder Singh Bains, the newly appointed special public prosecutor in the post-sacrilege violence cases, said the Punjab government should immediately challenge the Punjab and Haryana high court order of September 10 staying probe into criminal cases involving former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini to ensure speedy justice in the cases.Bains said that Saini’s role is “central point” of the entire episode and it can’t be probed due to the September 10 judgment of the high court.“Circumstances have changed now. The state government has fresh grounds. Former chief minister Amarinder Singh and his media adviser BS Chahal, against whom Saini’s allegations of vendetta were directed at, are not in a position to influence the probe anymore. Therefore, either “quashing or stray order” needs to be secured so that SIT can start the probe,” he said. The HC on September 10 had stayed investigations against Saini in criminal cases till February 2020 observing that his involvement in multiple cases could be a “political ploy” in the wake of the upcoming assembly elections. Bains, who was appointed to deal with the four FIRs into the 2015 post-sacrilege violence incidents as advocate general APS Deol could not have appeared in these cases having defended Saini and suspended ADGP Paramraj Singh Umarangal. Bains said he has started examining the case documents. “In my discussions with the government officials, I have pointed out that this order (September 10 order) needs to be challenged as entire prosecution case hinges around Saini’s role,” he said.There is “legally no clean path” for the prosecution in this case and is “full of obstacles”, he added. “But I have to present the case on the basis of investigation carried out by police. I can’t dictate terms of probe. Also a lot will depend on how early we are able to clear the legal hurdles such as the high court order in Saini’s case,” Bains said. Then Amarinder Singh-led government had come under criticism, even from within the party, for tardy probe into these cases. Legal experts say that even in Behbal Kalan case in which challan has been presented, chargesheet names Saini and Umranangal, among others as accused. But the high court order on quashing of challans in the Kotkapura case casts a shadow on this case as well since the chargesheet was signed by former SIT member Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who later took premature retirement from the police force. This is one of the grounds taken by Saini and others in high court in the petitions filed challenging it. They say in view of Kotkapura judgment, this challan too stands vitiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/govt-should-challenge-high-court-order-on-saini-cases-to-expedite-probe-into-sacrilege-violence-punjab-special-public-prosecutor-101633556939106.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Inquiry marked after recording of lecturer abusing students surfaces||Taking note of an audio recording, district education officer, secondary on Wednesday marked an inquiry against a physics lecturer deputed at PAU Government senior Secondary School, Ludhiana, for allegedly misbehaving with and abusing Class 11th students.Students had complained that the physics lecturer abused them and also manhandled them.The students had recorded the abuses purportedly hurled by the teacher following which an inquiry was marked against the teacher.Meanwhile talking to HT, the lecturer defended himself. “I never got physical with anyone. I am a science teacher and these students belong to the arts stream. For the past month, they were body shaming me and making fun of me. They used to call me odd names and tease me. I am a heart patient and don’t lose my temper easily,” said the teacher.He added that when the students didn’t refrain from teasing him with disrespectful names, he abused them after he couldn’t take the insult anymore.According to the sources, a senior officer from the local administration handed over the recording to DEO Lakhvir Singh Samra, who is set to visit the PAU school on Friday to conduct a probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-inquiry-marked-after-recording-of-lecturer-abusing-students-surfaces-101633556898390.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to be made slum-free by March 2022||The UT administration has set March 2022 as the deadline for making the city slum-free, a major goal of the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031. In a meeting with senior UT officials on Wednesday, UT adviser Dharam Pal directed that those eligible for resettlement should be resettled and others evicted after being given due time.“The biggest site is Colony number 4 and other smaller pockets in the city will also be cleared by March 2022,” Pal said.Notably, the administration has previously also set deadlines to rid the city of slums, twice, in 2010 and 2017.The Estate Office has already reclaimed around 200 acres after razing Colony Number 5, Mazdoor Colony, Kuldeep Colony, Pandit Colony, Nehru Colony, Ambedkar Colony, Kajheri Colony and Madrasi Colony over the past few years.But though sizable progress has been made, the goal still remains elusive. “We should rehabilitate and resettle all 25,000 people identified by the biometric survey. But those who have settled later need to go. We will give adequate time to residents, two to three months, before forced eviction is undertaken by the administration. We cannot allow the process to linger on. The more it prolongs, more complicated it becomes,” said Pal.Clearing out Colony Number 4 biggest taskColony Number 4, in Industrial Area, is the second-biggest slum in Chandigarh after Colony Number 5, which was razed in 2013. While it originally housed over 7,000 people, the population is now down to around 5,000. Besides more slum pockets in Industrial Area, there are others in Manimajra, and Sectors 25 and 53.The administration has conducted biometric survey twice, say UT officials.The survey included thumb impressions, photographs, physical verification and voter identity card of residents seeking rehabilitation.During the 2006 survey, a large number of residents were declared ineligible on the grounds that their names were not on voters’ list, while many residents were not present during physical verification.Pal has directed the Deputy Commissioner (DC) office and the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) to coordinate on the issue. The DC Office gives the eligibility list to CHB that further allots the housing units. Stating that the administration was also working on alternative housing options, Pal, said “We have the capacity and will examine under which schemes, like rental housing scheme, these arrangements can be made.”Over the past year, CHB has rehabilitated slum dwellers from tin-shed colonies in Sectors 52 and 56 to the Rehabilitation Colony, Maloya, under the Chandigarh Small Flats Scheme 2006. It has also allotted around 2,500 flats to eligible residents of Colony Number 4 in Maloya. Around 500 flats are still vacant with CHB in Maloya.Overall, the administration has constructed more than 40,000 units in different areas, including Maloya, Ram Darbar, Mauli Jagran and Dhanas.Administrator briefed on Master PlanOn Wednesday, UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit also reviewed the Chandigarh Master Plan 2031 during a meeting with senior officials of the administration. The administrator was briefed on the master plan challenges, particularly the issues related to development and integration of 23 villages with the sectoral plan of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-be-made-slum-free-by-march-2022-101633556708193.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur project’s towers packed in tight vicinity, allottees drag builder to court||After GBP Group, real estate major Fortune Multitech Private Limited has found itself in soup over building violations at its 14-storey towers at a residential project in Peer Muchalla area of Zirakpur. The three towers, coming up as Victoria Heights, have been constructed without the required setback space between each tower, leaving inadequate area for fire tenders, alleges the resident welfare association (RWA) that has taken the builder to court. One-third space of the total height of the building should be left between two towers for sunlight, air and movement of fire tender. But this has not been ensured, a major violation under the National Building Code and Punjab Municipal Bylaws. No possession has been given yet. Not long ago, in August, the Supreme Court had ordered demolition of the realty firm’s twin 40-storey Supertech towers in Noida for violating building norms. In its order, the top court had said that it was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida Authority and the developer. In their petition before the Punjab and Haryana high court, the allottees, who have formed the RWA of the Victoria Heights society, have said they don’t want it to meet the same fate as the Noida project. The matter will next come up for hearing on November 8. Through an affidavit before the high court, the deputy director of Punjab local government admitted that the project has no approval under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulations, and permissions were given by the local civic body. The advocate representing the RWA, Mukesh Kumar Verma questioned the competency of the Zirakpur municipal council, stating that as the project did not have a licence, MC had no power to sanction the project. “Even the town and country planning department does not have the authority to give technical sanction in absence of consent of allottees,” he submitted. Speaking to HT, Verma said, “We have approached the high court as we don’t want problems later.” RWA president Parveen Bhadoo said, “Not only inadequate setback space, there are several violations. The builder has not even left a green belt and converted it into a tower. We will take this to a logical conclusion.” Sunny Garg, director of Fortune Multitech Private Limited, said, “Our buildings are coming up in line with norms. As the case is already in high court, we will comply with the court’s directions.” MC executive officer Girish Verma said, “We will seek a report on this and if violations are found, action will be taken accordingly.” Navreet Singh Kang, chairperson of Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Punjab, also said they will look into the violations. d.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-project-s-towers-packed-in-tight-vicinity-allottees-drag-builder-to-court-101633556706140.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navratris at Mansa Devi Temple: Book e-tokens before visit||The annual Navratri Mela will be held at the Mata Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula from October 7 to 14. Vinay Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner-cum-chief administrator of the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, said to avoid crowding, devotees need to collect e-tokens before visiting the shrine.These can be applied for on the board’s website www.mansadevi.org.in, or collected from near the Navratri Mela bus stand, HSVP Shopping Complex and the library at the temple’s main entrance. The counters will remain open from 6am to 10pm. “A total of 20 special buses will run for the convenience of devotees from Panchkula bus stand, Chandigarh’s Sector 43 ISBT and Zirakpur bus stand. Free e-rickshaw and CNG auto-rickshaws will also operate from Panchkula Singh Dwar and Manimajra bus stand to the temple, specifically for senior citizens and differently-abled,” he said in a statement.He added that adequate number of police force will be deployed to maintain law and order, and ensure smooth traffic movement. Comorbid people, those over 65 years of age, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 have been advised not to arrive at the temple and view the live telecast through the web channel at home.For preferential darshan through lift entry, devotees will have to register on the website for ₹50 per devotee, and up to 10 persons can be registered at a time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navratris-at-mansa-devi-temple-book-e-tokens-before-visit-101633556704453.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||A year after Chandigarh youth’s mysterious death, murder case lodged||A year after the mysterious death of a youth in Sector 22, police have registered a murder case on the directions of the court, following a plea filed by his father.The youth, identified as Vishal, had died after falling off the third floor of his friend’s house in June 2020. He had gone to stay with his friend, Anmol, who was staying in the house with his female friend.The youth’s father, Naresh Kumar Pinta, a resident of Model Jail Complex, Burail, who is deployed as a warder, had lodged a complaint in court on suspicion that his son was killed. He had pointed out that on the day his son was killed, his friends, Manpreet, Ekant alias Billa and Anmol, were present in the house.On July 31, 2020, forensic report had pointed out that the clothes of a female were found on the floor of the bathroom of the house and there were blood stains on the floor. There were two fresh bricks outside the bathroom.On directions of the court, a case against an unidentified person has been registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 17 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-year-after-chandigarh-youth-s-mysterious-death-murder-case-lodged-101633556701999.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Twin gold for Ambala’s Sarabjot at Junior Shooting World Championship||Sarabjot Singh cornered glory in the recently held Junior Shooting World Championship by winning twin gold medals at Peru.A student of DAV College, Sector 10, Chandigarh, Sarabjot who hails from Ambala, clinched first gold in the 10-metre air pistol mixed doubles event with Manu Bhaker, while the second win came in the men’s air pistol team event, comprising Naveen and Shiva Narwal, all from Haryana.Son of a farmer, 20-year-old Sarabjot from Dheen village of Ambala’s Barara block took part in the 10-day event, which was organised by the International Shooting Sports Federation from September 27, where 32 countries participated.“I had won two medals at the Asian Shooting Junior World Championships in 2019 and now I am preparing for nationals in November and Asiad games in 2022,” said the confident shooter.He added that his parents Jatinder Singh and Hardeep Kaur had always encouraged him to take up the sport.Sarabjot has been training at Ambala Cantt-based AR Shooting Academy in Central Phoenix Club under coach Abhishek Rana. He had tested positive for Covid-19 in March this year due to which he missed the Senior World Championship in New Delhi the same month, Rana said.“He has been getting professional training since 2016 here along with 30 students. The game requires the highest level of concentration, but during the lockdown it was tough. We continued practising in every possible way and here is the result,” his coach, also an international player, said.Sarabjot, along with his coach and fellow shooter Aditya Malka, met Haryana home minister Anil Vij at his residence on Wednesday after his return from South America.Vij said, “Sarabjot has made us proud once again. We have provided world-class facilities for such players to practice in their own hometowns. We have functional gymnastics and badminton halls, and upcoming projects like FIFA-approved football stadium with an athletics track and an all-weather swimming pool will surely provide an edge to Ambala in sports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/twin-gold-for-ambala-s-sarabjot-at-junior-shooting-world-championship-101633556700237.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amid rising complaints, toothless Punjab RERA wants more powers||With the GBP Group controversy bringing to fore several drawbacks in the functioning of the Punjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), the authority is planning to approach the state government to give it more teeth to protect the buyers.Though already under the scanner of RERA since 2019, the management of GBP Group managed to flee the country last month, leaving nearly 2,500 investors in the lurch.While the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 empowers the RERA to keep a check on builders fleecing buyers, it has no resources or powers to execute its orders on the ground. All decisions are passed on to the deputy commissioners for action as RERA has no authority on the civic bodies, the local development authorities, banks and other financial institutions involved between the conception and completion of the realty projects. 2019 order still not enforcedIn May 2019, upon inspecting the sites, RERA had found that a GBP Group project in New Chandigarh did not have basic statutory approvals, such as CLU, approvals of layout and building plans, and grant of licence to develop a colony. Therefore, a penalty of ₹1.5 crore was imposed and two months deadline was set for remedial measures.However, over two years later, the builder has paid up only ₹50 lakh of the penalty and has continued to sell more properties of the project, amid no progress on addressing the anomalies. An officer of the authority, requesting anonymity, said unlike other states in the country, the Punjab RERA did not have any executive or recovery officers, who were needed to ensure that builders complied with RERA orders and paid the penalties.RERA chairperson Navreet Singh Kang said, “We will take up the issue of more powers with the Punjab government. As far as the GBP Group is concerned, we have already decided to lodge a criminal complaint under Section 59(2) against them.”Buyers should exercise cautionKang said investors should always check the builders’ licence before investing in any project and check the completion certificate before accepting possession of a property.Over the past decade, Mohali, particularly its peripheral areas of Zirakpur, Kharar and New Chandigarh (Mullanpur), has emerged as tricity’s development hub. As such, it is no wonder that 65% of the complaints received by RERA, since its inception in 2017, are from buyers in Mohali district alone.“There are 1,078 registered projects in Punjab and 642 of these are in Mohali. Over 95% of the buyers’ complaints are about delay in possession of property, non-payment of interest and penalty, sale of flats to multiple buyers, unnecessary demands by builders and tardy progress of projects,” said Kang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-rising-complaints-toothless-punjab-rera-wants-more-powers-101633556699180.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Bail to man jailed for 12 yrs over role in ’08 Delhi blasts||The Delhi high court on Wednesday granted bail to a man who was lodged in the jail for the last 12 years for his alleged role in the 2008 Delhi serial blasts, saying that courts must attend to the legal or constitutional rights of people before they are dead.“Courts should not play coroner and attend to legal or constitutional rights only after they are dead. Instead, we must play doctor, and save such rights from demise before they are extinguished. Courts should proactively step in to protect such rights from being stifled and buried,” a bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani said.“If equity calls upon affected persons to be vigilant to protect their rights, then surely the courts must also be vigilant, and, to quote the Supreme Court, act as sentinels on the qui vive when it comes to protecting constitutional and legal rights,” the bench added.The court said that Mohammad Hakim’s incarceration of more than 12 years as an under-trial “would certainly qualify as a long enough period for the system to acknowledge that his right to speedy trial continues to be defeated”.Hakim was accused of carrying cycle ball-bearings from Lucknow to Delhi that, according to the police, were subsequently used to make IEDs used in the 2008 Delhi serial blasts. The case is at the stage of examination of the prosecution witness.The accused, in custody since February 2009, approached the high court in appeal against a trial court order rejecting his bail application in the criminal case under several provisions of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, Explosive Substances Act, 1908 and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.The prosecution contended that the alleged offences were grave and heinous.It was stated terrorist outfit Indian Mujahideen had taken the responsibility for the serial bomb blasts in different places in Delhi on September 13, 2008 that left 26 people dead and 135 injured.In its judgment, the court noted that despite 256 witnesses being examined over 12 years, 60 prosecution witness were still to be examined.The high court bench observed that even if it is assumed that the accused would be awarded a life sentence after the completion of the trial, he has already undergone more than half the sentence he may eventually face.The court also refused to assume that Hakim might be awarded capital punishment, saying that the death sentence was for “rarest of rare” cases and could not be treated as the “default punishment”.“In the present case, if the State plans to seek the capital sentence for the appellant, it is therefore all the more necessary that the appellant be afforded a speedy trial; failing which, the appellant deserves at least to be given back his liberty after more than 12 long years of imprisonment as an undertrial, since it cannot be ignored that as of now, the appellant has undergone punishment for more than a decade of his life, for an alleged offence for which he has not yet been found guilty,” the court said.Noting that the accused was enrolled in a B.Tech (Biotechnology) degree course at the Integral University, Lucknow for the 2008-2009 sessions, the court asked, “In the event of acquittal, how would the State compensate the appellant for having been robbed of what may have been the most productive and defining decade of his life?”The court also said that though the prosecution stressed that Hakim has been charged with the offence of criminal conspiracy to wage war against the government of India, no particular allegation has been pointed out in the charge sheet or in the order of charges framing that could relate to the offences under Sections 121 or 121A IPC.While granting him release, subject to a personal bond in the sum of ₹25,000 with two local sureties of the same amount from family members, the court said that the accused shall surrender his passport, not travel outside the country without prior permission, keep his cell phone active, and not contact witnesses or tamper with evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bail-to-man-jailed-for-12-yrs-over-role-in-08-delhi-blasts-101633556470765.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Akali Dal delegation to meet Amit Shah seeking ‘exemplary action’ against Lakhimpur Khiri culprits||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday said a party delegation will meet Union home minister Amit Shah and request him to ensure “exemplary action” against the culprits of the Lakhimpur Khiri incident that left at least four farmers dead. Talking to mediapersons after visiting a gaushala in Amritsar, Sukhbir said they will also apprise the Union minister about the “attempts being made by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi to scuttle the formation of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC)”.The SAD chief said he would lead the delegation. He said a separate delegation will also Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath soon to impress upon him the need to ensure the perpetrators of the ghastly attack on farmers are not only brought to book but awarded exemplary punishment. “The Uttar Pradesh government should also move swiftly to ensure justice to the victim farmers’ families. We will send another delegation to Lakhimpur Khiri to assess the situation there and meet the victims’ families,” he said. A delegation was sent to Uttar Pradesh earlier also but it was stopped at the Ghaziabad border, he added. On the arrest of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and subsequent visits to Lakhimpur by the Congress top brass, Sukhbir said the Congress leaders are going to free Priyanka and are they not concerned about the well-being of farmers. “We will lodge a strong protest against the manner in which the AAP government in Delhi is interfering in the religious affairs of the Sikh community. The Delhi government has usurped the democratic process due to which the DSGMC is yet to be constituted even two months after its elections were held,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-delegation-to-meet-amit-shah-seeking-exemplary-action-against-lakhimpur-khiri-culprits-101633556578981.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Probe marked against ‘dummy admissions’ in Ludhiana government primary school||Acting on a complaint regarding alleged dummy admissions in Government Primary School, Giaspura, the state government has marked an inquiry to district education officer, senior secondary, Ludhiana.The school education secretary has asked DEO Lakhvir Singh Samra to conduct a probe and submit his findings by October 15.A Barnala-based RTI activist Sat Pal Goyal, in a complaint to the chief minister and education secretary, had alleged that 50% of the admissions in Giaspura primary school are ‘dummy’. “The school head is charging ₹600 per student for uniforms, against the actual rate of ₹400. The grants sent by the government for uniforms and mid-day meal scheme, are also being siphoned off by the school authorities by showing these dummy admissions.” School head Nisha Rani refuted the allegations. “This is not the first time Goyal has complained against our school. An inquiry regarding the same was recently conducted by a team formed by DEO primary following his complaint. The team randomly called parents of students to check if their admissions were valid. We were given a clean chit. I am not bothered about any inquiry since I am performing my duties honestly and sincerely,” said Rani.She added that the school has 4,828 students in all, of which 3,600 are in Classes 1 to 5. “At times, some students are absent but at least 3,400 students turn up for classes every day,” claimed Rani.On the allegations of mid-day meal fraud, she said, “We get ration and funds to feed students of Classes 1 to 5 but we ensure that students of LKG and UKG also get the benefit.”On school uniforms, she said, “There is no fraud; ₹600 is the exact cost of the uniform.”When contacted, Goyal said, “The school head is committing the fraud in connivance with senior officials of the education department. I will move court in case of unfair probe by the department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/probe-marked-against-dummy-admissions-in-ludhiana-government-primary-school-101633556398993.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan dies at 71||Former Punjab minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan died at his house in Sekhwan village of Gurdaspur district on Wednesday. He was 71. Sekhwan, who joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in August in the presence of party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal, was unwell for the last six months. “He breathed his last at around 7pm. He died due to liver rupture. He had been suffering from liver infection for the last six months,” said Sekhwan’s son Jagroop Singh over phone. The body will be cremated on Thursday. Sekhwan was one of the tallest panthic leaders in Punjab. He along with former MPs Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and Ratan Singh Ajnala parted ways with the Shiromani Akali Dal and formed a new political party named SAD (Taksali) in December 2018. The three, who were close to SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, had raised a banner of revolt against party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal. Sekhwan was vocal against the SAD for not delivering justice in the Bargari sacrilege and subsequent firing incidents. Later, Sekhwan shifted his loyalties from Brahmpura to former minister Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, who formed another splinter group — SAD (Democratic). Sekhwan wanted Brahmpura and Ajnala to join the SAD (Democratic) to fight for a “common cause to liberate the state from the Badals”. In May 2021, Brahmpura and Dhindsa merged their groups and formed a new political outfit after the name of SAD (Sanyukt). Sekhwan, who was apparently not happy with Brahmpura and Dhindsa forming a new group, had been keeping away from the programmes of the SAD (Sanyukt). In August, Kejriwal visited Sekhwan’s residence and inducted him into the party fold. Sekhwan’s son Jagroop Singh has been active politically in the Qadian constituency of Gurdaspur. Sekhwan, who worked as a teacher for 14 years, entered politics after his father’s death in 1990. He was elected MLA in 1997 from Kahnuwan segment. He also remained SAD’s core committee member for several years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-punjab-minister-sewa-singh-sekhwan-dies-at-71-101633556338741.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 Pakistani drones retreat after BSF opens fire in Punjab’s Gurdaspur, Pathankot||Three drones purportedly from Pakistani retreated on Tuesday night after the Border Security Force (BSF) troopers opened fire to prevent their entry into the Indian territory in Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts. Even as massive combing operations were launched by the personnel of the BSF and the Punjab Police along the barbed wire fence at the international border in the two districts, nothing suspicious was found. BSF deputy inspector general (DIG, Gurdaspur) Prabhakar Joshi said, “The first incident was reported near the Bohar Wadala border outpost (BoP) in Gurdaspur. At 7:25pm, two women constables of the 89-Battalion heard the sound of a drone coming from across the border. The women troopers, who saw the drone with a blinking light, opened fire at them. A head constable also joined them but the drone managed to return before crossing the barbed-wire fence.”The second incident, the DIG said, took place at the same time near the Kasyam Barman BoP in Pathankot district. “Troopers of the 121-Battalion opened fire at the drone which entered the Indian territory after crossing the fence. The third drone was spotted at around 9:55pm near the Dorangla police station in Gurdaspur district. When the 58-Battalion personnel resorted to firing, it returned to Pakistan.”Joshi said a full-night search operation was launched with the help of the police. “Our troops are on alert and are working 16-18 hours a day to thwart such attempts at the border,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-pakistani-drones-retreat-after-bsf-opens-fire-in-punjab-s-gurdaspur-pathankot-101633556039992.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police claim to have arrested 42 snatchers in 13 days||The Ludhiana police commissionerate has claimed that snatching cases in the city have seen a considerable dip since the new police chief, Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, took over on September 22. In a communique shared by the public relations’ office, it was stated that in the last 13 days, police have traced 94% of the snatching cases with the arrest of 42 accused and 100% recovery of stolen property.As per the release, between September 1 and September 21, when Naunihal Singh was at the helm of the police department, the city recorded 51 chain snatching incidents. From September 22 to October 4, the cases dipped to 18. It was also stated that the tracking rate went up from 33.33% to 94% after Bhullar took over. Cops claim to have recovered stolen property worth ₹48.34 lakh since September 22.Police commissioner Bhullar said a multi-pronged strategy has been adopted to curb this street crime. “Special thrust is being laid on eliminating snatching by marking hotspots and keeping tabs on criminals who got out on bail recently. CCTV surveillance near snatching hotspots, such as Ghumar Mandi Road, DMC Road, Kipps Market Sarabha Nagar, Urban Estate Dugri, Jalandhar Bypass, Gill Road, Sherpur and Giaspura Chowk, have been increased,” he said. The commissioner further said special focus is also being laid on prompt and speedy response by police stations and PCR teams to any calls regarding crimes or mishaps. Bhullar said vigilance has been stepped up in the city and senior officers have been asked to monitor nakas in their area and ensure that every officer discharges their duty efficiently.“These are just baby steps. The ultimate goal is to make the city crime-free,” the top cop said, adding that active support and cooperation of the general public is necessary to realise this goal.Bhullar was posted as Ludhiana police commissioner after a major reshuffle in the police department following the shift of power after Captain Amarinder Singh’s resignation as chief minister. Naunihal Singh, during his 31-day tenure as police commissioner, had remained in the news for his midnight vigils which had left many police officers sleep deprived.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-claim-to-have-arrested-42-snatchers-in-13-days-101633556038869.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Citizens’ group writes to govt over action plan||Warrior Moms, a citizen action group working to fight rising air pollution in the country and its impact on children, wrote to the Delhi government on Wednesday questioning the government on the action taken this year to control pollution in winter. The letter also said the 10-point focus area list released by the government, ahead of the pollution season, was only a “broad document” that failed to detail any concrete action the agencies will take to control pollution sources.Bhavreen Kandhari, a Delhi-based environment activist and spokesperson for Warrior Moms, said, “What the government has done in their 10-point focus area list is only enlist the problem areas of Delhi. We all know the sources, but what is the government doing to tackle those? There is no clarity on that. We also want to know if government agencies tasked with managing pollution in the Capital are even equipped to handle it,” Kandhari said.Environment minister Gopal Rai said public participation is needed to ensure the fight against pollution is more effective. “Ultimately, pollution management is a joint effort that cannot happen without people’s support and suggestions,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/citizens-group-writes-to-govt-over-action-plan-101633555685188.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Stop ‘helicopter-hopping’ for few days, resolve grievances of SCs: Akali Dal||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday asked Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to stop “helicopter-hopping” for a few days and resolve grievances of the scheduled castes and weaker sections of society. In a press statement, party spokesman and Adampur MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu said it has been more than a week since the CM took a helicopter flight to Bathinda to see the damage caused to the cotton crop over lakhs of acres of land. “The CM had promised prompt compensation but not a single farmer or farm labourer has received any relief. The State government is yet to conduct a survey to assess the damage to the crop,” he said. Tinu said reports coming from the Malwa region indicated that farm labourers were in dire straits due to destruction of the cotton crop and had lost their means of livelihood. “We request him to devote a few days in his office to order a comprehensive compensation for farmhands on the same lines as done by the erstwhile Parkash Singh Badal-led SAD government when the cotton crop was affected badly,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stop-helicopter-hopping-for-few-days-resolve-grievances-of-scs-akali-dal-101633555683003.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Capital’s air least breathable from Nov 1 to 15, shows data||The Capital breathes its most polluted air between November 1 and November 15 when the smoke from stubble fires and firecrackers plunges the city into a health emergency, a Delhi government analysis of average PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels over the last five years showed.The analysis by the government’s environment department found that average PM2.5 levels between November 1 and 15 touched 285ug/m3, categorised as “severe” under regulations of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap).Senior Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) officials said November 1-15 is the worst pollution period for Delhi primarily because the city’s air is saturated with the smoke from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana. The situation is made worse by cracker-bursting during Diwali, and unfavourable winds that bring in pollutants from cities in the National Capital Region (NCR) into Delhi.“The major contributor during this fortnight was stubble fires that happen in large numbers in Punjab and Haryana. These fires increase by October 15, but the impact on Delhi’s air peaks by November,” a DPCC official said, asking not to be named.The official added, “Apart from this, over the last four-five years, Diwali was celebrated either in the end of October or the first half of November. Even though last year there was a complete ban on crackers, violations were reported because the ban was announced at the last moment, and also because people bought crackers from NCR cities such as Ghaziabad and Gurugram.”In 2020, Diwali was celebrated on November 14; in 2019, it was on October 27, in 2018, it was on November 7, in 2017 it was on October 19 and in 2016, the festival was celebrated on October 30.The trend may continue this year as well since Diwali will be celebrated on November 4, the official said.The analysis focused on how winter pollution levels fluctuate between October and February. The months were divided between fortnights to check pollution levels, and to focus on particular sources during specific periods, so that government agencies can plan focussed action.The analysis showed that the winter pollution season starts from October after the withdrawal of monsoon. In the first fortnight of October, the average PM2.5 levels were 80ug/m3. As stubble burning cases increased and the wind pattern over northwest India changed, the average particulate levels also spiked, settling at 158ug/m3 in the second half of October. After peaking at 285ug/m3 in the first 15 days of November, the PM2.5 levels came down briefly, reaching 163ug/m3 between November 16 and November 30, before rising again.Between December 1 and 15, average PM2.5 levels were 188ug/m3. With temperatures dropping, the pollution levels went up to 218ug/m3.In December, scientists said, the pollution sources were mostly local such as open waste burning, vehicular emissions and road and construction dust. “The spike in the latter half of December is very different from what we see in November. This is primarily caused by local factors. Delhi’s internal pollution sources are unable to disperse and remain close to the surface because of the cold conditions and low wind speeds. Other factors that add to the city’s pollution spike are cracker bursting during the New Years’ and also during weddings during this time of the year,” a second DPCC official said.Officials said that this assessment of how the city’s air quality fluctuates will help the government target its action against pollution sources. The city’s first state-level winter action plan has also taken into account the findings of this analysis.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy) at the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said that their own analysis has also showed that Delhi’s winter pollution spikes in two phase -- once at the onset of winter, and then again at the peak winter.“We need to understand that winters are tricky because meteorological conditions do not allow easy dispersal of pollutants. Even under these conditions, the government can ensure that round the year action and targeted emergency action can help reduce spikes,” said Roychowdhury.She added, “You cannot find a magic bullet, but the agencies can ensure that fuel is not added to fire. The weather conditions might not be conducive, but at least we can control the emissions from local sources so that the pollution load does not increase. We need a holistic winter plan, but we also ensure emergency measures during peak pollution days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capitals-air-least-breathable-from-nov-1-to-15-shows-data-101633555142754.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Anandpur Sahib sacrilege fallout: SGPC hiring ex-servicemen in task force to strengthen security at gurdwaras in Punjab||In the wake of a sacrilege incident at Takht Kesgarh Sahib in Anandpur Sahib, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has started recruiting ex-servicemen in its task force to beef up security at all historic Sikh shrines in Punjab. In an advertisement published in various newspapers on Wednesday, the apex gurdwara body chief secretary invited applications from amritdhari ex-servicemen aged between 35 and 45 for the job. Though it recently already roped in 40 ex-servicemen in the task force, also called the ‘Sewa Dal’ with its president Jagir Kaur having handed over appointment letters on September 18, the SGPC felt the need for carrying out the recruitment on a large scale. It will be recruiting 200 ex-servicemen to ensure sacrilege incidents do not take place at gurdwaras in future, it is learnt. The on-duty ex-servicemen will carry weapons.SGPC chief secretary (honorary) Harjinder Singh Dhami said, “The decision was taken in view of the sacrilege at Takht Sri Kesgarh Sahib and other gurdwaras. Since retired armymen are trained and experienced, they are better equipped to prevent such incidents. An average 4 personnel will be deployed at a gurdwara each. For now, we need to hire nearly 150 ex-servicemen”.Jagir Kaur said, “Ex-servicemen are physically competent and disciplined. They will deal bad elements entering the shrines with an intention to v commit sacrilege.” Days after the Kesgarh Sahib incident, the Golden Temple chief manager had written to the Amritsar police commissioner seeking deployment of cops in the parikarma (circumambulation around the sarovar) of the shrine to check criminal and anti-social elements. The SGPC drew a flak from the Sikh organisations that called it out for its alleged incompetence to contain these elements despite having a task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/anandpur-sahib-sacrilege-fallout-sgpc-hiring-ex-servicemen-in-task-force-to-strengthen-security-at-gurdwaras-in-punjab-101633555378920.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Survey raises questions over door-to-door waste collection||Raising questions over door-to-door garbage collection in the city, the initial findings of a micro survey conducted in the city showed that 1,609 garbage/waste collectors are informally involved in the door-to-door lifting of garbage in 1,678 mohallas/colonies with 2,56,765 households and 61,077 commercial/industrial establishments in various parts of the city.However, only 82 garbage collectors are involved in the process in areas falling under Zone C of the MC having 143 colonies/mohallas with 42,088 houses and 11,453 commercial and industrial establishments. Further, 644 collectors are involved in areas falling under Zone D having 588 colonies with 81,364 houses and 9,688 commercial/industrial units.In Zone A, 505 collectors are involved in door-to-door lifting in 505 mohallas having 56,496 houses and 22,874 commercial units. Similarly, in Zone B, 434 collectors are involved in 442 mohallas/colonies with 76,817 houses and 17,062 commercial/industrial units. One of the officials requesting anonymity said the MC had commenced the survey in August and the purpose of conducting it was to find out the missing points due to which the door-to-door lifting was not done in the entire city on a daily basis. Surprising revelations have come to the fore as only 82 garbage collectors are involved in Zone C area door-to-door lifting of garbage in 53,541 houses/commercial units. This means every collector is picking waste from around 650 units, which seems practically impossible. Further, the number of garbage collectors is also less than the total number of colonies/mohallas in the city.This shows that the waste is not being collected from houses on a daily basis and there are loopholes in the system.Residents had been complaining about the delayed lifting of garbage from their houses in the past and the garbage was collected after an interval of a few days. Due to this, residents also dump the waste in open plots/areas and drains, the official said.Ankur Mahindroo, joint commissioner, MC, said the survey had been conducted to streamline the lifting process. These were the initial findings and detailed verification was being done.“The aim is to depute collectors in a way that all areas are covered on a daily basis. Changes will be done in the coming time to distribute areas among the collectors. But the informal sector will not be disturbed and the MC is working to involve them with the civic body only, as done in Chandigarh. The report will be tabled in front of senior officials and further steps will be taken to improve the system,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-survey-raises-questions-over-door-to-door-waste-collection-101633555140290.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Thieves decamp with nickel, copper from Ludhiana factory||Thieves decamped with 550kg nickel and 3.50kg copper from a factory unit in Moti Nagar.Complainant Lakshay Rai told the police that he owns a hand tool manufacturing unit, Arvind Forging, in Industrial Area-A.On October 3, he closed the factory unit around 5pm and went home. The next day when he opened the unit, he was shocked to find 550kg nickel and 3.5kg copper missing. He said the materials were worth around ₹20 lakh. After preliminary probe, police registered a case on Tuesday. Investigating officer Sulakhan Singh said a case under Section 380 (theft) and 457 (house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered. He said closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras located in the vicinity are being checked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thieves-decamp-with-nickel-copper-from-ludhiana-factory-101633555138668.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: 30-year-old man booked for molesting minor||Nayagaon police booked a 30-year-old man on Wednesday for molesting a 16-year-old girl. The accused, Varun, knew the victim’s family for several years and was a regular visitor to their house in Nayagaon.Nayagaon station house officer (SHO) Sunil Kumar said that as per the victim’s complaint, the accused visited her house on Tuesday evening. He allegedly entered the washroom while she was bathing and forced himself on her, but she resisted. He even threatened to kill her if she doesn’t keep mum. The victim later narrated the incident to her mother, following which a police complaint was lodged.The SHO said a case under Sections 354 and 506 of Indian Penal Code and POCSO Act has been registered at Nayagaon police station. The accused is at large and will be arrested soon, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-30-year-old-booked-for-molesting-minor-101633554838925.html
07-10-2021||Other||Protest against steel price hike in Ludhiana||The industrial organisations of the city staged a protest at the cycle market over the unprecedented steel price hike.Fastener Manufacturer Association of India, All Industries Trade Forum, Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FOPSIA), and Fastener Suppliers Association of India organised the protest.The public and private steel plants have increased steel prices by around ₹6,000 per tonne in the last eight days. Following the large production, the state’s secondary steel plants also increased the ingot prices from 43,800 to 49,500 in the last 10 days.In the last year, the price of steel has increased to around ₹20,000 per tonne. The protesters said the main reason behind the increase is the cartel of Indian steel companies formed under the name of the Indian Steel Alliance. Shockingly, the government steel companies are also a part of this cartel, they added.The government of India and the steel ministry are silent on the issue due to their vested interests, said FOPSIA president Badish Jindal.The industrialists alleged that local steel furnaces and rolling mills are working under the cartel and keep on changing the prices every hour as per their requirements. These price manipulations are throwing Indian MSMEs out of export competition, and the industries are failing to fulfil the long-term contracts with suppliers. The industrialists said they will intensify the strike if the prices are not reduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protest-against-steel-price-hike-in-ludhiana-101633554538761.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue: 58 cases reported from Ambala so far||As many as 58 cases of dengue have been reported in Ambala district since the first case surfaced on September 6, as per figures provided by the health department.A 10-year-old boy from the Naraingarh sub-division died at PGIMER, Chandigarh, on Tuesday a week after getting dengue-like symptoms. However, he had tested negative for the infection, civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh, said.“His platelets were down to dangerous levels. He was not infected with dengue and must have died of other causes,” he said.Meanwhile, panic spread in the town after the health department arrived to conduct a survey to check larvae-breeding sites on Wednesday. Dr Sunil Hari, district epidemiologist, said that peri-urban places like Naraingarh were prone to such infections.“Though, the boy died of some other reasons, the department is leaving no stone unturned to avoid its spread. Flu wards are functional and special attention will be paid to symptomatic patients at OPDs,” Dr Hari said. Officials said that the larva of female species of Aedes Aegypti mosquito or dengue mosquito was mostly found in the back tray of refrigerators filled with water and empty tyres. Advisories were issued to patients to stay in bed nets, as if the mosquito bites the infected person, it can act as a carrier and might infect others too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-58-cases-reported-from-ambala-so-far-101633554418600.html
07-10-2021||Other||‘Upset’ over Lakhimpur Kheri violence, Ludhiana farmer ends life||A 50-year-old farmer of Dhaliwal Patti in Sudhar village allegedly ended his life by hanging himself from a tree near a canal on the outskirts of the village on Monday evening.The suicide note recovered from him, the ingenuity of which is yet to be established, stated that he was ending his life as he was upset over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and the government’s attitude towards farmers’ demanding the roll back of the agriculture laws.According to residents of the area, the deceased was against the three farm laws and even spent several months on Singhu Border. He is survived by three children and his wife.Saudagar Singh Ghudani, district general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union, Ugraha, while lambasting the central government, said, “This shows how much the Lakhimpur incident and implementation of the farm laws have impacted farmers. It is time that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should scrap these laws.”The Sudhar police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC and handed over the body to the family after conducting the postmortem.Sudhar station house officer Sudhar Jasvir Singh Buttar said the body did not bear any marks of external injury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/upset-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-ludhiana-farmer-ends-life-101633554238629.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar: Auto-driver drowns while saving minor||An auto driver from Rupnagar drowned after he jumped into a river to save a 15-year-old girl in Yamunanagar’s Baadhi Majra village on Wednesday, police said. As per sources, the girl had jumped into the river, after which two locals standing near the spot and the auto-driver, who was crossing the area, also jumped in, said inspector Vijay Kumar, station house officer of Yamunanagar sadar police station. “The girl was saved by the locals, while the auto driver drowned. The girl was handed over to her family. We are yet to identify the man and a search operation is being carried out by divers to find him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yamunanagar-auto-driver-drowns-while-saving-minor-101633554178703.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Slum dwellers’ proprietary rights: Mohali DC proposes committee to establish land ownership||The district administration on Wednesday directed municipal corporation officials to expedite the process of tendering proprietary rights to slum dwellers under BASERA scheme. Chairing the second meeting of the SARRC, deputy commissioner Isha Kalia proposed a committee comprising officials of the revenue department and PUDA and municipal town planner to establish land ownership, so that no issues come up during transfer of proprietary rights.She said that this team will demark the land with accuracy and use state-of-the-art machines to determine the total dwelling units and their area. Kalia exhorted the officials to complete the process of surveying beneficiaries in two weeks, so that the process of publication of lists and objections could be called in time. According to this Act, slum dwellers will get the rights of ownership upto 30 square metre in municipal corporations, 45 square metre in municipal councils and 60 square metre in Nagar Panchayat area. ADC (urban development) Pooja Grewal, municipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg, Mohali SDM Harbans Singh and tehsildar Vikas Sharma were also present during the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/slum-dwellers-proprietary-rights-mohali-dc-proposes-committee-to-establish-land-ownership-101633553878572.html
07-10-2021||Other||Potholed Noorwala road: Ludhiana NGO accuses PWD officials of apathy||Residents living in the vicinity of the Noorwala Road are a harried lot as the stretch has been pothole-ridden for around three years. They approached the chief minister’s office for the second time in the last three months over the alleged apathy of the public works department (PWD) in dealing with the issue.The members of Samaj Sudhar Sabha NGO accused the officials of the PWD department of wasting the public money and ill-planned development of the stretch of around 4 km (outside the MC limits).The residents rued that the road portion which was constructed in 2017, was again left dotted with potholes by the end of 2018 due to the inferior quality of material used. They stated that the tender estimate in 2014-15 was ₹2.04 crore, but it was slashed to ₹1.32 crore and finally, the work was allotted for ₹80 lakh.The residents alleged that work quality was compromised due to reduced project costs. They rued that the road also gets waterlogged as a drainage system was not put in place then. They stated that the residents and commuters face a harrowing time during the monsoons and road accidents also take place due to the deep potholes. Repeated complaints have been with the department to no avail.NGO members including, vice president Varunesh Kumra, Hardeep Singh, Pankaj Maheshwari, among others, stated that the project was also ill-planned as the width of the road within MC limits is around 22 feet but it was constructed at a width of 12 feet.Accusing the PWD officials of adopting corrupt practices, the member of the NGO stated that the department also claims to have conducted repair works in 2020, even when nothing was done to improve the condition at ground level.Kumra stated that the department had, in an RTI reply, admitted that repair works were taken up in 2020, but when the details were sought, it failed to give a proper reply. Therefore, the NGO has filed a second appeal in the state information commission case.He said, “The first complaint was submitted with the CM’s office in August. The office had directed the department to resolve the grievance and send an action taken report. But no action was taken by the department. Now, we have submitted another complaint on Tuesday. A copy of the complaint has also been marked to deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma.”PWD executive engineer Adesh Gupta said that the road portion got damaged due to water accumulation as the MC has failed to establish a proper drainage system there. A detailed project report has been sent to the state department for the reconstruction of the road. The project will be initiated soon after getting approval from the state department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/potholed-noorwala-road-ludhiana-ngo-accuses-pwd-officials-of-apathy-101633553341664.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM approves ₹78.36 crore budget for Mansa Devi Shrine Board||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday approved a budget of ₹78.36 crore for the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board (SMMDSB) for 2021-22 financial year.Khattar, who is also the chairman of the board, chaired its 19th meeting on Wednesday. The CM also accorded approval to increase the financial power of officials of the board. The financial power of the chief administrator has been increased from ₹10 lakh to ₹50 lakh, the chief executive officer from ₹2 lakh to ₹5 lakh and secretary from ₹20,000 to ₹50,000.Khattar also appealed to devotees visiting the shrine during Shardiya Navratri to follow Covid protocols. He directed the officials concerned to immediately launch a drive to remove all illegal encroachments in and around the Panchkula.Construction of parking site at Shree VatikaDuring the meeting, Khattar was informed that ₹1.93 crore has been spent on the construction of Shree Vatika, a surface parking over a rainy drain passing through the shrine premises. This parking will accommodate nearly 50 vehicles over a total paved area of 1,915.41 square metres. He was apprised of the work of construction of old age home building, which is coming up at a cost of ₹10.49 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cm-approves-78-36-crore-budget-for-mansa-devi-shrine-board-101633552858544.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tennis: Shreay, Yana lift Under-16 singles titles||Top seeds Shreay Vir and Yana Gupta won the boys’ and girls’ Under-16 singles titles, respectively, on the concluding day of the All India Tennis Association Championship Series (CS-3) tennis tournament at the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association Stadium in Sector 10 on Wednesday.CLTA trainee Shreay Vir defeated another CLTA player, Priyanshu Antil, 6-4, 6-1 in straight sets. In the girls’ under-16 finals, top seed Yana defeated Mehakpreet Kaur in a three-set marathon match. Yana lost the first set 3-6, but came back strong to win the second and deciding sets 6-3, 6-3.Sarthak, Riya enter U-18 finalsTop seeds Sarthak Gandhi and Riya Kaushik entered the U-18 boys’ and girls’ finals of the All India Tennis Association National Ranking Championship at Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur. Sarthak beat Harmanjit Singh 6-1, 6-1 while Riya Kaushik beat Sidhak Kaur 6-2, 6-4 in the semi-finals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tennis-shreay-yana-lift-under-16-singles-titles-101633552439227.html
07-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 7 juvenile home inmates booked for smuggling tobacco items||Shimlapuri police have booked seven inmates of a juvenile observation home located in Shimlapuri, after recovering tobacco products, including cigarettes, Biri, and Jarda from there.The FIR was lodged on the complaint lodged by Tarun Aggarwal, superintendent of the observation home.According to Aggarwal, the staff had recovered a packet each of cigarettes, biri, and jarda within the home. During the investigation, it was revealed that the seven inmates were involved in the crime, he added.Aggarwal added that the inmates’ supplier used to throw the contraband from over the boundary wall of the observation house.ASI Ajmer Singh, investigating officer, said that a case under Sections 42 and 52-A of the Prison Act was registered against the accused and their unidentified accomplices.“The accused will be questioned about their accomplices. We’ll trace them soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-7-juvenile-home-inmates-booked-for-smuggling-tobacco-items-101633552437612.html
07-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: En route to court, snatcher escapes from police custody||Two snatchers, arrested two days ago, attempted to escape from police custody while they were being taken to the local court on Wednesday. One of them managed to flee while the other was arrested.The accused were identified as Manjit and Deepak Kumar. The police arrested Manjit while Deepak Kumar managed to escape.The incident occurred at around 11.55 am when ASI Harbhajan Singh and ASI Balwinder Singh of Daresi police station were taking the snatchers to the court. They stopped at a fuel filling station in Chhawani Mohalla on the way where the two snatchers, who were sitting on the rear seats, opened the door and scaled the 4.5-5 feet high boundary wall of the pump to escape. Both the ASIs chased them but were only able to nab Manjit.The entire incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed at the fuel filling station. SI Davinder Sharma says cops will face action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianaen-route-to-court-snatcher-escapes-from-police-custody-101633552198848.html
07-10-2021||Other||Lakhimpur Kheri case: SUV hit us from behind, still remember engine sound, says injured farmer||Shamsher Singh, 28, and Rajinder Singh, 26, both farmers, are under treatment in the surgical ward of the district hospital in Lakhimpur Kheri three days after they were hit by a speeding vehicle in Tikunia.“I still remember the loud noise of the engine of the SUV that hit me from behind,” said Shamsher Singh, a farmer from the Nighasan area of Lakhimpur. Shamsher Singh claims that he was injured by the SUV leading the convoy. A video of the incident, in which the SUV is seen hitting farmers from behind, went viral on social media on Tuesday.“I jumped to one side, but my right leg came under the left front wheel of the vehicle. I lost consciousness after the incident,” said Shamsher Singh.Dr CS Singh, chief medical superintendent of the hospital, said Shamsher’s lower right leg was fractured at three places.“We have put a temporary plaster, but he may need surgery to correct the alignment of the broken bones,” said the doctor.Lying on the hospital bed beside Shamsher is Rajinder, who suffered severe injuries on his lower jaw and abdomen after being allegedly hit by the same SUV.“He injured his face and lost a couple of teeth as he was hit by the bonnet of the SUV in the face. He was lucky that he managed to jump to one side or he would have been killed on the spot,” said Rajinder’s brother-in law Gurmeet Singh.The relatives of both the injured said that they have not been contacted by the administration regarding the monetary compensation of ₹10 lakh which was announced by the state government for the injured.Three others — Lavkush, Shekhar Bharti and Ashish Pandey —were in the second SUV were reportedly attacked by angry protestors after the accident. They were discharged after getting preliminary medical care. Shekhar Bharti’s uncle Dinesh Bharti said, “The miscreants among the farmers attacked Shekhar with sticks and swords, but he somehow managed to escape from the spot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lakhimpur-kheri-case-suv-hit-us-from-behind-still-remember-engine-sound-says-injured-farmer-101633552143499.html
07-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 11 landlords land in trouble for failing to get their tenants verified||The police here on Wednesday booked 11 landlords for giving their accommodations on rent to people without police verification under Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.Of the 11 FIRs registered, five were registered by Sadar police, four by Dugri police, and one each by Division Number 6 and Daba police.The accused were identified as Hari Kishan of Pratap Colony of Model Gram, Surinder Singh of Punjab Mata Nagar, Amit Dhingra of Urban Estate Dugri, Ranjit Singh of Jawaddi Kalan, Satkar Singh of New Patel Nagar, Jagjit Singh of Daad, Amit Gupta of Urban Estate Dugri, Manmohan Singh of Daad, Vinod Chaudhary of Satjot Nagar on Dhandra Road, Sanjay Kumar of Muradpura and Ramandeep Singh of Adarsh Colony.Out of the 11, five persons were arrested and were later granted bail.The police had recently found out that the accused arrested for snatching, robberies, burglaries and other crimes were residing as tenants in various areas of the city. Following this, city police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar initiated a drive against landlords renting out their accommodations without police verification.Earlier, the commissioner of police had also issued orders under Section 144 of the CRPC, making it mandatory for everyone to get police verification done.The police had initiated a similar drive in March to check if the people had rented their properties or hired domestic help without verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-11-landlords-land-in-trouble-for-failing-to-get-their-tenants-verified-101633551778266.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU graduate constituency: Second phase of polling at 61 booths on October 17||The second phase of polling for the registered graduate constituency of Panjab University (PU) senate will be held at 61 booths on October 17. The first phase was held on September 26 at 211 booths. Of the eight constituencies, the registered graduate constituency is the largest with around 3.61 lakh voters, which elects 15 members to the senate. Polling booths are set up across seven states/UTs.The polling for the registered graduate constituency was earlier scheduled to be held on August 18, but was deferred by PU. So far, polling for seven constituencies has been held and 32 candidates have been declared elected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-graduate-constituency-second-phase-of-polling-at-61-booths-on-october-17-101633551608460.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh engineering admissions: 1,165 seats up for grabs at three institutes||As many as 1,165 seats are up for grabs at three engineering institutes in Chandigarh this year. The Joint Admission Committee (JAC) 2021, Chandigarh, has already started the registration process for admission. JAC has been constituted for conducting admissions to various BE/BArch/integrated BE (chemical)-MBA courses based on JEE Main scores. Like many other states, Chandigarh also accepts JEE main scores for admission to engineering courses. At Panjab University’s Dr SS Bhatnagar University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICET), there are around 197 seats in three different engineering programmes. A total of 104 seats are available in bachelor of engineering (chemical), 56 in the five-year integrated BE (chemical)-MBA course and 38 in BE (food technology). As many as 692 seats are available at PU’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) in six courses, with 143 in electronics and communication engineering (ECE), 129 in each computer science and engineering (CSE) and information technology (IT) and 97 each in biotechnology, electrical and electronics engineering and mechanical engineering. At Chandigarh College of Engineering and Technology (CCET), 69 seats are available in each of the four courses offered ¬– computer science and engineering, electronics and communication engineering, civil Engineering and mechanical engineering. As per the schedule, registrations will close on October 13, the first round of counselling will start from October 21 and first round of seat allotment will be held on October 25. The second round of counseling will be held from October 29 and the second round of seat allotment will be held on November 1 after which the third round of counselling will be held from November 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-engineering-admissions-1-165-seats-up-for-grabs-at-three-institutes-101633551364962.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court nod to state-appointed panel to take charge of Shri Saibaba Sansthan||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has allowed the state-appointed committee to take charge of the Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi from October 19 and disposed of the public interest litigations (PIL) that had sought the same. However, in light of the state government allowing the opening of religious places from October 7, the court directed the ad-hoc committee which was appointed in 2019 to oversee the precautionary measures till the new committee took charge. While disposing of the PIL’s the court held that as the petitioner had sought setting up of a court-appointed committee till the state government appointed a committee as per the Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust Act, the petition had served its purpose as the new committee was appointed. The HC also allowed the petitioner to file a fresh petition if he wanted to challenge the new committee. The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice SG Mehare, while hearing the public interest litigation filed by Uttamrao Shelke through advocate Pradnya Talekar, had been informed that the state government had appointed a managing committee in September 2021 but the same was did without the permission of the court. In light of this, Talekar informed the bench that the petitioner wanted to challenge the new committee and hence sought permission to amend the PIL and include the new challenge. However, senior advocate SN Dhorde for the state government informed the bench that one of the main prayers of the petition was to direct the state government to form a new committee as per the rules which had already been done, hence the petitioners’ grievance had been addressed. Dhorde further submitted that as the petitioner was seeking to challenge the newly appointed committee, which was a separate cause of action, he could not be allowed to amend the PIL and include the new issue. In October 2019, the court had appointed an ad-hoc committee and asked the state government to form a new committee as per the Act. Till then the ad-hoc committee comprising principal district judge, Ahmednagar, the collector, Ahmednagar and the chief executive officer of Shree Sai Baba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi. The committee was to supervise, monitor and look after the financial affairs of the Sansthan. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “Subject to any orders passed by a Court in the litigation, if initiated by the petitioner or any other litigant, the newly appointed managing committee would officially take charge from the learned principal district judge, Ahmednagar, who is the chairman of the adhoc committee in force, on 19.10.2021 in between 5pm to 6:30pm.” The bench also permitted the petitioner to file a separate petition to challenge the constitution of the new committee and also held that all pending civil applications for seeking permission of the court for various purposes were also disposed of, with the rider that all issues put forth in the civil applications should be taken up by the new committee after 19.10.2021, subject to there being no legal impediment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-nod-to-state-appointed-panel-to-take-charge-of-shri-saibaba-sansthan-101633551359634.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||2 junior MBMC engineers arrested for conspiring to kill executive engineer||The Kasturba Marg police have arrested two junior engineers of Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) and a shooter from Uttar Pradesh for firing two rounds at the executive engineer of the civic body at Borivli on September 29. The police have arrested a total of six accused in the past two days in the case. The arrested junior engineers — Yashwant Deshmukh, 49, and Shrikrishna Mohite, 46, had allegedly given a contract of ₹20 lakh to the shooters to eliminate the victim Deepak Khambit out of professional rivalry and had paid ₹10 lakh to the shooters in advance, said a police officer. The incident took place on the evening of September 29 when Khambit, an executive engineer with MBMC, was heading to Borivli from Mira Road. Two accused — Amit Sinha and Ajay Singh followed him on a bike when he was returning home from work in his private car. Singh was riding the bike, while pillion rider Sinha fired two rounds on the car’s window.Khambit suffered a minor injury from glass, which shattered after a bullet hit the window.The Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said, “Both junior engineers joined MBMC in 2004, but neither of them got an important post and promotion. They were angry and hired shooters.”The police have arrested Pradeep Kumar Pathak and Raju Vishwakarma. Based on their interrogation, police arrested Sinha from Bhadohi district and Singh from Ghazipur in Uttar Pradesh. Vishwakarma and Sinha both have past criminal records and they had met in jail a few years ago. Vishwakarma was in touch with engineers who gave him a contract to kill Khambit, said a police officer. Sinha was allegedly associated with Chhota Rajan and DK Rao gang and was earlier arrested in a firing case in Malad. Five accused are in police custody till October 11 while Singh is being brought to Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-junior-mbmc-engineers-arrested-for-conspiring-to-kill-executive-engineer-101633551358337.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Rise in domestic air passenger traffic in September as Covid cases dip||The domestic air passenger traffic grew by around 3% with around 68-69 lakh passengers in September 2021 compared to around 67 lakh in August 2021. According to rating agency- ICRA, around 61,100 departures were seen last month as against 39,628 departures in September 2020, resulting in last year’s departures being higher by around 6%.Suprio Banerjee, vice president and sector head, ICRA said: “For September 2021, the average daily departures were at approximately 2,100, significantly higher than the average daily departures of approximately 1,321 in September 2020, and higher than around 900 in August 2021, though they remained lower than around 2,200 in January 2021.”The ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) had reduced the permissible capacity deployment to 50% of pre-Covid levels from June 1, 2021, due to the resurgence of the second wave Covid-19. It had increased the permitted capacity to 72.5% with effect from August 12, 2021, but has now permitted the capacity to 85% with effect from September 18, 2021, until further orders. Additionally, the ministry relaxed the fare cap rule from September 18. “Though the recovery continued in September 2021, demand continues to be subdued from the corporate traveller segment as reflected by passenger traffic being lower by around 38% in September 2021 compared to pre-Covid levels,” Banerjee added. ICRA said that the increase in permitted capacity to 85% levels is a step in the right direction, given the onset of the festive season. “Also, reduction in fare cap rollover period from 30 days to 15 days is a move towards market-driven pricing as applicable during the pre-Covid period, wherein the pricing was determined by the actual demand-supply dynamics and real passenger load factors,” it added.Under the Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) that started on May 7 last year, international passenger traffic (inbound and outbound) for Indian airlines was around 46 lakh for the period May 7, 2020, to September 30, 2021. For September 2021, international passenger traffic for Indian airlines under the same set-up was around four lakh, marking a sequential growth of around 30%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rise-in-domestic-air-passenger-traffic-in-september-as-covid-cases-dip-101633551298161.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||MVA calls Maharashtra bandh on Oct 11 over Lakhimpur Kheri incident; BJP says its opportunism||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition partners on Wednesday called a one-day bandh across Maharashtra on October 11 to protest against the death of farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. The announcement was made by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) state president Jayant Patil. The state cabinet earlier in the day expressed its condolences over the “unfortunate” death of farmers. The MVA is attempting to corner the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident at a time when the coalition government is facing criticism from the Maharashtra BJP over the lack of relief package for flood-affected farmers in Central Maharashtra and Vidarbha regions. The decision came a day after NCP chief Sharad Pawar compared the mowing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri to the Jallianwala Bagh. Pawar also called the BJP government insensitive. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut also met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over the issue in New Delhi on Tuesday. “To condemn the incident where farmers were crushed to death in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, Maharashtra will observe a day’s bandh. The cabinet too expressed condolence over the incident. It is extremely important to condemn the cruelty of the BJP or its state governments against the farmers and to scuttle the farmers’ protests at several places. So far, the accused have not been nabbed yet,” said Patil, who was flanked by Congress’ Balasaheb Thorat and Shiv Sena’s Eknath Shinde.He added that MVA allies Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress along with the smaller parties in the alliance have decided to hold this band. “The bandh will be observed the entire day, barring essential services such as hospitals, ambulances, milk supply, etc,” Patil added.Reacting to the decision of a one-day strike, leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that ruling parties are politicising the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, adding that the decision reeks of politics. “Condemning the [Lakhimpur Kheri] incident is fine but had the cabinet thought about the farmers in Maharashtra, who are affected by the flood, then it would have been better. But instead of thinking of the farmers, such a proposal was passed, which is nothing but opportunism. It reeks of politics,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-calls-maharashtra-bandh-on-oct-11-over-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-bjp-says-its-opportunism-101633551238201.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena’s Dussehra rally at Shivaji Park? Dussehra gathering not online, says Raut||Ahead of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) election in February 2022, the Shiv Sena is planning to hold its annual Dussehra rally on a larger scale than last year. The party is exploring if a rally could be held at its traditional venue, Shivaji Park in Dadar. Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that this year Dussehra rally will not be an online event, indicating that it will be a physical event, unlike last year. This year the Dussehra festival falls on October 15.Amid pandemic in 2020, the party had organised the event on a small scale in an auditorium, where Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray gave his speech, which was streamed live on social media platforms. Only 50 top leaders and ministers were part of the physical event inside the Savarkar auditorium behind Shivaji Park. “The Dussehra rally will happen, and it will not be an online event. We feel that the rally should be held properly. Uddhav ji also has the same view on this. The discussion is going on how the rally can be organised by following the Covid protocols and norms. The rally would happen based on the decision Uddhav ji takes,” said Raut.Since Thackeray took over the reins of Maharashtra, the party has not been able to hold a full-fledged event, barring one celebratory function on Bal Thackeray’s birth anniversary on January 23, 2020. Party’s foundation day on June 19, the anniversary of Marmik magazine were celebrated online. Given the crucial BMC, and other civic polls including in Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, the party intends to hold a physical event.Senior party functionaries said that they have two options before them, either to hold it in a bigger auditorium this year or hold it at Shivaji Park in central Mumbai. “There is a feeling within the party that the rally should be held on a bigger scale given the Covid situation is under control. Last year too we did not have a rally but given the civic elections next year we feel that a large-scale rally will be needed to mobilise the cadre. The other option is to hold it in a bigger auditorium in Mumbai and simultaneously stream it on social media platforms for a bigger reach. However, Uddhav ji will take the final call,” a functionary said requesting anonymity. Interestingly, chief minister Thackeray has been speaking against public gatherings and political functions owing to the Covid restrictions in place. The state government has so far not lifted curbs on social, cultural, and political gatherings in the state. Last month, the state government allowed theatres and auditoriums to open their doors for patrons from October 22 with 50% capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-s-dussehra-rally-at-shivaji-park-dussehra-gathering-not-online-says-raut-101633551184775.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers suffering due to government apathy: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday accused the BJP-JJP government of making farmers run from pillar to post for selling their produce.The leader of Opposition said he paid a visit to mandis in state on October 3 and saw farmers facing problems. “The grain has started turning black. The government is responsible for this delay but farmers will have to bear the brunt,” he said.In a statement, Hooda said it seems the state government is merely pretending to buy paddy and bajra. He said this apathy is not just limited to paddy, the government is also playing similar games with bajra growers.“Today the market rate of bajra is between ₹900 to ₹1,200. Even if ₹600 of the Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana announced by the government is added to this, farmers will still lose ₹350 to ₹650 per quintal. Even the MLAs of the ruling coalition have flagged this to the Haryana chief minister,” he said.“About 28 lakh quintal paddy is lying in the mandis as on Wednesday and procurement process is hardly running smoothly in any mandi. The crop brought to the market is either being sold to private agencies at lower rates or has to be taken back home and farmers have to bear the transportation cost twice over,” Hooda said.“The government is bringing new rules every day to harass the farmers, traders and workers. Despite the government repeatedly changing the dates and announcing government procurement from October 3, farmers are running from pillar to post in the mandis,” he said.Hooda said the government is imposing unnecessary conditions such as portal registration, and scheduling. There is a capping of 25 quintal per acre, which was reduced from 33 quintal last year while there was no cap on procurement during the Congress government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-suffering-due-to-government-apathy-hooda-101633551183247.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Bypolls in Maharashtra rural local bodies: BJP ahead but loses seats to MVA partners||Results of the much-anticipated local body bypolls held in six districts on Tuesday to fill seats vacated by Other Backward Class (OBC) candidates revealed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suffered losses from its previous showing in the district council elections held shortly before the pandemic started, but emerged as the single largest party over the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena. However, the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition improved their collective performance over the last district council (zilla parishad or ZP) and panchayat samiti elections held in six districts of Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim, Nagpur and Palghar in January 2020. Together, the Congress, NCP and Sena clocked 46 district council seats out of 85, improving their tally by 10. The BJP won 22 out of the 85 district council seats -- a reduction of nine seats. In the 144 panchayat samiti seats that also went to poll on Tuesday, the Congress won the highest number of seats at 36, while the BJP won 33 seats. The NCP and Shiv Sena won 18 and 23 seats respectively. The remaining 34 were won by smaller parties and independent candidates. In all, 367 candidates were in the fray for the ZP polls while 555 candidates stood for the panchayat samiti seats. Elections to these seats were held in the Open Category for the first time in 1994 after the Supreme Court quashed the 27% reservation for OBC candidates in local bodies stating that this reservation, taken together with reservation for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe candidates exceeded the 50% cap mandated by a previous nine-judge Supreme Court order. Political experts saw these by-polls as a bellwether to test the mood of OBC communities following the SC’s March 4 order quashing reservation. To manage what could have been a messy political fallout, the state promulgated an Ordinance in September that amended two laws (out of five) which govern local bodies to revert to an OBC quota that permitted up to 27% reservation for candidates from this category. “Even after the quota was quashed, the ruling parties have not borne the brunt as the BJP thought they would. Though the BJP has been constantly cornering the MVA government, it does not seem to have reflected in these elections. This means if the three ruling parties remain coordinated and perform well at the local level, they may have better prospects in the forthcoming elections. The Congress has been significantly gaining ground in Vidarbha as it has won more seats in Nagpur and Washim. It could be a good sign for the party,” political analyst Hemant Desai said. Performance measure In these six districts, Congress is in power in Nagpur and Nandurbar ZPs, BJP in the Dhule ZP, NCP-Congress alliance in Washim ZP while Prakash Ambedkar led Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi (VBA) is strong in Akola ZP. In Palghar, Shiv Sena and NCP combine is in power. The power equation in these bodies remains intact. While the BJP’s numbers in Nagpur, Dhule and Akola dropped substantially, the Congress gained two seats and retained power in Nagpur district council. The BJP retained power in the Dhule district council, but saw a reduction in the number of seats. The VBA saw a dent in its tally in Akola and Washim. The BJP’s agreement with the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) failed to produce results in Palghar after both parties won nine of the total 29 seats. The BJP won eight seats of the total 20 that it contested while the MNS won one. “It was the local leadership which decided the seat adjustments based on the local conditions. It has nothing to do with the state leadership,” said BJP leader Madhav Bhandari. “We have lost our few sitting members in Nagpur and the results are not as expected,” said BJP leader and former minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule. He said the results were not an indication of the mood within the OBC community as all the parties fielded OBC candidates. Public Works Department minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan said that the results showed that the people rejected BJP’s double standards. “Though three ruling parties contested the polls separately, we have collectively won 46 of 85 seats. Our individual tally too has improved, whereas the numbers of BJP and Bahujan Vikas Aghadi have reduced. The voters have given fitting reply to the BJP which misguided Maratha and OBC communities,” he said. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the BJP emerged as the top party. “Of the total 229 seats, we have won 55 or 25% while 25% have been won by other small parties and independents. The three ruling parties could win only half of them, while Shiv Sena, the prime constituent in the MVA government has been thrown to fourth position. It is worrisome situation for the Sena which need to think twice over the alliance.” Baban Taywade, president of National OBC Federation said that the OBC voters largely voted against the BJP in the bypolls. “Even though the Maharashtra government has issued an Ordinance and even if it stood the legal scrutiny, the quota for OBC would be upto 27% and not assured 27% as it used to be. Only the Central government can give us 27% quota by bringing a constitutional amendment. If the BJP really wants the OBC quota to be restored, it should bring the amendment,” he said. Palghar MP Rajendra Gavit’s son and BJP candidate Rohit Gavit was defeated, while Gujarat BJP chief CR Patil’s daughter Dharati Devare won from Dhule. Former minister and BJP MLA Vijaykumar Gavit’s younger daughter Supriya won ZP election from Nandurbar. Following these bypolls, 23 of 27 municipal corporations, 27 of 36 district councils, 300 of 362 nagar panchayats and more than 290 panchayat samitis are scheduled to go to polls in the first half of 2022. The elections are touted as a mini assembly poll and would serve as a testament to the performance of the MVA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bypolls-in-maharashtra-rural-local-bodies-bjp-ahead-but-loses-seats-to-mva-partners-101633551118151.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Water level in 7 lakes 99%; no water cuts in Mumbai this year, says BMC||Mumbai will not have any water cuts for the next one year as the water level in the seven lakes is 99%, as of Wednesday morning. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has adequate water stock for the next 372 days.Every year, the BMC undertakes a review meeting on October 1 after withdrawal of monsoon in the last week of September, however, since monsoon withdrawal is delayed for the past two years the review meeting will happen in mid-October, according to BMC officials. However, the BMC has maintained that looking at the current situation it is clear that there will not be any water cuts. Ajay Rathore, chief engineer of BMC’s hydraulics department said, “The monsoon is yet to officially withdraw and there are chances of more rainfall, due to which we have not taken an annual meeting yet. But looking at the situation, it is clear that Mumbai will not have any water cuts this year.”Of the seven lakes supplying drinking water to the city, four— Tulsi, Vihar, Tansa and Modak Sagar — have already overflowed once this monsoon. According to BMC’s data, the livestock of water is 100% in Tulsi, 99% Vihar, 98% in Tansa and 97% in Modak Sagar. The seven lakes that supply water to the city are located in Mumbai as well as neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. The city has received over 3,000mm of rainfall this monsoon and nearby cities too have reported good rainfall.In the current year, between July 16 and 23, the catchment areas of the lakes received a maximum of their stock. On July 17, the overall water level in seven lakes was 17% and the BMC was considering announcing a water cut. However, by July 22, the water level crossed the 50% mark, followed by 60% on July 24 and 70% on July 28. On October 06, the water level was 99.00% in the seven lakes. Last year, on October 06, the water level was 98.60%, and it was 98.92% in 2019.Bhatsa dam in Thane, which supplies 55% of the total annual water requirement of the city, has 99.43 water stock, which was 999.92% last year at this time. In the case of Upper Vaitarna, the water level is 99.79% as of Monday. Last year at this time, the level stood at 99.58%. Middle Vaitarna has 97.78% of water stock as opposed to 97.47% last year at this time.The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems — the Vaitarna system which supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and Bhatsa system which supplies to the eastern suburbs. The civic body supplies 3,850 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres.The city had experienced a 20% water cut last year in August 2020, amid the Covid outbreak owing to the low level of water storage in the lakes. BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal had also prepared a backup plan to bring water to Mumbai from Bhandardara dam in Ahmednagar if required. Before 2020, no water cut was imposed in 2019, owing to good rainfall in catchment areas. The BMC had imposed a 10% water cut in 2018, a 20% cut in 2016 and a 25% cut in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/water-level-in-7-lakes-99-no-water-cuts-in-mumbai-this-year-says-bmc-101633551001164.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Soil fertility of waterlogged land in Haryana to be improved||At least 1.80 lakh acre land is either saline or waterlogged in Sonepat, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri districts of Haryana, it has emerged after a survey that will also be conducted in Nuh, Bhiwani, Hisar, Fatehabad and Sirsa districts in the next phase.According to Haryana Water Resources Authority chairperson Keshni Anand Arora, the target of improving soil fertility of one lakh acre land in a year has been set after completing the first phase of land survey in four districts.She said the water resources authority is working on a comprehensive plan to deal with the problem of falling water level and waterlogging in different districts of the state.Arora said the groundwater level of 14 districts is depleting, while nine districts are facing the problem of waterlogging.“In the first phase of the scheme, land survey has been done in Sonepat, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri, in which 1,80,424 acre land is saline or waterlogged,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/soil-fertility-of-waterlogged-land-in-haryana-to-be-improved-101633550938175.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC declines bail to Gurugram juvenile accused of murder||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday dismissed the bail plea of a Gurugram juvenile accused of murdering a Class-2 student of the same school in 2017.The HC bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan dismissed the plea primarily on grounds of apprehension that there can be an attempt to tamper the evidence or influence the witnesses. The boy is accused of slitting the throat of a Class-2 student in a bid to postpone the exams. Initially, the probe was conducted by the Haryana Police and a bus conductor was accused of murdering him. Later, CBI claimed that the crime was committed by the boy in question. The boy, named Bholu by a local Gurugram court since identity of a juvenile in conflict with law cannot be revealed, is in an observation home since November 2017. Earlier, attempt of bail plea taken up to the Supreme Court resulted in dismissal of the same by the apex court in September 2020, in which it was also ordered that he be treated as an adult while deciding his bail pleas. The fresh round of bail process was initiated in February and after dismissal of plea at the lower court, the HC was approached on April 23, 2021. One plea is still pending in the Supreme Court involving a question whether the boy is to be tried as an adult or a juvenile. He was 16-years-and-five-months-old at the time of the alleged incident. In the fresh plea, it was argued that the appellant was in observation home for three years and eleven months. Ultimately, if it is held that the petitioner is to be treated as child in conflict with law, he has already undergone the maximum sentence he could be awarded, it was argued further adding that even if he is to be treated as an adult, his custody period is substantial, more over as there is no progress in the trial. There are total 127 prosecution witnesses. The HC took note of the CBI report which argued that the appellant is to be treated as an adult for considering his bail application. The contention that ‘if he is to be treated as child in conflict with law’ is not available to him as ordered by the Supreme Court. The CBI had further argued that there is no change in circumstances and mere custody itself cannot be a ground for grant of bail. The CBI had also brought on record proceedings before the Juvenile Justice Board, Gurugram, where the presiding officer had recorded that the appellant and his father, who is a practising lawyer, tried to pressure the presiding officer. There are complaints filed that the appellant and his father tried to influence the witnesses in the present case, the CBI had submitted. The court observed that considering the facts and circumstances in totality, the custody period and non-progress of trial cannot be the sole ground for grant of bail. The court also took note of the lower court order on dismissal of bail plea about apprehensions recorded that certain witnesses including the sister of the deceased were minor and possibility of influencing the witnesses cannot be ruled out, if the boy is to be released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-declines-bail-to-gurugram-juvenile-accused-of-murder-101633550697989.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bargari sacrilege: Accused dera followers seek CBI probe papers||Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda followers, who are accused in the 2015 Bargari sacrilege case, have sought copies of the probe documents of sacrilege cases handed over by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to the Punjab police Special Investigation Team (SIT). Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny, Nishan Singh, Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola, and Pardeep Kumar, Shakti Singh and Baljit Singh filed an application in the court on Wednesday claiming that the prosecution has not furnished various documents, including the documents handed over by the CBI along with the chargesheet. They have asked for CBI’s handwriting and fingerprints reports of the CFSL lab along with specimen handwriting of the accused taken by the CBI. Further, they demanded the statements of witnesses recorded by the CBI under Section 161 of CrPC and all other documents obtained by the central agency during the investigation in the final report. In July, the SIT probing three 2015 sacrilege cases had filed a nine-point opinion on the closure report of the CBI to negate the clean chit given to dera followers in sacrilege cases. The CBI had concluded that no clue leading to the detection of these three cases could be found. “No eyewitness could be found,” it had said.The handwriting samples of accused Sukhjinder were sent by the CBI to the CFSL lab, which did not match with the ones on the derogatory posters pasted at Bargari in 2015. The SIT, however, has claimed that from peculiar facts and circumstances, it is evident that the CBI has overlooked certain relevant and important aspects. “The motive behind these three cases is having a direct link with Dera Sacha Sauda and the accused in these cases are dera followers,” the SIT claims. In June, the SIT had sent Sukhjinder’s fresh handwriting samples to the CFSL lab to match with the derogatory posters. However, the report is awaited. Apart from the CBI documents, dera followers have also asked the court to direct the prosecution to produce photographs of holy angs (torn pages of bir of Guru Granth Sahib), recording and transcripts of phone calls of Rupinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh. They also sought a copy of the application of discharge of Rupinder and Jaswinder. Advocate Vinod Monga, counsel of dera followers, told the court that these documents were essential for the trial of this case and those go deep into the matter to prove the innocence of the accused. The court proceedings were scheduled to frame charges against the accused in the Bargari sacrilege case in the court of judicial magistrate Tarjani on Wednesday. However, the matter was adjourned to October 27 for arguments on the application filed by the accused seeking documents. On October 20, 2015, then Punjab Bureau of Investigation chief additional director general of police (now DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota had announced that they have cracked the Bargari sacrilege case with the arrest of two persons. Sahota-led SIT arrested two Sikh youth, Rupinder Singh and Jaswinder Singh, both residents of Panjgrain village in Faridkot, concluding that the two brothers were in touch with someone in Australia and their funding by “foreign-based handlers” has been established. It also claimed to have intercepted their calls to handlers in Dubai and Australia. Audio clips of telephonic conversations between Rupinder and his foreign handler and Rupinder and Jaswinder, who was using his relative Gurbachan Singh’s number, were also shared. However, the SIT theory came under question the next day following media reports that the “foreign handlers” named in the case were ordinary NRIs who sent money to Rupinder and Jaswinder to fund the anti-sacrilege protest in Bargari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bargari-sacrilege-accused-dera-followers-seek-cbi-probe-papers-101633550579583.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Relief to Haryana farmers as rice millers join procurement||A strong lobby of the rice millers of Haryana forced the government to bow to their demands, including withdrawal of FIRs registered against some rice millers for contravening the CMR policy by allegedly bringing in rice from other states.The deadlock ended as the government reportedly agreed to their demands during a meeting between the members of the rice millers’ association and Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala late on Tuesday.Though the government is yet to make any announcement in this regard, a statement jointly circulated to the rice millers’ association president Hansraj Singla, chairman Jewel Singh and vice-president Vinod Goel, to members of the Haryana Rice Millers’ Association has confirmed the development.On their request, the rice millers have also joined the procurement operations from Wednesday.They said the meeting took place as the residence of the Deputy CM, who also holds the portfolio of food, supplies and consumer affairs department, and has agreed to their demands including reducing bank guarantee on paddy provided to rice millers under the CMR policy to 1% owners of rice mills and 2.5% for rice millers who have taken the mills on lease from the proposed 5%.Cases were registered against rice millers, who were booked for allegedly bringing rice from other states in 2019 and 2020.While there were no specific details of the number of cases, people associated with the association said cases were registered against rice millers in Karnal, Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts following recovery of rice meant for the public distribution system of other states. Only those rice millers will be given the benefit who have returned the entire rice to the government.They clarified that cases registered against the defaulter rice millers for not returning the rice will not be withdrawn. The government has also agreed to open procurement for farmers of other states within the next seven day, they said.Haryana Rice Millers’ Association vice-president Vinod Goel said, “The government has accepted our demands and have asked all rice millers to join procurement without any further delay and inconvenience to the farmers.”The move has come as a big relief for thousands of farmers in state as procurement gained momentum on Wednesday and most of the paddy lying in mandis for the past couple of days was procured and lifting will also start by Wednesday evening.BJP’s Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha also issued a statement stating that talks between the government and rice millers remained positive and the rice millers have decided to start procurement.Officials of the Haryana Agriculture Marketing Board said the government has also accepted a demand of the farmers and raised the per acre cap for procurement up to 30.8 quintal from 25 quintal.Even as procurement had started from October 3, rice millers were not cooperating due to new norms introduced by the government in the CMR policy, and without rice millers, the government agency was unable to start lifting of procured paddy.Bank guarantee clause for Haryana millers amendedThe Haryana government has decided to amend the bank guarantee clause in the milling policy for the ongoing Kharif season. An official spokesperson said following a review an additional security amount of 2.5% of the value of the paddy allotted will be obtained from the miller in the form of bank guarantee.However, for a rice miller who is an unencumbered owner of a rice mill and land underneath and has delivered his entire custom milled rice by May 31, the additional security amount will be 1% of the value of the paddy allotted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/relief-to-haryana-farmers-as-rice-millers-join-procurement-101633550578113.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||15 private buses plying without taxes in Punjab impounded||The Punjab transport department on Wednesday impounded 15 buses of private companies plying without tax in the state. Disclosing this, transport minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring said complaints of private buses operating without tax were continuously pouring in, hence special investigation teams of the department were constituted. He said that during raids in four districts --- Faridkot, Bathinda, Amritsar and Ludhiana --- 15 buses were impounded. In Faridkot, two buses each of Jujhar Bus Service and New Deep Bus Service have been impounded. Similarly, two buses of New Deep, one each of Orbit Aviation and Rajdhani Bus Service were impounded in Bathinda. Besidestwo buses of Baba Budha Transport Service was impounded Amritsar and one bus of Orbit Aviation, two buses of Jujhar Bus Service, one of Libra Bus Service and one of Nagpal Bus Service were impounded in Ludhiana. Meanwhile, the transport minster assured that a transparent and apt bus timetable would be worked out and implemented soon, besides giving exemption from taxes to bus operators for the period of Covid pandemic. During a series of meetings at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh, Warring said he was aware that around 90% of the transport industry is associated with small bus operators and employing more than 1.5 lakh people in the state. “While the state will deal sternly with the big bus mafia, small bus operators will not be allowed to die,” the minister told a delegation of bus operators led by Faridkot MLA Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon. On the demand for tax exemption, the minister said the department will come up with a kilometre-wise slab scheme for tax exemption in the next few days, besides considering extending the amnesty scheme till March 31, 2022. He said the tax defaulter bus operators will have to pay arrears of pre-Covid era.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-private-buses-plying-without-taxes-in-punjab-impounded-101633550338010.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Recovery of ₹33 crore from Panipat defaulters remains a challenge for health department||The Haryana public health and engineering departments was unable to recover around ₹33 crore from the defaulters of Panipat district.As per information provided by the department in reply to an application filed under the Right to Information Act by Panipat-based activist Vaibhav, the PHED owes ₹33 crore from drinking water and sewerage bill defaulters of Panipat.According to information provided by the public health and engineering departments, of total 49,456 valid connection holders of Panipat city, 35,275 are defaulters and owe ₹29.28 crore for dirking water and ₹3.97 crore for sewerage maintenance.The activist said the department has claimed that there was not even a single illegal connection of drinking water in the city, but the reply revealed that 56 illegal and 155 legal water connections were disconnected in the past five years.Around ₹4.44 core drinking water and sewage maintenance were due with only 249 defaulters of Samalkha sub-division in district.PHED Panipat executive engineer Rajesh Kaushik said the notices are being served to the defaulters and the recovery was slowed down due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/recovery-of-rs-33-crore-from-panipat-defaulters-remains-a-challenge-for-health-department-101633550278261.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 31 more Covid cases||Punjab on Wednesday reported 31 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the infection tally to 6,01,782, according to a medical bulletin.With no fresh Covid-related, the toll stood at 16,526. One fatality was added to the toll after reconciliation of data, the bulletin said.Among new COVID-19 cases, Muktsar reported five cases, followed by three each in Bathinda, Jalandhar and Pathankot.The number of active cases was 264.Twenty-six people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,84,992, as per the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-31-more-covid-cases-101633550100440.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||New restrictions announced by Lucknow police for upcoming festivals||The Lucknow police commissionerate announced new restrictions under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in view of the upcoming festival season and farmers’ protest on Tuesday, senior police officials said here on Wednesday.They said these restrictions will remain in place till November 8.The directive under Section 144 (also known as prohibitory orders), empowers the magistrate to prohibit the gathering of four or more people in a specified area.“Section 144 of CrPC implemented in Lucknow commissionerate jurisdiction with immediate effect. Section 144 will remain in force in the capital till November 8 to maintain law and order and ensure adherence to Covid-19 rules in view of upcoming festivals, various entrance exams and farmers’ protests,” an official note dated October 5 signed by Piyush Mordia, joint police commissioner, law and order, said.Navratri will be celebrated from October 7-14, Dussehra on October 15, Eid/Barawafat on October 19, Diwali on November 4 and Bhai Dooj on November 6. “Covid-19 is still having an impact on the normal lives of people. So, it is important to be vigilant during the festival period,” the order stated.The order contained 24 points that explained different restrictions to remain imposed during this period. It also gave details about the Covid-19 protocols to be followed during this period. The order reads that the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the UP government from time to time must be followed strictly.The order further stated that tractors, bullock carts, horse carts, gas cylinders, inflammable material and any kind of weapon is banned within one kilometre area around the Vidhan Sabha. All demonstrations are also banned near the Vidhan Sabha. If anyone is found violating these guidelines, strict action will be taken against that person.Besides, video-shooting with the help of drones is banned above or 1 kilometre around the state legislature building and government offices. Special permission needs to be taken from the police for using drones to shoot footage in any area of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/new-restrictions-announced-by-lucknow-police-for-upcoming-festivals-101633550098945.html
07-10-2021||Pune||PMC’s cat sterilisation drive runs into Covid roadblock||PUNE Despite a state government order to sterilise stray cats in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) effort to sign on an agency that can undertake the task has run into the Covid pandemic and has not been revived.As per the state government’s directives to all local bodies to curb the population of stray cats with the help of sterilisation, PMC had floated tender last year. It was floated in September 2019. However, due to lack of response to tender, PMC extended the tender time limit. After that, the corporation had received one response. However, the agency did not have a certificate from the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI). The corporation gave the agency time to get a certificate from AWBI within six months. However, it did not happen as the corona pandemic began and the entire process halted.As per state government order and AWBI advisory, every municipal corporation should have control the cat population and reduce the incidents of cruelty.Amay Joshi, a resident of Shrikrupa Shursti society, Jambhulwadi, said, “We are facing the problem of cats in our society. Some residents feed non-vegetarian food to cats which is not acceptable to vegetarian residents. Cats cause a stench on the premises.” Girish Kamble, a resident of Kalp-kalyan Society, Dhankawadi, said, “The cats roam around the society at night and scatter waste collected in dustbins, leaving food lying around. It causes uncleanliness. It puts restrictions on us from moving around the society or using the staircases.” Manoj Dubey, an animal activist said, “Cats are independent and do not depend on human beings for food. Cats are useful for us. They don’t want specific food or shelter. They are not creating any trouble for anyone. We are against cat sterilisation. It is one of the important parts of the life cycle. Cats eat rats and other small animals which are harmful to us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmcs-cat-sterilisation-drive-runs-into-covid-roadblock-101633550097885.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Resentment in Haryana bajra growers after price drop||Resentment is brewing among bajra growers in southern parts of Haryana as prices of the crop fell sharply to ₹1,200-1,350 per quintal in the open market against the minimum support price of ₹2,250 per quintal.The price of bajra has reduced from ₹1,550-1,650 per quintal in a week in the open market after the Haryana government decided to include the crop in the ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’ from this kharif season.The government had announced to pay farmers ₹600 per quintal on average of the yield, in case private players buy bajra below the minimum support price (MSP).The farmers of southern Haryana have urged the government either to purchase bajra on MSP or pay farmers ₹950 per quintal per yield under the ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’.Dalip Gujjar, a farmer from Mahendergarh, said he has sold 25 quintal bajra at ₹1,350 at Ateli mandi. “Last year, I sold my entire bajra crop in the mandi at MSP. But this year, I suffered huge losses as the prices fell sharply in the open market and the government failed to initiate procurement process,” he said.“I don’t know how the government will evaluate bajra per yield and how much it will pay us. The government should give us ₹900 per quintal under the ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’,” he added.Balbir Thakan, state secretary of All India Kisan Sabha, said their apprehensions that the government would ‘shut down mandis’ came true after the state government included bajra under the ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’.“After the government move, the price of bajra has sharply declined by ₹450-500 per quintal. Who will compensate for this difference? The state government wants to adopt such methods so that it can shut down mandis and give open players complete freedom to fleece farmers. The government had announced to purchase 25% bajra from October 1 but it has failed to start procurement so far,” he added.Ram Kumar Ritholia, president of Vyapar Mandal at Charkhi Dadri, said farmers are forced to sell their crop at ₹1,100- 1,300 per quintal.“Bags of bajra are lying under the open sky. It seems that the government will not procure bajra at MSP and their decision will affect farmers and arhtiyas. In the last one week, the prices of bajra have reduced by ₹500 per quintal and those agents who had purchased bajra last week are suffering losses,” he added.The government will compensate only those farmers of Haryana who have registered on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal for buying bajra. In Kharif season 2021, total 2.71 lakh farmers have registered on the portal for bajra and the government has set up 86 centres to procure 25% bajra of Haryana but procurement could not be started in state.Former Haryana chief minister and leader of Opposition, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, said the farmers are forced to sell their bajra crop at ₹900-1,200 per quintal.“If government compensates ₹600 per quintal to farmers under the ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’, even then they will suffer losses of ₹350-600 per quintal,” he added.BJP’s Nangal Chaudhary MLA Abhe Singh Yadav said he and other party MLAs met Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday and appraised him of the problems faced by the bajra growers.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal said arrival of bajra has started at a few mandis.“We will give ₹500 crore compensation to bajra growers under the ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’. We had decided to give ₹600 per quintal compensation to bajra growers as the prices of the crop is ₹1,650 per quintal in the open market. We will review the situation if the prices decline in the open market,” he said in Bhiwani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/resentment-in-haryana-bajra-growers-after-price-drop-101633550037809.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||2 killed in Jalandhar road accident||Two persons in their 40s were killed and two others were injured after the car they were travelling in collided with an unidentified vehicle before ramming into a tree at Gurbanta Singh Marg in Jalandhar. The victims were identified as Jaskaran Singh of Jalandhar and Banke of Chandigarh. Those injured have been identified as Sunil Kumar and Raj Kumar. Passersby rescued the injured and rushed them to a nearby hospital where Jaskaran and Banke people were declared brought dead. A case of rash driving and death due to negligence of Indian Penal Code has been registered at the division number 4 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-killed-in-jalandhar-road-accident-101633549857945.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers protest against JP Dalal in Bhiwani||Farmers on Wednesday staged a dharna and showed black flags to Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal during his visit to Adarsh Mahila Mahavidyalaya in Bhiwani, where he attended a degree felicitation programme.The farmers staged a dharna against Dalal to protest Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s statement to “pick up sticks” against the agitators during BJP’s Kisan Morcha meeting, where the agriculture minister was also present.After getting information of his visit, farmers gathered at a distance from the college. Later, they removed barricades and took control of the main gate of the college. Police managed the law and order situation and ensured the minister’s visit from the backside of the college.Farm leader Joginder Talu said they protested against Dalal over Khattar’s statement.“Khattar has asked his workers to pick sticks and have a face-off with farmers but his minister left the meeting from the backside of the college. BJP is making all attempts to divide people,” he added.Interacting with the media, Dalal slammed the farmers for protesting outside the college.“If the agitators want to protest against me, they can visit my constituency. It is shameful that they took control of the main gate of the college where girls study. I had come to felicitate final year students with degrees but few agenda-based people blocked the main gate to disrupt the event,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-against-jp-dalal-in-bhiwani-101633549737738.html
07-10-2021||Pune||As flyers express discontent, IAF says Pune airport closure was ‘inescapable’||PUNE Under criticism for shutting down Pune’s Lohegaon airport for 14 days starting October 16, in the middle of the festive season and on very short notice, the Indian Air Force (IAF), on Wednesday, said the move was “inescapable” and airline officials were informed about tentative dates in advance. According to an announcement, Lohegaon airport, which is currently only operating during the day, since will remain completely shut from October 16-29, due to the runway being re-carpeted. The 14-day complete closure was earlier planned from April 26 till May 9, but had to be deferred. In its statement IAF said, “To address the issue of the rapidly deteriorating condition of the runway and associated operating surfaces at Air Force Station Pune, runway resurfacing was an urgent requirement. The aim is to prevent any damage to engines of operating aircraft.” “Partial closure of the runway was undertaken at Pune for a period of 12 hours daily during the night, to cause least possible disturbance to civil aviation for a period of one year from October 26 2020 to October 25 2021, during which time the work progressed. According to IAF, the earlier announcement of closure in April had to be deferred as the Ministry of Defence asked for the postponement to avoid disruption of Covid-19 vaccine supply. “Due to the emergent requirement for transportation of Covid vaccines, the Ministry of Defence had directed us to defer the complete closure of the runway,” the IAF said. “The work of resurfacing, other than the central flexible portion of the runway is nearing completion. To ensure timely availability of runway post resurfacing, complete closure of 14 days is inescapable and was planned in the 3rd and 4th week of October. The tentative period of closure was intimated to all airline operators, local Airport Director and Airports Authority of India CHQ, well in advance. However, the exact dates of closure could be promulgated only after the requisite approvals were obtained from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of Defence. As per the present plan, flight operations would resume from October 30, 2021, before Diwali festival,” said the IAF statement, which came against the backdrop of severe criticism from flyers. Sudhir Mehta, chief managing director, Pinnacle Industries, and president of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries & Agriculture, said in a tweet: “The closure of the Pune airport by the air force for 15 days with just 10 days notice could have been avoided, especially when so many vaccines are being transported . While the city shares the airport with the air force, it’s ultimately a national asset.” Currently, 55 flights are operating daily and daily footfall crossed the 10,000 mark recently. Before first Covid wave, 170 flights used to operate from the city airport. Siddharth Shirole, BJP MLA from Shivajinagar said, “There should have been proper communication from the Airport authority. They should have informed of it in advance to avoid last moment confusion.” Amit Paranjape, chairperson, IT & ITES Committee, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) in his tweet said, “Better support from the Center as well over the past two decades (and even today) would help. Everyone knows what the short term and long term solutions are... But no political leadership being seen on the ground at any level. Pune continues to suffer.” The IAF meanwhile clarified that during closure days, vaccines will be airlifted from Pune to Mumbai by deploying suitable IAF assets to ensure uninterrupted supply. Aviation analyst Dhairyasheel Vandekar, formerly in-charge of the Air India station in Pune, said, “Authorities should have kept plan-B ready in advance which could have helped the flyers.” “Some options should be finalised by airport authorities and airlines to connect flights with Mumbai airport and Shirdi Airport. Finding a slot should not be an issue as Mumbai airport is not running to 100 per cent strength and Shirdi airport also had many slots available,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-flyers-express-discontent-iaf-says-pune-airport-closure-was-inescapable-101633549557726.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Police use water cannon to disperse AAP workers trying to lay siege to guv’s house||Demanding immediate dismissal of Union minister Ajay Mishra from the cabinet and the arrest of his son for the incident in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday staged a protest near the Punjab Raj Bhawan. The Chandigarh Police used water cannon to disperse the party workers who tried to lay siege to the governor’s house. The police had put up barricades near the MLA hostel to stop the protesters from proceeding towards the Raj Bhawan. When AAP supporters led by AAP legislature party deputy leader Saravjit Kaur Manuke tried to break the barricades, the police used the water cannon to disperse them. However, some party leaders, including Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Sigh and MLA Aman Arora managed to reach close to the governor’s house and were detained from there. Jarnail and Arora said the AAP, through the governor of Punjab, wanted to ask the Modi-led central government and the Yogi Adityanath government why they had not taken action against the Union minister and his son, according to a party release. Miffed Mann conspicuous by absence While MLAs Budh Ram, Baldev Singh, Kulwant Singh Pandori, Manjit Singh Bilaspur and Jai Singh Rodi participated in the protest, AAP state unit president Bhagwant Mann was conspicuous by his absence from the protest in Chandigarh. He was also not part of the delegation of state leaders led by Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha that went to Lakhimpur Tekri. Mann is said to be upset over the Delhi leaders’ attempts to call the shots in the state unit as well as the delay in naming the chief ministerial (CM) face of the party for the upcoming state polls. The two-time Sangrur MP’s supporters have been campaigning for naming him as the party’s chief ministerial candidate. The AAP leadership has been non-committal so far as some central leaders have reservations about making him the face of the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-police-use-water-cannon-to-disperse-aap-workers-trying-to-lay-siege-to-guv-s-house-101633549497791.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC asks ex-cricketer Yuvraj to appear before Haryana Police||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked ex-cricketer Yuvraj Singh to appear before Haryana police in a case of alleged use of casteist remarks. The court also directed police that in the event of his arrest, he be released on bail, lawyers associated with the case said. Detailed order is awaited. Earlier, Haryana Police had told the high court that ex-cricketer Yuvraj Singh needs to be formally arrested. Hansi SP Nitika Gahlaut told a high court bench that Yuvraj used the term in an abusive and derogatory sense denoting a Scheduled Caste which resulted in humiliation of people belonging to the caste.Investigation has almost been completed. In view of the nature of allegations, his physical presence is required for effecting his formal arrest in this case. Hence, he should be directed to appear before the investigating officer, police told the court.Police were responding to a plea from the ex-cricketer in February seeking quashing of the FIR.The FIR was registered against him on February 14, eight months after he apologised for the “unintentional remarks” made during an Instagram live video in April 2020 during Covid-induced lockdown.The FIR was registered on complaint of one Rajat Kalsan, of Hansi, under Sections 153-A (promoting enmity) and 153-B (assertions prejudicial to national-integration) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes Prevention and Atrocities Act, 1989.The HC, on February 25, had asked the police to not to take any coercive action him.The ex-cricketer has claimed that the remark was misunderstood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-asks-ex-cricketer-yuvraj-to-appear-before-haryana-police-101633549257581.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Houston post office renamed in honour of slain Sikh cop||HoustonA post office in west Houston has been renamed after Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal, in a fitting tribute to the trailblazing Indian-American Sikh police officer who died after being shot multiple times while on duty in the US state of Texas in 2019.Dhaliwal, the beloved 42-year-old Harris County sheriff’s deputy and a father of three, was gunned down during a traffic stop on September 27, 2019. Dhaliwal made national headlines in 2015 when he became the first police officer in Texas to serve while keeping his Sikh articles of faith, including a turban and beard.“Our fallen brother deputy Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal was honoured by renaming a postal office in west Harris County in his memory. We are grateful to the Texas delegation, Harris County Commissioners Court, United States Postal Office, & the Sikh community for honouring him,” Harris county sheriff’s office (HCSO) said in a tweet on Wednesday.Houston’s Sikh community and local elected officials and members of law enforcement gathered on Tuesday at a ceremony at 315 Addicks-Howell Road to dedicate the “Deputy Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal Post Office.” “I am honoured to play a role in commemorating deputy Dhaliwal’s remarkable life of selfless service,” said Congresswoman Lizzie Fletcher, who brought the renaming legislation to the US House of Representatives.“He represented the very best of our community: he worked for equality, connection, and community through his life of service to others. I was glad to work with a bipartisan delegation, our community partners, and those in the Sikh community, to pass legislation to rename this building the deputy Sandeep Singh Dhaliwal Post Office,” Fletcher said.Harris County sheriff Ed Gonzalez said the “remarkable commemoration” serves as a permanent reminder of Dhaliwal’s “lasting contributions to our community”.“This will serve as a permanent reminder of Deputy Dhaliwal’s service, sacrifice, and example to us all. We are thankful to Congresswoman Fletcher and the entire Texas delegation for honouring a committed public servant who touched countless lives and served as a trailblazer. He was a true hero who inspired everyone to love their neighbours,” Gonzalez said.Father of the slain police officer Pyara Singh Dhaliwal expressed gratitude to the people of Houston for their support.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/houston-post-office-renamed-in-honour-of-slain-sikh-cop-101633548957799.html
07-10-2021||Pune||IAF to airlift Covid vaccines from Pune to Mumbai during airport closure||Pune: Even as Pune airport will be closed for operations from October 16-29, vaccines will be airlifted from Pune to Mumbai by the Indian Air Force (IAF), IAF officials said on Wednesday. The IAF in a statement clarified that during the days of closure, vaccines will be airlifted from Pune deploying suitable IAF assets to ensure uninterrupted supply. “During the period of complete closure of the runway, IAF will ensure airlift of vaccines from Pune to Mumbai by deploying suitableIAF assets for the purpose to ensure uninterrupted supply chain,” IAF said in a statement issued on Wednesday. With Serum Institute of India (SII) manufacturing Covishield at its Pune facility, Lohegaon airport in Pune has proved to be key centre for transporting vials across India. According to IAF, the earlier announcement of closure in April had to be deferred as the Ministry of Defence asked for the postponement to avoid disruption of Covid-19 vaccine supply. “Due to the emergent requirement for transportation of Covid vaccines, the Ministry of Defence had directed us to defer the complete closure of the runway,” the IAF said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/iaf-to-airlift-covid-vaccines-from-pune-to-mumbai-during-airport-closure-101633548897946.html
07-10-2021||Bhopal||‘MP a leading state in land digitisation’: PM Modi praises Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday praised the working of the Madhya Pradesh government during the distribution of e-property cards to 1,71,000 beneficiaries of 3000 villages of the state under the Svamitva scheme of the central government.Addressing the beneficiaries in Harda via video conferencing, PM Modi said, “Madhya Pradesh has a speed and desire for development. Under the leadership of CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, all the schemes are being implemented in a better way in the interest of the people of the state. Every time I see this, I feel very happy. Madhya Pradesh has emerged as a leading state by doing commendable work in the field of land digitization.”The Svamitva Yojana, or ownership scheme involves mapping residential land ownership in the rural sector using geographic information system (GIS) mapping and is expected to revolutionise property record maintenance. For people in rural areas, the scheme, which will lead to the distribution of property cards in rural cards to those who possess property, will enable easier bank credit and end local property disputes.The Svamitva scheme was launched as a pilot project in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Haryana, Punjab and Karnataka. Now it will be introduced across the nation.“The land rights will strengthen the villages. People have to face land disputes and many difficulties for land ownership. People spend their savings to fight cases in court. Gandhiji also expressed concern about this situation. It is our responsibility to make improvements in this area,” PM Modi said, adding that he started working on the Svamitva scheme concept when he was still Gujarat chief minister.He continued. "Earlier the schemes were made for a section of farmers but we are making schemes to empower 80% marginal farmers,” he said, referring to the Kisan credit card, which he said, has brought relief to the farmers.“It has become easier for more than two crore farmers to get bank loans without any guarantee. An amount of ₹15 lakh crore has been deposited in the accounts under Mudra Scheme. We are depositing ₹6,000 in the accounts of farmers to support them,” he added.PM interacted with 3 Svamitva beneficiariesA beneficiary, Pawan Kumar, a resident of Hadiya village in Harda district, said people were surprised when the drone used for GIS mapping first arrived in the village. “The villagers named it chhota (small) helicopter. Later, they came to know about its importance”.Another beneficiary, Prem Singh of Dindori district, said the whole village knows about the scheme and they are happy with it.Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also addressed the beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-a-leading-state-in-land-digitisation-pm-modi-praises-shivraj-singh-chouhan-101633548357960.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Rahul, Priyanka meet kin of farmers, journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri||Capping a day of hectic political developments, Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday night met the family members of two farmers and a journalist who were among the eight people killed in violence in the Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday (October 3).As the Uttar Pradesh government permitted Opposition leaders to visit Lakhimpur Kheri subject to certain restrictions, the two Congress leaders consoled the family members of Lovepreet Singh in Palia, Nachhatar Singh at Ramandeep Purwa in Dhaurahra and a journalist, Raman Kashyap, in Nigahasan.After meeting the family of Lovepreet, Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Shared grief with the family of Lovepreet. But until justice is not done, this satyagraha will continue. Won’t forget your sacrifice, Lovepreet.”While leaving the house of journalist Raman Kashyap, Rahul Gandhi demanded the arrest of the accused persons and said: “Constitutional values are being violated”. After the Congress leaders met the three families, Priyanka said they would visit the rest of the families on Thursday. “All three families we met today are not satisfied with just monetary compensation. They want justice, which means the resignation of minister Ajay Mishra and the arrest of his son Ashish. If police can arrest me without a warrant what is stopping them from arresting Ashish Mishra,” she said.The Congress leaders reached the house of Nachhatar Singh around midnight and stayed for over 20 minutes.Before that, the meeting with Lovepreet’s family took place at Chaukhra farm in Palia, Lakhimpur Kheri, in the presence of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel hours after the Uttar Pradesh government released Priyanka from nearly 55-hour detention in Sitapur and allowed her brother Rahul Gandhi to lead the party delegation to Lakhimpur Kheri.A large number of villagers were also there as the Congress leaders spent nearly half an hour with the family of Lovepreet, assuring them that the party was with the farmers and it would provide all the necessary help in their fight for justice.Earlier, the Congress leaders had left Sitapur for Lakhimpur Kheri around 6pm. Rahul, along with a Congress delegation comprising the chief ministers of Punjab and Chhatisgarh, went to meet Priyanka in Sitapur after landing at the Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport in Lucknow on Wednesday afternoon. Soon after their arrival, both Channi and Baghel announced relief of ₹50 lakh each to the families of those who died in the Lakhmpur Kheri violence.The permission for the visit to Lakhimpur Kheri was preceded by high drama.“BJP government’s permission (to go to Lakhimpur Kheri)! What for are they afraid?” said Rahul Gandhi in a tweet in Hindi even as Congress workers staged statewide protests demanding the release of Priyanka.The state government initially appeared reluctant to allow the Congress delegation led by Rahul Gandhi to reach the state capital on way to Lakhimpur Kheri. After allegedly being denied permission to board the flight to Lucknow, they were soon given boarding passes. When the delegation landed in Lucknow at about 1.30pm, the administration stopped them again.“I want to move out of the airport. They are not allowing me to move out. What kind of permission is this?” said Rahul Gandhi to media persons there.He sat on a dharna along with Channi and Baghel inside the airport. Although police stopped a number of them on way, a large number of Congress workers assembled outside the airport and shouted anti-government slogans.The district administration asked them not to move out of airport from the arrival gate. “We want to go (to Lakhimpur Kheri) in our car, but they (police) want to take us in their vehicle. I have asked them to go in my personal vehicle. They are planning something,” said Rahul Gandhi to media persons there.Rahul, in a video posted by the ANI, appeared to be heard telling district administration officials: “Are you deciding how I will go? Give me the rule that allows you to tell a citizen about how to go to any place.”District administration officials were heard replying “Sir, it’s a traffic jam here.” Rahul then said, “I move in a traffic jam every day.” District administration officials then replied, “We have made arrangements for you. Your vehicles are there at the VIP hangar. We are going to escort you till Sitapur border.” After high drama, Rahul, along with members of the Congress delegation, came out of the airport and left for Sitapur, where his sister Priyanka Gandhi Vadra joined him to go to Lakhimpur Kheri.Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot’s convoy was stopped near Moradabad on way to Lakhimpur Kheri Meanwhile, posters reading “nahi chahiye farzi sahanubhooti (don’t want fake sympathy)” came up in Lucknow on Wednesday.UP government spokesman Siddarth Nath Singh, speaking to media persons, also questioned Priyanka Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi for being adamant on visiting Lakhimpur in violation of prohibitory orders.“Anyone is free to meet the families of those who have lost their near and dear ones in Lakhimpur Kheri. But currently investigation is underway. They should wait for a few days and then go and meet,” he said.On a video of Priyanka Gandhi sweeping the floor of her guest house room where she has been kept in Sitapur, the UP minister said that it was good to see her joining PM Modi’s Swachhta campaign. Professor SK Dwivedi, head of the department of political science, Lucknow University, said “The BJP government has shown a soft attitude towards the opposition viewing that the public opinion may turn against it. The leaders of opposition parties are also guided by political interest with a view to gaining their sympathy in view of 2022 UP assembly elections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rahul-priyanka-meet-kin-of-farmers-journalist-in-lakhimpur-kheri-101633548658789.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL serves notice to 4 power plants to scrap PPAs||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) on Wednesday served notice of termination of power purchase agreements (PPAs) to four private power generating plants with effect from October 31. The plants that have been served notices are Damodar Valley Corporation’s Durgapur (200MW share), Raghunathpur (300MW share), Bokaro (200MW share) and Meja Urja Power Project (85MW share). Till mid-June, the PSPCL was defending the PPAs by filing petitions before the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC). The decision came following the PSERC ruling saying that power is costly from generating stations of Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC), Kolkata, Pragati Power Corporation Limited and Meja Urja Nigam Power Private Limited, aggregating to 885MW. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said the PSPCL has served notice to four power generating plants saying that it won’t buy electricity from October 31. The PSPCL notice says that the PPAs are not approved by the PSERC. “The PSPCL will not be in position to procure power from the above mentioned generating stations beyond October 31, 2021, and the PPA shall stand cancelled and terminated for all intended purposes,” the notice read. The PSERC had in September pulled up the PSPCL for purchasing power at high cost from some power generators, saying it was against the interest of consumers. The PSPCL’s proposal of procurement of 885MW of power on long-term basis from Meja, Pragati-III and DVC’s Raghunathpur, Durgapur & Bokaro stations at ₹5.53, ₹4.82, ₹4.61, ₹4.44 and ₹4.39 per unit, respectively, would not be an economically viable proposition, particularly so, when much cheaper power is available in the market, read PSERC ruling. The PSERC said that the PSPCL should buy power at not more than ₹3 per unit, including fixed and variable cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-serves-notice-to-4-power-plants-to-scrap-ppas-101633548657629.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Intense evening rainfall continues in Pune with monsoon withdrawal on horizon||PUNE Between 3:30 pm and 6:30 pm on Wednesday, parts of Pune city received an intense spell of rainfall. Officials from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that Southwest Monsoon has started withdrawing from northwest parts of India. However, the withdrawal of the monsoon from Maharashtra is likely to start from October 10. As per IMD Pune, in three hours on Wednesday, Shivajinagar and Pashan reported 15.2 mm of rainfall each, Lohegaon reported 6.2 mm, Lavale reported 13.5 mm and Magarpatta reported 8.5 mm of rainfall. No rainfall was reported in Chinchwad on Wednesday during the day.Shivajinagar on Wednesday reported a maximum temperature of 32.7 degrees Celsius. Chinchwad was hottest on Wednesday at 34.3 degrees Celsius.“Pune city is likely to continue to witness hotter days and rainy evenings till October 9. Ghat areas around Pune city may receive isolated heavy rainfall till October 9,” said IMD officials.Withdrawal from MaharashtraK S Hosalikar, deputy director general, IMD Mumbai, said that withdrawal of southwest monsoon from some parts of northwest India started on October 6 as against the forecast date of September 17.“In the last five years, monsoon withdrawal has been in September except in 2019 when monsoon withdrawal from Rajasthan started from October 9,” said Hosalikar.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that northern parts of Maharashtra may experience withdrawal around October 10.“However, monsoon withdrawal may not happen over Konkan and southern parts of the state immediately. For Pune city we are expecting monsoon withdrawal around October 15,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/intense-evening-rainfall-continues-in-pune-with-monsoon-withdrawal-on-horizon-101633548418036.html
07-10-2021||Pune||Pune pvt hospital’s mock ambulance drill claims to expose citizens’ apathy||PUNE A mock drill conducted by a private hospital over a seven-day period aimed to gauge people’s reactions towards an ambulance. The private hospital group, Lokmanya hospitals, conducted the survey and claims to have found that the average person encountered during the drill showed little sympathy towards patients in an ambulance, as a result of which, time taken to travel a 30-minute distance would increase to 80 minutes. Civil problems like construction and commercial activities on the streets further added to the delay, ambulance drivers who were part of the drill claimed. The drill was conducted within a 10km radius from the Lokmanya hospital and covered areas like Senapati Bapat Marg, Pashan, Warje, Kothrud, Pimple Saudagar and Aundh. The drills were run in morning and evening rush hours, 10-12 am and 5-8 pm. The idea of the drill was also to emphasise the “golden hour”, the first 60 minutes during any medical emergency, critical in saving a patient’s life.The hospital used five ambulances for the seven day-drill which ended on October 4. Ambulance drivers claimed to have observed continued apathy from other vehicles on the road as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-pvt-hospital-s-mock-ambulance-drill-claims-to-expose-citizens-apathy-101633546617133.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Hindon civil terminal may start 3 new routes to Ayodhya, Kushinagar, Pithoragarh||The connectivity from the new civil terminal at Ballia’s Sikandarpur, near the Hindon airbase, will span to three different cities through three new routes from Hindon to Ayodhya, Kushinagar, and Pithoragarh, Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials said on Wednesday.The civil terminal, which became operational in 2019, operates flights to different routes under the central government’s regional connectivity services, also known as ‘Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik’ (UDAN). At present, it operates flights from Hindon to Hubli and Kalaburgi, as the initial route from Hindon to Pithoragarh is still suspended.“The airline has not resumed the Hindon-Pithoragarh route after it suspended the flights in 2020. However, all other routes are operational... We have information on new routes to Ayodhya, Kushinagar, and Pithoragarh, and the connectivity from the civil terminal will improve further,” said Shobha Bhardwaj, director of the Sikandarpur civil terminal.The new routes will be popular as Ayodhya is famous for religious and historical importance, and Kushinagar is an important Buddhist pilgrimage site too, said the officials. Also, Pithoragarh -- located in Uttarakhand -- is a famous hill station.“It is now up to the respective airlines to start the operations. It is likely that the new routes will start soon,” Bhardwaj added.According to the officials, the civil terminal at Ghaziabad is proposed to operate flights to eight routes -- Nasik, Pithoragarh, Kannur, Hubli, Faizabad, Shimla, Jamnagar and Kalaburgi.The first flight from the civil terminal was made operational between Hindon and Pithoragarh on October 11, 2019, and the second route between Hindon and Hubli on November 6, 2019. The flights from Hindon to Kalaburgi started in November 2020.Under the RCS connectivity scheme, the civil terminal is operational for passenger facilities, and the civil flights make use of the runway of the Indian Air Force’s Hindon airbase, which is adjacent to the civil terminal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/hindon-civil-terminal-may-start-3-new-routes-to-ayodhya-kushinagar-pithoragarh-101633546558762.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||No active Covid case in 37 Uttar Pradesh districts||LUCKNOW As many as 37 districts in Uttar Pradesh did not have any active Covid case while 18 districts reported just one case each, said a state government spokesperson on Wednesday. In the past 24 hours, 188931 Covid samples were tested and nine fresh cases were reported in six districts. No fresh case was reported in 69 districts. The number of active cases under treatment in state is 149. The state government has asked officials to ensure that people coming from other states are screened and their samples are tested. Of the total 548 proposed oxygen plants in the state, 490 are operational now, including 124 plants under PMCARES. Over 11.17 crore doses of Covid vaccine have been administered in the state since the vaccination began on January 16. Over 8.90 crore people have got their first dose. This amounts to over 60% of the eligible population in the state. Over 2.26 crore got their second dose as well which is over 15% of the eligible population. The state government has also decided to provide ASHA workers with smartphones, just like Anganwadi workers, as both workers have played a vital role in controlling the spread of infection. Meanwhile, an awareness drive on environmental pollution will soon be launched in the state, keeping in view the festive season ahead. “The festive season is beginning, so people will be made aware of environmental pollution in accordance with the directives from the Supreme Court,” said the state government spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-active-covid-case-in-37-uttar-pradesh-districts-101633546557228.html
07-10-2021||Noida||IAF to commemorate 1971 Indo-Pak war victory on 89th Air Force Day||A single seat interceptor and air defence/ground attack Gnat aircraft were among a range of modern versions of frontline fighter aircraft up for display at Ghaziabad’s Hindon airbase on Wednesday as the Indian Air Force (IAF) conducted full-dress rehearsals ahead of the 89th Air Force Day that will be observed on Friday. IAF officers said that they are also commemorating 50 years of the 1971 war between India and Pakistan as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’. The Gnat aircraft was specially showcased at the Hindon airbase as it played a crucial role during the war. “The 89th Air Force Day will be celebrated as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’, where the IAF will try to commemorate the victory of the 1971 war. The Gnat aircraft is at static display; it is a tribute to the veterans and heroes of the 1971 war as we celebrate its 50th year,” said a spokesperson from IAF. On Air Force Day, frontline fighter aircraft will be flying in from different airbases and converging at the Hindon airbase in different formations for the air show. “Some of the formations are named after specific operations taken up in 1971 and also named after heroes, battles and instances of the war,” said the spokesperson. During the full-dress rehearsal on Wednesday, the IAF showcased its strength by mixing frontline fighter aircraft with the newly inducted Rafale jets, which are the star attraction this time. The newly inducted Rafale jets were part of the flying display. One of the Rafale jets was also lined up at the Hindon airbase along with fighter aircraft like Sukhoi-30 MKI, Light Combat Aircraft – Tejas, Mirage-2000, Mig-29 and Jaguar among others. Spectators were enthralled to see the Rafale, Tejas and Sukhio-30 MKI make low-flying breath-taking manoeuvres and deployed flares to attract the attention of the crowd. The Rafale aircraft were first inducted into IAF’s number 17 Ambala-based squadron which is also known as ‘Golden Arrows.’ In the previous years, attack helicopters Apache and heavy lift Chinooks, procured from the US, were major attractions while the indigenously built Tejas light combat aircraft has been a part of the air show for almost three years now. The full-dress rehearsal started with IAF paratroopers para-jumping followed by a scintillating parade by air warriors and flypast by vintage and transport aircraft. Apart from the frontline fighter jets, IAF’s helicopter fleet having Mi17-V5 choppers, Dhruv - advanced light helicopters, Chinook - heavy lift choppers, Mi-35 and Apache attack helicopters also made their mark during the flypast and many of these were also on the ground for display. The flypast also saw participation by heavy lift C-17 Globemasters, Dornier and Dakota aircraft. It concluded with flying display by Suryakiran aerobatic team and helicopters of the Sarang aerobatic team..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/iaf-to-commemorate-1971-indo-pak-war-victory-on-89th-air-force-day-101633546437092.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow’s Aishbagh Ramleela begins today sans audiences||The historic Aishbagh Ramleela will start from Thursday with the worship of Lord Ganesha.For the third consecutive year, nobody will be permitted to view the Ramleela being staged live, following Covid-19 protocols and keeping the safety of people in mind. However, it will be webcast, making it accessible all over the world, members of the organising committee said.Last year, the Aishbagh Ramleela received more than 5 lakh views online. This year, more than seven highly advanced cameras will be used for the webcast, said Aditya Dwivedi, secretary, Aishbagh Ram Leela Committee.“This year, the webcast will go live on our website, YouTube channel, and our Facebook page. The Ramleela will continue till Ravan Dahan on October 15. The programme will end on October 16 with the Raj Gaddi programme. All programmes will be webcast live and be held in the Tulsi Hall. Only Ravan Dahan will be held in the huge ground of Ramleela Bhawan. ”Every alternate day, all artists, backstage staff and technical staff will undergo Coronavirus tests. The organisers have issued special passes to the technical staff which will be working for the webcast of the Ramleela. No one except staff and artists will be allowed to enter Tulsi Bhawan hall where the Ramleela would be staged.The webcast is planned keeping in mind the presence of Lucknowites in countries like England, USA, Canada, Ireland, France and other European countries. Not only this, the dialogues, dances and enactments have been planned according to the liking of Lucknowites, Dwivedi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknows-aishbagh-ramleela-begins-today-sans-audiences-101633546377025.html
07-10-2021||Other||3.0 magnitude earthquake hits Arunachal Pradesh, fourth one in a month||An earthquake with a magnitude of 3.0 on the Richter scale struck the northwest area of Itanagar district in Arunachal Pradesh on Wednesday, the National Center for Seismology (NCS) informed.The earthquake hit at 7.53 pm today with a depth of 10 kilometres."Earthquake of Magnitude: 3.0, Occurred on 06-10-2021, 19:53:18 IST (7.53pm), Lat: 27.57 & Long: 92.94, Depth: 10 Km, Location: 85km NW of Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh, " the NCS said in a tweet.Notably, this is the fourth time in this month that an earthquake has hit the state.An earthquake of magnitude 4.5 on the Richter scale hit the Pangin area in Arunachal Pradesh on Tuesday.Earlier on Monday, Arunachal Pradesh's Basar had been struck by an earthquake of magnitude 4.4 on the Richter scale.On October 2, an earthquake of magnitude 4.1 occurred in Basar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/30-magnitude-earthquake-hits-arunachal-pradesh-fourth-one-in-a-month-101633544953224.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Ramlila celebrations begin in Gautam Budh Nagar||Noida: Residents of Gautam Budh Nagar will enjoy Ramlila celebrations from Thursday.The two major Ramlila committees in the district -- Shri Sanatan Dharm Ramlila Committee (SSDRC) and Shri Ram Mitra Mandal Noida Ramlila Committee (SRMMC) will organise the much-awaited events at Noida Stadium’s Ramlila Ground in Sector 21A and in Sector 62, respectively, from 7pm to 10pm between October 7 and October 16.Last year, there were no celebrations in the district amid the Covid-19 crisis.SSDRC has imitated the Ramlila stage as that of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, and 50 artistes will be portraying different characters during the performances. “All Covid-19 protocols have been put in place at the Ramlila Ground, and all the artistes and the committee’s management team members are fully vaccinated. Only 2,500 people, wearing masks (a mandatory), will be allowed to attend the event at the Ramlila Ground, which sees a footfall of 5,000 people at the event every year,” said TS Chaurasia, president of SSDRC.Also, there won’t be swings or joyrides at the Ramlila Ground this year. “We will face heavy losses because of this, and the proprietors are unemployed and feeling dejected,” Chaurasia added.Meanwhile, only 2,000 people will be allowed to attend the SRMMC’s Ramlila event, which usually saw a footfall of 10,000 people. “We are grateful that we have been allowed to hold the Ramlila event this year, but it is a huge responsibility to ensure that all the Covid-19 protocols are in place. Several Covid response teams have been formed, under which, our volunteers will ensure that all the attendees wear masks during the event,” said Munna Sharma, general secretary of SRMMC.Sharma also said that apart this year, the committee will burn an effigy of the Covid-19 virus -- SARS-CoV-2 -- along with effigies of Raavan, Kumbhkaran and Meghnath during the celebrations.Apart from this, 90 food stalls have been set up at both the venues, against the usual 200.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that the police have been tasked to ensure proper implementation of Covid-19 protocols at these venues. “In a first, such a grand event will be held in the city amidst the Covid-19 crisis. Last year, these celebrations were banned. Swings and joyrides tend to increase overcrowding at the grounds, especially among children, and we need to avoid that. So, only staging of Ramlila performances has been allowed this year,” Singh said.According to medical experts, any kind of social gathering will pose a risk of spread of the coronavirus infection. “Whether Ramlila fairs or any other social gathering, we should remember that the coronavirus infection is still here, and such events could become super-spreader events. People should follow all Covid-19 protocols, including wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, and using hand sanitisers frequently,” said Dr NK Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Noida chapter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ramlila-celebrations-begin-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101633545896804.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad transport department suspends registrations of 1.12 lakh vehicles||The Ghaziabad regional transport office (RTO) has suspended registrations of nearly 112,791 types of vehicles after the owners failed to take no objection certificates (NOCs) for registering vehicles outside the national capital region (NCR) or for not cancelling the registrations, officials said on Wednesday.The decision was taken in view of the directions by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which had banned the operations of over 15-year-old petrol vehicles and over 10-year-old diesel vehicles in the NCR on April 7, 2015, according to the officials. In an order on July 20, 2016, the tribunal had directed the department concerned to deregister such vehicles.The transport department, in this connection, issued a public notice on August 3, 2021, asking owners of such vehicles to either get an NOC and get the vehicles registered in 34 other districts outside the NCR region in Uttar Pradesh, or cancel registration of such vehicles.“As the 60-day notice period has lapsed, we have decided to suspend registrations of diesel vehicles which are over 10 years old and petrol vehicles which are over 15 years old. So, we suspended registrations for vehicles which were registered in the district from July 1, 2001, to September 30, 2006,” said Vishwajeet Pratap Singh, additional regional transport officer, Ghaziabad.“Prior to this period, we suspended registrations of nearly 84000 such vehicles, and more vehicles prior to it in accordance with the directions by the tribunal. Now, we have suspended nearly 1.12 lakh vehicles, and gave these vehicle owners six more months to get done with the process. If the vehicle owners apply for NOCs for registering their vehicles in districts outside the NCR during this period, the registrations will not be cancelled. Otherwise, we will cancel the registrations and they will not be able to get the NOCs too,” Singh added.Any such vehicle found plying on roads will be impounded, and strict action will be taken against the owners, said the officials, adding that vehicles with suspended registrations include vehicles having registration series as UP14N, UP14P and UP14Q to UP14Z, besides UP14AA to UP14AE.According to the transport department, nearly 2,488 diesel vehicles (older than 10 years) have taken NOCs, and registrations of 2,522 such vehicles have been cancelled till September 30. The department has also issued NOCs to nearly 2,486 petrol vehicles (older than 15 years), and registrations of nearly 87,480 such vehicles got cancelled till September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-transport-department-suspends-registrations-of-1-12-lakh-vehicles-101633545777217.html
07-10-2021||Noida||Noida authority to restart work on Chilla elevated road||The Noida authority is likely to restart work on the Chilla elevated road--a mega project aimed at providing seamless connectivity between Noida and Delhi that was stopped last year for shortage of funds. The authority has written a letter to the state government asking it to direct the public works department (PWD) to release funds for the project. In March last year, the authority asked the staff to stop work on the 5.5km Chilla elevated road due to financial crisis. This was first time that the board decided to halt work on such a big infrastructure project citing financial issues, said officials of the Noida authority adding that since then, the work on the project has been put on hold. The PWD and the Noida authorities are supposed to bear 50% costs of the project that is pegged at ₹605.30 crore. Since the PWD has not provided the funds for the project, the work was stopped in March last year. The Noida authority has already spent ₹74 crore on the project. “We are likely to restart work at the site as the funding issues are being resolved,” said Neha Sharma, additional CEO of the Noida authority.The Noida authority is also writing a letter to the UP government so that the funding issue can be resolved at the earliest and the works can be taken up on a priority basis. “We have taken up the matter with deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. It was decided that the funding proposal will soon be approved by the state cabinet. Once it’s approved, the PWD will start releasing funds for the project,” Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, who pursued the funding issue with government after repeated appeals from residents. “The Chilla elevated road will benefit commuters travelling from and to Delhi and Noida once its constructed,” said an official from Noida authority. The authority started work on the elevated road on January 25, 2019, right after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath laid the foundation stone for the project. The elevated road will ease traffic on the existing Noida-Delhi Link Road that connects Delhi’s Mayur Vihar with Noida Expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-to-restart-work-on-chilla-elevated-road-101633545423105.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Five people, injured during fire due to gas leak last month, succumb||Five people, including a couple who were injured in a fire due to a gas leak in a shanty in west Delhi’s Mayapuri last week, have succumbed to their injuries.Police identified the deceased as Shrawan, Lali, Ram Chhala, Vimal Yadav and Pintu, all of whom were residents of the Rewari Line area of Mayapuri.According to locals, police said, the latter three cooked food inside their shanty on September 28 and went to sleep, following which the couple, Shrawan and Lali, who stayed nearby, smelled a gas leak and came knocking.As soon as one of the men switched on the light to open the door, a fire broke out, injuring the five people. They were all rushed to a nearby hospital.Police have registered a case under IPC sections 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) against unknown persons at Mayapuri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/five-people-injured-during-fire-due-to-gas-leak-last-month-succumb-101633545296803.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||One of the oldest Ramlila in Delhi will not take place for second year in a row||New Delhi: Like last year, the over 180-year-old Ramlila organised by the Shri Ramlila Committee (SRC) in Chandni Chowk will not take place, with the members of the committee saying that the authorities granted permission for festivities too late.Started during the reign of Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar, a Ramlila savaari or procession from Chandni Chowk to Ajmeri Gate used to be a highlight of the celebrations before the pandemic.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) gave a go-ahead to Ramlila celebrations, following Covid-appropriate norms such as 50% limit on seating capacity, on September 29 but organisers have to get separate permissions for the festivities.“We had applied for permission for holding both the procession and events at the Ramlila grounds... but got the permission only two days ago. How can we then hold the Ramlila when we don’t have the infrastructure ready at the moment,” said Rajesh Khanna, general secretary of the committee, adding that the preparations for the Ramlila took over a month.Ramlila celebrations usually begin on the first day of Navaratri, which falls on Thursday this year.“The Covid situation is under the control right now. We hope that this continues and we are able to hold the Ramlila in a grand manner next year,” he said.Khanna and other committee members said the Ramlila has only been disrupted thrice in recent history. “Last year, the Ramlila could not take place due to the pandemic. This year too, it will not take place. Before this, it did not take place in the period after Partition, in 1947-48. Ours is the oldest Ramlila of the city and it was supported by the Mughal emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar. There have been disruptions but hopefully, we will be able to hold the Ramlila from next year as before ,” said Vijay Saarthi, a committee member.Sanjay Bhargava, president of the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, a traders body, said the Ramlila procession used to be a big highlight during the festival season and drew people from across the city. “Every day around 4pm, the procession would start from Esplanade Road and would end at the Ramlila maidan at Ajmeri Gate. For the entire duration of 9-10 days, residents would come out on the streets to watch the spectacle. There used to be a festive atmosphere for everyone, including residents and vendors,” said Bhargava.He said that the prospects of the Ramlila had dimmed over the past few years, with many residents moving out to different areas. “Pandemic affected the scale of the Ramlila but there are other reasons as well. The charm is gradually fading since people have moved to other areas,” said Bhargava.Meanwhile, other Ramlila committees are also holding muted celebrations this year on account of Covid concerns.Shri Dharmik Lila Committee, which has been organising the Ramlila since 1924, will hold celebrations over a five-day period. “We do not want to aggravate the pandemic situation and so, we will not hold the Ramlila the way we usually do. However, we will hold the Ramlila over a period of five days at the ISKCON Temple,” said Ravi Jain, a functionary of the committee.Delhi government spokesperson did not comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-of-the-oldest-ramlila-in-delhi-will-not-take-place-for-second-year-in-a-row-101633545056927.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to start dust control campaign from October 7 to 29||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai announced on Wednesday that the government will run a campaign from October 7 to 29 to curb dust pollution in the national Capital. At a press conference on Wednesday, the minister also said that the government will launch a web portal on Thursday to monitor all construction agencies’ compliance with dust control guidelines. “The project proponents found violating the norms will be issued a show-cause notice. Action will be taken against them if they fail to reply within two days. A stop work order will be issued along with hefty fines if they continue to violate norms,” Rai said. According to National Green Tribunal’s guidelines, violation of pollution control rules at construction sites will lead to the imposition of a fine ranging from ₹10,000 to ₹5 lakh. Rai said 31 teams, including 17 from Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and 14 from the Green Marshals (usually home guards), have been constituted to inspect construction sites and monitor the situation. The Delhi government, in September, issued a set of 14 guidelines for construction and demolition agencies to curb dust pollution. Officials of the government had also conducted meetings with major construction agencies operating in the city to ensure that all pollution control measures are followed on sites. The 14-point guidelines stated that construction sites should be covered from all sides using tin sheds, construction material must be covered with sheets, and roads leading to sites must be paved to avoid any dispersion of road and construction dust. Agencies constructing in an area over 20,000 square metres will also have to deploy anti-smog guns to ensure that dust settles. Vehicles carrying construction material should also be covered. There should be no collection of construction and demolition (C&D) waste on the roadside. Besides, the grinding of stones will not be allowed in the open, the guidelines said. The minister said all agencies involved in construction activities will be required to mandatorily register on the web portal. “All construction agencies will have to comply with the checklist, conduct self-audits and upload a self-declaration on a fortnightly basis,” Rai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-start-dust-control-campaign-from-october-7-to-29-101633544757003.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||EDMC to cancel building plan if debris is not dumped properly||In a bid to reduce dust-related air pollution arising from the dumping of construction and demolition (C&D) waste in east Delhi, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EMC) announced that it may cancel approved building plans if the owners or builders fail to safely dispose of the waste.Builders are supposed to dispose of the waste at the Shastri Park construction and demolition waste processing plant. EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand issued an orderon Tuesday stating that developers and builders will have to deposit C&D waste in the Shastri Park facility. “If they fail to do so, we will undertake punitive action and even approved building plans can be cancelled,” the commissioner’s order states.The order issued on Tuesday states: “It has been observed that many owners and builders are not disposing the C&D waste at the Shastri Park processing plant which is a violation of orders issued in 2018 and attract penal action. The junior engineers JEs (building) have to take fortnightly round of the construction site in their area as there is urgent need to mitigate the pollution causing factors.”The order outlines a series of actions junior engineers, the nodal officers for managing the C&D waste, could take against builders/developers. “The owners/ builders will deposit the waste in Shastri Park facility and collect the receipts. The JEs will be responsible for collecting the receipts issued by the C&D plant in Shastri Park and shall issue challan for imposition of adequate penalty in case of violation,” the order said. The order added that executive engineers will submit a monthly report to EDMC headquarters regarding the disposal of C&D waste.EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal appealed to east Delhi residents to utilise the Shastri Park facility. “We notice people dumping their malba on roadsides and along drains. This not only leads to traffic jams but is also harmful in terms of air pollution. The Shastri Park facility is available free of cost for residents and people should co-operate,” he added. The 500-tonne per day capacity processing plant at Shastri Park was one of the first such facilities to come up in the country. Delhi has also developed three more such plants in Burari, Rani Khera and Bakarwala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edmc-to-cancel-building-plan-if-debris-is-not-dumped-properly-101633544456737.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi gets 27 new oxygen plants, Satyendar Jain says will aid Covid fight||The Delhi government on Wednesday inaugurated 27 oxygen plants and two cryogenic refilling plants across public hospitals in the city, as part of its preparations to bolster the Capital’s medical capabilities to tackle any future Covid-19 surges.The pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants inaugurated on Wednesday added 31 metric tonnes to the city’s oxygen production capacity, and the refilling plants are of 12 metric tonnes capacity.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said, “The Delhi government is taking complete precaution regarding Covid-19, in light of the coming festival season. The government has already put in place a graded response system in the public domain. Presently, only three to five infected people are being tested positive for every 10,000 Covid-19 tests. The graded response system will kick in when the Capital will report five positive cases against 1,000 tests a day,” he said.According to the response plan, seen by HT, the first curbs are triggered when the Covid-19 test positivity rate crosses 0.5%, or new cases over a week exceeds 1,500, or if there are more than 500 oxygen beds occupied on average over a seven-day period. The plan classifies an outbreak into four bands, with an ascending order of severity – yellow, amber, orange and.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inaugurated five plants in May this year and 22 in June. As the state and Centre ramp up health care infrastructure in the Capital, 73 PSA plants with a total capacity of 77.80MT are being installed in the city’s hospitals. Of these, 10 plants of 22.50MT have been commissioned in central government hospitals under the PM-Cares Fund, and these will be inaugurated on October 7, 2021. Besides, the health minister on Wednesday inaugurated two bottling plants with a capacity of 12.5MT at Siraspur. These have the capacity to refill 1,400 jumbo cylinders in 24 hours, the government said in a statement. The Kejriwal government in early August this year approved the “Medical Oxygen Production Promotion policy - 2021”, which gives the private sector a range of incentives as well to set up oxygen production plants, storage facilities and procure oxygen tankers. “This policy will help improve the availability of oxygen in Delhi, which became a major constraint while handling the previous Covid-19 waves. This policy has been made with the objective of making Delhi self-sufficient in the production of medical oxygen to deal with the situation of any medical emergency in future,” the government statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gets-27-new-oxygen-plants-satyendar-jain-says-will-aid-covid-fight-101633544336481.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Three Nigerians held with 1.3 kg heroin in southwest Delhi’s Mohan Garden||Three men from Nigeria, who were allegedly involved in smuggling and circulation of heroin in the national capital, were arrested and around 1.3 kg of heroin were seized from them, police said on Wednesday.Police said that three men had rented two rooms in a building in southwest Delhi’s Mohan Garden area, where they mixed the heroin with chemicals to manufactured fine quality heroin, before supplying it to people in different parts of the city.Police identified the men as Henry Okolie (41), Uchechukwu Peter (37), and Stanley Chimeize Alasonye (41). Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary said the drugs were bought from Nigeria, through Russia, and was smuggled into the country via the porous borders of Bangladesh and Nepal.“They also used Indian ports and were living without a valid visa. Alasonye was the leader of the gang,” Chaudhary said.Heroin is one of the most common drugs smuggled into the national capital. From the villages of districts in Uttar Pradesh ,Madhya Pradesh and counties such as Myanmar, Afghanistan and Nigeria, there are different sources of heroin in Delhi.In 2020, police seized about 94.27 kg heroin from different people. Marijuana was the most common drug seized -- over 4,396 kg -- by police in the Capital last year.In the latest case, police said the arrests on October 1 came about after a police officer, acting on a tip-off, stopped Okoluie and Peter, who were on a scooter, in Mohan Garden. DCP Chaudhary said the police found two heroin packets of 500 gm each, concealed in their pocket. A subsequent raid at their house in R Extension block revealed a “factory” on the top floor and later led to Alasonye’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-nigerians-held-with-1-3-kg-heroin-in-southwest-delhi-s-mohan-garden-101633543976442.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||13 years in the making, Kishan Ganj underpass in Delhi to be opened in January||The Kishan Ganj underpass in north Delhi, one of the most delayed infrastructure projects in the city, is likely to be completed by January 2022, just ahead of the upcoming municipal corporation elections, officials overseeing its work said on Wednesday.More than two decades after it was approved by the erstwhile unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi and 13 years after the work started, only one of four underpass sections is complete and open to traffic.A senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation official, who is overseeing the project, said the three remaining concrete box sections under the railway line have been laid by the Northern Railway, which is currently carrying out the finishing work and the construction of the retention wall, before the site is handed over to the north corporation.“Around 5% work remains. Once the site is handed over to the corporation, we will start constructing six 150m long approach roads -- three on each end of the underpass boxes. The approach roads will cost around ₹16 crore,” the official said, asking not to be named.“We have sought the approval of the finance department for the approach road construction and we expect the nod to come in about a month. By then, the Northern Railway would have completed the remaining work,” the official quoted above said.The civic body plans to open the entire underpass, which will link central Delhi with west Delhi, by January 2022, the official said. The project, once fully opened, will benefit the areas of Inderlok, Gulabi bagh, Sarai Rohila, Kishanganj, Padam Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Tri Nagar, Shanti Nagar and Rampura and nearby areas. The project is also expected to decongest Sadar Bazar, Rohtak Road, areas under Walled City extension and Azad Market, the official said.Although the three concrete boxes were laid in June, the handover to the north corporation was delayed on account of heavy rainfall, the construction of retention walls and encroachments near one of the three sections, said civic officials.But a Northern Railway official, overseeing the project, said the municipal corporation can start the work on approach roads to two underpass sections. “The underpass boxes were installed in June. In July, we wrote to the municipal corporation that it can initiate work on approach roads but nothing was done so far. Underpass sections 2 and 3 can easily be made operational. Only section 4 is hindered by encroachments -- about 25 shanties have come up in front of the box,” the official said, also asking not to be named. He said the retention wall will be ready in 15 days.Similar to the Rani Jhansi flyover near St Stephen’s Hospital, which took almost 10 years to build and was opened in 2018, the Kishan Ganj project, too, has witnessed several delays and changes.Conceptualised in the early 1990s, the project was approved by the unified MCD in 1998. But the construction started only on June 30, 2008, and the underpass was expected to be ready by the 2010 Commonwealth Games at a cost of ₹25 crore.One of the four boxes was inaugurated in 2018, by then Union minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. In 2019, the ministry of housing and urban affairs decided to provide 80% funding to the project so that the remaining sections are completed.But delays still dogged the project. Corporation officials say the financial crunch that the civic body faced over the years, as well as hurdles in land acquisition, the time taken to shift utilities, and the relocation of existing shops and religious structures ended up delaying the project even more.“More than 200 shops had to be shifted from the site. Two transformer substations were relocated and five religious structures were also moved from the work site,” the civic body official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/13-years-in-the-making-kishan-ganj-underpass-in-delhi-to-be-opened-in-january-101633543744666.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||UPPCL engineers’ demand for higher pay boomerangs||The demand by Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) engineers for a hike in their existing pay scales has apparently boomeranged on them. The state government has, instead, questioned the very logic of the heavily loss-ridden corporation providing higher salaries to its engineers and other personnel than what the government employees are entitled to.The development comes when the engineers are organising protests to demand, among other things, higher pay scales. In this backdrop, special secretary (energy) Bhawani Singh Khangaraut on Wednesday wrote a letter to the UPPCL managing director (MD), questioning the basis of the Assured Career Progression Scheme (ACPS) that UPPCL implemented for its employees in variance with the one available to the state government employees.The ACP scheme envisages placement of employees in the higher pay-scale/grant of financial benefits (through financial upgrade) even if they are not promoted to the next level after a particular period.Referring to the UPPCL director’s (personnel and appointment) letter dated February 16, 2021, Singh, in his letter, pointed out that the revised pay-scales as recommended by the sixth pay commission had been in effect in UPPCL since January 1, 2006.“Under the revised pay structure, UPPCL personnel get time-bound pay-scales/ACP after an interval of nine years, 14 years and 19 years whereas the state government employees are entitled to the same after an interval of 10 years, 16 years and 26 years,” he said in the letter.“It is important to note that the UPPCL approved higher pay-scales to its employees deviating from the government’s policy decision despite the corporation having very high cumulative losses/deficit because of which energy corporations are facing unnecessary financial burden,” the officer added.The government not only rejected the UPPCL’s proposal for further upgrading engineers’ pay-scales, but also asked the management to explain the reasons why the corporation provided higher pay-scales to its officers and other personnel ignoring earlier government orders (GOs) in this regard.UPPCL engineers, according to people dealing with the issue, get one of the highest salaries and best perks in the state despite the corporation’s fragile financial state. “A person who joins as a junior engineer in UPPCL gets more than ₹2 lakh per month before five years of his retirement. Similarly, anybody joining as an assistant engineer gets a monthly salary of between ₹2.75 lakh and ₹3 lakh five years before retirement as executive engineer/superintending engineer/ chief engineer,” they said. “Apart from this, they also have access to use of unmetered electricity and full medical expenses to their and their dependents’ treatment even after retirement,” they added. UPPCL, according to the information sourced from the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC), currently spends around ₹2800 crore annually on its employees in terms of salaries and perks. UP Rajya Vidyut Parishad Abhyanta Sangh general secretary Prabhat Singh, however, said, that there were serious discrepancies in the pay scales of assistant engineers and the same must be corrected because highly educated AEs get less salary than junior engineers and this, according to him, was demoralising for them. “We demand the management/government to fix the appointment grade of AEs at ₹6600 and the third ACP grade at ₹11000,” he stressed. UPPCL engineers’ monthly salaries (approx) before five years of retirement is as follows: Junior engineer (More than ₹2 lakh), executive engineer ( ₹2.50 lakh) and superintending engineer ( ₹3 lakh).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppcl-engineers-demand-for-higher-pay-boomerangs-101633543616153.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||SC declines urgent hearing on Delhi govt’s plea against GNCTD Act||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a plea by the Delhi government to urgently hear its challenge to the new law for the National Capital Territory (NCT) that gives primacy to the Lieutenant Governor in several executive and legislative matters. “Yesterday also Delhi government was mentioning a matter for urgent listing. Today also it is happening. Do we have to hear the Delhi government every day? We will see,” Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana told senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, who represented the Delhi government. Singhvi tried to persuade the bench that the CJI on September 13 entertained his plea to list the case, but the matter has still not come up for hearing. The senior counsel also sought to distinguish between the different cases filed by the Delhi government. “This is the petition on the Government of National Capital Territory (Amendment) Act, 2021, (or GNCT Act) which is contrary to the constitution bench judgement of the Supreme Court. We are saying it is against Article 239A (which deals with the status of Delhi) under the Constitution,” submitted Singhvi. Justice Ramana, however, did not accept the request to specify a hearing date. A day ago, the Delhi government sought a hearing of its plea to settle the contentious issue of who should control administrative services and bureaucrats in Delhi after the split verdict of two judges in February 2019. The CJI agreed to list this matter after the Diwali break. Earlier, on September 13, Singhvi mentioned the petition regarding the 2021 GNCT Act, arguing that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s plea should be listed urgently, as it was cleared by the apex court’s registry on August 19. The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha passed the GNCT Amendment Act in March. After the Parliament approved the bill, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal termed it a “sad day for Indian democracy”. The amended Act has changed four provisions of the National Capital Territory of Delhi Act, 1991. The new law makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to seek the opinion of the Lieutenant Governor (LG) before taking any executive action in pursuance of decisions by the council of ministers, or any other decision under any law in force in the Capital. Another contentious amendment seeks to invalidate retrospectively rules made by the legislative assembly of Delhi or committees/house panels to consider the matters of “day-to-day administration of the Capital” or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions. The Delhi government, in its petition before the top court, has maintained that the 2021 law is contrary to two judgments by the Supreme Court: a Constitution bench verdict on July 4, 2018 and a two-judge bench decision on February 14, 2019. The Kejriwal-government, in its petition, has told the Supreme Court that the new law is unconstitutional because it has in effect “disenfranchised” the people of Delhi by taking away power from their elected representatives, striking at the root of representative democracy and violating the law-making power of Delhi assembly, recognised under Constitution and decisions of the Supreme Court. “The Amendment Act, by giving LG overriding powers over the Delhi legislature and the executive, strikes at the root of representative democracy giving LG the power to veto the will of the people of Delhi…from expressing their sovereign will through their elected representatives,” said the petition, filed through advocate Shadan Farasat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sc-declines-urgent-hearing-on-delhi-govt-s-plea-against-gnctd-act-101633543436558.html
07-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Woman, two kids dead as fire breaks out after gas leak in Anand Parbat||A 36-year-old woman and two of her four children were killed in a fire caused by a cooking gas leakage in their one-room concrete house in central Delhi’s Anand Parbat, police said on Wednesday.Officials said the gas leak occurred when one of the victim’s daughters was cooking food on Tuesday morning.Police identified the victims as Sushila and her seven-year-old twins, Mansi and Mohan. According to police, two other daughters, Mehak (13) and Monika (8), managed to flee while Sushila tried in vain wake up the twins and escape before the house erupted in flames. Monika sustained 30% burns during the incident and is currently undergoing treatment.Sushila’s husband Rajesh had left for work just 10-15 minutes before the incident.Talking to HT, Rajesh said that he was not even halfway through when he got a call from a neighbour about the fire. “I was taken aback and rushed back home. The flames were erupting from everywhere. I could not even hear anyone screaming but was told that a few minutes ago, they could hear my wife and kids crying for help, and that it stopped one after the other. My daughter Mehak told me that she was cooking when suddenly, there was a gas leakage and fire following it. She told me that they were all trying to escape but since her siblings were asleep when the fire broke out, my wife took more time to get them outside. Mehak was awake so she rushed out on her mother’s command, but the others got stuck inside and couldn’t escape,” he said.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Chauhan said when the police team reached the house, four people were found with burn injuries and were rushed to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital in a PCR van. “Fire was caused due to leakage in a rubber pipe which connects the cylinder to the burner... Rajesh was away at his workplace at Lawrence Road where he works at an Atta chakki,” said DCP Chauhan.The DCP said the woman was declared brought dead to RML hospital and the twins died during treatment on Tuesday evening.“Although the cylinder did not explode, the leakage of the gas caused the fire to spread rapidly and the victims couldn’t escape. Inquest proceedings are being done,” said the cop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-woman-two-kids-dead-as-fire-breaks-out-after-gas-leak-in-anand-parbat-101633542536022.html
07-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 260 farm fires; Amritsar accounts for 60%||Even as paddy harvesting is yet to pick up the pace due to a delayed monsoon withdrawal, Punjab has already reported 260 cases of stubble burning, with Amritsar district alone accounting for over 60% of these incidents. According to data available with the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), the state’s Majha region, where harvesting begins earlier than in other areas, 199 farm fires have been reported between September 15 and October 4. These include 161 incidents in Amritsar, 34 in Tarn Taran and four in Gurdaspur. In Pathankot, harvesting is yet to begin. Malwa region, which comprises 15 districts in south Punjab, accounts for 52 cases, while Doaba region, comprising Jalandhar, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar and Hoshiarpur, has recorded only nine cases. Also read: Farm fires in Punjab, Haryana appear on Nasa ‘red dot’ mapA quick and cheap way to prepare soil bed for the next crop, widespread farm fires reduce the air quality to dangerous levels in the region, with winds carrying pollutants up to the national capital every year. Amid delayed harvesting, there has been around 80% drop in incidents this year, as 1,216 cases were reported in the corresponding period in 2020. However, scientists and environmentalists have warned that farm fires in north India are likely to be more intense than in previous years, considering the delayed monsoon withdrawal from the region. On Wednesday, the air quality index was recorded at 70 in Amritsar. Though in the “satisfactory” range so far, it could quickly turn “poor” if stubble burning incidents continue in the coming days, say experts. Farmers say they need incentivesHowever, farmers say they are forced to burn the paddy stubble despite knowing its environmental consequences. “We know that stubble burning not only pollutes the environment, but also damages the fertility of our fields. We have been demanding that adequate machinery be provided to us through village-level societies for stubble management besides a bonus of ₹200 per quintal. But, the government is doing nothing,” says Kisan Sangharsh Committee (KSC)’s state convener Kawalpreet Singh Pannu. Also read: Air quality commission asks states to follow ISRO protocolHarminder Singh, a social activist based in Jalaldiwal village near Raikot in Ludhiana, says besides fuel prices, the rates of engine oil and grease have jacked up exponentially, making it unviable for small farmers to pursue in-situ stable management. “Even with subsidies, the farmers are paying ₹25,000 extra for buying a super seeder,” he says, adding that delay in monsoon withdrawal has furthered shortened the window to prepare the fields for wheat sowing, which takes place in the first half of November. Govt steps up efforts to curb menace PPCB chairman Adarshpal Vig says the government is open for suggestions and is eager to work in coordination with farmers. “We can resolve this problem only with combined efforts. We have also roped in the industrial to use stubble,” he says. Meanwhile, district administrations have stepped up efforts to create awareness among farmers. In Majha region, agriculture department officials have been visiting villages and making announcements from gurdwaras to encourage farmers not to burn paddy stubble. “Our teams are in the field, organising awareness camps against stubble burning. Those farmers who are not burning stubble will be honoured,” says Kuljit Singh Saini, who is the chief agriculture officer for Amritsar and Tarn Taran. In Jalandhar, which has reported six cases so far, deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori has announced ₹50,000 cash reward for panchayats that encourage farmers to shun stubble burning. Deepti Uppal, Thori’s counterpart in the neighbouring Kapurthala district, says strict vigil is being kept at villages that have reported a high number of stubble burning cases in the past. “We have also arranged 3,500 machines for managing paddy stubble across the district and designated nearly 70 acres of shamlat land for storing paddy bales,” she says. (With inputs from Jalandhar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-260-farm-fires-amritsar-accounts-for-60-101633539115522.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Farmer cremated after second autopsy||Gurvinder Singh, one of the four farmers killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3, was cremated on Wednesday morning after a second autopsy was conducted on him as demanded by his family, police said.Family members of the 22-year-old farmer, hailing from Moharnia village of Bahraich district, had earlier refused to cremate him, claiming that he was shot dead but the first autopsy had no mention of it. They had received support from farmer leader Rakesh Tikait.With the Uttar Pradesh government agreeing to their demand, a second post-mortem was conducted on Tuesday night by a team of experts from Lucknow, superintendent of police Sujata Singh said.Hours after this, Gurvinder Singh was cremated by his family members in his village in the presence of Tikait, ADG (Gorakhpur) Akhil Kumar and senior police and administration officials, additional superintendent of police (Rural) Ashok Kumar said. Farmer leader Tajinder Singh Virk was also present at the funeral.ASP Ashok Kumar said security personnel were deployed in the area as a precautionary measure. He added that the situation was under control.District magistrate Dinesh Chandra Singh said the family members of Gurvinder Singh had raised objections on the autopsy done earlier.“With the permission of the state government, it was done again and videographed as well,” he added.Sukhdev Singh, uncle of Gurvinder Singh, said, “Post-mortem was done in front of us and our leaders. At that time doctors told us that Gurvinder was not shot.”Two doctors designated by the family members of Gurvinder were also present during the post-mortem.“When in both post-mortems, doctors say that he was not shot, we had no option left but to cremate him,” Sukhdev Singh added.The mortal remains of the three other farmers were cremated at their native places on Tuesday.Eight people were killed in violence during a protest against the farm laws in Lakhimpur Kheri on Sunday (October 3). The UP Police have lodged a case against Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son, Ashish Mishra.(WITH AGENCY INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-farmer-cremated-after-second-autopsy-101633538455540.html
07-10-2021||Lucknow||Tikait warns of nationwide stir if minister’s son not arrested within time frame||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday demanded the resignation of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra and warned of a nationwide agitation if all the accused in the Lakhimpur incident, including the minister’s son Ashish Mishra, were not arrested within a time frame.Tikait said his agitation against the “killing of five farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri” had not ended yet. He included Nighasan journalist Raman Kashyap among the deceased, saying “he is a farmer first, irrespective of his profession.”Tikait, who is among the prominent leaders of the agitation against the Centre’s agri laws, had brokered the agreement between the authorities and the farmers on October 4 here, after which they had ended their protest and the families of the four deceased farmers had agreed to their post-mortem.After reaching an understanding, ADG of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar, in the presence of Tikait, had informed of the government’s decision to give ₹45 lakh each to families of the victim farmers and set up a judicial probe under a retired high court judge.“Our protest has not ended. We will wait till eight days since the agreement and if the demands are not fulfilled, a nationwide agitation would be launched,” Tikait told reporters at a Gurdwara in Lakhimpur city. The deadline coincides with the 10th-day Antim Ardas ceremony (post-death ritual) in the Sikh community.An FIR under section 302 of IPC (murder) has already been registered against the union minister’s son Ashish Mishra and others in the incident in Tikonia police station.Tikait said the pact with the government was reached after consulting the victims’ families and farmers, and everybody had expressed “satisfaction” over it.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader had reached the incident site in the wee hours on Monday, after four farmers were allegedly mowed down by an SUV on October 3.On Tuesday, Tikait visited the family of Gurvinder Singh, one of the four dead farmers, in Bahraich and backed their demand for a second post mortem examination, which the government agreed to, and his last rites were performed this morning.The mortal remains of the other three farmers were cremated on Tuesday.“How can he (minister Mishra) remain a Union minister of home affairs when his son is facing such a serious charge? For an unbiased probe in the matter, the Centre must sack the minister,” said BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik.The BKU leader said the three others, who were killed in the violence, fell to mob fury. “When 4-5 people were killed and 15 to 20 got injured after being mowed down, the furious mob expressed their anger,” he added.When asked about minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s statement that he and his son were not on the crime spot on Sunday, Tikait said: “The minister is defending himself. He is an accused under Section 120B and must resign.”Tikait said gunshots were fired during Tikonia violence and there were videos to substantiate that.On the agitation against the three farm laws, the BKU leader said: “The agitation would continue till the repeal of these laws and enactment of law on minimum support price (MSP).” Inputs from agency||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-tikait-warns-of-nationwide-stir-if-minister-s-son-not-arrested-within-time-frame-101633529154208.html
07-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bans garba, dandiya and processions for Navratri||The Maharashtra government has prohibited garba, dandiya and other cultural celebrations for Navratri, to be celebrated between October 7 and October 15. It has restricted the height of the idols to four feet for community pandals and two feet for household celebrations. It has asked the organisers of community pandals to make arrangements for online darshans and banned more than five people at a time in community pandals. It has further prohibited processions and foods and beverages in community pandals.An order with detailed guidelines was issued by the state home department on Monday. Even though the second wave of Covid-19 has gone, the threat of Covid-19 is still looming large and thus crowding to celebrate the festival will not be a good idea. It is necessary for the people to take all sorts of precautions, while celebrating Navratri, said the state government in its circular.“Do not organize garba, dandiya or any other cultural programmes. Instead, give priority to organise health camps such as blood donation and awareness programmes for prevention of Covid-19, malaria and dengue, among others. The community mandals should make arrangements for online darshan of the idols through cable network, website, Facebook and other social media platforms, stated the circular.“Do not allow more than five people at a time in community pandals. Foods and beverages have also been strictly prohibited in the community pandals. Ensure no crowding while holding bhajan, aarti and kirtan and noise pollution norms are also followed. The same rules will be applicable even for the Rawan Dahan event,” it added.“Do not organise any procession either for home arrival or immersions of the idols. The traditional ‘aarti’ shall be performed at home, instead of the immersion places. Children and senior citizens should avoid going for immersions,” it stated.The state government further asked the people to avoid traditional idols and use idols made up of metal or marble for worshipping. If the idols installed are made of clay or are eco-friendly, then they can be immersed at home itself. If not possible at home, the idols should be immersed in a nearby artificial pond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bans-garba-dandiya-and-processions-for-navratri-101633364476467.html
