08-10-2021||Noida||Air warriors demonstrate formations to commemorate 1971 Indo-Pak war victory||Six Hawk aircraft flew in an L-shape over the Hindon airbase to demonstrate the ‘Vinaash’ (destroyer) formation, signifying the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) significant victory during the battle of Longewala in the 1971 war with Pakistan. The IAF’s power packed air show, on the occasion of the 89th Air Force Day, showcased a range of aircraft which flew in different formations to commemorate the 50th year of India’s victory over Pakistan during the 1971 war. The participating Hawks were from the operational conversion unit ‘Alpha’, which is the same squadron which flew the Hunter aircraft during the 1971 war. The different formations showcased on Friday, that were named after war heroes and operations carried out during the 1971 war, enthralled spectators at the Hindon airbase. People also got a glimpse of a single seat interceptor and air defence/ground attack Gnat aircraft. The event started with a team of the ‘Akash Ganga’ paratroopers taking a plunge from an AN-32 transport aircraft, which flew at a height of 8,000 metres above the Hindon airbase. Three paratroopers, including one from the Indian Army, were seen paradropping from a height of 6,000 ft from a vintage Dakota aircraft while carrying the Indian Tricolour along with IAF flag. IAF officials said the paradrop depicted the Tangail airdrop operation it carried out during the 1971 war. “There were 75 aircraft which participated in the air show at the Hindon airbase. Different formations, such as Tangail, Meghna, Longewala, Sekhon and others, were demonstrated. In the Sekhon formation, there was a mixed use of different aircraft like LCA Tejas, Jaguars, Rafales and Mirage-2000s. The formations were either named after war heroes or operations carried out during the 1971 war,” said a spokesperson from IAF. The tandem rotor Chinook helicopters, procured from the US in 2019, demonstrated a formation--ferrying 155mm artillery guns suspended by cables-- depicting the operation that the IAF carried out near Meghna river during the 1971 war. Back then, the operation was codenamed ‘Cactus Lily.’ The five MiG-29 air superiority aircraft of the 47 squadron flew in the ‘Vijay’ formation over the Hindon airbase. Officials said the squadron undertook various missions like strikes, escorts and combat air patrolling during the 1971 war. Likewise, a group of Jaguar deep penetration strike aircraft flew in ‘Shamsher’ formation and belonged to the 14 squadron, which played a vital role during the 1971 war. The ‘Pratap’ formation, demonstrated by a Dakota flanked by two Dornier aircraft, paid tributes to the legends who operated such aircraft. A Globemaster heavy lift aircraft followed by a team of nine aircraft from the ‘Suryakiran’ aerobatic team demonstrated the ‘Tiranga’ formation, celebrating 75 years of India’s independence. The Suryakirans flew in different formations and even demonstrated the shape of a Gnat aircraft, which fought the battle of Boyra on November 22, 1971. It was an aerial interception battle that was fought between IAF and Pakistani Air Force jets, which intruded into Indian air space. “The first aerial engagement between IAF & PAF in the buildup to the 1971 war took place on Novemver 22, when IAF Gnats intercepted PAF Sabres over Boyra. In the ensuing dogfight, three PAF Sabres were claimed by the IAF Gnats, with two crashing in the Indian territory,” the IAF said in a tweet in November 2020. The Suryakiran team also demonstrated the shape of India’s light combat aircraft ‘Tejas’ and depicted the different delta wing aircraft--Mig-21s, Mirage-2000s, LCA Tejas and Sukhois, which IAF operates. The four aircraft were also at static display at the Hindon airbase. Air chief Marshal V R Chaudhary thanked and congratulated the air warriors on Air Force Day. “As the IAF enters its 90th year, the men and women in Blue who serve the nation today are proud custodians of a legacy of valour, sacrifice and pioneering spirit. It is a great honour for me to stand before you as the successor to a great lineage of commanders who charted a course of a service and brought us to where we stand today,” he said. The Rafale, Sukhoi-30 and Tejas also performed different manoeuvrers, during which they also deployed flares over the airbase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-warriors-demonstrate-formations-to-commemorate-1971-indo-pak-war-victory-101633717646886.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue scare: 43 buildings inspected in Ludhiana, two challans issued||With a rise in cases of dengue being reported in the city, Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) and district health department teams conducted inspections to check mosquito breeding on Malhar Road on Friday. Additional MC commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal also accompanied the teams during the exercise. Forty-three buildings were checked on Malhar Road and challans were issued to the owners of two buildings after the teams found mosquito larvae on their premises.The teams inspected the rooftops of these buildings and other points which are susceptible to mosquito breeding. The owners and tenants were also asked to avoid water accumulation on their respective premises. As per officials, joint teams of district health department and MC have been conducting inspections to check mosquito breeding and 18 such teams are working in the city. Senior MC officials accompanied the teams on Friday to supervise their working.MC health officer Dr Vipal Malhotra said that two challans were issued after mosquito larvae were found in buildings. Continuous inspections will be conducted in different parts of the city to keep a check on mosquito breeding., he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-scare-43-buildings-inspected-in-ludhiana-two-challans-issued-101633717588518.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Varanasi:Youth beaten to death over alleged affair with married woman||A youth (23) was beaten to death on Thursday morning in Kirtartara village in the Kotwali police station area of Mirzapur district by three persons who suspected that he had an affair with the wife of one of the accused, police said.A senior police officer said that the deceased Kripashankar Bind was a resident of Kurkuthia Belwaria.The officer said the locals informed that Bind worked at a medical store in Mirzapur. He had a habit of going on morning walk daily and used to stop in front of Lal Bahadur’s house in Kitartara village. He used to sit there for some time, which made Lalbahadur suspect that the youth was having an affair with his wife.The officer said on Thursday morning, Kripashankar went on a morning walk, as per the daily routine. As he reached near Kirtartara village, three persons, including Lal Bahadur, a resident of Kirtartara village, intercepted him and beat him up badly with canes. They also tried to strangulate him by using a rope. The youth suffered serious injuries. The assailants fled from the scene after the incident.The officer said that a passerby informed the youth’s kin that Kripashankar was lying in a field and was severely injured.Kripashankar’s family members reached the spot and rushed him to a private hospital where doctors gave him primary treatment and referred him to the district hospital because of his serious condition. At the district hospital, the doctors declared him brought dead.The officer said that angry family members staged a demonstration at the gate of the hospital, demanding that the accused should be arrested. A police team reached the spot and pacified angry relatives by assuring them arrest of the accused. The police took the body in possession and sent it for post-mortem examination.The officer said a case was registered against Lal Bahadur and two unidentified persons under relevant sections, including section 299 of the IPC, following a complaint by the deceased’s father, Mangala Prasad Bind.The officer said the main accused Lal Bahadur was arrested and a team has been deployed to ensure the arrest of the other two accused who are on the run.Superintendent of Police (City) Sanjay Kumar Verma confirmed it and said, “A case was registered against the three accused. One, Lal Bahadur has been arrested and further investigation is on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasiyouth-beaten-to-death-over-alleged-affair-with-married-woman-101633717586566.html
08-10-2021||Noida||Noida: 12 arrested for planning digital currency fraud||The Noida Special Task Force (STF) and Sector 58 police on Friday arrested 12 people who had gathered at a hotel to launch a digital currency. Officials said that although currently there is no law allowing or prohibiting trading in cryptocurrency in India, the suspects, under the guise of launching a digital currency, were planning to engage in multilevel marketing, which is illegal. Multilevel marketing, just like any other Ponzi scheme, is the practice of selling goods or services on behalf of a company in a system whereby participants receive commission on their sales as well as the sales of any participants they recruit.  Hemraj Meena, senior superintendent of police, Uttar Pradesh STF, said police received information that some people would be gathering at a hotel in Noida’s Sector 62 to launch a digital currency ‘Coin Cake’. “A joint team of Noida STF and Noida police conducted a raid and arrested 12 people from the hotel. Police recovered 16 mobile phones, two laptops, 30 debit cards, seven Aadhaar cards--four of which were forged-- 116 visiting cards, two wristwatches, six driving licences, one Toyota Fortuner and one Tata Safari and ₹1.52 lakh cash from their possession,” said Meena.Raj Kumar Mishra, additional superintendent of police, Noida STF, said most of the arrested persons previously worked in a fictitious real estate company, whose owners duped scores of investors and fled abroad in 2019. “A total of 284 cases were registered against this real estate firm. During interrogation, one of the suspects, identified as Ashish Kumar (30) from Muzzafarnagar, said he had done his MBA from UK’s Cambridge University in 2011. He returned to India and started working for that dubious real estate firm as a technical head in 2018,” said Mishra. Another suspect, identified as Vikram Singh Yadav (35), from Lucknow, was a senior manager in the same company.Mishra said Kumar and Yadav joined hands to launch a virtual currency to cheat people. “They also roped in some former employees of the same company. On Friday, they called around 80 investors for the launch of the digital currency and sought investment, promising to double their money in a year. They were planning a multilevel marketing scheme, which is illegal,” said Mishra. A case has been registered against the suspects under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 3 and 4 of Chits and Money Circulation Act. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-12-arrested-for-planning-digital-currency-fraud-101633717484723.html
08-10-2021||Noida||Air Force Day: Year gone by challenging yet rewarding, says IAF chief||Air Chief Marshal VR Chaudhary, on the occasion of the Indian Air Force (IAF)’s 89th foundation day at Ghaziabad’s Hindon airbase on Friday, said that “challenges continue to rise” and “external forces will not be allowed to violate our territory”.Air Force Day was celebrated with spectacular ground and air displays by air warriors at the Hindon airbase. The force also commemorated the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ to mark 50 years of India’s victory in the 1971 war with Pakistan.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also greeted air warriors and their families on the occasion.“Greetings to our air warriors and their families on Air Force Day. The Indian Air Force is synonymous with courage, diligence, and professionalism. They have distinguished themselves in defending the country and through their humanitarian spirit in times of challenges,” Modi said in a tweet.Speaking at the Hindon airbase, the IAF chief said that he is acutely conscious that he assumed command of the force at a crucial time.“As our challenges continue to rise, so does our strength and resolve to ensure best possible application of airpower. When I look at the security scenario that we face today, I am acutely conscious that I have assumed the command at a crucial time,” he said.The IAF chief said that the year gone by was “quite challenging yet extremely rewarding”.“The prompt actions in response to developments in eastern Ladakh were a testament to the Indian Air Force’s combat readiness. Our efforts in completing all Covid-related tasks were also a major achievement in support of the national efforts,” he said.During the standoff with China in Ladakh, the IAF deployed various attack and multi-mission helicopters, transport aircraft, and frontline fighters, including Rafale aircraft, to strengthen its military posture in the region. The air force’s MiG-29 fighter jets, Sukhoi-30s, Apache AH-64E attack helicopters, and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters are among the aircraft that have operated in the Ladakh sector.India and China have been locked in a border standoff for 17 months, and both sides are carrying out negotiations to reduce tensions.The air chief said that the security environment in the region and beyond has been “impacted by a complex interplay of geopolitical forces”.“Moreover, the advent of new domains over and above the traditional domains of land, sea, and air has resulted in a paradigm shift in the way military operations will be conducted. In sync with the changing nature of warfighting, ongoing capability enhancement in the IAF aims to provide the optimum means for employing airpower and achieving desired effects across domains swiftly and decisively... We must demonstrate to the nation that external forces will not be allowed to violate our territory,” he added.The IAF celebrated Air Force Day at the Hindon base with a ceremonial parade by about 233 air warriors and the participation of 75 different aircraft.The IAF’s frontline fighters, including Rafale, Sukhoi, Tejas, Mig 29, and Jaguar, flew in different formations named after different operations carried out during the 1971 war with Pakistan.The IAF chief also awarded Vayu Sena Medals for gallantry, Vayu Sena Medals, Vishista Sewa Medals, and unit citations. It is customary for the IAF to announce unit citations on Air Force Day (October 8).Those who received the medals include Group Captain Saumitra Tamaskar, Wing Commanders Bibhu Dutta SK Jenamani, Ambar Agrawal, and Rahul Basoya, besides Squadron Leaders Vivek Gairola, Arun B, Anand Singh, and Preji Raju.The IAF chief also awarded unit citations to three units of the IAF to bolster India’s posture in eastern Ladakh following the standoff with China.The three units are the No. 47 Squadron equipped with upgraded MiG-29 fighters, the 116 Helicopter Unit consisting of advanced light helicopter Mark IV (ALH Mk IV) Rudra, and 2255 Squadron Det which operates the OSA-AK-M surface-to-air weapon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-force-day-year-gone-by-challenging-yet-rewarding-says-iaf-chief-101633717406623.html
08-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG house meeting on Monday, focus on measures against vector-borne diseases||The house meeting of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will take place this Monday at John Hall in Civil Lines. With over 100 dengue cases recorded in the district this season, issues such as procurement of an adequate number of fogging machines and fixing of drains that can become a ground for mosquito breeding are likely to be discussed at the meeting.Sheetal Bagri, councillor of ward 10, proposed an agenda for the MCG to procure new fogging machines as she said that several of the existing ones were found to be not working.“Due to the inadequate number of fogging machines as well as the fact that old machines are not working, fogging activities are getting affected not just in ward 10 but across the city. On several occasions, residents of ward 10 have asked for fogging to be carried out only to discover that the MCG fogging machines are either not working or working in a limited capacity,” said Bagri, adding that her agenda asks MCG to procure a new stock of fogging machines.As per the district administration’s media bulletin issued on Friday, Gurugram reported 10 new cases of dengue taking the tally of confirmed cases this season to 101. Gurugram has also reported two cases of malaria this year, as per the bulletin.Virender Raj Yadav, MCG councillor of ward 4 has also proposed an agenda to fix stormwater drains along Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road.He attributed the breeding of mosquitoes to the overflow of stormwater drains as one of the reasons for proposing the agenda.“Besides the mixing of stormwater and sewerage line due to broken sections, the uncovered parts and overflow are also leading to mosquito breeding. Dengue cases across the city, including ward 4, are on the rise, hence, I have floated the agenda for discussion in the upcoming house meeting,” said Yadav.Other key agendas for Monday’s house meeting include restarting water ATMs, a status update of all private colonies that the MCG has to take over, and a status update on developing a model road in each of MCG’s 35 wards, which was approved in a previous house meeting.“Under the chairmanship of MCG mayor Madhu Azad, a house meeting will be held on Monday, at 11am, in John Hall, Civil Lines. All listed agendas and other proposals will be put forward for deliberation, and decisions on the matter will accordingly be taken by MCG officials and councillors,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-house-meeting-on-monday-focus-on-measures-against-vector-borne-diseases-101633717346148.html
08-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Joint panel to assess waste dumping at Raj Nagar Extension||The National Green Tribunal (NGT), while hearing a petition filed by a resident of Raj Nagar Extension (RNE) on Thursday, issued directions for the formation of a joint committee of officials, who will assess the factual position of dumping of municipal solid waste near RNE and take remedial measures to address the issue within two months. The joint committee has also been directed to submit a report on the action taken with regard to waste dumping. The divisional commissioner (Meerut), officials of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), state pollution control board, Ghaziabad municipal-corporation and Ghaziabad district magistrate have been asked to be a part of the joint committee. A petition was filed by Vikrant Sharma, a lawyer and resident of RNE, who contended trucks of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation were bringing and dumping solid waste over a 20 bigha land at Bhatta Number 5 Road near RNE. “The state PCB will be the nodal agency for coordination and compliance. The meeting will be presided over by the commissioner, Meerut division which may be organized within two weeks and remedial action taken within two months thereafter. The joint committee may also interact with the concerned authorities of the Hindon air base and other stakeholders,” the tribunal said in its order. “The joint committee may ascertain whether there is any plan for waste management in the city of Ghaziabad. It may be further examined whether requisite processing plant to process day to day waste has been set up,” said the order. Sharma said the RNE residents were suffering due to the unhygienic conditions resulting from dumping of solid waste. Recently, residents in the area also protested against the waste dumping. “It is an achievement for us that the tribunal has taken cognisance and admitted our petition. It has also roped in the divisional commissioner, who we expect will try to resolve our issues. The RNE is about 6km away from the Hindon airbase. Dumping solid waste here may attract birds, which could pose as a problem to aircraft,” said Sharma. The tribunal has also sought replies on whether the existing legacy waste at the Shakti Khand dumping site at Indirapuram has been tackled and asked for a report in this connection. Currently, Ghaziabad city generates about 1,200 metric tonnes of solid waste daily. The city’s biggest landfill site at Pratap Vihar was shut down in January 2019 on the directions of the UP solid waste monitoring committee that was set up on the directions of the tribunal. Officials said the landfill site at Pratap Vihar has about 4.5 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste, which will be completely processed by the end of the current financial year. The Shakti Khand site has about 1.5 lakh metric tonnes of solid waste, which is likely to get processed by October. The municipal corporation started dumping solid waste near RNE after the site at Pratap Vihar was shut down. Following protests from RNE residents, the civic body diverted their vehicles to Galand in Hapur district, where a waste to energy plant has been proposed. “We faced protests from locals and Galand and are trying to resolve the issues here. We have stopped dumping waste near RNE and are taking the waste to our garbage factories at Sihani and Ret Mandi. Another factory will come up at Shakti Khand site. We will comply with the directions of the tribunal,” said municipal commissioner M S Tanwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-joint-panel-to-assess-waste-dumping-at-raj-nagar-extension-101633717288857.html
08-10-2021||Gurugram||Six teams formed by Gurugram municipal body to implement Grap measures||To check air pollution during stubble burning season, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) formed six teams to implement Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures across the city, a release issued by the civic body on Friday said.The six teams have been assigned 17 different activities, such as mechanised cleaning and sweeping, issuing fines for the dumping of construction and demolition (C&D) waste, sprinkling of water through tankers and machines, taking action against the use of burning of coal and wood in hotels and eateries, among other measures.“In the orders issued by MCG commissioner, it is stated that it is necessary to take immediate measures to maintain the air quality index (AQI) in Gurugram and to reduce localised pollution as the stubble burning season commences. For this, responsibilities have been fixed by MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and teams have been formulated,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG.According to the orders, a team comprising MCG joint commissioner (headquarters) along with the senior sanitation inspector and the sanitation inspector will follow the action plan regarding mechanised cleaning and sweeping in their respective zones, prevention of the use of single-use plastic, curbs on waste burning, identifying pollution hotspots, monitor night patrolling of Grap measures, as well as ensure uncovered waste is not transported from one place to another.Further, a team consisting of all MCG executive engineers, assistant engineers, junior engineers, senior sanitary inspectors, and sanitation inspectors will have to monitor violations related to open waste burning, transportation of construction material or C&D waste, check construction activities, and uncovered building materials kept at a construction site.Along with this, the responsibility of scientifically disposing of C&D waste has been given to the executive engineer (Swachh Bharat Mission).A team consisting of all executive engineers along with assistant engineers and junior engineers has to identify stretches with high dust accumulation, and ensure environmental rules are followed by MCG contractors during construction of road, stormwater, and sewerage line projects.Executive engineers in the MCG’s horticulture wing have also been instructed to monitor the sprinkling of water on trees, roads, and open spaces through tankers and machines to check the accumulation of dust.All executive engineers have also been assigned the task to take action against the use of burning coal and wood in hotels and eateries located in their respective areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/six-teams-formed-by-gurugram-municipal-body-to-implement-grap-measures-101633717286249.html
08-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body to set up control room to monitor illegal dumping of waste||Along the lines of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is developing its own control room to monitor the dumping of unauthorised waste, track the movement of mechanised sweeping machines and garbage collection vehicles as well as track Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) violations.A decision on setting up a control room was taken by MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja during an internal meeting on sanitation-related issues held on Thursday evening. Ahuja directed officials to set up the control room by the end of this month.“GPS has been installed in all mechanised sweeping machines and garbage collection vehicles of the MCG. The movement of each of these vehicles during the Grap period is already pre-determined. Through a dedicated control room, the movement of each vehicle will be monitored and, accordingly, an alert would be sent to the MCG official concerned if there is any change in route or if a vehicle is stalled for a prolonged duration,” said a senior MCG official who attended Thursday’s meeting requesting anonymity.According to the official quoted above, MCG also decided to install CCTV cameras at 34 unauthorised dumping points identified by the civic body, as well as secondary garbage collection points, each of which will also be monitored via the control room.MCG officials said that space has been shortlisted in their Sector 39 and Sector 42 offices to set up the control room. “Officials have been directed to check if the Sector 39 or the Sector 42 office is more feasible. Accordingly, next week’s meeting on sanitation-related issues will be held at the finalised site where the control room will come up,” said Ahuja.Regarding the 34 unauthorised dumping points, MCG officials said that waste has already been cleared from 20 of the points, while the process of cleaning 14 more points is underway. They also said that besides the installation of CCTV cameras, a boundary wall will be erected and saplings will be planted at each of them.Besides the MCG, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) also has a dedicated control room.The GMDA’s Integrated Command Control Centre (ICCC) in Sector 44 was established in December 2019 for improving coordination among various public agencies through a single coordination platform, surveillance, monitoring of traffic and traffic violations, streetlights, GIS services, among other such amenities.The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) is also likely to set up a control room to monitor air quality in Gurugram district by next week. Officials said that they have requested the state government to set up the control room with five members including a supervisor.Sandeep Singh, regional officer HSPCB for Gurugram south, said, “We are in talks with the department for setting up a 24x7 control room that will look into all complaints, through social media, call-in complaints, and corresponding air qualities of different places. A team of five members will manage the control room and a helpline number will be released soon.”With inputs from Suparna Roy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-civic-body-to-set-up-control-room-to-monitor-illegal-dumping-of-waste-101633717224962.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar-based drug peddler nabbed with 100gm heroin in Ludhiana||The anti-narcotics cell of Ludhiana police has nabbed a drug peddler and recovered 100gm heroin from his possession.The accused has been identified as Manjinder Singh, a resident of Nijjarpura village in Amritsar, who was nabbed from Tajpur Road following specific inputs.Manjinder was stopped on suspicion and on frisking, 100 grams of heroin was recovered from his possession. The police have registered a case against the accused under the provisions of the NDPS Act and started further interrogation. Manjinder was presented in a court, which sent him to police remand. He told the police that he was procuring the contraband from a man identified as Saab from Jandiala Guru and further selling it to addicts in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsarbased-drug-peddler-nabbed-with-100gm-heroin-in-ludhiana-101633717179948.html
08-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad municipal corporation readies equipment to tackle air pollution in city||Ghaziabad, which is listed among 16 “non-attainment” cities in Uttar Pradesh with high levels of pollutants in the air -- will get several equipment in a fortnight to tackle air pollution in the city, officials said on Friday.The Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC) is set to purchase and fit five road sweeping machines, three static anti-smog guns, and five sprinkler vehicles with mounted anti-smog guns at the hotspots identified in the city, and make those operational around Deepawali in November this year.The civic body has got only one anti-smog gun in its inventory, as the officials target a total of eight such systems to tackle air pollution in the city. “We are in the process of purchasing three static anti-smog guns, and have bought five sprinkler vehicles, which will be mounted with the anti-smog guns... Our tally of anti-smog guns will be nine altogether. These anti-smog guns will be deployed at the hotspots identified in the city. The request for the proposal is getting finalised, and it is likely that the purchases will be made within a fortnight,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner of GMC.The GMC also has three mechanical road sweeping machines which cover about 197 kilometres of a road distance -- both sides -- at different locations in the city. “We are in the process of purchasing five new road sweeping machines which will help us cover major road stretches in a better manner. These machines will be deployed at 36 different locations, according to the need. We have decided on a roster of water sprinkling at 34 locations where the dust pollution is high,” Kumar added.A city is declared to be “non-attainment” if it consistently does not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for particulate matter (PM10) or nitrogen dioxide (NO2) over a period of five years. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the air quality index in Ghaziabad was recorded at 194 -- under the ‘moderate’ category -- on Friday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe.”Meanwhile, officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that the issue of road dust, mechanised road sweeping, and water sprinkling were also discussed at a meeting held by the Ghaziabad environment committee at the district headquarters on Friday. “With the induction of these new equipment, we hope that the air pollution levels in the city will be in check to an extent... We have also asked different departments concerned to repair roads and make those potholes-free by October 30, 2021, a deadline also given by the state officials... About the under-construction Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) Road for which the work has been pending for about a year now, we have planned to initiate prosecution proceedings against the contractor,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.Under its ‘winter action plan,’ the UPPCB officials have identified 10 hotspots -- Sahibabad, Kaushambi, Raj Nagar Extension, Delhi Meerut Road, Loni, Bhopura-Delhi border, South Side GT Road, Sanjay Nagar, Vasundhara, and Siddharth Vihar -- in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-municipal-corporation-readies-equipment-to-tackle-air-pollution-in-city-101633717105017.html
08-10-2021||Other||Free breast cancer detection camp held in Ludhiana||Hampton Homes, Ludhiana, in association with Krishna Pran Charitable Trust, organised a free breast cancer detection and health check-up for women to mark Breast Cancer Month.Sanjeev Arora, managing director of Hampton Homes, inaugurated the camp.The camp included free medical consultations and aimed to spread awareness about breast cancer. A team of oncologists from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, including, Dr Gurpreet Singh Brar, Dr Sandhya Sood, Dr Rintu Sharma, Dr Ridhima Gupta, and Dr Rajnish, along with volunteers, conducted the camp.Around 150 women were assessed, advised, and counselled. Those who required mammography were referred to DMCH Cancer Care Centre and American Oncology Institute.According to doctors, common problems like blood pressure and diabetes may need medicines for a lifetime whereas, breast cancer, if diagnosed timely, can be treated.Dr Sandhya said that women should get married at the right age and conceive at around the age of 25.“Contraceptives should be used in consultation with doctors. Obesity should be avoided. This will not only help in avoiding breast cancer but also other women-related problems,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/free-breast-cancer-detection-camp-101633716924903.html
08-10-2021||Noida||Now, Ganga water supply may start next year in Greater Noida||The supply of Ganga water in the city has once again missed its deadline as the Greater Noida authority is yet to complete the work on the pipeline network. Now, officials from the authority said that the Ganga water project will become operational in January next year. The project has missed its latest deadline of October 2.Senior officials of the Greater Noida authority on Thursday visited the primary water treatment plant built at Hapur’s Dehra from where Ganga water will reach Greater Noida’s Jaitpur reservoir. “We are making all efforts so that the Ganga water reaches Jaitpur within a month. We hope all works will be completed by the end of this year, and the supply of Ganga water will start in January,” said Kapil Dev, senior manager of the Greater Noida authority.Started in 2005, the ₹800 crore project was scheduled to be completed in 2010, but has missed several deadlines over the years. First, the authority extended completion deadline to 2013. In April 2016, the authority had set March 2018 as the deadline for this project.The project was delayed due to the non-availability of land. The farmers had refused to give the land for laying of water pipeline. “We are doing our best to resolve land issues. Apart from some land issues, ongoing construction for dedicated industrial corridor involving laying of railway tracks and road construction in the city are also posing hurdles in laying pipelines,” said an authority official, seeking anonymity.Residents said that the project has got delayed as the authority is not resolving land issues in a time-bound manner. “As a result, we are failing to get quality drinking water. We depend on saline groundwater for drinking and other purposes,” said Om Raizada, a resident of Sector P3.Abhishek Kumar, president of Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association, said, “The Greater Noida authority does not seem to be serious on delivery of Ganga water to city residents as the project keep missing deadlines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/now-ganga-water-supply-may-start-next-year-in-greater-noida-101633716870798.html
08-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Six held for cheating people of jewellery pretending as magicians||Six people were arrested on Friday for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of doubling their jewellery items through “magic”. Police also arrested two goldsmiths in connection with the case.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that Sector 58 police on October 5 registered an FIR against three unknown persons in a cheating case. Complainant Rajendra Singh, a resident of Khoda Colony in Ghaziabad, said his wife and her two friends visited Noida’s Sector 59 for a job interview at a private company. “Three of the suspects approached the women near the company office and struck a conversation with them. They convinced the women that they are magicians and can double their jewellery. When the women handed over their earrings, rings, and anklets to them, the suspects fled with the valuables,” said the DCP. Explaining the modus operandi, police said the suspects used to strike a conversation with vulnerable people, especially women, and convinced them that they knew some magic to double jewellery items. The suspects would then wrap the valuables in some paper and ask the victims to close their eyes, while they fled with the valuables. The suspects used the same modus operandi to cheat the three women, said police. A case was registered against them under Section 420 (cheating) of the IPC. The DCP said police received information about the movement of some of the suspects near Sector 59. “A police team reached the spot and stopped two cars for checking. There were six persons in the two vehicles. Police found some gold and silver jewellery from their possession. The suspects revealed that they were members of a gang which stole valuables from people by pretending as magicians,” he said. Police said the gang had been active in Delhi-NCR for the last six months.The suspects were identified as Hamid Ali, 30, from East Delhi; Mohammad Nazur Khan,25, from Simapuri in Delhi; Afroz, 26, from Vasundra in Ghaziabad; Shahid, 22, from Dilshad Garden; Mohammad Sahib, 23, from Indirapuram in Ghaziabad; and Abbas, 25, from Bhalswa in Delhi. Ali, the mastermind, told police that the gang members used to sell the stolen valuables to two goldsmiths – Sachin Verma, 28, and Prajwal Verma, 30, residents of Ghaziabad. Police then conducted a search at the goldsmiths’ hideouts and arrested them. Police have also seized the two cars.  The suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-six-held-for-cheating-people-of-jewellery-pretending-as-magicians-101633716869366.html
08-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man wanted in several murder cases arrested||A joint team of Meerut special task force (STF) and Greater Noida police arrested an alleged criminal -- booked in several murder cases since 2015 -- on Friday, officials said.The suspect -- Naveen (goes by first name) -- a resident of Haryana’s Sonipat, carried a ₹25,000 reward on his head, and has over a dozen cases registered against him, including the murder of a youth in Delhi, a triple murder in Muzaffarnagar, among others, police said. He was arrested near an educational institute in LG circles, Greater Noida.“A joint operation of the STF of Meerut and Knowledge Park police led to Naveen’s arrest. He is a dreaded criminal who operated with a gang. A 32-bore pistol, some shells, live bullets, and a stolen motorcycle was recovered from his possession,” according to a police statement on Friday.According to the police, Naveen and his friends allegedly killed a man in Sonipat in 2015 following a feud. He was involved in a triple murder in Muzaffarnagar in 2019. In 2020, he allegedly killed a person in Sonipat again, beaten another man to death in another village, kidnapped three officials from Panipat, and was also involved in three other murder cases.In his latest crime, Naveen allegedly killed a youth -- Rohit, a resident of Sonipat -- in Delhi earlier this year. He and his associates had called Rohit at a Delhi Development Authority (DDA) flat in Sector 34 in August 2021, intoxicated him, and drowned him in a bathtub. They dumped Rohit’s body at a sewage near Apeejay Institute in the Knowledge Park area in Greater Noida.A murder case was registered against Naveen at the Knowledge Park police station in August this year.“Police later recognised/found his body, and launched an investigation. We scanned social media platforms to follow a trail, which led to the culprit. Police are raiding different suspected places to arrest the remaining suspects... It is a very dreaded gang, and Naveen has over a dozen cases of murder and extortion registered against him. We will also impose the Gangster Act against him,” said Vishal Pandey, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-wanted-in-several-murder-cases-arrested-101633716804816.html
08-10-2021||Other||Taking dig at Ludhiana MC, AAP leaders clean dilapidated buses||Taking a dig at the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) and slamming the state government for failing to run the city bus service at full capacity, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) launched a unique protest at the local bus depot on Hambran Road wherein its members cleaned the dilapidated buses with brooms on Thursday. As per information, around 120 buses were bought under the Jawahar Lal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) in February 2011, but the authorities have not been able to use them optimally. Out of these 120 buses, only 83 were transferred to the company. And, of the 83 buses in possession of the contractor who was awarded the contract to run the city buses, only 27 are plying on roads, while the remaining ones are gathering dust at either depots or workshops on Hambran Road and Tajpur Road.Stating that the buses were purchased at around ₹68 crore, AAP leaders demanded that the government should put them to use and not waste the taxpayers’ hard-earned money.Kulwant Sidhu, AAP in-charge, Atam Nagar constituency, said if the government cannot run the buses, then it should at least rent them out to the youth and generate employment.Sidhu said, “The government made tall claims regarding providing employment to youths. It should at least rent these buses out to them as these have been lying in a dilapidated condition for years now. The issue has been raised several times in the past but to no avail. The public is being forced to pay more for travelling in private buses and auto-rickshaws as the MC has failed to run the facility at low fares.”Sidhu added as many as 37 buses worth ₹17 crore have been gathering dust at the city bus depot for over eight years, while many are lying in dilapidated condition on Hambran Road, with many of their parts stolen.Despite repeated attempts made to contact mayor Balkar Sandhu, his comments could not be elicited. The MC had also served a termination notice to the contractor company running the bus service in the city, but the contractor moved the high court and the case is subjudice. The contractor has also been seeking a hike in the fare citing the spike in diesel prices. He has also been raising the issue of auto-rickshaw unions creating hurdles in operating the bus service, especially in the Sahnewal area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taking-dig-at-ludhiana-mc-aap-leaders-clean-dilapidated-buses-101633716624922.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||LESA bill revision scam: SIT begins investigation||More than 15 years after the electricity bill revision scam in the state capital hit the headlines, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of UP police has started probing the matter speedily putting many UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) engineers and other personnel on edge, people aware of the issue disclosed.The fraud that took place primarily in the Residency and a few other divisions of the Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (LESA) between 2004 and 2008 was estimated to have had caused a revenue loss of more than ₹2.50 crore to the UPPCL. In the departmental inquiry conducted then, it was found that a large number of defaulters’ electricity arrears were illegally dropped out by manipulating the data of the LESA’s online billing system by hacking the main password. However, no one was punished then.The SIT probe into the LESA’s bill revision racket now comes at a time when 23 UPPCL engineers and three clerks have recently been chargesheeted for committing serious irregularities in issuing temporary power connections of smaller loads for the construction of multi-storey apartments without any records of metering and billing to deliberately benefit builders in Noida and Greater Noida. “The SIT has started investigation into the LESA’s bill revision racket on the directions issued to it by the home department and has written a letter to the Madhyanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (MVVNL) managing director seeking certain relevant details from him to get to the culprits,” a senior UPPCL official said.In his correspondence with the MD on September 29, SIT superintendent of police (SP) Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj referred to the letter sent to him by special secretary, home (police section 3) on January 2, 2021.The home department as the SP wrote in the letter, asked the SIT to identify the LESA officials, employees and consumers who caused around ₹2.50 crore loss to the UPPCL by washing out arrears from official records by manipulating LESA’s online billing data between 2004 and 2008. The SIT was given two weeks’ time to complete the probe. The SIT has sought details regarding names of LESA divisions covered under the online billing system between 2004 and 2008 and the names and all other details of officials/employees who were posted there during the same period and also the details of private companies and their staff working for LESA then.Reiterating the SIT’s letter, MVVNL director (commercial), Pradeep Kakkar sent a missive to both the chief engineers LESA (trans-Gomti and cis-Gomti) on October 6, asking them to ensure that the desired information was made available to the SIT immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lesa-bill-revision-scam-sit-begins-investigation-101633716504691.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Mystery shrouds Meerut girl’s death||Meerut Mystery shrouds the death of a teenage girl, student of Class 12, who had gone to appear in an examination on Wednesday. According to family members, she was allegedly raped and injured by unidentified people and returned home in a bad condition. She died on Friday during treatment in a hospital. However, police said medical examination of the girl found no injury marks or signs of rape. They suspected poisoning behind the death. SSP of Meerut Prabhakar Chaudhary said that a boy who was walking with the girl had been identified through CCTV camera footage. He hoped that the criminals would be arrested soon. The SSP said that medical examination of the girl was conducted in the district hospital which found no external injuries or signs of rape. He further said that the viscera had been preserved and sent to the forensic lab for further examination to ascertain charges of rape levelled by family members. SSP said that the girl either consumed some poisonous substance or she was forced to take it. Further investigation was going on, he added. The girl was studying in a city-based inter College and had gone to appear in an examination in another college on Wednesday. She was expected to return by 4 pm and family members claimed that an e-rickshaw driver dropped her home at around 8 30 pm. She was not in her senses and reportedly told her mother that she was intoxicated by an auto driver. She said she somehow reached home seeking the help of an e-rickshaw driver. The family members reported the incident to the police and she was admitted to the district hospital. She was later shifted to a private hospital when her condition deteriorated. She died on Friday during treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mystery-shrouds-meerut-girl-s-death-101633716444770.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar avoids comment on income tax raids||During a visit to Pune city on Friday, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar avoided comment on Income Tax raids at various properties related to him.Pawar said, “Raids are currently underway, so I don’t want to comment. I will answer all the questions raised by the media.”Pawar was in a city to attend various programmes and headed the Covid-19 review meeting. After the meeting, he interacted with the media.Pawar said,” In all my institutions, I make sure to follow all the rules and pay the tax on time. There is nothing to worry about.”As Pawar was present at Council hall, NCP workers gathered in large numbers to extend support to him.NCP workers blamed that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for income tax raids and said that it is common now that all the central agencies are working as per instructions by BJP.NCP leaders also said,” When assembly elections were announced, the Union government sent the Enforcement Directorate (ED) notice to Sharad Pawar. But all saw what the results were.”Income tax raids were underway at various places on Thursday and even on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-avoids-comment-on-income-taxraids-101633716324787.html
08-10-2021||Other||Country needs better infrastructure for skeet event: Shooter Rajveer Gill||Rajveer Singh Gill, 19, a shooting prodigy from Dakha village near Mullanpur, who had recently won a bronze medal in the men’s team finals of the ISSF Junior World Championship in South America, feels that the country lacks the infrastructure required for skeet, and the government should work on the advancement of facilities.Rajveer was honoured by local MLA Manpreet Singh Ayali at the former’s house.The shooting champion said, “Unfortunately many people in our country don’t even know about skeet. Our players can do wonders if the government provides financial aid and develops the infrastructure required for the game. A poor person cannot afford to play it.”He added that as there is only one shooting range in Ludhiana (Talwara village), his father got a personal shooting range constructed for him at their farmhouse.Rajveer took inspiration from his father Manmohan Singh Gill, who is also a national skeet player and the sarpanch of his village.“I am living my father’s dream. It wasn’t easy for me to practice along with my studies in school. While pursuing law from Patiala, I managed to devote time to my game. My father got me the best possible training,” stated Gill. Sharing his experience of participating in the world championship, Rajveer said that the players who can hold their nerves under pressure succeed.“A total of seven teams qualified for the finals. The pressure in the finals is always immense, and one needs to have a cool temperament while focusing on the target. There is a huge difference between the shooting ranges which we have in Punjab and the international ranges. Since it was my second international world championship, I was familiar with the pressure. I had also participated in the Skeet World Cup held in Italy in 2018,” told Singh.Meanwhile, MLA Ayali congratulated Rajveer for making the country proud.“It is so pleasing to see our young sportsmen bringing laurels to the country. His achievement will inspire many in Punjab,” said Ayali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/country-needs-better-infrastructure-for-skeet-event-shooter-rajveer-gill-101633716264713.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Pune district may have 35k malnourished kids: NFHS survey||The National Family Health Survey 5 (NFHS) for the year 2019-2020 has projected that Pune district may have at least 35,000 malnourished kids, however, the district administration has defended itself claiming that the numbers are projections based on a sample survey and not actual screening. The NFHS survey which was based on samples screened in the district projects numbers based on the results in the survey and the overall population of the district. The State ICDS meeting chaired by commissioner Rubal Agarwal on Friday along with all district Zilla Parishad CEOs discussed that the reporting of Moderate Acute Malnutrition (MAM) and Severe Acute Malnutrition (SAM) of children in all the districts is very poor. However in the joint screening by the health department and the women and child welfare department, Pune recorded only 253 SAM children in August 2021 which contradicts the projection by the NFHS screening based on the results of sample projects that there could be more than 35,000 SAM children in the district, in both urban and rural areas. Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad said, “We have found that our active interventions including providing nutritional meal packages and medical interventions have been effective. From 600 SAM kids we are now down to below 300 in a year’s time. The projection by the NFHS is based on a sample survey and we are not aware if it is in the rural or urban areas, so that the screening is unbiased. Local administration does not intervene in the screening. However, in the rural areas we have accounted for every child and each child is physically screened by Asha workers and also verified by qualified doctors after which they are declared as malnourished or healthy. As of now we have about 253 SAM kids in rural areas and in the past one year we have had 2,500 medical interventions like surgeries and hospitalisation for children who needed medical intervention.” Agarwal, who chaired the meet, said, “The difference between the projections by NFHS and the local administration is much higher for almost all the districts in the state. So we have asked the local administrations to detect and report more cases. The NFHS has also found that multiple districts have less than 70% who have received their Aadhar card. Aadhar helps register the child and also track his or her health track.” Along with Pune, Sangli, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Raigad, Aurangabad, Gondia, Jalna and thane +Palghar have reported less than 70% children who have received their Aadhar Card. The Pune administration has tied up with the postal department to ensure that each child is linked to an Aadhar card, added Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-may-have-35k-malnourished-kids-nfhs-survey-101633716084746.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh meets kin of Bahraich farmers killed in Kheri violence||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has demanded that Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra ‘Teni’ should resign on moral grounds for an unbiased probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which Mishra’s son is an accused.Yadav, who visited Bahraich on Friday, met the kin of Gurvinder Singh and Diljeet Singh, the two farmers who lost their lives in the October 3 Kheri violence. Gurvinder Singh, 20, was a native of Moharniya village under Nanpara Kotwali area while Diljeet Singh, 42, lived in Banjaran Tada village under Matera police station of Bahraich district. He also said the farmers will not get justice until the minister resigned. On being asked about the suo moto (on its own motion) cognisance of the incident by the Supreme Court, the SP president said, “Till now people didn’t trust the BJP government and now the Supreme Court has also commented on the government which means even the Supreme Court does not believe in the government.”Akhilesh said it was the responsibility of government to give justice and that the government should accept that injustice had been done. He said he had come to meet the bereaved families to share their pain. The SP chief also said both the Samajwadi Party and the families of the victims wanted justice.Incident reminds me of Jallianwala Bagh tragedy: AAP leaderAam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh, a Rajya Sabha MP, also visited Bahraich on Friday and met with the families of the two farmers who were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. He also demanded that the Union minister of state for home should be sacked and the guilty should be arrested.Sanjay Singh said the Kheri incident reminded him of the Jallianwala Bagh tragedy of 1919 wherein General Dyer had ordered his soldiers to fire at civilians. He warned that AAP would launch an agitation in Uttar Pradesh if action was not taken against the minister and his son was not arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-meets-kin-of-bahraich-farmers-killed-in-kheri-violence-101633716024934.html
08-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: FICO celebrates Founder’s Day||Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) celebrated its ninth Founder’s Day at FICO Secretariat, Jaimal Road, Janta Nagar, on Thursday. The theme of the event was: Progressive Entrepreneurship in Punjab. Virinder Sharma, director, MSME, DI, Ludhiana, and Rakesh Kumar Kansal, GM, DIC, Ludhiana were the chief guests. Gurmeet Singh Kular, FICO president, shared the annual report of FICO, and discussed its achievements, and said progressive entrepreneurship is the way ahead. KK Seth, chairman, FICO, talked about the current scenario of the market, especially for the industry. Virinder Sharma shared the government’s policies for the industry and Kansal shared detailed report of the state government’s policies for growth of the industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianafico-celebrates-founder-s-day-101633715907027.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 525 new Covid case, 6 deaths||On Friday, Pune district reported 525 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths due to the infection. This takes the progressive count to 1.14 million, of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,851 is the death count and 8,683 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 53,617 vaccinations on Friday. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 290 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 361,135. The death toll stands at 6,824 as five more deaths were reported on Friday. Pune city reported 131 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 518,598. The death toll is at 9,179 as one more death was reported on the day. PCMC reported 104 new Covid-19 cases, with which the progressive count went up to 267,193. The death toll stands at 3,499 as no deaths were reported on Friday. Pune also saw 53,617 vaccinations on Friday as per the Co-WIN dashboard. Of the total of 11,003,525 vaccinations given, 7,341,917 are first doses and 3,661,608 are second doses. A total of 711 sites saw vaccinations of which 487 were government centres and 224 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-525-new-covid-case-6-deaths-101633715905931.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Pune municipal elections: Shiv Sena, NCP meet to set alliance||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Shiv Sena took the first major step towards ensuring the MVA alliance at the state government level is replicated in the city for the upcoming Pune municipal elections. NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap confirmed that a first meeting between the parties had taken place, though he deferred from saying when, and where in Pune it happened. Jagtap said, “Both parties have agreed to an alliance to keep the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from power. We will also start a discussion with the Congress party. NCP and Sena office bearers were present at the meeting.” Sena leaders Sanjay More, Prithviraj Sutar and others were present at the meeting. A Shiv Sena source, requesting anonymity, said, “It was decided at the meeting that whichever candidate wins a particular seat, the party he represents will take that seat.” “The Sena leaders put acondition that there should be a respectful alliance and NCP should share maximum seats with Shiv Sena,” the source added. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in power in the state also has the Congress as an alliance member. In the city, there are two trains of thought within the Congress party. One is in favour of contesting the elections as the MVA, but there is section of Congress leaders keen to go it alone. A Congress senior leader speaking anonymously said that ideally NCP and Sena should have approached Congress before holding a meeting. “They went ahead and met, so we would need to take call about what to do about the alliance in the PMC polls,” the leader said. Jagtap added, “We started the discussion. We welcome the Congress to keep the BJP away. A final decision will be taken by the state-level leaders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-municipal-elections-shiv-sena-ncp-meet-to-set-alliance-101633715904748.html
08-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: PSEB evaluates result despite paper leak||Punjab State Education Board (PSEB) organised sessions with heads and principals of Ludhiana government schools at Chandigarh University, Gharaun, to review the students’ performance in the mid-term exams held last month, despite the leak of question papers.The midterm exams, conducted for Classes 6 to 12, were based on the multiple-choice questions pattern to prepare the students for the National Achievement Survey (NAS) exam to be held on November 12.The heads gave PowerPoint presentations of the results of their respective schools. According to the result sheets submitted by the Ludhiana schools, maximum students secured between 40% to 80% marks.The teachers were made familiar with various techniques to prepare students for NAS.“Many students are habitual of mugging concepts rather than understanding the basics. We were asked to make them understand the basics. Not many students could score around 80% in these exams. To bag the top spot for the state, it is essential that our students should secure above 80%,” said a principal.‘Should take legal action against accused instead’Meanwhile, Sukhdarshan Singh, president of the Anti-Cheating Teachers’ Front, Punjab, who was the whistleblower in the paper leak case, said that instead of taking legal action against the culprit who leaked the question papers on his Youtube, the board is evaluating results.“There is no sense in evaluating the result of the papers which got leaked much before the exam date. The department should not make a mockery of the education system. It should have cancelled these exams and should have initiated legal action against the accused,” said Sukhdarshan Singh.October tests postponedThe education department postponed the NAS mock tests that were scheduled to begin on October 4.A government school lecturer said, “The department deferred the October tests after getting criticized for the leak of the September exam question papers. Moreover, the deputy commissioner, Ludhiana, has asked the district education officer to submit a reply on the action initiated by the department against the paper leak in a meeting to be held in October.”Meanwhile, DEO Lakhvir Singh Samra said that the exams were postponed to give students more time to prepare. On being asked why no action was initiated against the paper leak, he claimed that it was a state matter, and he cannot do much about it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-pseb-evaluates-result-despite-paper-leak-101633715784823.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Covid situation in three tehsils in Nashik a cause of worry||PUNE Three districts in Nashik district Niphad, Yeola and Sinnar have become a cause of concern for the administration as the active Covid cases in these tehsils account for almost 2/3rd of the active cases in rural parts.Nashik district administration has decided to concentrate on these three tehsils to contain the infection. Though strict restrictions have not been imposed in these tehsils as of now guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal warned of strict curbs if the situation worsens.According to the state health department, as of October 8, there were 806 active cases in Nashik district and fresh 75 cases were recorded on October 8 in the district. Out of which 45 were in rural parts.Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare said that active cases in these three tehsils have not reduced since the last 15 days.“These three tehsils are a cause of worry because the number of active Covid patients are higher in these three tehsils. The positivity rate of all the tehsils is almost the same. But from around 700 active Covid patients in the rural areas, 2/3 patients are in these three tehsils Yeola, Niphad and Sinnar. Only these three tehsils have patients in three digits other tehsils have it in two digits. Also, the number of patients does not seem to be reducing. The number has remained between 150-145 for the last 15 days,” said Mandhare.“We have observed that people are not following Covid protocol,” he said.Bhujbal warned of strict restrictions if the situation doesn’t come under control. “If the situation doesn’t come under control in these three tehsils then strict actions would have to be taken against violators and markets may have to be closed. So all should follow the rules,” he said.To contain the infection in these parts Nashik administration has decided to focus on testing and contact tracing in these parts. Also, strict quarantine measures for the Covid patients would be undertaken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-situation-in-three-tehsils-in-nashik-a-cause-of-worry-101633715544707.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||High court seeks affidavit on encroachment removal from Azad Park in Sangam city||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Friday directed the state government and concerned officials to remove all the encroachments from the Chandra Shekhar Azad Park of the city. Pursuant to the order passed by the court, the state authorities on Friday produced a compliance report, stating therein the removal of the structures and encroachments carried out after 1975 in Chandra Shekhar Azad Park. However, petitioner Jitendra Singh Vishen, who appeared in person before the court, submitted that all the encroachments had not yet been removed. The submission of the petitioner was seriously contested by the official respondents. The division bench comprising acting chief justice Munishwar Nath Bhandari and justice Piyush Agrawal, directed the officials to file an affidavit to the effect that the compliance was as per the judgment of the apex court in the case of Allahabad Ladies Club Versus Jitendra Nath Singh and others, (2007) 11 SCC 609, and all the encroachments had been removed from the park. The court further directed that the aforesaid affidavit would be filed within a week and fixed October 21 as the next date of hearing of this matter. Earlier, on October 5, 2021, the court had directed the Uttar Pradesh government to remove, within three days, all the encroachments including graves, mazars or mosque constructed or created within the area of the Chandrashekhar Azad Park in Prayagraj, which was earlier known as Alfred Park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/high-court-seeks-affidavit-on-encroachment-removal-from-azad-park-in-sangam-city-101633715484525.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya int’l airport project fast-tracked||The Ayodhya International airport project in temple town has been put on fast track by the state government with the Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University approving a proposal to hand over its 3900-hectare land for the mega project. Around 30 buildings located on this land, including vice chancellor Ravi Shanker Singh’s official residence, will also be handed over to the Union civil aviation ministry for the airport which is officially known as Maryada Purushottam Shriram International Airport.Last week, executive council of the university approved a proposal of the state high education department to hand over the said land free of cost. The university also passed a proposal seeking ₹21.02 crore for infrastructure from the state government. The airport project in Ayodhya was stuck due to opposition by residents of Dharampur Sahadat and Janaura villages who were not willing to give their land to the state government for the project. But ending the deadlock, 107 families of the two villages have now handed over their land for the airport project to the Ayodhya administration. “The state government has approved the proposal for extending benefits to 107 families under the Pradhan Mantra Awas Yojana who will be relocated for the airport project,” said Anuj Jha, district magistrate, Ayodhya. “After villagers agreed to relocate, an alternative land has also been allotted to them within the limits of the Ayodhya Municipal Corporation,” added Jha. According to the state government, ₹1001.77 crore has been approved for the purchase of 555.66-acre land for the construction of the airport. Families relocated for the airport project will also get benefits of various other schemes of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-int-l-airport-project-fasttracked-101633715304589.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||IT raids on kin of Ajit Pawar: Pawar clan hints at aggressive stand against BJP||A day after Income Tax (I-T) authorities carried out raids at residences and offices of the relatives and sugar factories connected to deputy chief minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Ajit Pawar, the party took an aggressive stand against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government. The party held a show of strength in Pune outside Central Hall against I-T action against Pawar family. The party has believably started preparations to make the Maharashtra Bandh, announced by the ruling coalition on October 11, successful in a bid to corner BJP. Ajit Pawar and NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s daughter Supriya Sule, who is a Member of Parliament (MP) from Baramati, also reacted bitterly to I-T action. BJP said the action was being taken by the central agency and its government at the Centre was not resorting to political vendetta. I-T officers raided the houses of Ajit Pawar’s two sisters and the office of his son Parth in the past two days. Sugar factories related to him, too, were raided. While the Pawars said this was a misuse of power, the family has reportedly taken the action very seriously by contending that their members, who have nothing to do with politics, were being targeted owing to political vendetta.Sharad Pawar reacted sharply to the raids on the houses of his nieces and reminded the central agencies about the reaction of the people after the the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had sent him a notice in 2019. “I was sent a notice by ED [in connection to alleged regularities] in Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank. I had nothing to do with the bank. But the entire Maharashtra reacted on it and made a fool out of BJP,” he said in a public meeting at Solapur. Sharad Pawar was referring to the outcry witnessed among party workers when he was served the notice ahead of the Assembly polls in September. Party workers had gathered outside ED office in Mumbai in big numbers after Sharad Pawar announced that he will visit the agency office. He later cancelled the visit after Mumbai Police and then state government requested them to do so for law and order. The party won more seats in the Assembly polls and observers believe that the ED notice, too, had played a crucial role in its performance, especially in western Maharashtra, which is an NCP stronghold. Sharad Pawar deliberately referred to the incident on Friday and also made an appeal to the people to participate in the Maharashtra Bandh to call out against BJP’s rule in Uttar Pradesh in the backdrop of the killing of farmers during a protest last week. The party is believably set to resort to show of strength against the BJP and the Central government. Sharad Pawar has said he and his family were being targeted because he likened the killings in Lakhimpur Kheri to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.Referring to the IT officers as guests, Sharad Pawar said, “Guests have been visiting Ajit Pawar. We are never scared of guests.” He said the central government was misusing the agencies against political opponents. Ajit Pawar had to intervene and pacify the party workers protesting outside Central Hall in Pune on Friday and appealed people go home. He later said that he will react after the “guests” had completed their raids. “I do not want to disturb the guests. Let them complete their duty. I am not going to go anywhere. We did not get any notice before the raids. I follow all rules and comply with tax-related formalities. Once the action was completed, I will speak with evidence over the deals of the sugar factories and the people behind their sale,” he said. On Thursday, Ajit Pawar had asked why those related to BJP do not face any action. Sule termed the action against her sisters as an attack against women. She also said that those [BJP] who rule in the name of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj do not follow his principle of respecting women and act like the Mughals. “The action against my sisters is unfortunate. They are senior citizens and have nothing to do with politics. We are okay if the action was taken against us as we are public figures, but not on our sisters’ [properties] who have been living their lives peacefully. However, they know how to fight it out as they are from the soil of Jijau (Chhatrapati Shivaji’s mother Jijabai) and Savitribai Phule. Maharashtra will not bow before the Delhi throne,” she said. Political analyst Pratap Asbe said the Pawars will take appropriate political stand at the right time. “The Pawars are annoyed because of the attack on the family members who are not active in politics. They would not let it go easily and act at the appropriate time. It seems that the action by the central agencies has not gone down well among the general people as they also realise about the intention behind the raids. There could be the reaction same like in 2019 in the forthcoming elections,” he said. Party insiders said the leadership believes that the action by the central agencies will help them in the forthcoming local body elections, if utilised strategically. The party leaders have therefore invoked the names of Savitribai Phule and Rajmata Jijabai and termed it as an attack against women. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said holding his party responsible for the raids was a joke. “I-T officers have raided 25 residential premises and 15 offices and such a massive action cannot be carried out in preparation of a day or two. Stating that the raids are because of criticism over the UP incident is a joke. I-T is an independent central agency and works within the legal framework. The action should be replied to legally. It is wrong to relate the action with BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/it-raids-on-kin-of-ajit-pawar-pawar-clan-hints-at-aggressive-stand-against-bjp-101633715065199.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad HC stays DIoS order on appointment of college principal||The Allahabad high court has stayed the order of district inspector of schools (DIoS), Prayagraj, by which the DIoS had directed the committee of management of Shri Sachha Adhyatma Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, Naini, Prayagraj, to hand over the charge of “officiating principal” of the college to one Kripa Shankar Mishra.The court further stayed the order dated August 4, 2021, by which the DIoS had directed the manager of the committee of management of the college to produce all documents relating to suspension of Kripa Shankar Mishra and also the order dated August 6, 2021 by which suspension order of Mishra as “officiating principal” of the college was revoked.Mishra claims to be the senior most teacher at the said college and hence eligible for the appointment to the post of the principal of the college. Justice Saral Srivastava passed the order on a petition filed by Srikrishna Tripathi who was appointed the “officiating principal” of the college on June 30, 2021, after the superannuation of earlier principal Shradha Mishra.Appearing for the petitioner, advocate Tanisha Jahangir Monir argued, “Impugned orders are illegal and without jurisdiction since the ‘DIoS’ Prayagraj has no jurisdiction to revoke the suspension order. Suspension order has been passed by the committee of management in exercise of power conferred under Statute 17.4 & 17.5 of Sampurnanand Sanskrit University Statute and shall remain in force till it is set aside by the competent authority or by a court of law.”“There is no provision in the Sampurnanand Sanskrit University Statute which confers power upon the ‘DIoS’ to revoke or cancel the suspension order passed by the committee of management,” Monir further argued.The court, while staying the orders on September 30, directed respondent authorities as well as Kripa Shankar Mishra to file their reply within four weeks and fixed November 29 as the next date of hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-stays-dios-order-on-appointment-of-college-principal-101633714826312.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Critically endangered turtle rescued from drain in Mumbai||Wildlife rescuers, along with the forest department, on Friday rescued a male freshwater turtle from a drainage channel in Mulund. It was about eight to 10 years old and has been identified as a Leith’s softshell turtle (Nilssonia leithii) – a critically endangered species of freshwater turtle that is endemic to peninsular India. Though they can weigh as much as a 100kg, the specimen rescued in a rare incident on Friday, clocked a weight of 13kg.“We were responding to a distress call by the Mulund fire station, which had been alerted to the presence of a large, stranded turtle in an open drain. We dispatched a rescue team which retrieved the reptile from the drain and took it to the forest department for examination,” said Pawan Sharma, founder of Resquink Association for Wildlife Welfare (RAWW), a volunteer organisation based in Mulund which supports the forest department in responding to such wildlife sightings.Dr Shailendra Singh, country programme director at Turtle Survival Alliance, who examined the turtle remotely over video from Lucknow, said it seemed healthy and without injury. “These turtles are extremely rare and are declared as critically endangered as per the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) red list. I have advised the forest department to release it in a confined pond or lake and monitor the area regularly to see if it is adapting,” he said.The species is also given the highest possible protection under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Even within its known ranges, the turtle is apparently rare, including inside protected areas, which is suspected to be due to a past history of exploitation for the illegal wildlife trade. The species has disappeared from much of its former range, mainly due to siltation and drying up of rivers during the summer, and is suspected to have started dwindling in number since the 1970s.This is the third time since 2015 that a Leith’s softshell turtle has been rescued from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). In May 2017, a two-and-a-half-year-old female Leith’s softshell turtle, weighing 85kg, was rescued by forest officials and a wildlife rescue team in Thane. In 2015, a turtle of the same species had been rescued from a creek in Navi Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/critically-endangered-turtle-rescued-from-drain-in-mumbai-101633714825142.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bypoll results show people have kept BJP on ground: Shiv Sena mouthpiece||Two day after the results of the zilla parishad (ZP) and panchayat samiti bypolls were announced, the Shiv Sena on Friday said that despite contesting separately at some places, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) had managed to keep the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at bay. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that the elections in five districts have clearly ascended MVA.The ZP and panchayat samiti bypolls in six districts results showed BJP had more seats among the four major parties, but lost seats to MVA. Though BJP emerged as the single-largest party in ZP bypolls with 22 seats, followed by Congress (19), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) (15) and Shiv Sena (12), collectively MVA allies have 46 ZPs under control.“MVA has definitely wrested control of more seats in ZP-panchayat samiti bypolls. But BJP could not win even after the constituents of MVA went solo in some places. This means people have kept BJP on the ground. Accepting that MVA has won this contest requires a big heart. Does the opposition party in the state have it?” the editorial stated on Friday.Mocking BJP leaders over their claim that their party has emerged at the top in the bypolls, the editorial asked which mathematician told them that their numbers were higher than the ruling coalitions. “There is no reason to be unhappy about BJP winning 22 (ZP) seats but what about the fact that the party has lost many seats in the bypolls,” the editorial said.It further added, “In the panchayat samiti elections, MVA got 73 of the 144 seats, while BJP got 33 seats. Now the ones who are claiming ascendence should tell us which mathematician or Aryabhatta said 33 is more than 73. In ZP, MVA got 46 seats, while BJP got 22. Anybody who knows to count will say MVA got more than double of 22.”The Sena mouthpiece also said that BJP emerged the single-largest party in the 2019 Assembly polls but had to play the role of the opposition. “BJP’s 105 MLAs (Members of Legislative Assembly) were elected but BJP is now functioning as a strong opposition party. So anyone is free to do an analysis of ZP and panchayat samiti bypolls but the people will not accept the opposition party’s argument,” it remarked.As a policy, the Maharashtra unit of BJP does not comment on Saamana editorials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bypoll-results-show-people-have-kept-bjp-on-ground-shiv-sena-mouthpiece-101633714769491.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Blanket ban on crackers in Agra this Diwali||Agra This Diwali, there will be a blanket ban on use or sale of crackers in Agra. The district administration has clarified that no license would be issued and no shops allocated this year for sale of crackers. Additional district magistrate, Dr Prabha Kant Awasthi made it clear that there would be no use or sale of crackers in the light of orders issued by the National Green Tribunal and concern exhibited by the Supreme Court on the adverse impact on air quality. “All steps would be taken to ensure the restriction on sale or use of crackers is implemented. No shops would be allocated, nor any license granted for sale of crackers this year,” he said on Friday. Earlier, shops were allocated at more than two dozen places for sale of crackers and licenses were issued to shop owners ahead of Diwali. These licenses were issued for sale of crackers last year but had to be withdrawn in view of restriction imposed on crackers in Agra, the epicenter of Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ) created around the Taj Mahal. The district administration had to refund the security deposit made by the shop keepers availing license. The ban on crackers, however, will have an impact on Diwali falling in the first week of November. This is the second consecutive year when there would be ban on crackers. However, last year there were violations despite the ban and crackers were burst here and there in the city. Notably, last year the National Green Tribunal had imposed ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers during Covid-19 pandemic in the NCR and all cities/towns in the country where the ambient air quality falls under the ‘poor’ and above category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/blanket-ban-on-crackers-in-agra-this-diwali-101633714584638.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||BEST to procure 2,100 electric buses, set up 55 electric charging stations in Mumbai||Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transportation (BEST) will have only electric buses in its fleet by 2027, and plans to procure 2,100 electric buses, provide dedicated services to corporate houses and business hubs, and set up 55 electric vehicle charging stations in the city. The announcement was made in its annual budget for the year 2022-23, on Friday, when BEST presented a budget of ₹2,236.48 crore deficit, of which ₹2,110.47 crore is deficit from transport. An outlay of ₹695.18 has been made for capital expenditure for 2022-23.The 2,100 e-buses will be procured on a gross cost contract model and will include 200 air-conditioned (AC) double-decker buses, 100 mini-AC buses, 400 midi AC buses, and 1,400 single-decker AC buses. In line with the Electric Vehicle Policy announced by the Maharashtra government, BEST has planned that 50% of its fleet will be of electric buses by March 2023, and its entire fleet will be of electric buses by March 2027.It will also customise its services to cater to corporate houses, call centres and schools, and will start dedicated bus routes between the airport and Nariman Point, and BKC. With this, the cash strapped body aims at optimal revenue generation. Public charging stations will be installed at all bus depots, at approximately 55 locations in the city. Special women-only services will ply on crowded routes during peak hours, along the lines of Tejaswini bus.In its budget presented on Friday, BEST has shown a total income of ₹4,997.04 crores, of which ₹1,451.67 crore is income from transport, and ₹3,545.37 crore is income from electric supply. It has a total expenditure of ₹7,233.52 crore, of which ₹3,562.14 crore is for transport, and ₹3,671.38 is for electric supply.BEST will also implement a digital ticketing system, for digital mobile tickets, e-passes, with an integrated payment gateway for online transactions using popular payment methods such as UPI, debit cards, credit cards, net banking, via a mobile application. The app will also provide bus timings in real-time.However, the deficit in the budget has been criticised by committee members. Leader of the Opposition and BEST committee member Ravi Raja on Friday said, “Losses have been more than ₹2,300 crore. For the past three years, from 2018 to 2021, ₹3,500 crore has been given by the municipal corporation to BEST. It is high time the administration has to think about ways to stand on its own feet. BEST has a lot of assets and needs to come up with ways in which it can utilise these assets to generate revenue and reduce its losses.”Presently 65% of BEST electricity consumers pay their bills online. BEST plans to promote this to 80% of online bill payments and will focus on the expansion of bill collection centres through bank branches and other digital payment methods, a statement from BEST said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/best-to-procure-2-100-electric-buses-set-up-55-electric-charging-stations-in-mumbai-101633714524648.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||All women vaccine drive at public vaccine centres in Mumbai on Saturday||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will conduct an all-women vaccination drive at all public vaccination centres between 10.30am and 6.30pm on Saturday, to bridge the gender disparity in the number of men and women vaccinated in the city. BMC had held similar all women vaccination drives on September 17, with a total of 127,000 women getting vaccinated at public and private centres throughout the day. On September 27, 113,935 women were vaccinated at public vaccination centres in the city, while 126,419 women in all were vaccinated, including the private centres’ vaccination figures.According to information available on the Co-Win portal as of Friday evening, for every 13 men who have got vaccinated in Mumbai, 10 women have been vaccinated. While a total of 5,722,227 women have been vaccinated, 7,789,725 men have been vaccinated in the city so far; 3,247 other citizens have been vaccinated.Women will be able to walk into public vaccination centres and do not need to pre-book an appointment online for their slot. Both first and second doses of vaccines will be administered to women.A senior civic official from BMC’s public health department said, “We have deliberately opted to keep the timing from 10.30am, which is later than usual so that women find it easier to come to vaccination centres.”So far, 8,404,793 Mumbaiites have been administered their first dose, and 4,507,809 citizens have been given the second dose. A total of 48% beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated, out of the target population identified by BMC of 9,236,500. Around 90% of the target population has already been given their first shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/all-women-vaccine-drive-at-public-vaccine-centres-in-mumbai-on-saturday-101633714464427.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Can’t compel tender-age girl to have an unwanted child: Bombay HC||Compelling a tender age girl to have an unwanted child may lead to disastrous consequences for the rest of her life not only for her, but for her entire family, said the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday while allowing an 18-year-old unwed girl to get her unwanted pregnancy medically terminated.The division bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Madhav Jamdar took into consideration the fact that the petitioner has just completed 18 years of age, who has last year appeared for HSC exam, and is unmarried and disregarded opinion of the Medical Board of the Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Group of Hospitals, Mumbai.Pursuant earlier HC orders the specialized board had examined the girl and opined that there was no mental, obstetric or medical reasons warranting termination of the pregnancy.The board had said there was no abnormality detected in the foetus and the mother also did not have any medical or pregnancy related issues. It added that though the mother had moderate depressive episode, with treatment the continuation of the pregnancy was unlikely to adversely affect her mental health.HC disapproved the opinion and referring to one of its earlier decision, noted that the legislature has consciously used the term “mental health” - an expression of wider connotations in section 3(2) (b)(i) of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, in contradistinction to the expressions “mental illness” or “mentally ill person.”The bench said, therefore, for determining whether continuance of pregnancy would involve risk of injury to mental health of the pregnant woman, her actual or reasonably foreseeable environment should be taken into account.The bench took into consideration the fact that the petitioner before it has one elder sister, one elder brother and one younger sister and her father is auto-rickshaw driver and mother sells vegetables near their house. “From the above, the socio-economic condition/ status of the petitioner is clearly discernible,” said the bench while allowing the girl to get her unwanted pregnancy medically terminated at the state-run hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cant-compel-tender-age-girl-to-have-an-unwanted-child-bombay-hc-101633714404421.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government to provide ₹1.21 lakh to resident doctors||Thousands of resident doctors across the state had reason to cheer on Friday as the state government via a notification announced they would provide ₹1.21 lakhs for their contribution in the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the ongoing pandemic.“We have worked round the clock during the pandemic. It has also badly affected our post-graduation specialisation, as for the past 18 months we have been on Covid duty. So, we deserve this grant,” said Dr Dnyaneshwar Dhoble, president of Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD), Central.As per the government resolution (GR) passed on October 6, all resident doctors of government and municipal medical colleges, as well as government Ayurveda colleges, will be given ₹1.21 lakh each. This is a one-time incentive that will be given in halves, once in November and the other one in March 2022.Dr Pranav Jadhav, vice president of Central MARD welcomed the decision of the state government. “We are overwhelmed by the swift response of the state government and Directorate of Medical Education and Research. This is for the first time that a GR has been passed within two days of holding a meeting,” he said.MARD started a strike on October 2 but called it off on October 4 after holding a meeting with the state chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray. MARD had put forward three primary demands – waiver of academic fees during the pandemic year, non-deduction of the tax deducted at source (TDS) from the stipend and better upkeep of the hostels.While issuing a media statement on Monday, MARD said that fee waiver was not possible due to technical reasons. However, the state has decided to discuss this issue with experts from the field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-to-provide-1-21-lakh-to-resident-doctors-101633714284381.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Approach NGT with challenge to 2019 CRZ notification, Bombay HC tells NGO||The Bombay high court (HC), while disposing of public interest litigation (PIL) wherein the 2019 Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) notification had been challenged by Vanashakti, a non-government organisation (NGO) has permitted it to approach the National Green Tribunal (NGT) with its grievances. The court further observed that as the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) for Mumbai was finalised, the tribunal should decide on the representation by the NGO expeditiously. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice MS Karnik which had heard the PIL and reserved its order on October 7 observed that as the tribunal had been granted wide powers to cover almost everything under the sun it would not be appropriate on its part to pass orders on the objections raised by the petitioner. “Regard being had to the wide contours of the tribunal’s powers to address all concerns pertaining to the environment, it would not be appropriate for us to entertain this writ petition on the specious ground that issues relating to the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices (MRTP) Act may also incidentally arise for consideration of the tribunal,” noted the bench in its order adding “We are also minded to observe that no court ought to interfere in respect of matters over which the tribunal has jurisdiction, or else the very purpose for enactment of the NGT Act would stand defeated.” The NGO which was represented by senior counsel Venkatesh Dhond and advocates Zaman Ali and Akash Rebello had been informed that the notification issued under the Environment (Protection Act), 1986 issued by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) was challenged on the ground that some of its provisions were manifestly arbitrary and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. Dhond had argued that the notification also violated the right to live in a healthy environment, and consequently violated the right to life of citizens protected by Article 21. The NGO had also submitted that the notification contained provisions which were a reenactment of provisions earlier struck down as unconstitutional by the Supreme Court or have been read down by the Supreme Court in earlier judgments. In light of these submissions, the NGO sought to declare that the notification was illegal and ultra vires Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution and to declare that the 2011 notification continued to be valid and binding. “The unconstitutionality of the regulations is extensive, wide-ranging, comprehensive and far-reaching. Rather than protecting and improving the quality of the environment or preventing and controlling environmental pollution, the notification instead removes various protections which were present in CRZ 2011,” stated the petition. However, advocate Parag Vyas for the central government opposed the plea and said that the notification was consistent with environmental laws and sought dismissal of the plea as it was not maintainable before the HC as the issues could be dealt with by the NGT. The court held that it could not entertain the plea and interfere in the 2019 decision. It noted, “Since the CZMP for Mumbai has been finalised, we grant petitioner to approach before the NGT. The NGT will expeditiously decide the plea.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/approach-ngt-with-challenge-to-2019-crz-notification-bombay-hc-tells-ngo-101633714224540.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||UP govt launches scheme to impart ICT training to 10K teachers||The Uttar Pradesh government has collaborated with Saamarthya Teachers Training Academy of Research (STTAR), Ghaziabad, to train 10,000 teachers of government schools in the state in information and communications technology (ICT) to promote quality education. It is a part of the government’s five-point scheme that was launched in Lucknow on Friday. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma launched the scheme at a function in the presence of minister of state, secondary education, Gulab Devi and chairman of Seth Anandram Jaipuria Group of Educational Institutions Shishir Jaipuria. The online training will be conducted by expert trainers of STTAR that is an initiative of Jaipuria School of Business. It will be undertaken as a part of Seth Anandram Jaipuria Group’s corporate social responsibility.Speaking on the occasion, Sharma reiterated the government’s commitment to providing quality education to the students of government schools in Uttar Pradesh. He lauded the initiative to train 10,000 teachers and said the training programme will build ICT competency in secondary school teachers. Additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla praised STTAR for its commitment to providing training to UP school teachers.Praising the initiative by the UP government, Shishir Jaipuria said, “The launch of the scheme to promote quality education and improve learning outcome in the government schools of Uttar Pradesh is indeed a laudable initiative. I welcome it and am glad that STTAR has been given the opportunity to train 10,000 teachers of the government schools of UP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-launches-scheme-to-impart-ict-training-to-10k-teachers-101633714105760.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||More active cases in Mumbai than Thane; Maharashtra sees 2,620 new Covid cases||Mumbai has now overtaken Thane in terms of having the second-highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the state for the past five days.On Friday, Maharashtra recorded 38,011 active Covid-19 cases, in which Pune topped with 8,683 cases, followed by Mumbai with 5,941 and Thane with 4,217.On Friday, Maharashtra recorded 2,620 Covid-19 new cases with 59 deaths. The total tally from the outbreak has reached 6,573,092 cases.Mumbai clocked 529 new Covid-19 cases with eight deaths thus bringing the total death tally to 16,149. The total number of cases in Mumbai reached 747,685 since the outbreak of the virus.Mumbai overtook Thane from Monday onwards when it recorded 6,198 new cases compared to 3,848 in Thane.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said that the overall cases reduced across the state. “We are at the far end of the second wave. In Thane, we did reconciliation of cases, hence they were reduced. In Mumbai, we are still witnessing 400 to 500 new cases daily due to which Mumbai has overtaken Thane,” said Dr Awate. With regards to Pune, he said “Though cases are reducing in Pune city, the problem is in the rural pockets, which pushed the whole tally up,” he added.Dr Ishwar Gilada. secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild said that this was the aftermath of the Ganesh festival. “Mumbai cases were expected to rise after the Ganesh festival. However, it will be marginal and even the deaths have reduced significantly,” said Dr Gilada.The death toll in state has now reached 1,39.470 with Pune leading with 19,502 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,149 patients and Thane with 11,385.Meanwhile, the state government on Friday launched Mission Kavach Kundal, a seven-day special campaign to boost its Covid-19 vaccination drive. The initiative has set a target of vaccinating a minimum of 1.5 million people a day. It is also looking to prioritise covering the first doses of all citizens at the earliest. Health Minister Rajesh Tope said that the aim was to blunt the impact of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-active-cases-in-mumbai-than-thane-maharashtra-sees-2-620-new-covid-cases-101633714104444.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||With two new members in penguin family, Mumbai’s Byculla zoo likely to reopen next month||With two penguin babies as its main attraction, and the terrestrial birds’ aviary complete, the Byculla zoo is likely to reopen by the start of November. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) authorities confirmed on Friday that they have been mulling reopening the zoo, as the city is slowly opening up from its restrictions imposed in March 2021, post the second wave.The zoo was last opened in February 2021, after 11 months of being shut due to the pandemic, since March 2020. However, it had to be closed for the public almost immediately, as the Maharashtra government announced restrictions in the state, owing to the second Covid-19 wave.The two new members, who have been added to the penguin family of seven at the zoo, were born on May 1 and August 19. The older chick has been named Oreo and was born to the pair Donald and Daisy. The younger chick was born to the pair Flipper and Mr Molt and is yet to be named.Dr Sanjay Tripathi, director of the zoo said, “The baby is still waning off its parents, and is always in the nest. It rarely comes out. Once we can identify the sex of the baby penguin, we will be able to name the chick.”The other prime attraction is the walkthrough aviary. Dr Tripathi said, “This is an amazing experience, and now it is all complete. It will be open to visitors when the zoo reopens.” Other animals such as fox, hyena, bear, leopard and pond turtle will also be up for public viewing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-two-new-members-in-penguin-family-mumbai-s-byculla-zoo-likely-to-reopen-next-month-101633713984383.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Pharmacy providing free meds at AIIMS Delhi will now remain open 365 days a year||The free drug distribution pharmacy of AIIMS Delhi will now be open 365 days a year including on Sundays and government holidays, an official said on Friday.This comes into effect from October 10.Previously, the pharmacy would remain open from Monday to Saturday and remain closed on Sundays and government holidays."Now, on Sundays and holidays, the pharmacy shop will remain open from 9 am to 4 pm which would provide a big relief to poor patients," an official said.It would be convenient for such patients who are unable to collect medicines on other days as they can now take them on Sunday."Suppose a patient collected drugs on Tuesday or Wednesday and if one or two drugs were not available so they can now come on Sunday and collect it without losing a working day," the official said.The free generic pharmacy shop is managed by HLL Lifecare Limited, a PSU under the Union Health Ministry."On Sundays and public Holidays when OPD remains closed, at least four counters should remain open from 9 am to 4 pm. This will help to cater to follow up patients and patients who are staying close to AIIMS. We, hereby, inform that we are starting the operations of free generic pharmacy on Sundays and national holidays w.e.f. October 10," HLL Lifecare Limited said in a communication to the AIIMS Director on Friday.Also, dedicated counters for senior citizens, differently abled and females will be operated with effect from October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pharmacy-providing-free-meds-at-aiims-delhi-will-now-remain-open-365-days-a-year-101633710518830.html
08-10-2021||Other||PM Modi to inaugurate Kushinagar airport, lay foundation of medical college on Oct 20||Gorakhpur: Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Kushinagar International Airport on October 20 and also address a public rally in run-up to the 2022 assembly elections, according to the district administration. Once fully functional, the airport would see operations of both domestic and international flights, boosting tourism as well as pilgrimage from the Budhdhist countries as huge number followers of Lord Buddha visit this historical place, known for Buddh’s Parinirvana (the place where Buddha breathed his last). Kushinagar airport would see arrival of its maiden flight from Sri Lanka, carrying a 125-member delegation, including Sri Lankan president, Buddhist monks and followers, the administration said. The PM would also lay the foundation stone of a medical college at Kushinagar in presences of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who would reportedly visit Kushinagar to take stock of the preparations on October 12 or 13. The PM’s visit assumes significance as polls are due early next year in Uttar Pradesh, it added. On Friday, officials of Airport Authority of India (AAI), took stock of the ongoing preparations and inspected the airport infrastructure, including runway, terminal and control rooms. According to officials, operations of flights can start soon, but the AAI is facing problem in acquisition of land required for setting up an instrumental landing system (an aviation technology which will enable planes to fly smoothly in case of poor visibility caused by fog or rainy weather). However, they hoped that the issue would be resolved soon as talks were underway with the district administration on it. Abdul Jadid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kushinagar-airport-lay-foundation-of-medical-college-on-oct-20-101633711404104.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Woman’s body tied in bedsheet found in Lucknow; murder suspected||Lucknow The body of a 59-year-old woman was found lying tied in a bedsheet at the roadside near Kanshiram residential colony at Laulai village under Chinhat police station limits on Friday morning, said police officials. The officials said the woman had been murdered somewhere else and later her body was dumped on the roadside with intent to conceal the crime. They said no injury marks was, however, discovered during the primary examination on the body and it had been sent for post-mortem examination to ascertain the actual cause of the death. Lucknow additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), East, Qasim Abidi said that the local residents of the colony discovered the body as the woman’s hand was visible out of the bedsheet used to tie it. He said that the locals informed the police about the incident at around 7am. Another police official privy to the investigation said that the identity of the deceased was ascertained as Mithilesh Srivastava after several hours of search in the near-by areas. “The woman often used to stay at ‘Rain Basera’ setup at Lohia hospital and used to earn money by selling pan masala outside the hospital. Her nephew stays in the same colony where her body has been found,” he said. He said the police had taken the nephew into custody and questioning him. The ADCP said that four teams had been formed to scan the footages of CCTVs installed on routes leading to the colony and further investigation was on. He said the exact cause of the death would be confirmed only after getting the post-mortem report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/womans-body-tied-in-bedsheet-found-in-lucknow-murder-suspected-101633710864280.html
08-10-2021||Other||Akhada Parishad former chief’s death: CBI questions Balbeer Giri, Math sewadars as part of its probe||PRAYAGRAJ: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team, probing the death of Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad’s (ABAP) former chief Narendra Giri, on Thursday questioned his disciple Balbeer Giri, the newly appointed successor and head of the Baghambari Gaddi Math. A senior official, aware of the ongoing investigation, said that Balbeer Giri was questioned about the incident at the Bhaganbari Gaddi Math for an hour during which he was also asked about Anand Giri, one of the three accused, of abetting Narendra Giri for suicide, and allegations that he was harassing Narendra Giri since being sidelined by him last year. The CBI officials also tried to get information regarding land deals and other financial transactions that could have a role in the seer’s death. The three-member CBI team questioned two of the Sewadars Babloo and Sumit, who were among the first to reach the site where Narendra Giri’s body was found hanging from the ceiling fan on September 20. This was the third time when the sewadars have been questioned regarding the incident by the CBI officials. “The team visited the Bade Hanuman temple located at the banks of Sangam that was being headed by Mahant Narendra Giri till the time of his death. CBI team questioned the workers and the priests there regarding Anand Giri, second accused and a priest at the temple, Aadya Tiwari as well as Aadya’s son Sandeep,” the official added. The CBI is believed to be carrying out psychological autopsy of the incident which is considered one of the most valuable tools of research on suicides. The method involves collecting all available information on the deceased via structured interviews of family members, other relatives, friends and colleagues to reach to the bottom of the circumstances that could have led to a death. As part of it, CBI officials are also trying to piece together the scenario by informal interactions with individuals who had regular access to the Math premises and directly or indirectly were aware of the daily goings on in the Math campus. Though CBI sleuths right from the beginning have maintained their distance from media persons, suicide angle is still believed to be emerging as the reason for death of Narendra Giri despite insistence of Anand Giri of foul play in his Guru’s death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akhada-parishad-former-chief-s-death-cbi-questions-balbeer-giri-math-sewadars-as-part-of-its-probe-101633710208413.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka picks up broom again at Valmiki temple, says it’s a message to Yogi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday responded to a barb thrown at her by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath over sweeping the floor at a makeshift detention centre in Sitapur where she lodged earlier this week, heading to a Dalit-dominated area of Lucknow and sweeping the floor at the locality’s Valmiki temple.“Yogi Adityanath’s comments are anti-Dalit. No work is menial. Sweeping and mopping the floor is not a small job. Millions of women and Dalits do so every day,” said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in a statement issued by the Congress leaders, quoting her on social media after her visit to Lucknow’s Luv Kush Nagar.Priyanka Gandhi also said she went to clean the floor to tell the chief minister that this was the work of self-respect and symbolised simplicity, adding that he should change his mindset.Her dart, aimed at Yogi Adityanath, was triggered by his swipe at her during his interview to a news channel.“Janata unko usi layak banana chahti hai aur janata ne unko usi layak bana diya hai (People want to make her fit for such work and they have made her fit to do so). These people (opposition) do not have anything to do except creating a nuisance and spreading negativity,” Yogi Adityanath said.Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker and UP vice-president Vijay Pathak brushed aside her reaction as a stunt to try reviving the Congress. “The Congress should also work to sort out problems of Dalits instead of doing stunts. The BJP government is doing a lot of good work and she should also look at that too and give suggestions for what more can be done. We are members of the BJP. Prime Minister Narendra Modi invites suggestions from all sections in his Maan Ki Baat. So Priyanka Gandhi Vadra should show some positivity.”Senior Congress leader PL Punia said Priyanka Gandhi’s cleaning the temple premises was her reply to chief minister Yogi Adityanath comment that appeared to consider sweeping the floor a menial job. Congress workers raised slogans outside in her favour as Priyanka cleaned the temple inside.“Chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s comments can’t be appreciated. But did Priyanka Gandhi Vadra ever visit a Valmiki temple or a Dalit’s house earlier to sweep the floor? No one has seen Priyanka doing so in the past five years. Her action at this point of time, when assembly elections are closer, speaks of her political motives of wooing the Dalits and get their votes,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department of political science, Lucknow University.BJP spokesperson Chandra Mohan: “The Congress has no concern for the Dalits. They (Congress leaders) come to the state as political tourists. The BJP has undertaken a lot of measures for the welfare of Dalits. The BJP government has got a record number of toilets constructed. The Congress has done nothing for the welfare of Dalits.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-picks-up-broom-again-after-barb-from-yogi-cleans-valmiki-temple-101633710085209.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimipur Kheri: Sidhu goes on fast, demands arrest of minister’s son||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu sat on a fast at the residence of deceased journalist Raman Kashyap in the Nighasan area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on Friday evening.Sidhu said his “anshan (fast)” would continue till the main accused Ashish Mishra alias Monu joined the investigation or was arrested.The Punjab Congress chief started his fast on a bed outside the house after he, along with other members of his delegation came out of Kashyap’s residence after meeting the family members.Local administrative and police authorities rushed to the spot but Sidhu refused to budge. His protest continued till reports were last received.Earlier, Sidhu and his delegation that included Punjab cabinet minister Vijay Inder Singla, MLA Madan Lal and Kuljit Nagra arrived in Nighasan on Friday evening after meeting the family of deceased farmer Lovepreet Singh in Palia.In Nighasan, Sidhu met the family of Raman Kashyap and extended support to them.“What we have heard and seen here is heart-rending and a tale of horrific crime,” he said to reporters later.“The whole of India has been demanding justice now… whether it be the family of Lovpreet Singh or journalist Raman Kashyap, all have sought justice, and not money.”“There were evidences, videos, witnesses and name in the FIR, yet there was no arrest only because the accused was a minister’s son,” he said.Demanding the arrest of the accused, Sidhu said, “The image of ugly politics has to be erased.”Saying justice delayed was justice denied, Sidhu asserted, “I am the son of a freedom-fighter and will sit on a fast till Ashish Mishra joins the investigations or gets arrested.”Another delegation from Punjab led by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal and SGPC chairperson Bibi Jagir Kaur met the family members of Lavpreet Singh at Chaukhra farm in Palia, Raman Kashyap in Nighasan and Nakshattar Singh in Dhaurahra on Friday evening.They consoled the family members and extended support to them in their fight for justice.The others present in the delegation included Balwinder Singh Bhudand, Prem Singh Chandumajra and Vikram Singh Majithia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimipur-kheri-sidhu-goes-on-fast-demands-arrest-of-minister-s-son-101633709364587.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Bhiwandi resident held for trying to extort neighbour, threatening to kidnap daughter||The Narpoli police have arrested a Bhiwandi resident for allegedly trying to extort his neighbour by threatening to kidnap his six-year-old daughter. The accused made his friend make an anonymous call to threaten the victim, but landed in the police net hours after the call was made.According to Narpoli police, the complainant, Rajendra Mali (34), is a businessman by profession and stays with his family in the Oswal Park area near Anjur Phata, Bhiwandi. The police said that around 4.55p.m. on Wednesday, Mali received a call from an unknown number.The caller, speaking in Hindi, told Mali that he had seen his six-year-old daughter step out to buy cold drinks and was going to kidnap her, but decided against it as she was a child. He further told Mali to keep ₹5 lakh ready, failing which the caller threatened to hurt him and his family, and warned him against going to the police.After consulting family members and friends, Mali approached the Narpoli police, and an FIR was registered against unidentified persons. The police obtained the Call Detail Records (CDRs) of the number from which the call was made and started scanning them.“The number was not known to Mali but when we examined the number’s call records, we identified a number that had been frequently called. We asked Mali to check this number against his saved contacts, and it turned out to be the number of one Bharatkumar Purohit (30), who stays in the same building as Mali,” an officer with the Narpoli police said. Purohit was immediately picked up for inquiries and after sustained questioning, confessed to having hatched the plan.“Purohit had enlisted the aid of his friend Vinod Jhend (42), asking him to make the call to Mali. The objective was to make a fast buck. We have arrested both the accused and charged them with extortion under the Indian Penal Code. After producing them in court, we obtained their custody till Saturday,” senior police inspector Maloji Shinde, Narpoli police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-resident-held-for-trying-to-extort-neighbour-threatening-to-kidnap-daughter-101633708103931.html
08-10-2021||Patna||Free Ayurveda medicines for patients at AIIMS-Patna||The Ayurveda outdoor patient department (OPD) of Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) will now provide free medicines to its patients, said the institute officials on Friday. The facility has been introduced to boost patient footfall under the government’s AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) programme, said the officials quoted above. The Ayurveda department, which was introduced at AIIMS-Patna in 2016, has seen fewer patients as compared to the homeopathy department, established on October 31, 2015. The homeopathy department already provides free medicines to its patients. As many as 135 Ayurveda medicines, including ‘churna’ (plant-based powder extract), ‘vati’ (tablet), ‘ashav’ and ‘arisht’ (different forms of syrup), ‘bhasma’ (metal-based powder extract of gold, copper, etc. after burning them over fire), ‘avleha’ (formulations in form of paste), ointment and oil, are now available for patients at the institute’s formulary, said Dr Ajeet Kumar, medical officer, Ayurveda, AIIMS-Patna. “The medicines available cater to ailments related to joint pain, digestion-related disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome, hyperacidity and constipation; skin diseases, including eczema; and post-Covid-19 complications suc as persistent cough and weakness,” said Dr Kumar. “As of now, we have the approval to purchase Ayurveda medicines up to ₹2.50 lakh per month, at an average 10 patients per day. Later, we plan to buy some expensive ‘bhasma’ for chronic kidney related disorders, after assessing the requirement of patients,” he added. There are three sanctioned posts of medical officers at the Ayurveda department, of which two have been filled up on a regular basis in February this year. Officials said that around 260 patients have benefitted from Ayurveda from the day of its functioning on February 15 this year, after regular appointments of medical officers. Homeopathy has received a comparatively better response, said Dr D Balachandran, senior medical officer, homeopathy, and head of the AYUSH department at AIIMS-Patna. “As many as 15,320 people have benefitted from homeopathy at our institute ever since its OPD services commenced in 2015. Of them, 2,076 availed our homeopathy facilities this year,” said Dr Balachandran. The homeopathy pharmacy has 206 medicines of varying potencies. Meanwhile, Dr Hemali Heidi Sinha, dean (examination) and professor and head of obstetrics and gynaecology at AIIMS-Patna, expressed her desire to commence an orientation program for MBBS students regarding role of Ayurveda in healthcare and also to work in tandem with modern medicine to treat patients with chronic illness, where the scope of modern medicine was limited. The AIIMS-Patna has 71 departments, including 31-odd functional clinical departments and those under AYUSH on one campus, which makes it a composite multi-speciality health hub in the state. Earlier, AIIMS-Patna director, Dr PK Singh, inaugurated the free-drug facility at the AYUSH building of the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/free-ayurveda-medicines-for-patients-at-aiimspatna-101633708043670.html
08-10-2021||Other||Minor girl’s killing: Two accused held for murder, rape bid||The Kaimur police on Friday arrested two persons on charges of murder and attempt to rape of an 11-year-old girl whose body was found in a brutalised condition from a village school on Thursday.Station house officer (SHO) of Adhaura police station, Manoj Kumar, said a case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 376/511 (attempt to rape), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 4 of the POCSO (Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences) Act against the two arrested accused.The girl’s father had alleged that the accused, who are natives of West Bengal and worked as labourers at a construction site, had raped his daughter and killed her with iron rods when she resisted the bid.Superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Kumar had confirmed signs of brutality, including insertion of iron rods in the minor’s mouth. Results of medical tests for confirmation of rape are yet to come, he said. The autopsy report was awaited to ascertain the cause of death, said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-girl-s-killing-two-accused-held-for-murder-rape-bid-101633707988126.html
08-10-2021||Other||Panchayat polls: 20 held for pelting stones at police||Police on Friday arrested 20 persons for allegedly pelting stones at the convoy of Darbhanga senior superintendent of police (SSP) during the third phase of panchayat elections at Baskatti village of Havidih North panchayat under Baheri block in Darbhanga.According to sources, Darbhanga SSP Babu Ram, accompanied by other police officials, was patrolling in the district to ensure peaceful elections. The relatives and supporters of a mukhiya candidate were reportedly trying to influence the polling process. On getting information, the SSP’s convoy rushed to the spot where the voters were allegedly being bullied by a candidate’s family members and supporters.As soon as the police took three persons in custody as a preventive measure, the miscreants started pelting stones at them. The windshields of two police vehicles were broken in the incident, the SSP said. A reinforcement was called for identifying the stone pelters and taking action against them.Meanwhile, the SSP said no policeman was injured in the incident. As many as 20 persons, including the candidate’s brother Vimal Yadav, have been arrested. Four bikes were also seized from the spot. The polling was conducted peacefully and in a free and fair manner, he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchayat-polls-20-held-for-pelting-stones-at-police-101633707986614.html
08-10-2021||Patna||Tej Pratap, Misa missing from RJD’s star campaigners’ list for bypolls, Tejashwi second only to Lalu||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav and elder daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti have not found place in the party’s start campaigners’ list for bypolls to the two assembly seats in Bihar due on October 30. The list, which was submitted to Election Commission of India ( ECI) on Thursday by party’s national principal general secretary Abdul Bari Siddiqui, has Lalu Prasad’s name at the top, followed by his younger son and leader of the opposition in Bihar, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, and Siddiqui in the third place. There are in all 20 names in the list, including of former minister Jay Prakash Yadav and former MLA Bhola Yadav and other state leaders. Former chief minister Rabri Devi doesn’t figure in the list. In the past, Tej Pratap, state’s former health minister, has often voiced his frustration against several party leaders. Two days back, RJD’s national vice-president Shivanand Tiwary raised eyebrows when he publically said Tej Pratap was “not in the party as he had formed his own outfit”. Tej Pratap had recently formed a student outfit, called Chhatra Janshakhti Parishad. He had also alleged recently that the RJD chief was being kept “hostage” in New Delhi by some leaders in the party. Prasad, who suffers from multiple ailments, has been recuperating at Misa Bharti’s residence in New Delhi after being granted bail in fodder scam cases in April this year.RJD’s state unit president Jagdanand Singh, who has been at the receiving end of Tej Pratap’s outbursts many a time, said the latter’s omission did not have anything to do with him. “We have picked leaders for the campaigning who have been regularly working in these two constituencies and have a connect with the electorate. Is my name there in the list?” he asked. “The list has been approved by the RJD chief,” Siddiqui said on phone from New Delhi. BJP’s state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the omission of Tej Pratap and Misa Bharti indicated that the elder son has been “ousted” from the party and the daughter would not get a fresh Rajya Sabha nomination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tej-pratap-misa-missing-from-rjd-s-star-campaigners-list-for-bypolls-tejashwi-second-only-to-lalu-101633707983912.html
08-10-2021||Patna||After 4-year absence, Lalu set to visit Bihar||Former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad, who has been away from the state for almost four years, mostly in jail in Jharkhand before being shifted to New Delhi for treatment, is set to visit the state to campaign for his party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) for bypolls in two assembly seats of Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan, to be held on October 30, party officials said.Bhola Yadav, a former MLA and close aide of the RJD chief, said Prasad would address a few election meetings in both the constituencies on October 25-26 and return to New Delhi, if his health allows. “Tentatively, Prasad would join electioneering for Arun Kumar Sah and Ganesh Bharti, in the fray from Tarapur in Munger district and Kusheshwar Asthan in Darbhanga district, on different dates through helicopter,” he said. Prasad, who was serving jail terms following his conviction in fodder scam cases since December 2017, has been away from political activity, including from the 2019 parliamentary polls and Bihar assembly elections in 2020, barring a few posts on the social media. He was granted bail in April this year and has since been recuperating at his daughter and Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti’s residence in New Delhi. Both the seats bound for bypolls were won in 2020 by chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), which is in the fray there again. In the past, Kumar has sought to play down the impact of Prasad’s return to active politics, saying he was working from jail anyways.The Congress, which had contested from Kusheshwar Asthan in 2020 as part of the RJD-led alliance but lost by over 7,000 votes, has fielded candidates for both seats this time after a fallout with the ally. The party, too, sought to make light of the possible campaigning by Lalu Prasad. “In 2010, RJD broke ties with Congress and teamed up with Ram Vilas Paswan-led LJP and contested the assembly elections when Lalu Prasad was free. And the result was disappointing for RJD,” said Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra. Party insiders said Prasad would stay at 10 Circular Road, the official residence of former CM and his wife Rabri Devi, under constant supervision of doctors and stay away from the crowd to avoid any health hazard. “A separate enclosure equipped with all emergency medical facilities annexed to the former CM’s bungalow is still not ready. He will come to Patna once the doctors declare him fit to go out of Delhi,” said Bhola Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/after-4-year-absence-lalu-set-to-visit-bihar-101633707926189.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Ajay Mishra Teni says his son will report to police on Saturday||Union minister of state (MoS) for home Ajay Mishra Teni on Friday evening said his son Ashish Mishra would report to the police “tomorrow (Saturday)” in connection to the summon issued to him over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. He reiterated that his son Ashish Mishra was “innocent”.The Union minister also said that his son skipped the police summons because of “ill health” and was at his residence in Lakhimpur Kheri.Ajay Mishra Teni said this to newspersons at the Chaudhary Charan Singh airport in Lucknow on his return from New Delhi.The Lakhimpur police had pasted a notice at the Union minister’s house in Lakhimpur on Thursday afternoon, asking his son to report at the Crime Branch office in Lakhimpur by 10am on Friday. When the son failed to show up on Friday, the police pasted another summon, asking him to record his statement by 11am on Saturday.Deputy inspector general (Headquarters) Upendra Agarwal, who is heading the team probing the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, waited for him at the crime branch office on Friday morning but Ashish did not show up.At the Lucknow airport, the MoS, whose son faces a murder case in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3, said: “We have full faith in the law. My son is innocent. He will appear before the police tomorrow and give his statement and evidence as he is innocent.”He further said: “Our government is investigating the matter impartially, and we will take action against the culprits.”On the opposition’s demand for his resignation and speculation of Ashish having fled to the neighbouring Nepal, the minister said: “Opposition demands anything. My son is very much at his residence in Lakhimpur Kheri.”The minister reiterated: “My son would have been killed had he been present at the spot (of the incident). Any other party’s government wouldn’t have registered an FIR”.Before leaving for Bahraich to meet the grieving families there, Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav said in Lucknow: “First of all the MoS must resign immediately...any police person if he goes to MoS for investigation, he will first have to salute the MoS...what kind of probe will the police person do. So minister must resign...pasting summon is just a formality, it’s like going with a flower bouquet to them (minister and his son).”When asked about speculation of Ashish Mishra having escaped to Nepal, Akhilesh Yadav said: “And if it is true that MoS’s son has escaped to Nepal, then it is out of the UP government’s hand and it won’t be able to do anything...and thus the Government of India should step in.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-ajay-mishra-teni-says-his-son-will-report-to-police-on-saturday-101633707925042.html
08-10-2021||Pune||4 booked for trying to extort ₹50 lakh from Pune jeweller||The Vishrambaug Police, on Friday, booked four persons for attempting to extort ₹50 lakh from a prominent city jeweller in the name of the enforcement directorate (ED) and Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO). Saurabh Gadgil 43-year old director from the jewellery firm lodged an FIR based on which Rupesh Chaudhary, Amit Mirchandani , Vikas Bhalla, and Santosh Rathod have been booked under IPC 385, 387,506 and 34. According to the police, the incident took place in the office of Mirchandani on September 22 at 8 pm. The FIR states that the accused created an impression that the jewellery firm had taken a loan from a private financial institution and there were irregularities wherein the ED and SFIO had objected to transactions. The accused demanded ₹50 lakh to settle the case after which the complainant approached lodged an FIR. Police inspector Shankar Sankhe, in-charge of Crime Branch unit 1, said, “One of the PNG group companies had taken a loan of ₹68 crore from DHFL. Around 8 pm on September 22, the accused told Saurabh Gadgil at Mirchandani’s office in Shaniwar peth that I-T department had objected to the loan deal while the ED and Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) had pointed out certain lapses. They told Gadgil that the I-T and ED had noticed the said loan.“Bhalla told Gadgil that he knew an ED official from Delhi who is handling the case. He further informed that the said officer has come to Pune and offered to settle Gadgil’s case. Chaudhary threatened Gadgil with dire consequences. The accused demanded ₹50 lakh to settle the case,” police said citing Saurabh Gadgil’s complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4-booked-for-trying-to-extort-rs-50-lakh-from-pune-jeweller-101633707683721.html
08-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram authority to start repair work on key road stretch between sectors 112 and 114||To ease traffic snarls, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has decided to repair a key 1.44km stretch of the road from Sector 112 to 114. The road has not been repaired for the past three years and developed potholes due to heavy monsoon rain. The authority has also decided that the company that repairs the road will be responsible for the maintenance of the road for the next three years and will be held responsible if any issues arise in the future, officials said.Special repair work of the road will start from the next month and is likely to be completed over the next six months. The authority has invited tenders for the project, which can be submitted October 28 onwards. The road will be repaired at a cost of ₹7.82 crore.Special repair of roads primarily includes laying a layer of bitumen and gravel to strengthen them. The authority will also focus on ensuring proper lighting and the construction of footpaths on these roads.“We are working on the repair and maintenance of different stretches across the city as many roads have developed potholes after the monsoon season. This road between Sector 112 and Sector 114 will undergo special repairs after its condition is assessed. This will help in improve vehicular movement in the new sectors of the city,” said Shaveta Sharma, executive engineer of infrastructure 1 division of the authority.This road is used by almost 10,000 residents from nearby localities, and traffic from Gupta Colony, New Palam Vihar, Saikunj, Bajghera also passes through this region.From November, repair work will also be carried out on the outer road of Sector 114, Master Road of Sector 62/65, master road of Sector 58/61 and Sector 59/60. Along with this, a service road will be constructed on a 200m stretch of Sector 59/61. Around 4km of road will be repaired as a part of these projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-authority-to-start-repair-work-on-key-road-stretch-between-sectors-112-and-114-101633707144145.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Rainfall activity to continue in Pune till October 12: IMD||The Pune city and state are likely to experience rainfall till October 12, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).In October, which is not considered a monsoon month, there has been 35 per cent excess rainfall in Maharashtra. Some parts of India have witnessed rainfall withdrawal, however, as per IMD, southwest monsoon withdrawal may begin after October 12.Speaking about the weather in Pune city, Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said that till October 12, Pune city and adjoining parts may witness light to moderate rainfall.“However, in ghat areas, there is a possibility of isolated heavy rainfall. Parts of Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa, Central Maharashtra and Vidarbha are likely to witness isolated rainfall along with thunderstorms and lightning till October 12,” said Kashyapi.He added that rainfall activity in Pune city will be reduced but lightning and thunderstorms are likely to continue.While talking about the withdrawal of the monsoon, Kashyapi said that the monsoon is yet to withdraw from many parts of India.“From northwest parts of India withdrawal of southwest monsoon has started. In Maharashtra, model products are suggesting a normal date of withdrawal is October 5 from the extreme north of Maharashtra. But it is delayed by one week. From Vidarbha and north of Marathwada, the withdrawal will start by October 12. And by October 14, 50 per cent of the state will be covered,” said Kashyapi.He further added that no strong weather system is active over Maharashtra as of Friday.“Rainfall activity in Maharashtra is forecasted till October 12,” said Kashyapi.Excess rainfall in OctoberAs per IMD, Central Maharashtra has reported a 65 per cent excess rainfall between October 1 to October 8. During the same time period, Vidarbha has reported less than 14 per cent rainfall. Marathwada, the drought-prone region has reported 57 per cent excess rainfall and Konkan and Goa has reported 36 per cent excess rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rainfall-activity-to-continue-in-pune-till-october-12-imd-101633707023885.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Ambedkar Memorial in Airoli likely to be ready by Nov 30||The much-delayed Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Memorial in Airoli is now likely to be ready by November 30. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, has instructed his officials to ensure international quality work and attention to every detail while constructing the memorial.Following his inspection on September 1, the Thane Guardian Minister, Eknath Shinde, had instructed that the memorial be opened for public on December 6, which marks the death anniversary of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. Bangar has, hence, speeded up the work and held a review meeting of the work with city engineer, Sanjay Desai.Bangar said, “I have issued instructions to the engineering department that no stone should be left unturned and every aspect should be worked upon in detail to make it world-class infrastructure. No compromise will be acceptable in the memorial work. The memorial should be attractive both from outside and inside. The Vipassana Centre is of utmost significance and hence it should be designed to ensure that there is complete quiet.” The library interior and ambience should be unique with a reading facility there. Along with a collection of books, there should also be e-books that the youth relate to and hence an e-library should also be in place, he added.A visual presentation of Babasaheb Ambedkar’s life journey would be shown through QR code. Babasaheb’s speech will also be telecast through augmented reality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambedkar-memorial-in-airoli-likely-to-be-ready-by-nov-30-101633706970181.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Pune district has highest Covid case count in Maharashtra||PUNE Although the number of Covid-19 cases in Pune has stabilised, the district still accounts for the highest number of Covid-19 cases than any other district in the state.In the past week, Pune accounted for 21% of the state’s new cases followed by Ahmednagar with 18% and Mumbai with 16%.Pune also has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the state followed by Mumbai and Ahmednagar. Pune reported more than 3,900 new Covid-19 cases between September 29 and October 5 which in the previous week was more than 4,500.As per the state health department, Pune has accounted for 21% of the new Covid-19 cases in the state as 3,925 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the week between September 29 to October 5 while neighbouring Ahmednagar has accounted for 18% of the new Covid-19 cases which is 3,452 new cases. Mumbai also reported about 3,148 new Covid-19 cases which is about 16% of the total cases reported in the state, followed by Thane at 10% and then 7% at Satara. These five districts account for 72% of the new Covid-19 cases that the state reported in the last seven days while the rest of the districts put together accounted for about 28% of the new Covid-19 cases.Some of the districts with a concerning number of positivity rate in the same week are Sindhudurg at 4.79%, Pune at 3.59%, Nashik at 3.29%, Ahmednagar at 3.03% and Satara with 2.94%. All of these districts have reported a positivity rate higher than the state positivity rate at 2.07%.The administration says that this is because of the higher testing done in Pune which is about 592,674 tests per million while Mumbai accounts for 891,847 tests per million.Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector, said, “Pune is now testing more and so the numbers have gone up and also increased interaction among people during the festival season could have led to a more number of people being infected. However, the numbers are constantly decreasing and the infection rate has come to a plateau.”Although Pune is testing more than most districts in the state, other districts like Mumbai, Sangli, Sindhudurg, Satara, Thane and Solapur are testing more samples per million than Pune district which, however, continues to report maximum new Covid-19 cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-has-highest-covid-case-count-in-maharashtra-101633706783930.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||6 young Kalyan skaters enter record books||Six young skaters from Kalyan set a record in a championship in Belagavi, Karnataka. They completed 10,750 laps in 81 continuous hours of skating. The group managed to break the earlier record, which was 10,000 laps in 81 hours and entered their names in nine different records that include the Asia Book of Records and Indian Book of Records.The 81-hour long skatathon was organised by the Shivganga Roller Skating Club, Belagavi in Karnataka, in September. The six skaters from Kalyan, representing the PS Skating Academy of Kalyan, who made the record are Advait Nair (11 years), Astha Naikar (11), Harsh Kevat (14), Sumit Kapoor (10), Ruchit Mule (8), and Harsimrat Kaur (5).“After breaking this record, I want to be recognised as a national level skater. I will work hard for the same. I want to compete in national-level competitions,” said Advait Nair.“When he was a toddler, he used to skate on toy cars that we bought for him. This is how we realised his interest in skating. We managed to find him an academy and help him learn the sport. Today, he has made us proud with the achievement. The dedication to win was inspiring,” said Sindhu Nair, 37, Advait’s mother.The young skaters not only managed to break the previous record but also made a new record in nine record making platforms –Asia Book of Records, Indian Book of Records, Asia Pacific Records, Best India Ahead of Billion, Indian Achiever Book of Records, Extreme Records, Children Records, National Records and Global Records.During the pandemic, the skaters used to practice on road in Kalyan (W) and also at a skating track in a school in Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/6-young-kalyan-skaters-enter-record-books-101633706124132.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Colleges to reopen in Pune from October 11; offices to function with 100% capacity||PUNE Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Friday, made major several announcements further easing Covid curbs in Pune. After the weekly Covid review held in the city, Pawar announced that colleges and universities in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural parts can reopen from Monday. However, he stated that only fully vaccinated students would be allowed to attend ‘live’ classes, or be allowed on campus. Also, a negative RT-PCR test is mandatory for all students from other districts. Pune Municipal Corporation issued an order on Friday evening formalising these announcements. However the order doesn’t mention the compulsory RT-PCR test for the student from the other districts. Pawar also announced that the private offices can resume full functionality with 100% capacity from Monday, but a strict adherence to Covid- appropriate behaviour will be mandatory. Restaurants are now allowed to stay open till 11pm, as against the current 10pm deadline. And home delivery is allowed till 12 midnight.Pawar also announced that tourist spots in urban and rural areas would reopen from Monday, but visitors would have to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Government Training centres have also been allowed to reopen from Monday for all fully vaccinated students and the staff with 50% capacity. Private coaching classes have also been allowed to operate with 50% capacity for fully vaccinated students and the staff. Pawar clarified that students with only one dose would not be allowed back on campuses. “For students, both doses are compulsory. When we talked to educational institutes they also said that only fully vaccinated students would be allowed. Students with only one dose would have to wait. The duration of 84 days to get the second dose after the first dose is long. We request the centre to reduce this gap so that more people can be fully vaccinated,” said Ajit Pawar. Theatres and auditoriums next in line Ajit Pawar stated that the administration would take a decision on the reopening of theatres and auditoriums from October 22, after reviewing the Covid situation over the next two weeks. “From October 22, theatres and auditoriums could be reopened with 50 per cent capacity. A final decision will be taken after reviewing the Covid situation. Navratri has begun and shrines have opened. By next week, we will get an idea about the spread of infection and its impact on positivity rate. If cases remain low then a decision related to theatres and auditoriums will be taken,” said Ajit Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/colleges-to-reopen-in-pune-from-october-11-offices-to-function-with-100-capacity-101633705883621.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body announces SOP for reopening its swimming pools||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), on Friday, announced SOP that states the swimming pools would be open for competitive swimmers only. Only swimmers participating in State, National or international competitions would be permitted to use the swimming pools.“Those below 12 years of age are not allowed at the pool. Those between 12 years and 18 years should strictly provide age proof identification. Moreover, those who are above 18 years should ensure that they are double vaccinated. Coaches and swimming pool staff should also maintain all safety protocols. Strictly, the pool will be used for competitors and not for general fitness or to learn swimming,” said Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner.The SOP also includes general safety measures that need to be implemented at swimming pools by the staff and trainees or coach. No visitors would be allowed at the swimming pool and the coach or trainees also would strictly ensure that minimal staff is deployed. Based on the size of the pool, the number of swimmers permitted have also been declared in the SOP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-announces-sop-for-reopening-its-swimming-pools-101633704455737.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal mining in Moga: SSP recommends DSP’s suspension||The Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) has written to the home department, recommending suspension of Dharamkot deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Shubeg Singh for his alleged connivance with sand mining mafia. “We are probing illegal mining activities from all angles. The Dharmakot DSP’s suspension has been recommended due to his alleged negligence and connivance in illegal mining activities,” said SSP Dhruman H Nimbale, while refusing to share any details.Earlier, in two back-to-back notices issued to the DSP, the SSP had questioned his alleged negligence and inaction due to which illegal mining was rampant in the Sutlej riverbed and other areas despite a statewide ban from July 1 to September 30 this year. Following a probe marked by the SSP, at least a dozen cases of illegal mining had been registered and multiple arrests were made along with seizure of a number of vehicles. According to an SP-rank official in Moga, who did not wish to be named, the probe also found that the Dharamkot DSP was hand-in-glove with illegal miners, following which the SSP wrote to the home department to seek his suspension.Denying the allegations, DSP Shubeg Singh said, “If anyone has lodged a complaint against me with proof, I am willing to resign. I have, in fact, written multiple letters to the mining department, seeking details of illegal mining activities, so that I can take action against them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-mining-in-moga-ssp-recommends-dsp-s-suspension-101633704203420.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: New platforms for creativity and commerce||Going by the burst of creativity and craft that is being witnessed during the staging of the ongoing FDCI X Lakme Fashion Week, it would not be wrong to say that the fashion industry seems to have taken a leaf out of nature itself and emerged from the long winter of its pandemic-induced hibernation with its most vibrant offerings in a long while. And what a delight it is proving for the eye and the soul, after these many months of drabness and absence, to see the breathtaking creations of industry leaders like Tarun Tahiliani, Anamika Khanna and JJ Vallaya: palettes and styling that evoke our rich heritage and history; heirloom embroideries and bead work which show case India’s best talents; a multiplicity of interpretations on traditions and themes; lehengas fit for princesses; jewel’s fit for kings, and the heralding of renewal and regeneration as gorgeous models swan up and down showcasing the outfits with confidence and elan, reminding us of how things used to be in pre-pandemic times, before the world was sent up to its room, without dinner, by the virus. Truly Indian fashion at its best along with Bollywood and cricket is one of the country’s most significant soft powers. Predicated on the extraordinary textile legacy of India, our designers are creating works of unimaginable beauty and excellence. And while doing so, are giving a much-needed fillip to the country’s karigars and craftsmen. Because let’s face it, more than just the fickle fancy of a handful of men and women deciding what’s in one season and out the other, or the whims of rich ladies who shop, the fashion industry spawns jobs and careers, nurtures talent and creativity and communicate the confidence of a young Republic that is very cognisant of its heritage and place in the world. For this they ought to be afforded respect and regard and encouragement and support. *** *************************************************************************************************************************This year, bowing to the protocols of the pandemic, the people behind FDCI X Lakme Fashion Week have decided to host a ‘phygital (physical plus digital)’ edition of the show, which means that both online as well and offline presentations are on display. And according to many, this appears to be one more instance where the pandemic has proven to have had a beneficial effect on things. Eliminating the last-minute adrenalin rush and the crush of the hoi polio as they rubber neck to catch a glimpse of their favourite Bollywood stars on the ramp and in the audience, true lovers of fashion can now get a more appreciative feel for the actual work that goes in to the creation of the outfits, presented by the designers, most of which have taken months to create. Because let’s face it, unlike the serious platform it was meant to be, to showcase the industry’s best and brightest, in recent years the fashion show had become nothing more than a tamasha, a social circus, where everything but the clothes on show were being noticed and commented on. Now, with their well thought out digital offerings showcasing their latest lines, the designer and his work have been placed once again, centre stage and their creativity seems to have found a resurgence. Both Tahiliani and Vallaya’s digital presentations of their works (available for all to see, on YouTube, without the bother of craning necks and bruised egos in a stuffy dark hall) demonstrated the deep thought and refined sensibility that had gone in to the creation of their films. Rather than have their outfits flashing on and off the ramp in a few seconds, their digital films this year have afforded designers one more platform to present their vision, replete with story lines, set design and direction. This marks the advent of the designer as an auteur – someone who not only creates outfits but an entire lifescape of their sensibility. Besides, the scope A digital presentation affords the designers, of course there is the convenience for their audience – of viewing fashion in the comfort of one’s own home, and at one ‘s own leisure. A welcome relief for those like me who had tired of the rush, the crush, the long delays and the endless silliness of what Fashion Week had degenerated in to in recent years. Because viewing the digital interpretations of their works while removed from the circus that used to surround them in earlier years, one can truly appreciate the creativity and commitment to excellence that inspired them. Of course, a few offline shows were hosted this year, but mercifully they were small, intimate and many of them we notice avoided the mandatory Bollywood star show stopper that had contributed to what is in our opinion fashion’s declining trajectory. After all, when you have clothes that cost a king’s ransom, surely, they ought to be perfectly capable of holding their own in the spotlight without the support of some Bollywood tinsel. Hopefully, this is a trend that continues and the yoke that fastened fashion to Bollywood (Follywood?) will further unravel in the coming months. *** This year’s fashion week also saw the advent of another brave new direction for the industry: the introduction of fashion NFTs by designers and artisans. The initiated will know that (NFTs) non-fungible tokens or digital assets are the result of blockchain technology and the latest craze in the international marketplace; now the digital versions of garments and accessories on sale will open up a new platform for commerce and creativity for the industry. Fittingly, leading designer Manish Malhotra has launched the initiative by creating five exclusive NFTs which will be available during the week to collectors. “I hope my participation encourages more designers and artisans to explore and take advantage of this new opportunity,” Malhotra one of the senior-most in his trade, is reported to have said. Which brings us to the end of our comment on the season’s ongoing premier fashion event. All in all, we notice many welcome changes: an online presence that appears to have resulted in a burst of inspiration and craft. New platforms for creativity and commerce. And the option to stay at home and savour the beauty of fashion for stay at homes like me. Nice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-new-platforms-for-creativity-and-commerce-101633703423540.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Purchase EVs instead of renting to save money, activists tell PMC||PUNE Instead of hiring electric vehicles (EV) on rent, civic activists in the city are demanding that the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) purchase the vehicles instead, to save taxpayer funds. The PMC’s vehicle department proposes to hire 38 e-cars for eight years. The proposal has been tabled before the standing committee. The corporation claims this will be a saving of ₹1.77 lakh per year. The total cost of the plan is estimated at ₹23 crore, i.e. rent for 38 EVs for eight years, including maintenance and a diver for each vehicle.Hitendre Kurne, superintendent, PMC Vehicle department said, “The company will set up one charging station for every five EVs. The corporation will pay the electricity charges to the company.”Ashish Mane, a civic activist said, “Corporation has compared the rent of a non-AC jeep ( ₹63,000) per month to an e-car ( ₹58,000 per month), and claims to save ₹4,655 per car, per month. Actually, PMC saves only ₹2,105 per EV per month. Besides that, PMC will pay electricity bills. So, we are demanding that instead of taking an EV on rent, PMC should buy the e-cars. State has already announced a concession of around ₹1.50 lakh to promote purchasing EVs in the state. This will save taxpayers’ money.”Kurne responded, “As per state government order, there is a cap of ₹8 lakh to purchase any vehicle for office bearers and the cost of a single EV is at least ₹15 lakh. Therefore, we cannot purchase a car.”Vivek Velankar, civic activist said, “At present, corporations cannot purchase vehicles that cost more than ₹8 lakh. If the government is promoting EVs, there should be clear cut guidelines about purchasing EVs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/purchase-evs-instead-of-renting-to-save-money-activists-tell-pmc-101633703363388.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||75% to 80% of Covid cases in Kalyan, Dombivli asymptomatic: KDMC data||Out of the average 600 active cases in Kalyan-Dombivli, more 75% to 80% of the cases are asymptomatic and in home isolation, according to the data submitted by the health department of the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC, said, “The cases that are reported now-a-days are mostly asymptomatic and hence they are home isolated. The rarest cases like those who neglected symptoms or have extreme health issues are admitted to hospitals while some are in the Covid care centres with mild symptoms like fever.”As per the KDMC records, out of the 628 active cases as on October 1, a total of 471 were in home isolation, 45 in Covid care centres and 112 on oxygen beds. The deaths recorded are very negligible, at one or two or even zero at present.The death rate in KDMC as on October 4 is 1.94% while the total number of deaths reported so far is 2,770.The civic body claimed that the positivity rate in KDMC has been fluctuating between 1.93% and 3.72% in the last 10 days with the Covid testing reduced to 2,000 from 3,500 as only a few volunteer for testing at the centres.“The positivity rate is fluctuating. On some days, we have a 3% positivity rate. However, the positivity rate has been less than 5%, which means it is still under control,” said Panpatil.The positivity rate was 1.94% on September 25, 3.30% on September 30 and 2.94% on October 7. The civic body does a contact tracing of 1: 20 or 1: 30 in its vicinity.The number of antigen testing centres, which was 37 in KDMC in September, has reduced to 20 this month. The testing at the railway station has also been reduced this month. The two shifts at the Kalyan railway station have been reduced to one shift. The testing done at the station, which was around 1,500-1,700 per day, has reduced to around 200 per day.“Even though the cases are less, there is a need to have more random testing as the festive season is going on and people are moving out in large numbers. More testing will ensure the tracing of more cases on time. The civic body should do the testing by reaching out to areas if the response at the centres is less,” said Akash Mehta, 37, a resident of Beturkarpada, Kalyan (W).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/75-to-80-of-covid-cases-in-kalyan-dombivli-asymptomatic-kdmc-data-101633702888702.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Pawar says IT raids conducted because he raised his voice for Lakhimpur victims||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar said that the income tax department’s raids on deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s relatives were a form of retaliation because he compared the Lakhimpur Kheri incident to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.Pawar also questioned whether people were allowed to voice their opinions in the country. “The I-T raids were carried out because I likened the Lakhimpur Kheri violence to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre. Don't we have the right to air our views in democracy?,” Pawar was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The income tax department’s teams conducted raids on businesses linked to the family members of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. It also raided some real estate developers on charges of alleged tax evasion. Premises linked to DB Realty, Shivalik, Jarandeshwar Sahkari Sugar Karkhana (Jarandeshwar SSK) and businesses linked to Ajit Pawar's sisters were raided, news agency PTI reported.Pawar earlier this week drew a parallel between the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, where eight people died, and the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.Pawar accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of troubling the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress coalition government. “The state government is not being given its rightful share in the central funds,” Pawar said.Pawar said that the BJP must be removed from the path of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition. “In the recent by-polls of local bodies, the MVA allies, which contested separately, won 70 per cent of the seats. There is no doubt in my mind that if we fight together we will get better results. We have to now figure out how to contest the future elections,” Pawar said.The veteran leader accused the BJP of being ‘anti-farmer’ and said it is indulging in ‘misuse of power.’ Pawar also lent support to the Maharashtra Bandh call given by the MVA government on October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pawar-says-it-raids-conducted-because-he-raised-his-voice-for-lakhimpur-victims-101633701971170.html
08-10-2021||Pune||6kg charas seized by Rajgad police, one held||The Rajgad police have arrested one person travelling in a luxury bus on the Mumbai-Bangalore highway on Friday morning, and recovered 6kg in charas estimated to be worth ₹32 lakh in the local market, and Rs3 crore in the international market from his possession. The accused has been identified as Mustaqi Razak Dhunia (30) and he was travelling from Mumbai to Goa when the bus was intercepted by the Rajgad police near Khed Shivapur toll plaza. During a search, the accused, a citizen of Nepal, was found in possession of the contraband. He was taken into custody and booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/6kg-charas-seized-by-rajgad-police-one-held-101633702043300.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Driver dead as car rams into PMC garbage disposal van on Mundhwa-Ghorpadi road||A car driver lost his life after the vehicle he was driving hit a Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) garbage disposal van on Mundhwa-Ghorpadi road near Subhash Ghai bungalow at 3 am on Friday.The deceased has been identified as Prashant Jagannath Bhujbal ( 30), a resident of survey No. 103, Gandhinagar in Yerawada. According to the police, the speeding car collided with the PMC vehicle bearing number MH 12 Ax 3102 while moving ahead, cleaning the road. An injured Bhujbal was rushed to Sassoon Hospital by a police patrol team on duty, but he was proclaimed dead on arrival. According to the police, it was the fault of the car driver and an accidental death related case has been lodged in connection with the incident.Police sub-inspector Gajanan Bhosale is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/driver-dead-as-car-rams-into-pmc-garbage-disposal-van-on-mundhwa-ghorpadi-road-101633701503178.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||She brought an idea from Korea and turned it into reality in Kashmir||A trip to a strawberry field in South Korea and encouragement from her husband motivated Insha Rasool, who is in her mid 30s, to set up organic farms in Kashmir.Insha and her husband, both scientists, were working in South Korea when a school trip with their children sparked the idea of pursuing organic farming back home. A thought, clubbed with dedication and support from her family members, is now a reality. “On seeing vast magnificent fields in South Korea, I asked my husband why can’t anybody establish similar beautiful farms in Kashmir. And my husband said why not me... This is how my journey began in organic farming in 2018,” says Insha, who now spends most of her time on her farms, guiding her workers on the organic and exotic vegetables. When she isn’t busy with farming, she is engaged on social media selling or marketing her produce, including varieties of vegetables and sweetcorn, which are in great demand here. “Being a scientist, I studied a lot about organic farming and then took up this initiative. We had a chunk of ancestral land in Budgam. With the encouragement from my parents, my journey in this field has been rewarding, though I have a long way to go,” she says. Insha, who left a lucrative job in South Korea to chase her dreams, adds, “Though we are still doing this on an experimental basis as it needs a lot of research, my venture has been a successful one so far.”Through ‘Home Greens’, she markets the produce grown on her farms in Budgam and Pulwama. “I have tied up with several cultivators, who grow organic vegetables and sell them. My products have a tremendous demand. Before the harvest, most of my products are sold,” says Insha, who studied at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru.She says that organic farming wasn’t easy, especially in Kashmir. “I took this as a challenge, but the feedback and clientele that I have managed to win through my products are appreciable,” she adds. Insha has been guiding people how to grow organic vegetables in their farms or kitchen gardens and her portal attracts a lot of queries from people. “If all goes well, I would build a school where we will teach how to grow organic products, especially vegetables. It is necessary to consume good products that are free of chemicals and pesticides,” she says. For Insha, organic farming had its own challenges. “We need specialised seeds that have to be arranged from the United States and at times, delay in their arrival causes problems. Besides, organic pesticides need to be bought in bulk that requires huge investment and at times, that too is a problem,” she shares. Despite her hard work, Insha feels a lot needs to be done in the field. “We are still experimenting. We want to do a lot more in the coming years and tie up with people to turn organic farming into a movement and lucrative venture,” she adds. To make her products affordable, Insha has kept their prices well within check. “With each passing day, our demand is growing, so are the profits,” she says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/she-brought-an-idea-from-korea-and-turned-it-into-reality-kashmir-101633701383277.html
08-10-2021||Pune||PMPML contract drivers stage rasta roko over unpaid salaries||Drivers contracted by the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) to drive buses staged a rasta roko protest on Friday morning near the Jakat Naka chowk in Aundh, to protest not getting paid for the month of September. The salary for the month of August was paid by the contractor company on Friday.Earlier on Wednesday, 100 contract drivers stopped working to demand their dues. The drivers have been employed by the MPG group that then contracted them to the PMPML. On Friday, drivers at 9.30am gathered in Aundh for the protest.. “I am working with the contractor company for more than one year and for the last two months we have not got salaries. I want to pay the school fees of my children, and we are struggling to survive. I have already taken a loan of ₹70,000 from one of my relatives and now the festival season is coming, so we will need money,” said a driver on condition of anonymity. Most of these drivers work the PMML long routes, which go across Pune district. “The protest is for the rights of these drivers and PMPML is responsible. It should immediately clear the pending dues as it is affecting hundreds of families. We will continue our fight till the salaries are given away to the drivers,” said advocate Amrapalee Sandeep Dhiwar, legal representative of the drivers. Ganesh Sumbhe, vice-president of MPG said, “For the last eight months we have been paying salaries of drivers on our own. We have not received payment from the PMPML yet. Due to the Covid pandemic we are struggling financially and have repeatedly sent demand letters to PMPML to clear our dues immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-contract-drivers-stage-rasta-roko-over-unpaid-salaries-101633700487133.html
08-10-2021||Pune||NCB official booked for sexual harassment of Pune woman||A superintendent of the Narcotics Control of Bureau (NCB), Aurangabad, has been arrested on charges of sexual harassment and acts intended to insult the modesty of a woman. The alleged incident took place on a train from Hyderabad to Hadapsar in Pune. The incident was reported on Thursday night when the 25-year-old victim was travelling from Hyderabad to Pune. The suspect has been identified as Dinesh Chavan (35), a superintendent of the NCB, resident of Kopar Khairane in Mumbai. He was also travelling on the train after attending a court hearing in Hyderabad. The victim in her complaint stated that the accused allegedly touched her in an immodest way, and accessed her undergarments from her bag. She shouted and alerted the other passengers in the train who apprehended him. The accused is currently in police custody at Parli Railway Police Station, Aurangabad, while the victim returned to Hadapsar. Mumbai Railway commissioner Quaisar Khalid tweeted: “The victim raised her voice and other passengers woke up and caught hold of him and handed him over to GRP. The accused has been arrested. The victim carried on with her journey. ,” he tweeted.” The NCB, in a statement on Friday, claimed that the accused was undergoing medical treatment for a mental illness, was on medical leave and is not part of any operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncb-official-booked-for-sexual-harassment-of-pune-woman-101633699824168.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Non-functional traffic signals, incomplete roads work irk Wagholi residents||Repetitive complaints from the residents of Wagholi, first to the gram panchayat and now to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have gone unheard as commuters continue to suffer due to incomplete road works and a non-functioning traffic signal. Any major work of development after the merger with the PMC is yet to start, claims residents. “For the last year-and-a-half, traffic signals are not working on most roads. Pothole-ridden roads continue to torture residents. Since July, we have complained about the roads,” said Harcharanjeet Butalia, director, Wagholi Housing Societies Association. Wagholi is densely populated and the most urbanised of 23 village areas merged within the PMC limits. Keshnand chowk, Wagheswar chowk, Lohegaon chowk, and Wagholi market square – suffer traffic jams every day. “The traffic signals will start soon in Wagholi. We are coordinating with PMC for completion of the remaining work. Once roads are completed, speed breakers will also be created to control rash drivers,” said Jaywant Patil, assistant sub-inspector, Lonikand traffic division. “The work of road completion is going on and most of the road will be completed in a couple of months,” said an official from the PMC’s road department on request of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nonfunctional-traffic-signals-incomplete-roads-work-irk-wagholi-residents-101633698982759.html
08-10-2021||Pune||44 species of butterflies spotted on Pune’s Fergusson College campus||PUNE As part of the Big Butterfly Month 2021 activity, at least 44 species of butterflies were spotted by the students of Fergusson College, department of environmental sciences on and around the campus. These species include Grass Jewel, India’s smallest butterfly; Blue Mormon, the state butterfly of Maharashtra; Plain Puffin, a rare sighting in Pune, among others.The Big Butterfly Month 2021 involves the participation of several educational institutes and organisations as they come together to celebrate the bio blitz. As a part of this, Fergusson College took part and organised an open event named “Let’s count butterflies” in association with the Pune Butterflies WhatsApp group. The event was held from September 4 till September 30, 2021, and its findings were released by the college on Friday.“Butterfly is a symbol of freedom and aesthetic pleasure. To celebrate their importance in the ecosystem, Big Butterfly Month is celebrated across the country. During this month, we observe, document and learn about butterflies,” said Rajat Joshi, a student and coordinator of the event for the department of environmental sciences.Principal Dr Ravindrasinh Pardeshi and head of department environmental sciences, Rupali Gaikwad supported the event.“The event focused on documenting different butterfly species present on the campus of Fergusson College, the hill in the campus was also monitored. During the event, butterflies were observed, photographed and documented on well-defined paths in the college campus between 8:30 am to 11 am. Butterflies were monitored on sunny days except for a few cloudy ones when maximum species were found,” added Rajat.According to the report, the group found species like Lemon Emigrants, Common Grass Yellows were seen in abundance due to the presence of their host plant; Senna tora situated near the foothills of Fergusson hill. Other than that, due to the mass plantations of palm varieties on the college campus, a great number of palm flies were spotted on them. Even a few of their life cycles were also witnessed by the participants. A small section close to the department of botany has plants of Bryophyllum, on which the Red Pierrot Butterflies were also seen in good numbers.Lantana camara remained the most favourite nectar plant of butterfly species in the college premises. Lantana has widespread in the area and was favoured by most of the butterfly species which were observed during the survey. The survey even had a rare sighting of the Plain Puffin Butterfly which is a forest species but turned out in substantial numbers fluttering on the nectarine sources like Lantana in the college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/44-species-of-butterflies-spotted-on-pune-s-fergusson-college-campus-101633698022690.html
08-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan minister Raghu Sharma appointed Congress in-charge for Gujarat||In a surprising political development, the AICC appointed Rajasthan health minister Raghu Sharma as the in-charge of Gujarat, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli late on Thursday. The development comes about two weeks after Sharma had a one-to-one meeting with senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at his residence on September 24. The same day, Sachin Pilot too had met Gandhi. The appointment of Sharma, who is known to be close to Gehlot, has come as a surprise for a majority of people in the party, especially when Gujarat will be going for assembly polls next year in December 2022. It will be the second time that a leader from Rajasthan will be leading the party in Gujarat elections; earlier it was CM Ashok Gehlot, who had brought the party close to victory in the 2017 assembly elections. BJP has remained undefeated in Gujarat since 1995. The majority in the party believe that the appointment has come as an elevation for Sharma and it will bring him close to the leadership, but there is a section, which thinks that the move is to give him a safe exit, following resentment among MLAs. A minister in the Gehlot government said, “Raghu Sharma’s stars seem to be moving in the right direction as this appointment will add to his career. Gujarat is Modi and Amit Shah’s state, and is important for Congress. Earlier, there was speculation that the state would be given to Pilot, looking to his stature but now that it has been given to Sharma, he too has been elevated to the same level.” Besides, it was reported that MLAs also harboured resentment against Sharma and the same was conveyed during a feedback meeting chaired by AICC general secretary Ajay Maken. A senior MLA close to Sachin Pilot on condition of anonymity claimed that Sharma’s exit comes following displeasure of the high command after resentment against him but by this appointment he has been given a respectable exit. He added that it will also help Gehlot while doing a cabinet reshuffle. Besides few more could be used by the leadership at the central level. He believed that all rumours of Pilot leaving the state are baseless as he soon would be getting a big responsibility in Rajasthan. Political analyst Manish Godha said his appointment seems like an elevation, especially when the responsibility i handed over deals with states such as Gujarat, which was earlier handled by Gehlot. For Congress, Gujarat is a key and politically important state, especially when the party fared well in the 2017 assembly elections and came close to victory because of Gehlot. He continued how Sharma might face an exit from the Gehlot cabinet as Gujarat needs full attention. “This new responsibility would bring Sharma closer to the high command as it did for Gehlot, who was appointed general secretary headquarters after Gujarat. But simultaneously, he would be under pressure to perform and bring the party back into the race,” said Godha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-minister-raghu-sharma-appointed-congress-in-charge-for-gujarat-101633694542324.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||2 additional lanes of Kopri Bridge connecting Mumbai and Thane ready for inauguration||The first phase of Kopri Rail Over Bridge (ROB) has been completed. The two additional lanes are ready to be inaugurated.Despite the assurance to open the bridge by August this year, the last-minute beautification work is still going on. The Kopri Bridge is a vital link between Thane and Mumbai along the Eastern Express Highway and the two additional lanes will help ease out the traffic in the city. However, commuters continue to face traffic snarls as the inauguration of these lanes is delayed.The work on widening the bridge constructed in 1965 has been delayed multiple times. For the last several years, many agencies including the PWD and MSRDC have been assigned the work. Now, MMRDA has taken over.“It is ready to be reopened. We only have certain beautification and lighting work going on. All the approvals are also in place. It will be opened shortly” said SVR Srinivas, commissioner, Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA). Meanwhile, Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) is awaiting a go ahead from the MMRDA authorities. “The bridge falls under MMRDA and we cannot take a call about its inauguration,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.The girders of the bridge were laid down in January after which only the approach road was pending. However, in July, various political parties conducted inspection of these areas and noted that they were ready to be inaugurated. It was announced that within a month it would be opened for vehicles but commuters are still awaiting the launch.The widening of Kopri Bridge was first proposed 13 years ago when the cost of widening was ₹9Cr. The delay in implementing the plan has escalated the cost to ₹258.76Cr.The work will be undertaken in two phases. In the first phase, two new lanes were constructed on one side of the bridge. During the work, vehicular movement continued from the existing two-lane bridge. In the second phase, the newly-constructed two lanes will be open for traffic and the MMRDA will demolish the existing two-lane bridge and construct a new one. The second phase is expected to be completed in nine months.Thane city has been facing traffic snarls regularly with relaxations being implemented in the State post pandemic. The launch of the bridge will be a boon to commuters and can avoid the daily peak-hour rush.The Kopri Bridge is on the Eastern Express Highway. The eight-lane Eastern Express Highway turns into two lanes on this bridge, leading to a bottle neck during peak hours. Widening the bridge would resolve the peak-hour congestion, giving relief to people going towards Thane, Navi Mumbai and Mumbai. This bridge will be a relief for motorists travelling from Mumbai towards Thane, Nashik, Gujarat and Pune. There are around 1.22 lakh vehicles using the Kopri Bridge every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-additional-lanes-of-kopri-bridge-connecting-mumbai-and-thane-ready-for-inauguration-101633693828205.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||NMMC to develop waste composting unit in each slum in Navi Mumbai||Under its ‘zero slum waste’ programme, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to develop waste composting units at all slums in its jurisdiction. The waste collected from a particular slum will be composted there itself. Thus, no waste from the slums will go to their landfill area and the civic body will not have to incur expenses for the transportation.There are 41 slums in the NMMC jurisdiction from Digha to CBD Belapur, an official said. According to its plans, the civic body will develop one or multiple composting units at each slum depending on its area and population.Babasaheb Rajale, deputy municipal commissioner of NMMC (solid waste management), said, “We have decided to outsource the task of collecting waste at the slums to outside agencies and our officials will oversee their work. With this system in place, we will be able to keep the slums neat and clean like the nodal areas of the city, and that will help us a lot in the upcoming Swachh Survekshan survey.“Likewise, for keeping the city roads clean, we have started another programme – ‘adopt a road’. Under this programme, any individual, housing society, NGO or private institute can take the responsibility of one road in their area.”This apart, NMMC is now focussing on the overall cleanliness of the city and proper waste segregation as they prepare themselves for the next Swachh Survekshan survey. From November, it will start a massive beautification drive to give the city a fresh look.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmmc-to-develop-waste-composting-unit-in-each-slum-in-navi-mumbai-101633692254928.html
08-10-2021||Bangalore||Services of Bengaluru Metro to be curtailed tomorrow. Check details here||The operations of Bengaluru Metro will be curtailed on Saturday due to structural maintenance work on the Purple Line. The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) will be taking up the maintenance activity on Saturday evening."To facilitate the works, there will be a curtailment of metro train services on the Purple Line from 4 pm onwards on Saturday till 6 am on Sunday between Baiyappanahalli and M G Road metro stations," the BMRCL Chief Public Relations Officer said in a statement today.The statement further said that metro trains will continue to run between M G Road and Kengeri Metro Stations on the Purple Line as scheduled. Metro Services on Green Line and the entire purple line will run normally as per schedule on October 9 and 10, it said.The extended Purle Line was inaugurated by Union minister Hardeep Puri and Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai in August this year.The line under Phase 2 of the Namma Metro project has six stations - Nayanadahalli, RR Nagar, Jnanabharathi, Pattangere, Kengeri Bus Terminal and Kengeri. The services of the Metro are operational between 7am and 8pm and the trains run at a frequency of 10 minutes between Kengeri and Baiyappanahalli.Last month, Bommai reiterated that the Phase-II of the Bengaluru Metro should be completed by 2024, a year ahead of the original deadline, so as to ensure that the project becomes a “lifeline” for the residents of India’s IT capital.The metro project has seen several delays since its announcement in Bengaluru. The Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has managed to complete just around 60 kms in the last 13 years, averaging around 4 kms per year, Hindustan Times reported in February.But Bommai attributed those delays to the project being a new thing for the IT city. He said the learnings from this phase would help quicken the other stages and make it operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/services-of-bengaluru-metro-to-be-curtailed-tomorrow-check-details-here-101633691753584.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Seat belts on please... how sustainable aviation is lining up a post-Covid take-off||This is a busy year. A busy, busy year. Not for me, but for the aviation industry in general, for Indian aviation in particular and definitely for all those who are rebuilding aviation in a sustainable mode.Given that the global aviation industry is reeling under billions of dollars of losses, redundancies, and relentless pressure from climate-change activists to atone for its carbon-emission sins, I was delighted to find that the industry is facing up to the current decade as it always has: rebuilding with its sense of responsibility for the world intact.While the industry at large has been actively investing in the development of Sustainable Aviation Fuels (SAF), more airlines are now committing to a phased switch-over to SAF. More airports are switching to eco-friendly energy sources. In June 2021, Delhi International Airport was recognised as a green airport by the Airports Council International. Also in June, Bengaluru International Airport achieved one of its sustainability goals by becoming Energy Neutral for FY2021 (it consumes power through onsite solar installations and Power Purchase Agreements from solar and wind energy suppliers). In August, Mumbai International Airport won a CII award for energy efficiency. Meanwhile, Cochin International Airport (which had won UN recognition in 2018 as the world’s first fully solar powered airport) continues to forge ahead with environment friendly initiatives, but these are matters for another day.Closer home, this week (October 9) a new airport in Maharashtra goes live, with Allianz Air beginning flights from Mumbai to Sindhudurg. This is hot on the heels of the recent expansion of the Shirdi airport. As I was reading about the newly developed infrastructure of these airports and the features and the facilities and the expected passenger loads and connectivity, I was excited. Sindhudurg has fascinated me since high school when I first read (in history textbooks) about the famous fort built by Shivaji. I have never gotten around to making the trip there, probably because I prefer flying to long road trips.I don’t understand much about sustainability at an industry level, but I understand that we have to change (now) and that means making wise choices, not superficial changes under intimidation from well-meaning and genuinely concerned climate activists. Thankfully I know dependable people who not only know sustainability, but are also involved in shaping initiatives and preparing next-generation professionals to act responsibly. I reached out to Suzanne Kearns in Canada, who is a pilot, author, aviation educationist, new technology advocate, and now, the founding director of Waterloo Institute of Sustainable Aeronautics (WISA). Kearns has been at the forefront of what I call “applied education”. Naturally, I asked her about sustainable aviation and what she thinks is the way forward. She wrote back promptly.“If we think back to before the Covid-19 pandemic, there was a growing flight-shaming movement. Greta Thunberg led a climate protest outside of ICAO headquarters during the last General Assembly. I was beginning to see this reflected among my young students – who love aviation, but would increasingly come to me and report that their friends ask them ‘why would you want to be part of an industry that’s contributing to climate change’ and say they should be embarrassed to be passionate about aviation,” Kearns offered as a background. “My follow-up discussion would often point out that, yes, aviation is responsible for 2% of global emissions and we need to lean into exploring new technologies and practices to do better. However, aviation is ultimately a powerful force for good. Providing millions of jobs around the world, supporting cultural exchange, moving more than 1/3 of the world’s cargo by value (including critical medical supplies). Yet, in addition to the environmental challenges, aviation was also facing personnel shortages (pre-pandemic) and a rapid evolution of technology that we were challenged to stay ahead of. Interestingly, these align with the ‘3 pillars’ of sustainability – environmental, social, and economic. The motivation behind the WISA was that I wanted to do my part to support our sector – so I have been working full-force to mobilise the University of Waterloo’s full innovative capacity (one of the leading computer science, engineering, and environmental schools in the world). My primary goal is to support a bright future for our sector,” says Kearns.WISA was formally launched earlier this week (October 5) and Kearns is hoping to generate momentum with industry participation since sustainable practices touch every aspect of aviation – social sustainability includes human factors, flight physiology, modern training/educational practices, equity/diversity/inclusion. “Environmental sustainability is focused on reducing emissions (engine emissions and noise emissions) through new technologies, sustainable aviation fuel, and other practices. Economic sustainability will require wide-reaching innovations, which we’re focusing on through new technologies, such as artificial intelligence, cyber security, crew and aircraft optimisation, and many others. As a quick example, consider a study we’re working on to use artificial intelligence and machine learning to analyse ab-initio pilot skill development in a flight simulator. We hope that this evidence can further support evidence/competency-based training approaches, to justify efficiently moving more hours out of aircraft into the simulator early in training. Interestingly, when this happens it supports the 3 pillars of sustainability: 1) environmental – simulators are electrically powered so reducing in-aircraft hours reduces engine and noise emissions, 2) social – training in simulators is generally less expensive than in aircraft, and training is customised to learner needs so it better supports individual skill development, 3) economic – flight schools generally have higher profit margins on simulators than aircraft.”Kearns opines that it doesn’t make sense for the academic sector to be only exploring theoretical challenges – it is also essential for universities to mobilise the talent they have towards directly addressing applied research challenges with a direct value return to industry and regulatory partners.She also feels that India and developing nations where aviation is really starting to grow can contribute and benefit a lot from the experience of the developed nations. “Similar to parts of the world that were able to ‘jump ahead’ of laying telephone wires and begin service using cellular phones, I hope that this work will directly support air transportation in developing nations by supporting practices that are best supporting environmental, social, and economic sustainability,” she says.All of which reminded me of a Hindustan Times report in September that spoke of the civil aviation minister’s 100-day plan. I must admit I had been super excited reading about the five new airports, six heliports and 50 new routes. The Sindhudurg airport inauguration is part of that plan. Earlier this week, the state chief minister also appointed the operator for the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport. These are a small part of the overall investment into aviation. Given India’s strong commitment to sustainability and addressing climate change issues, I am sure there will be checks and balances within policy to ensure private operators are truly innovating while they build infrastructure and fly us into the digital age. The opportunity for us to make wise choices is as big as the opportunity to grow and develop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-seat-belts-on-please-how-sustainable-aviation-is-lining-up-a-post-covid-takeoff-101633690809631.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Digha residents will not have any water issue from 2023, says Navi Mumbai civic official||The water crisis of the residents of Digha is going to be a thing of the past as the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has decided to develop a 2 MLD elevated service reservoir (ESR) in their area. The civic body has set aside a budget of ₹12Cr for the project.The population of Digha is now around one lakh. They have been grappling with water issues for the past several years as the area has no reservoir of its own. A senior officer of NMMC said, “A few months ago, we purchased a plot of land from the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) at a subsidised rate for developing the reservoir. We are done with the tendering process and the work at the site will be started within two weeks. We will give the contractors a timeframe of one-and-a-half years for completing the project. Thus, from 2023, the residents of Digha will not have any water issue.” Datta Patil, 49, a resident of Digha said, “NMMC gets sufficient water to distribute among its residents as it has its own dam (Morbe dam). However, despite being a part of its jurisdiction, the area of Digha is deprived of the required amount of water simply because there is no reservoir. The water pressure is extremely low in our area and it takes up to fifteen minutes to fill a bucket.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/digha-residents-will-not-have-any-water-issue-from-2023-says-navi-mumbai-civic-official-101633690452003.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||NCB officer arrested for molesting woman on train||The Aurangabad Government Railway Police has arrested a 35-year-old superintendent rank officer of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) for allegedly molesting a woman passenger on an express train on Thursday.According to the GRP officers, a case under Sections 354 and 509 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused for outraging the modesty of the 25-year-old commuter and also for criminal intimidation.The incident took place when the accused and the commuter were travelling from Hyderabad to Pune. The officials stated that the NCB officer was heading to Pune after attending a court hearing.In her complaint, the woman alleged that the accused touched her inappropriately before removing her undergarment from her bag and sniffing them and placing the same on his chest.When the victim raised an alarm, other passengers in the train woke up and intercepted the accused. They then handed the accused over to the GRP officers at Parli station.“The accused was arrested, while the woman continued with her onward journey. He will be produced before a magistrate’s court later today,” said Quaiser Khalid, Commissioner of GRP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-officer-arrested-for-molesting-woman-on-train-101633689248602.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal CM quells dissent over BJP ticket at Fatehpur||In a reprieve for the ruling BJP, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday managed to mollify state party vice-president Kripal Parmar, who was planning to contest the Fatehpur assembly byelection as an Independent after being denied the ticket. Also read: Haryana CM withdraws ‘tit for tat’ remark in the ‘interest of peace’Parmar’s supporters, who had announced mass resignations on Thursday, attended the rally after BJP candidate Baldev Thakur filed his nomination. Though Parmar did not attend the public meeting, he later met the chief minister in private at a party worker’s house and backtracked on his plan to contest as a rebel. Later, Parmar flew with the chief minister in his helicopter to Jubbal-Kotkhai, where BJP nominee Neelam Saraik also filed her nomination on Friday. Parmar shared the stage with the CM at Jubbal-Kotkhai. Rivalry between Parmar, Baldev Thakur Fatehpur, Jubbal-Kotkhai and Arki assembly constituencies besides the Mandi parliamentary seat go to the polls on October 30. Parmar was a frontrunner for the BJP ticket from Fatehpur assembly segment. However, the BJP fearing a rebellion chose Baldev Thakur as its nominee. Baldev Thakur, a member of state BJP working committee, had earlier unsuccessfully fought the 2012 election. In the 2017 assembly elections, the BJP replaced him with Parmar. Thakur revolted and contested as an independent, securing more than 13,000 votes which was the primary reason behind Parmar’s defeat at the hands of Congress’ Sujan Singh Pathania, whose death has necessitated the byelection. CM sure of BJP’s win in all four constituencies Addressing the public meeting at Rehan in Fatehpur, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the BJP has taken to the field after full preparation and will win all four byelections. He said achievements of the central and state governments will be the poll plank of the party. On ticket allocation, he said it was the decision of the party and must be accepted. “I urge all party workers to be united and ensure the BJP’s victory. You give us victory in Fatehpur and the government will do whatever possible to develop this segment,” the CM said. Attacking the Congress, he said the opposition party lacks in leadership and policy. Citing the example of Punjab, he said the Congress made Navjot Singh Sidhu the state party president and he stepped down a few days later. BJP nominee Baldev Thakur urged people to come forward in large numbers on polling day and vote in his favour. State party chief Suresh Kashyap, in-charge for Fatehpur byelection industry minister Bikram Singh, forest minister Rakesh Pathania and social justice and empowerment minister Sarveen Chaudhary were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cm-quells-dissent-over-bjp-ticket-at-fatehpur-101633689188588.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||40 more victims approach EOW to complain against VGN Jewellers owner, who has been arrested for cheating||Around 40 more victims have approached the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Thane Crime Branch to register complaints against the owner of VGN Jewellers, who was arrested earlier this week for allegedly running a Ponzi racket, officials said on Friday.The owner of the popular jewellery chain, Virithgopalan Nair, was booked along with his wife Valsala by the Kolsewadi police in Kalyan after 13 investors approached the police earlier this month. The investors had alleged that the couple had swindled them to the tune of ₹7.99Cr through various investment schemes, promising attractive returns. The case was transferred to the EOW and Nair was arrested on Tuesday.Deputy Commissioner of Police (EOW), Sunil Lokhande, said on Friday that apart from the 13 original complainants, 40 more had come forward with complaints of their own since Nair’s arrest.“Statements have been recorded from all the victims and the total amount of money swindled by the accused has now gone up to around ₹15Cr. More victims are also expected to come forward in the days to come,” Lokhande said.People have also started taking to social media to contact the police about having been cheated by the accused. One such victim, whose Twitter username is ‘Yatin59064881’, tweeted to the Thane Police on Friday saying, “@ThaneCityPolice Just got information that VGN Jewelers Owner is arrested by Economic Offense Wing(Thane) for Fraud. I have also invested 1.5 lacs in VGN scheme, so for this which police station I should approach as I stay in Dombivli. Thank You in Advance. (sic).”The Thane Police replied to him, asking him to approach his local police station. Lokhande said that instructions have been issued to all police stations in the Thane commissionerate, asking them to transfer any and all complaints regarding the VGN Jewellers to the EOW. “We are also in touch with our social media cell so that we can get to know of people tweeting to us about this case. A majority of the people who have come forward so far are from the Thane City area,” Lokhande added.The jewellery chain had outlets in Thane, Dombivli, Ulhasnagar and Mulund, as well as a finance company in Kalyan. According to inquiries so far, the accused offered two schemes to investors from 2006 to 2021. The first scheme required the investor to pay ₹500 per month for 24 months and receive cash or gold worth ₹15,000 in return, while the second scheme offered a 15% interest on Fixed Deposits of one year to five years, officials said.The accused have been booked for cheating and criminal breach of trust under the Indian Penal Code, along with relevant sections of the Maharashtra Protection of Interests of Depositors (MPID) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/40-more-victims-approach-eow-to-complain-against-vgn-jewellers-owner-who-has-been-arrested-for-cheating-101633689129057.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Unvaccinated Delhi govt employees won’t be allowed to attend office from Oct 16||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday issued an order making it mandatory for all Delhi government employees to get at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine by October 15. The employees will not be allowed to attend offices and their absence from duty will be counted as leave if they do not comply, said the order, a copy of which HT has seen.“All government employees working in departments, autonomous bodies, PSUs (Public Sector Undertakings), local bodies, and educational institutions under the government of NCT (National Capital Territory) of Delhi, including front line workers, health workers, as well as teachers and other staff, working in schools and colleges, should get vaccinated (at least first dose) by 15.10.2021 as per prevailing guidelines and protocols prescribed for vaccination by the Union government,” said the order.“The aforementioned government employees, health workers, front line workers, teachers, and other staff in schools and colleges, who do not get vaccinated (at least first dose) by 15.10.2021 shall not be allowed to attend their respective offices, healthcare institutions, and educational institutions with effect from 16.10.2021 till they have obtained the first dose vaccination. The said period of absence from duty shall be treated as ‘on leave’ till the administration of the first dose of vaccination.”Heads of departments have been entrusted with monitoring the process and verifying each employee’s claim regarding vaccination.A government official said a recent survey showed that more than 90% of the government employees have taken one dose of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-makes-it-mandatory-for-delhi-govt-employees-to-get-at-least-one-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-by-oct-15-101633688889446.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt issues vaccine mandate for its employees||The  Delhi government on Friday released a vaccine mandate for its employees saying that employees who did not get at least one shot of the Covid-19 vaccine will be prohibited from joining their workplaces starting October 16.The mandate from the Delhi government comes amid the offices and businesses reopening in the city following the drop in the number of cases.The Delhi government asked employees working in departments, autonomous bodies, PSUs, local bodies, educational institutions under the government of NCT of Delhi, including frontline workers, healthcare workers as well as teachers and other staff working in schools and colleges to get vaccinated by October 15.The order said that the unvaccinated employees should not be allowed to attend office and their respective institutions from October 16. The order also said that the period of absence from October 16 to the date of the first vaccination will be treated as the employee being on ‘leave’. Once the employee is vaccinated and ready to resume work the head of the respective department will verify it through the Arogya Setu application or the certificate of vaccination produced by the concerned employee.The order also said that the government of India too could issue similar directions with respect to its employees working in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-issues-vaccine-mandate-for-its-employees-101633687175118.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM withdraws ‘tit for tat’ remark in the ‘interest of peace’||Faced with widespread criticism over his “pick up sticks” call during a recent address to BJP Kisan Morcha workers, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said that he was withdrawing the controversial remarks in the interest of peace. Khattar, who sounded apologetic, told journalists in Panchkula that his remarks were not made with a malicious intent but were aimed at self-defence. Also read: ‘Not satisfied with UP govt probe in Lakhimpur Kheri case’: Supreme Court“Farmers have been hurt by this comment. Hence, I withdraw this comment as I don’t want a law and order situation, disturbing the peace of the state. Everyone has a right to protest peacefully,” the chief minister said after paying obeisance at Mata Mansa Devi temple on the second day of the Navratri festival. Khattar had on Sunday asked the party’s Kisan Morcha workers to raise groups of farmer volunteers in the state’s northern and north-western districts who can “pick up sticks”. Controversial remarks widely shared on social media The controversial remarks seen in a video were widely shared on social media platforms and evoked much criticism. The reference was evidently aimed at the protesting farmers who have been chasing the ruling BJP-JJP leaders and disrupting their visits and events. “We will have to encourage upcoming farmer groups...in every district, particularly the northern and northwestern districts, we will have to raise groups of 500-700 kisan volunteers... And then sathe shathyam samacharet (tit-for-tat). Pick up sticks,” Khattar was seen telling he workers in the video. Responding to a remark by a person in the gathering (which was not audible), Khattar told the gathering not to worry about jamanat (bail) after picking up the sticks. “If you spend a couple of months...you will become a leader. You will learn much more than these meetings and become a tall leader. Your name will get etched in history,” he said in a reference to doing time in jail. CM’s remarks shown selectively: Official A government official said that the chief minister’s remarks were shown selectively in the video. “The video lacked perspective and is misleading. It was an internal meeting of the party workers. The CM told them to oppose wrong actions but by maintaining discipline. In fact, the CM told the party workers to maintain discipline and not to take law in their hands,” said an official. Former BJP MLA Sukhwinder Sheoran, who was present at the BJP Kisan Morcha meeting at Khattar’s house on Sunday, said that the remarks regarding raising kisan volunteers were only aimed at countering the propaganda about the three central farm laws. Opposition quick to target CM The remarks drew criticism from the opposition parties. Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala, in a tweet, said that rule of law cannot be maintained in the state if the CM himself speaks about inciting violence and breaking law and order. “The anti-farmer face of the BJP stands exposed. It’s time to get rid of this government,” Surjewala tweeted. The fresh controversy with the “sticks” remark has come after an IAS officer posted as Karnal SDM was, in August, seen telling cops to hit the farmers on the head if they try to disrupt a BJP event. The remark and a police lathicharge at a toll plaza in Karnal fuelled protests by farmer unions. The farmers relented after the government set up a commission to probe the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-agitation-haryana-cm-khattar-withdraws-pick-up-sticks-call-in-interest-of-peace-101633683608050.html
08-10-2021||Bangalore||Belagavi case: Cops arrest girl's parents, 8 others for killing Muslim man||Days after a 24-year-old Muslim man’s decapitated body was found on a railway track in Karnataka’s Belagavi district, 10 people, including the parents of a woman he was in a relationship with, were arrested for his murder on Friday. Police first registered a case of unnatural death when Arbaz Mullah’s body was found on September 28. Later a murder case was filed on the basis of his post-mortem report and the nature of injuries to his head.The Belagavi Police said the woman’s parents, Eerappa and Susheela Kumbhar, and Maharaja Nagappa alias Pundalik Mutgekar, a member of Hindu group Sri Ram Sena Hindustan, are the prime suspects in the murder.In a statement, police added the parents opposed the woman’s relationship with Mullah and approached Nagappa to end it. But the woman remained adamant. Police said the parents met Nagappa multiple times and when Mullah refused to end the relationship, they threatened him. As the threats did not work, Nagappa allegedly hired seven contract killers to kill Mullah on September 28. The killers dumped his body on the railway tracks.The arrests come after Mullah’s family complained about the delay in the investigation. In her complaint to the police, Mullah’s mother, Nazeema Mohammad Sheikh, accused the woman’s family of murdering her son to end the relationship.“We knew about the relationship, and I had spoken to the woman’s mother to ensure she does not meet him. I also told my son not to meet her. I shifted from Khanapur to Azam Nagar in Belagavi with my son. But the two continued to meet, and we started getting threats from her family,” Sheikh said.A protest was held in Belagavi on Monday against the police inaction.The seven other suspects arrested are the alleged contract killers. They have been identified as Maruti Pralhad Sugathe, Manjunatha Thukaram Gondali, Ganapathi Jnaneshwara Sugathe, Prashanth Kallappa Patil, Praveena Shankara, Qutubuddin and Shreedhara Mahadeva Doney.The accused have been booked under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence ), 341 (wrongful restraint), 120 B (criminal conspiracy), 384 (extortion ), and 149 (unlawful assembly).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/parents-among-those-arrested-for-muslim-man-s-murder-over-his-relationship-with-their-daughter-101633683129035.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||BJP's Manoj Tiwari to hold march against ban on Chhat Puja celebrations||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manoj Tiwari is taking out a "Chhath Yatra" on Friday to urge the Aam Aadmi Party-led government to permit puja celebrations in the city. During the march, Tiwari will also interact with people of the Purvanchali community and ask for their take on the Delhi government's decision to prohibit Chhath Puja celebrations at public places.This comes after the Delhi's 'Chhath puja' Committee's functionaries met Tiwari and favoured celebrating the festival in public places like riverbeds, ponds, and other water bodies.However, the celebrations have been prohibited by the Delhi government in an order passed on September 30, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. 'Chhath puja' celebration shall not be allowed in public places, public grounds, riverbanks, and temples citing the Covid-19 pandemic in the national capital, the government had stated in the order.Instead, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has advised devotees to celebrate the festival at their homes.After the conclusion of the march, the BJP leader will meet Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to seek permission for the Chhath puja celebrations. Baijal is also a chairman of the DDMA."There is no chance of Covid-19 infection spread when people celebrate Chhath in public places because devotees get into only knee-deep water while offering prayers," said Tiwari, addressing the concerns regarding the Covid-19."When people can enjoy swimming in the pools without any Covid-19 threat, how can Chhath spread infection," he also questioned. The Delhi government should make body temperature checks mandatory for entry into Chhath puja sites, the singer-turned-politician also said.In the past, Tiwari has also warned of staging protests in the city if the government doesn't revoke its order.Chhath Puja is a widely celebrated festival in India. It is dedicated to worship of Sun, where devotees express their gratitude for bestowing the bounties of life on earth. On this day, women observe a fast and worship the Sun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjps-manoj-tiwari-to-hold-march-against-ban-on-chhat-puja-celebrations-101633677830542.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||CBI court holds Dera Sacha Sauda head guilty of Ranjit Singh’s murder||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Panchkula on Friday held Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim guilty of murdering his follower, Ranjit Singh, in 2002. The judgment was pronounced by special CBI judge Sushil Kumar Garg and the quantum of punishment will be awarded on October 12. Also read: Amit Shah firm on Valley violence, sends experts to neutralise terrorists“The special CBI court has convicted Gurmeet Ram Rahim under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code for murder. Five other accused too have been convicted,” CBI special prosecutor HPS Verma said. HC dismissed victim’s son’s plea to transfer trial On Tuesday, the high court had dismissed a plea of Ranjit Singh’s son Jagseer Singh seeking the transfer of trial to another court in neighbouring states, levelling allegations against a CBI lawyer. However, the high court termed the allegations based upon surmises and conjectures. Acting on the plea of Jagseer Singh, the high court stayed further proceedings on August 24, two days before the trial court was to pronounce the final judgment. Ranjit Singh, a follower of Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra. Ranjit highlighted sexual abuse of women disciples According to the CBI, he was murdered as Ram Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter highlighting sexual exploitation of female disciples at the dera. The dera head is lodged in Rohtak’s Sunaria Jail, serving a 20-year jail term for raping two disciples. There were mainly three cases registered against the Sirsa-based dera chief in 2002. All were investigated by the CBI. The dera chief has been convicted in two cases, one related to sexual exploitation of women disciples and the second of the murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati. The third case was of Ranjit Singh in which he was convicted on Friday. The first conviction was in a sexual exploitation case in August 2017, which had resulted in widespread violence in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-court-holds-dera-sacha-sauda-head-ram-rahim-guilty-of-follower-s-murder-101633675207690.html
08-10-2021||Gurugram||Brain dead man donates organs, gives new life to three patients||In a rare case, a 52-year-old man, who was declared brain dead after suffering a hemorrhage gave a new life to three ailing patients by organ donation after his demise.The man himself was a recipient of an organ and had undergone a successful liver transplant at Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI) in Gurugram. His family decided to donate the patient's liver and kidneys.The patient was admitted to the hospital after he suffered from an episode of right-sided weakness with slurring of speech. He was diagnosed with intra-cranial hemorrhage with midline shift.The patient was put on ventilator support, however, the patient was declared brain dead. The family consented to donate organs - both the kidneys and the liver - and the same were allotted by National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO) to one recipient in Fortis and two recipients at private hospitals in Delhi.As per the official statement from Fortis hospital, Dr Anil Mandhani, Executive Director, Urology and Kidney Transplant at Fortis, Gurugram along with his team had conducted the procedure of retrieving both the kidneys and a separate liver team from a private hospital retrieved the liver.One of the kidneys was transplanted at FMRI into a 60-year-old female by Dr Mandhani. The second kidney and a liver were allotted to a 51-year-old female and 54-year-old male respectively to different hospitals in Delhi.Dr Mandhani in an official statement said, "I salute the deceased donor and his family to have realized the value of organ donation and giving life to many ailing patients. We should all be a part of this noble act of giving life after death by donating organs. The patients who received the kidneys did not have genuine living donors and they were fighting for life on dialysis for long. But this gentle act of donation gave them new lease of life. This should encourage everyone to come forward and get themselves registered for organ donation."Dr Avnish Seth, Principal Director, Gastroenterology and Hepatobiliary Sciences, Fortis Memorial Research Institute Gurugram and Director, Fortis Organ Retrieval and Transplant (FORT) said, "The actions of donor family are truly commendable, and we are humbled by their selflessness. Despite their grief, they have ensured their father was able to provide life to three others."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/brain-dead-man-donates-organs-gives-new-life-to-three-patients-101633674157897.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||Devotees offer prayers at places of worship in Maharashtra||Six months after places of worship were closed down on account of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the second wave of the pandemic, devotees across religions were able to offer their prayers as part of a larger community on Thursday.Prominent places of worship like Mumbadevi Mandir, Siddhivinayak temple, Mahim Church as well as both the Mahim and Haji Ali dargahs saw huge crowds of devotees – including politicians – throng these places, even as the institutions adopted strict Covid-19 guidelines to prevent crowding and maintain physical distancing.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued orders on October 1 which reinforced the restrictions put in place by the state - no religious place was allowed to offer “prasad” or sprinkle holy water; devotees were to be allowed only in specific time slots; and all sites would be full up to only 50% capacity.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, accompanied by his family members, visited the Mumbadevi temple in South Mumbai on Thursday morning. He was followed by Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and Water Resources minister Jayant Patil visited Siddhivinayak temple. Minority development minister Nawab Malik and port Development minister Aslam Shaikh went to Mahim and Haji Ali dargahs respectively.Meanwhile, Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 2681 Covid-19 new cases with 49 deaths. Mumbai’s tally of new cases was 453 with five deaths thus bringing its total death toll to 16,141. The total number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,570,472. There were 147,320 tests done on Thursday while the number of recoveries clocked at 2,413. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 33,397 while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 139,411.There are currently 33,397 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 8818 patients followed by Mumbai with 5711 active patients and Thane with 4156. The death toll has now reached 139,411 with Pune leading with 19,496 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16.141 and Thane with 11,383.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/devotees-offer-prayers-at-places-of-worship-in-maharashtra-101633667766864.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Clear skies, moderate air quality for Delhi on Friday||Delhi is likely to see a clear sky on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be at 23 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 35 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Thursday was 24 degrees Celsius, and the maximum temperature was 34 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 157.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Friday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the moderate category with PM10 as the main pollutant due to cold polluted air coming from the north-west of India (IGP) along with local road dust re-suspension. With the presence of high pressure over north-west India AQI will degrade to be in moderate for next 3 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clear-skies-moderate-air-quality-for-delhi-on-friday-101633664228736.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Monsoon to withdraw from Delhi in 1-2 days, says IMD||Conditions are becoming favourable for withdrawal of monsoon from some parts of Gujarat, entire Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and some parts of Madhya Pradesh during next 1-2 days according to India Meteorological Department.A cyclonic circulation is lying over the East-central Arabian Sea off the Karnataka coast. It is very likely to persist during the next 4-5 days with slight northward movement. A trough (line of low pressure) is running from the cyclonic circulation over the Eastcentral Arabian sea to the Westcentral Bay of Bengal adjoining Andhra Pradesh Coast across South Interior Karnataka, Rayalseema. Under the influence of these systems, light to moderate rainfall is likely at many places with isolated heavy rain likely over Maharashtra, Kerala and Coastal Karnataka during the next 5 days and over Tamil Nadu till October 10. A low-pressure area is likely to form over the north Andaman Sea around October 10. It is likely to become more marked and move west-northwestwards towards south Odisha and north Coastal Andhra Pradesh coast during subsequent 4-5 days. Light to moderate rainfall is likely at many places with isolated heavy falls very likely over Andaman & Nicobar Islands during the next 5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/monsoon-to-withdraw-from-delhi-in-1-2-days-101633663567878.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu: 25,000 pay obeisance at Vaishno Devi shrine on Day 1 of nine-day long Navratris||Amid tight security arrangements and Covid guidelines, the nine-day long Navratri festival began at the holy cave shrine of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi on Thursday. “Shat Chandi Mahayagya organised by the shrine board also commenced today on the first Navratra amid chanting of Vedic mantras,” shrine board’s spokesperson said. On the first day of the nine-day long festival, nearly 25,000 pilgrims visited the cave shrine. KK Sharma, member, shrine board; Ramesh Kumar, CEO of the board; Naresh Kumar, SDM Bhawan; other senior officers of the board and a large number of pilgrims were among the devotees who paid obeisance. Like in the past, the shrine board has made elaborate arrangements to facilitate a much larger number of pilgrims who are likely to visit the holy cave during Navratris. These arrangements include round-the-clock water and power supply, sanitation and cleanliness, medical care and availability of special “fast-related” food at the catering outlets of the shrine board. The shrine board CEO interacted with the pilgrims and enquired about the arrangements made by the board to facilitate them. He expressed satisfaction at the arrangements put in place for the pilgrims at Bhawan and Katra. He also informed that the play ‘Mata ki Kahani’ would be presented by Natrang Theatre Group in the auditorium of Spiritual Growth Centre at Katra with a limited audience. The show will also be telecast at different locations through LED screens to avoid large gatherings at a single place. He underscored that all the activities have been planned to keep in view the pandemic. Many events have been redesigned to minimise public gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/25000-pay-obeisance-at-vaishno-devi-shrine-on-day-1-of-nine-day-long-navratris-101633648445663.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||J&K: Kishtwar’s Marwah valley gets cellular connectivity||The Indian Army in tandem with the civil administration has provided mobile phone connectivity to more than 20,000 people of Marwah valley in Kishtwar district. “Mobile phone has become an integral part of our lives. One cannot imagine a life without mobile phones, but for an area with population of more than 20,000, cellular connectivity was a dream till few months back. It was with the demand of people and proactive administration of the Kishtwar along with the support of the army that the dream of mobile connectivity has finally been realised now with the tower being operational at Nawapachi in Marwah,” said a defence spokesperson. It is pertinent to mention that Marwah valley remains cut off from rest of the world for months and basic necessities like education and medical needs become extremely difficult to avail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-kishtwar-s-marwah-valley-gets-cellular-connectivity-101633648265394.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Outrage in Jammu over targeted killings in Kashmir||Enraged over sudden spike of selective killings of members of minority communities in Kashmir, several outfits and their representatives asked the J&K administration to “bring its act together before the situation spirals out of control and goes back to 90s”. J&K High Court Bar Association, Jammu, president MK Bhardwaj said, “To use terrorism selectively against the minorities is an act of cowardice. We want stern action against the anti-national forces to prevent them for repeating similar acts in future.” The association has decided to abstain from work on Friday. Acts of ISI-backed anti-nationals: Chugh BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh has described the incidents of militant attacks in Srinagar as the “cowardly acts of disruptive and anti-national forces backed by Pakistan ISI”. He said the killing of two government schoolteachers was a heinous crime committed by desperate militants trying to scuttle peace and development in the Valley. Congress chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma also condemned the killings and said, “The government must bring its act together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/outrage-in-jammu-over-targeted-killings-in-kashmir-101633648025458.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 142 test positive in HP, 134 in J&K||Himachal logged 142 fresh Covid cases on Thursday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,20,061 while death toll mounted to 3,678 after four patients died of the infection. Among the fresh cases, 35 each were reported in Hamirpur and Kangra, 27 in Mandi, 17 in Bilaspur, eight in Shimla, seven in Una, four each in Kinnaur and Solan, three in Kullu and two in Sirmaur.The active cases have come down to 1,404 while recoveries reached 2,14,962 after 211 people recuperated. Kangra is still the worst-hit district with a total of 49,237 cases reported till date, followed by 31,120 in Mandi and 27,300 in Shimla. In Jammu and Kashmir, 134 people tested positive for the virus. Of the total cases, 75 were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 59 infections. The number of cured patients was 109 with the active cases reaching 1,090.Officials said with 43 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 35 in Poonch while as many as 17 other districts had no or single-digit cases.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,24,736, prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.32%. The total cases in J&K have reached 3,30,252 and the death toll stands at 4,426.Officials said that 51,914 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-142-test-positive-in-hp-134-in-jk-101633647725434.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls: Congress will win all four seats, says Sujanpur MLA||The Congress will win all four byelections in the state and as the BJP has lost its credibility and support among the people, Congress incharge for Fatehpur bypoll and Sujanpur MLA Rajinder Singh Rana said on Thursday. He was addressing a public meeting at Fatehpur after nomination of Congress’ Bhawani Singh Pathania. He said the ruling party was jittery due to its poor performance for four years and growing dissent. “Be it Jubbal or Fatehpur, Arki or Mandi, alarm bells are ringing for the BJP due to rebellion and saffron party workers have lost the confidence,” he added. Rana also took a jibe at HP chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for his statement wherein he said “Mandi is ours”. “Only Mandi? What does the chief minister think about other parts of the state?” asked Rana. Pathania, meanwhile, said bringing industry which may open large number of employment opportunities for local youth will be his priority. BJP slams Congress for promoting dynastic politicsBJP state general secretary Trilok Jamwal on Thursday said that the Congress always promoted dynastic politics. Talking to the media at Shimla, he said while the Gandhi family dominated the Congress at the national level, in Himachal, it was former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s family. “It is strange that the Congress could not find any candidate from Mandi parliamentary constituency other than a relative of Virbhadra Singh,” he said. “Pratibha Singh’s only qualification is her being the wife of Virbhadra Singh. As a former MP, she has no achievement to count,” Jamwal added. He said there was huge difference in the talks and deeds of the opposition party. The BJP state general secretary said when in power, the Congress had promised unemployment allowance to the jobless youth, but never fulfilled it. About the BJP, he said, “The party is united. The election is being fought under the leadership of CM Jai Ram Thakur and state BJP president Suresh Kashyap. We will surely win all the four seats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypolls-congress-will-win-all-four-seats-says-sujanpur-mla-101633647485552.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls: Voices of dissent grow louder in BJP||Trouble is brewing up for the BJP in Himachal’s Fatehpur ahead of the October 30 bypolls as more than three dozen office-bearers and elected representatives resigned after party chose Baldev Thakur as its candidate for the byelection. Those who quit the party included BJP’s Fatehpur block president Kartar Pathania, block development council chairperson Nisha Sharma, vice-president Dharmender Shunna, block mahila morcha president Suman Bala and 40 elected pradhans. Kartar said they wanted to know why the BJP chose a person who fought against the party’s official nominee in 2017 assembly elections. “Why was the ticket denied to Kripal Parmar who has dedicatedly served the party for many decades?” he asked. “BJP workers of Fatehpur are with Parmar. If the party doesn’t change its decision, we all will work against the BJP candidate,” he said. Meanwhile, Parmar, who had extended wishes of Navratri on his social media page in the morning, is keeping a cryptic silence and his cards close to his chest. Amid such infighting, it would be a daunting task for the ruling party wrest Fatehpur where it has lost three consecutive elections since 2007. Chinks in the BJP Fatehpur’s unit became more visible when posters calling him an outsider, referring to his routes in Punjab and not in Himachal, surfaced two days ago. Parmar had lost the 2017 assembly election to Fatehpur seat by a slander margin of just 1,200-odd votes, primarily due to the infighting. At that time also, similar posters were put up in Fatehpur against him. Baldev had contested the 2017 assembly election as an Independent. He had secured more than 13,000 votes breaching in the BJP’s vote bank which ultimately resulted in Parmar’s defeat. Another BJP rebel, former MP Rajan Sushant also contested as an Independent and polled more than 6,000 votes. He has this time floated his own political outfit ‘Hamari Party Himachal Party’ and is again in fray. He will only harm the BJP’s prospects. Traditionally, voters in areas under Fatehpur assembly constituency have mostly favoured Congress candidates. Fatehpur was carved out by merging areas of Jawali, Gangath and Nurpur assembly segments in the delimitation process before 2012 assembly elections. Congress veteran Sujan Singh Pathania, whose demise necessitated the October 30 byelection, had won seven elections from the seat while former BJP MP Rajan Sushant was victorious on four occasions. Meanwhile, Congress has fielded Sujan Singh Pathania’s son Bhawani Singh Pathania from its traditional stronghold. He filed his nomination on Thursday. Apart from him former MP Rajan Sushant also filed his nomination. Bhawani Pathania before taking the poll plunge worked as top executive in insurance and banking companies. He has already hit the campaign trail and attended more than a dozen public meetings. Chetan Bragta questions ticket allocation in Jubbal-KotkhaiHimachal BJP’s IT cell head Chetan Bragta on Thursday raised a banner of revolt against the party after Neelam Seraik was chosen over him for the Jubbal-Kotkhai seat. Till Wednesday, it looked certain that the party would field Chetan as he was in the forefront of campaigns after his father Narendra Bragta’s death. Neelam is said to be close to urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj. Chetan’s supporters also staged a protest in Kotkhai’s Gumma on Thursday and decried the party’s decision to allocate ticket to Neelam. Questioning the ticket allocation, Chetan asked, “What was my fault? I was mourning my father’s death when the party high command asked me to start campaigning. My father had died serving the party. He would not have contracted Covid had the party not sent him to Solan for municipal election campaigning. The BJP will have a lot many questions to answer.” He added, “If I was denied the ticket due to party’s formula of discouraging dynastic politics, then it should have at least chosen anyone among the senior leaders. Rather it chose a leader who all these years had been conniving with the Congress to weaken the BJP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypolls-voices-of-dissent-grow-louder-in-bjp-101633647305452.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court asks Ambala police to look into fight between transgenders||Latika, 39, an Ambala-based transgender, had filed a plea in the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking protection of life and liberty, stating that she is living under constant threat after being allegedly threatened by chelas (associates) of mahant Rajkumari Haji, as she continued asking for offerings in the area even after leaving the dera. The petitioner was a former associate of Rajkumari and visited door-to-door in 25 villages and neighbouring localities seeking offerings and giving blessings on special occasions. However, Latika parted ways and the mahant started pressuring her to leave the city.Petitioner’s advocate Maninderjit Singh on September 28 told the court that his client had been attacked and threatened in the past by fellow transgenders under the mahant, Twinkle and Heena along with a driver, Rehmat Ali, alias Laddu, and a local property dealer, Rahul Singh Walia. “A representation was given to the SHO, police station, Sector 9, Ambala City, in May 2021, but no steps were taken…In June the petitioner was attacked at the police post No.5, who was saved by the police and was dropped home by them. This incident was brought to the notice of the DGP, Haryana, but to no avail. In September, the said accused came to Latika’s house in her absence and had openly threatened to eliminate her if she doesn’t leave Ambala City. This was brought to the notice of the SSP, Ambala, but no action was taken,” the petition says.Latika said there were apprehensions that the said people might attack her and asked the court to protect her life and liberty.On October 1, the court of Justice Deepak Sibal disposed of the petition and directed the SHO of the police station concerned to take action as per law. Meanwhile, Maninderjit Singh said as per the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019, forcing any transgender to leave household, village or other places of residence was a punishable offence with two years of imprisonment and a fine. Section 18 of the Act explains that compelling a transgender person to indulge in the act of forced or bonded labour other than any compulsory service for public purposes imposed by the government, denying them the right of passage to a public place or obstructs such person from using or having access to a public place to which other members have access to or a right to use or harming their life, safety, health or well-being, whether mental or physical, tends to do acts, including causing physical, sexual, verbal, emotional and economic abuse, are also punishable offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-asks-ambala-police-to-look-into-fight-between-transgenders-101633645265237.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity update: No Covid case in Mohali for second consecutive day||In a major relief, no fresh infection of Covid-19 surfaced in Mohali for the second consecutive day on Thursday. The tricity reported seven fresh infections on Thursday, with Chandigarh logging six cases and Panchkula one. The tricity had witnessed seven cases on Wednesday as well.Meanwhile, no fatality owing to the virus was recorded in any of the three areas on Thursday.The infections in Chandigarh were reported from Sector 36, 48, Manimajra, and PGI campus. Chandigarh also added 10 backlog cases in the UT’s total Covid-19 infection tally on Thursday.The active caseload in the tricity stands at 71, with 40 patients in Chandigarh, 25 in Mohali and six in Panchkula.Chandigarh’s caseload has reached 65,268, including 64,408 recoveries and 820 deaths. As many as 68,749 people have been found infected in Mohali so far. Among them, 67,656 have recovered and 1,068 have died.In Panchkula, of the 30,742 total cases, 30,358 patients have been cured and 378 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-update-no-covid-case-in-mohali-for-second-consecutive-day-101633644965405.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress puts up united face in Punjab before leaving for Lakhimpur Kheri||The Congress party on Thursday showed a united face before leaving for Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight people were killed on October 3. Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu, who led the march from Chatt light points on Airport Road in Mohali announced to go on a hunger strike, if the accused involved in the massacre, is not arrested. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, two deputy chief ministers- Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, cabinet ministers Pargat Singh, Sangat Singh Gilizian, Vijay Inder Singla, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, around 30 MLAs, other Congress leaders including former cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, working president Kuljeet Singh Nagra and hundreds of party workers were present at the Chhat light point, from where the march started around 1.30 pm. Addressing media persons at the lightpoint, Sidhu lashed out at the BJP and asked if a union minister is above the law. “Even after four days of registering an FIR and nominating the union minister son’s in the FIR, UP police have not arrested him. This protest will continue till they are arrested. I am going to be on hunger strike from tomorrow (Friday) if they will not be arrested,” said Sidhu. “This fight is of my leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi. For the first time, we have seen how they (accused in the case) ran the vehicle over the protesting farmers. I am ready to sacrifice my life, but will take this fight to a logical conclusion,” he added. He further said, “600 farmers have lost their lives, but the egoistic BJP government is not ready to budge. On being asked where he will hold the hunger strike, Sidhu said, “Wherever UP government will stop me, I will begin my hunger strike there.” Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said, “BJP has crossed all limits and for the first time in the history of the country, we have seen that a person named in the FIR, who killed four farmers, is roaming freely. Deputy chief minister OP Soni said, “Navjot Singh Sidhu will lead the march and most of the MLAs have joined the march to get justice.” Former cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said, “The BJP has crossed all limits by not arresting Ashish Mishra Teni, who is the son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni. He is nominated in the FIR and it was a preplanned murder.” Massive traffic jam There was a massive traffic jam on Patiala road and Airport road for nearly two hours on Thursday as most of the Congress leaders and workers had parked their vehicles on the road. Newly appointed SSP of Mohali, Navjot Singh Mahal, was seen requesting people to clear the road. A heavy police force was present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-puts-up-united-face-in-punjab-before-leaving-for-lakhimpur-kheri-101633644605418.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police goofs up, reveals name of diplomat who was molested||Call it an oversight or sheer callousness, Chandigarh police ended up revealing the identity of the senior British diplomat, who had filed a molestation case on Wednesday. A day after her complaint, UT police uploaded the FIR on the website, revealing her name, phone number, address etc. Normally, in cases filed by women and children, the identities are not revealed. Even though the UT police uploads such cases on its website, these are classified as sensitive and not accessible to the general public. Even in routine crime cases, where no sexual assault is involved but the complainant is a woman, Chandigarh police withholds the name. But in this case, the FIR was uploaded as a routine FIR thus making it available to any person who logs on to the website. When contacted, superintendent of police Ketan Bansal said, “The FIR should not have been uploaded on the website, I will get it checked.” The 60-year-old diplomat was allegedly molested near Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) in Sector 10 on Wednesday morning while she was on her way to play tennis. The envoy alleged that she had crossed Jan Marg and was at the roundabout near hotel Mount View when an unidentified man arrived on his motorbike and molested her. Her complaint said, “I was walking past the residential houses when a motorcycle came up behind me. The rider hit me hard with his hand or something on my back. I shouted at him and ran after him but he sped away.” On the basis of her complaint, a case under Section 354 (sexual harassment) and 354 A (assault or use of criminal force on any woman or abet such act with the intention of disrobing) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 3 police station. Police yet to arrest accused Even a day after, the police have failed to arrest the accused who had touched her inappropriately. Police are scanning closed circuit television cameras in the area to trace the number of the motorcycle which they still have not been able to find. Police are even scanning the dump data of mobile phones active in the area at the time, but so far, they haven’t got any clues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-goofs-up-reveals-name-of-diplomat-who-was-molested-101633643825321.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Patwari held while accepting ₹2,000 graft||The Chandigarh vigilance department arrested a patwari of the revenue department on Thursday while taking a bribe of ₹2,000. The accused, Vinod Kumar, was arrested at in his office in Bhopal Singh stadium, Burail. The complainant (whose name was withheld by vigilance) had alleged that he needed a copy of the fard of his house and Kumar demanded ₹5,000 for it, even though the official fee is ₹3. After negotiations, the amount was settled at ₹4,000 and the complainant paid ₹2,000 to Kumar, following which he approached vigilance. A team comprising independent witnesses and officers of vigilance police station was constituted under OSD Vigilance Deepak Yadav. A trap was laid at the patwari’s office and he was arrested red handed. A case under Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at vigilance police station. Kumar will be produced before a court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-patwari-held-while-accepting-2-000-graft-101633643525072.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||UP forms judicial panel, to submit report in 2 months||The Uttar Pradesh government has appointed a single-member judicial commission to probe and submit a report, within two months, on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident which left eight people, including four farmers, dead earlier this week.Justice Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, a retired judge of Allahabad high court, was named to probe the October 3 violence, on Tikunia-Banbirpur road, which erupted after four farmers were allegedly mowed down by a vehicle belonging to Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni during a protest against the three contentious agricultural laws.Four others, including a journalist, were killed in the clashes.In a notification dated October 6, the government said the judicial commission will be headquartered at Lakhimpur Kheri.“The Governor is pleased to appoint Justice High Court, Allahabad (retd) Pradeep Kumar Srivastava as a single-member Commission of enquiry with Headquarters at Lakhimpur Kheri,” the notification said.“The Commission shall complete the enquiry within a period of two months from the date of the issue of this notification. Any change in its tenure shall be at the behest of the Government,” it added.Setting up of a judicial inquiry was one of the components of the agreement mediated by farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on behalf of the protesting farmers with the state government, a day after the October 3 incident.Justice Srivastava was appointed a judge in the Allahabad high court on November 22, 2018 and he retired from there on September 29 last month.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri district on Sunday. The farmers alleged that they were knocked down by vehicles driven by BJP workers . The remaining deceased -- two BJP workers, a journalist and a driver -- were allegedly pulled out of the vehicles and then lynched by angry protesters.On October 3, the Uttar Pradesh police booked Teni, his son and others on murder and other charges based on the complaint lodged by farmers. The minister and his son have denied the latter’s alleged involvement in the incident.Additional Director General (ADG), Law and Order, Prashant Kumar on Thursday said that two people, identified as Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey., have been arrested, while summons have been sent to Ashish Mishra.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, however, demanded a probe by a sitting Supreme Court or high court judge, and not by a retired judge. The Congress leader, who met families of three of the eight deceased, told reporters in Lucknow: “In my view and that of the victims’ families as well, the case should be probed by a sitting Supreme Court or high court judge, and not the retired judge.”Commenting about setting up of the panel, UP minister Suresh Rana said, “Justice will be done in the case...An inquiry will unravel all aspects of the case, including those who fanned the fire,”Before leaving for Bahraich, Gandhi said, “I don’t want to comment on the probe as it has not started yet. But I can say that for an unbiased probe, the minister should resign as he has the home portfolio and all this comes under him.”(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-forms-judicial-panel-to-submit-report-in-2-months-101633643112160.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Monsoon withdrawal to be declared soon||With the minimum temperature going down to 22.3°C on Thursday, nights are beginning to get colder in the city, met officials said, adding that monsoon withdrawal is likely to be declared in a day or two.As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), at 22.3°C, the city recorded the lowest minimum temperature since September 24 when it had gone down to 22.2°C. It is still three degrees above normal and is expected to fall further in the coming days.Monsoon withdrawal has been declared in parts of Rajasthan and Gujarat and will likely be declared in the region over the next two days.The maximum temperature went down from 33.9°C on Wednesday to 33.7°C on Thursday. The minimum temperature went down from 23.1°C on Wednesday to 22.3°C on Thursday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 34°C and 35°C while the minimum temperature will remain between 22°C and 23°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-monsoon-withdrawal-to-be-declared-soon-101633643225171.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two arrested for thrashing stray dog||Two residents of Dadumajra, who had beaten up a stray dog and left it to die, were arrested on charges of cruelty against animals on Thursday. The accused were identified as Mohan Lal Khattari and Babu Ram, both residents of Dadumajra. They were granted bail soon after arrest. The incident came to light after a video was shared on social media platforms, showing two men mercilessly beating up a stray dog. A complaint in this regard was lodged by Amandeep Singh, a resident of Ludhiana on October 5.When the police team reached the spot where the incident took place, the animal was not found there. The accused had claimed that they had beaten up the dog after it had barked at them and charged towards them, seemingly to bite them. A case under Section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 11 (1) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act, 1960, was registered at the Maloya police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-arrested-for-thrashing-stray-dog-101633642685135.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||New government school to give equal heft to classes, sports||The Delhi government on Thursday said it had started work on building a unique School of Specialised Excellence (SoSE) at Mahram Nagar, which will be designed with an aim to provide academics and sports facilities.The school will comprise a semi-Olympic size swimming pool, in addition to other facilities. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia laid the foundation stone for the school on Thursday.Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said that the design of the new building had been created keeping in mind the overall development of children.“This school building will be different from the normal schools and the entire school premises will be involved in the children’s learning process,” said Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-government-school-to-give-equal-heft-to-classes-sports-101633642412447.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sans approvals, 24/7 water supply in Chandigarh still a pipe dream||City residents will have to wait more for 24/7 water supply as the project’s commencement itself is set to get delayed by at least three to six more months. With the requisite Union government approvals still not in place, the municipal corporation (MC) will miss the October 15 deadline for signing of the memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the French firm, Agence Française de Développement (AFD). After October 15, the AFD can revise the rate of interest to be charged on the loan amount, making it more expensive for the city and consequently raising the cost of the project. MC can end up re-negotiating the interest rates. Confirming the development, UT adviser Dharam Pal, said, “MC will not be able to sign the agreement with the AFD by October 15. It will take another few months.” A senior MC official pegged the delay at three months to six months. The fact that the MC hasn’t taken all the requisite approvals came to light during the two-day visit of MC commissioner Anindita Mitra to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) this week. The adviser held a meeting with Mitra here on Thursday. Mitra briefed the adviser on her MHA visit and the status of the project. Notably, MC officials had earlier claimed that requisite approvals were in place. MC officials, in May this year, had even announced the timeline for the project, stating that agreement would be signed in August/September, tenders floated by October-end and work on the project to start by February 2022. Officials had declared that by December this year, AFD would release ₹43 crore while EU would release around ₹9 crore as the first installment for the project. The AFD is to provide ₹413 crore to the project in the form of a loan, which is to be repaid in 15 years. In addition to it, the European Union (EU) is also giving a grant of ₹98 crore to the project. But before the grant is released, the AFD has to sign “Credit Facility Agreement” (CFA) with the Department of Economic Affairs (DEA) of the Union ministry of finance. Thereafter, a MoU will be signed between the MC and the donor agencies. MC yet to take MHA “in principle” approval An MC official who didn’t want to be named said, “The MC is still to take the “in-principle” approval of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and the nod of the standing finance committee (SFC) of the Ministry of Finance. Without both, DEA of will not come on board and sign the CFA with the AFD.” “MC has not submitted the requisite papers for the process to begin,” said the official. “The MC officials are still to assess whether the union government will consider the project worth ₹6,000 crore incorporating the operations and maintenance costs over its 20-year period or just ₹591 crore, the construction cost,” said the official. Taking a serious note of MC officials’ earlier laxity on the issue, Pal, said, “I am going to monitor it very aggressively. Commissioner will also take it up on priority basis. This project is very important for the city. I have directed the MC to complete the paperwork as quickly as possible so that necessary approvals of the MHA and the DEA are taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sans-approvals-24-7-water-supply-in-chandigarh-still-a-pipe-dream-101633642325532.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Class-12 student raped, impregnated by friend in Ludhiana||A Class-12 student who was raped by a boy one year her junior, was found 18 weeks pregnant on Thursday. The 16-year-old and the accused study at a government senior secondary school in Jagraon subdivision. The victim was rushed to a private hospital after she complained of a severe stomachache, where it was found that she was 18 weeks pregnant.In his statement, the victim’s father said the accused and his daughter had been friends for around four years. However, around four months ago, the accused came to their house at night, while the family was asleep, and raped his daughter.Fearing ostracisation and ridicule, the victim did not tell anybody about the sexual assault. Investigating officer, sub-inspector Kirandeep Kaur of Hathur said the accused is absconding.A case was registered under Section 376 (rape), 506 ( criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the POCSO ( Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act.The victim was presented before the child welfare committee and allowed to return home. Ruchi Bawa, member Child Welfare Committee (CWC), said the girl had been sent home with her parents and will be medically examined soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/class12-student-raped-impregnated-by-friend-in-ludhiana-101633642205207.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Portrait of a key maker||It’s like discovering all the passwords of your online existence copy-pasted into a stranger’s laptop. Such is the alarm one feels on coming face-to-face with hundreds of keys hanging in several bunches, from a series of nails rammed into a low wooden block.The Old Delhi pavement stall of the so-named Chabi Wale specialises in making keys, or chabi, for various kinds of big and small locks. The Chabi Wale’s mobile phone number is scrawled all over the stall’s wooden booth, including on the wall behind him. On receiving a call, the Chabi Wale walks over to the customer’s gali or kucha, surveys the lock, and makes a replica of the lost key on the spot. Customers also occasionally walk to the stall to get “duplicate chabi” made.The establishment has been in Tiraha Behram Khan for more than 40 years. The founder is sitting in a spotlessly white kurta and white lungi; his beard is also white. In his 60s, Muhammad Ateek feels his occupation will never be threatened by recent innovations in automated locking. Even though at least one house in the Walled City—near Pataudi Chowk—has replaced the familiar tala-and-chabi with an electrical lock based on programmed codes. “Fancy chochle (blandishment) cannot replace the chabi,” the Chabi Wale declares, expressing confidence that his son will keep the stall alive.This afternoon the bazaar is crowded with shoppers, and the street looks like a blur from the Chabi Wale’s chair. The counter on his booth is filled with a variety of handy tools. Son, Salman, identifies each with its name—“reti, sansi, hathori, pechkas, plaas, chenni, batta...”While the young man has obediently taken up his father’s occupation, the elderly Chabi Wale rebelled against his father. “He sold fruit, I didn’t like doing that work.” He was intrigued by a friend, who was working as a Chabi Wale in Chawri Bazar. “I learnt key making from him and set up my shop on this same spot.” The stall is located outside Masjid Bar Wali—the mosque’s bar tree no longer exists. Neither does the Chabi Wale’s ancestral home behind the mosque, on Gali Rohilla. “We now live outside Old Delhi, in Minto Road… it’s less noisy there.”No customer has appeared during the course of this conversation. The mobile phone has also remained silent. The venerable Chabi Wale shows no anxiety. He knows that somebody sooner or later is bound to lose a key.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-portrait-of-a-key-maker-101633641838794.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Close shave for truck driver as road caves in||It was a close shave for a truck driver after the road caved-in under the weight of his wheat-laden heavy vehicle in Guru Nanak Pura near Kailash Chowk on Wednesday night. The road had been built over a five-decade-old brick sewer line, which could not take the load of the truck and collapsed. The truck, which fell into the crater thus formed, was pulled out with the help of a crane. Area councillor Jai Prakash said, “Fortunately, no one was injured in the incident and MC staff has been deputed to repair the damaged portion. The movement of traffic was blocked and diverted.”Water, sewer lines damagedPrakash said that sewer and water supply lines had been also damaged in the incident and temporary arrangements had been made on Thursday so that the residents are not inconvenienced. “MC teams will take up repair work at night and directions have been issued to repair the road at the earliest,” he said. Road cave-ins are being increasingly reported across the city. Residents blame old brick sewer lines for the menace. Old sewer lines are still in place in several areas such as the Kaka Marriage Palace Road, Dugri, and Model Town extension. In fact, a motorist had lost his life due to a sudden cave-in on the Kaka Marriage Palace Road in 2011. In 2013, a 80-ft crater had formed near Dhami Eye Hospital after the sewer line collapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-close-shave-for-truck-driver-as-road-caves-in-101633641424977.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||LIT relaunches Atal scheme as Sahir Ludhianvi Apartments||After being scrapped twice in the last decade, the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) on Thursday relaunched the Atal Apartment scheme and rededicated the apartments, which will stand on 8.8-acre land in Karnail Singh Nagar, Pakhowal Road, to the district’s home grown legendry poet, Sahir Ludhianvi. LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam said that under the scheme, the department had proposed to develop 576 flats, including 330 high income group(1,610 square feet) and 276 middle income group (1,210 sq feet) apartments. Semi-finished flats will be allotted to residents through a draw of lots. The cost of HIG flats will be below ₹50 lakh and that of MIG flats will be below ₹40 lakh.Facilities such as a swimming pool, community centre, gymnasium, and small commercial centre will also be provided and the maintenance of the common area, roads, and sewer will be handed over to the contractor for five years.Technical approvals have been taken from the state government and Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA). The prices of the flats have to be finalised, after which the proposal will be sent to the state government, the LIT chairman said. Draw of lots in December “It is expected that applications will be called in by mid-November and draw of lots will take place in mid-December. Construction will start in around six months and the flats will be handed over to the allottees within three years,” he said.The Atal apartment scheme was initially launched in 2011, when the then local bodies minister had laid the foundation stone for the project. The department had even allotted flats, but the scheme was cancelled after allottees failed to pay for the apartments. The scheme was relaunched in 2018 and applications were sought from the residents, but it was again cancelled in 2020.Expect new design. On the name change, the chairman said, “The name of the scheme has been changed to pay tribute to the legendary poet. The Atal apartments scheme has been scrapped and the design has also been changed completely. We decided to name the scheme after Ludhianvi as nothing in the city has been named after him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lit-relaunches-atal-scheme-as-sahir-ludhianvi-apartments-101633640406098.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kabul gurdwara attack concern not only for India but for world as well: MEA||The vandalisation of a gurdwara in Kabul raises concerns not just for India but for the world and the international community must continue to insist on fulfilling goals outlined in a UN Security Council resolution, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. According to reports, Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul was vandalised two days ago. “Obviously it raised concerns not just for us, but I suppose across the world. It is important that the international community continue to insist on the fulfilment of goals outlined in the UN Security Council resolution,” MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. He was replying to a question on the issue at a media briefing. The UN Security Council resolution on Afghanistan was adopted on August 30 under India’s presidency of the powerful body. Bagchi said issues relating to the Afghan situation figured during US deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman’s talks in India on Tuesday, adding there was a need to ensure that terrorism does not emanate from Afghan soil. “We highlighted our perspective on role of Pakistan and what are our concerns regarding that,” Bagchi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kabul-gurdwara-attack-concern-not-only-for-india-but-for-world-as-well-mea-101633640347929.html
08-10-2021||Other||Ambala: Former mayor, MC engineer get into scuffle||Former mayor of the municipal corporation (MC) Ramesh Mal on Wednesday had a violent run-in with a municipal engineer (ME) at the latter’s office. Both of them allegedly tore each other’s clothes and cross-complaints were filed following the incident.Mal submitted his complaint at the police post number 4 and an FIR was lodged under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, while Vipin Boora, the engineer, handed over a complaint to MC commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata that was forwarded to SSP Hamid Akhtar for action.“A DDR has been filed on Boora’s complaint but an FIR is yet to be lodged. No arrest has been made so far,” police post in charge Varyam Singh said on Thursday.The former mayor alleged that he had gone to the MC office at 4 pm for some work after there was no response from Boora on the phone. “He started using foul language against my community, on which I objected and he tore my clothes. My son and locals present at the office got involved and saved me,” Mal said in his complaint. Meanwhile, the ME claimed that Mal wanted to get a no dues certificate (NDC) and had come with a pre-planned conspiracy to attack him.“I told him that I don’t have any responsibility related to the NDC and if I’m not receiving his calls, he should have complained to my senior officials. He was adamant that I’m always unavailable on the phone. I also received some injuries after he attacked me and a complaint was given to the MC commissioner,” Boora said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambala-former-mayor-mc-engineer-get-into-scuffle-101633640225119.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man uses fake documents to send son to Malaysia, booked||A man was booked for using fake documents to get his son, who is facing criminal charges, a passport on Thursday. The accused, Surjit Singh of Hargobind Nagar, has been booked under Section 177 (furnishing false information), and Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Passport Act. The complainant, Sushil Kumar of Ishwal Nagar, said the accused managed to get a passport for his son, Karanvir Singh, who is facing attempt to murder and house-trespassing charges at the Division 3 police station, and sent him to Malaysia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-uses-fake-documents-to-send-son-to-malaysia-booked-101633639928274.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Our core constituency, farmers, still intact; Modi saab should repeal farm laws: Parkash Singh Badal||The grand old man of Punjab politics, 93-year-old Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch and five-time Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal has set his eyes on yet another political battle of his seven-decade-long career. This time, however, he plans to play from the sidelines and watch his son SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal at the forefront. He may not be fast with the body movements but he’s still quick-witted and possesses an astute thinking mind. Currently staying in his resort-like farmhouse at his native Badal village away from the political action, he keeps his ears to the ground. He meets people of Lambi and surrounding constituencies three days a week and is often visited by the leaders of Akali Dal and its new ally Bahujan Samaj Party. He spoke with Hindustan Times on a variety of issues and also ducked a few questions, including the ones related to sacrilege. Excerpts of an interview: Punjab is heading for polls in four months, how do you see the political scenario building up? It is difficult to predict the outcome. Things will be clear only when polls are near. There are too many contenders; Congress party has two camps of (former CM) Capt Amarinder and (state congress president Navjot Singh) Sidhu; then there are the Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP. Akali Dal will give a tough fight. Some people in the government are trying to be vindictive against us, but I always refrained from such tactics. What happened in the past? Amarinder Singh made a case against me, which fell flat in the court. What role do you see for yourself in the elections? SAD has announced 70 candidates, but not from Lambi yet. Do you plan to contest again?I do not want comment on that now, let’s wait and watch. I have addressed two rallies in the past week and am active as much my health permits. Contesting polls will depend on my health. I will be speaking on important matters like the one concerning the farmers. It is a good move to announce candidates early as it gives more time for strategising and campaigning. Where do you place the Congress and the AAP vis-a-vis the Akali Dal? Both the parties take directions from their leaders in Delhi. People of Punjab, in my opinion, will choose the one that understands their issues and stay close to them. Local parties serve people better and regional should unite for a bigger say at the national level. People have a short memory. SAD had fought for the Punjabi Suba for which I was jailed for 15 years. We maintained communal harmony and have done a lot of development…thermal power plants, oil refinery, road network, mandis, irrigation system, memorials...there is so much to count. What the Congress govenrments had done is not even a fraction of that. People know Congress was behind the 1984 genocide and Harmandar Sahib was demolished during their tenure. AAP convener (Arvind) Kejriwal promised a Sikh as the Punjab CM face but failed name one. Your long-time associates Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and Ranjit Singh Brahmpura will not be with you in the 2022 elections. Do you feel the void in the party? Main Dhindsa saab atey Brahmpura saab di dilon izzat kardan...ehe oho jandey han. (I respect Dhindsa and Brahmpura from the core of my heart and they know this). I have done a lot from them, and they also have helped me. I want them back. Ekta vich shakti hai (Unity is strength). Parminder is a sober leader and worked well as a finance minister in the Akali government. Farmers seem to be annoyed with SAD? How do you plan to bring party’s core strength back? I think, some (farmer) leaders may be annoyed but our core strength, the farmers, is still intact. SAD governments had done a lot for farmers and all my decisions as chief minister were farmer-centric. At the time of voting over the three farm laws, it was only Sukhbir (Ferozepur MP) and biba ji (Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal) who voted against the laws, while the Congress and AAP preferred to walk out. We broke alliance with the BJP and quit the Union government. You compare this with 1984 riots and Operation Bluestar; Congress leaders late Giani Zail Singh (then President) and late Buta Singh (then home minister) didn’t relinquish their positions. Akali Dal had a long association with the BJP. Was severing the ties the right decision? No doubt, we had a long association and supported them. But there is no question of regret because for our party, the interests of farmers are the priority. We have moved on and it’s good that we have an alliance with the BSP. Atal Bihari Vajpayee was a great leader as he took everyone along. Narendra Modi is a different man. He passed the farm laws not acceptable to the farmers. Around 700 farmers have lost lives during the agitation, which is very painful, and Lakhimpur hadsey da mainu barra dukh hoya (Lakhimpur incident has saddened me). The scenario could take a worse turn, I appeal to Modi saab to repeal the farm laws. How do you rate the four-and-a-half years of the Capt-led Congress government? As a chief minister, responsibilities are huge…you have to meet aspirations and redress problems of a cross-section of society, but he failed. I used to hold sangat darshans, visit villages and wards, and meet people in my office and at home also. What about newly appointed CM Charanjit Singh Channi? Let us see how he performs; I wish him good luck. The way Channi was made the CM is not empowerment but humiliation. What’s your advice for Sukhbir Singh Badal? Main ohnu kehna jazbe naal kamm kro (I tell him to work with passion). In my opinion, he is in total control and is doing fine. I only advise him to give prominence to communal harmony before taking decisions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/our-core-constituency-farmers-still-intact-modi-saab-should-repeal-farm-laws-parkash-singh-badal-101633639925455.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Job fraud: Chandigarh resident cheated of ₹1.30 lakh||A resident of Sector 35 was duped of ₹1.30 lakh on the lure of securing a job at a private bank for his daughter. The victim, Davinder Singh of Sector 35, stated in his police complaint that his daughter is a final year BCom student and had applied for a job with a private bank in September last year. She then received call from someone who claimed to be an employee of the bank, who asked her to deposit money, which he said was a procedure for registration for the job. After she deposited the money, the accused asked her to deposit more cash at regular intervals in the name of medical fee, NOC etc. Unsuspecting, she kept on depositing the money and ended up paying ₹1.30 lakh. The accused then asked her to deposit more money, to which she refused and enquired about the status of her job application. The accused forwarded her a joining letter and when she reached the bank, she found out that it was fake. A case has been registered under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of Indian Penal Code at Sector 36 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/job-fraud-chandigarh-resident-cheated-of-1-30-lakh-101633639444830.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Channi gives charge of district-level committees to ministers||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has given charge of district-level committees to his deputies and other members of the cabinet to take stock of development works and listen to public grievances. While six ministers have been allocated two districts each, 10 were allocated one each. The ministers have been asked to hold regular meetings. However, Razia Sultana, who resigned from the cabinet in support of state Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, has not been assigned any district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-gives-charge-of-district-level-committees-to-ministers-101633639204792.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navratri: ₹17L donated at Mansa Devi temple on Day 1||A total of ₹17.06 lakh was received in donations on the first day of the Navratri mela organised at the Mansa Devi temple on Thursday.As per the Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, devotees started coming early in the morning. While there was a strict check on wearing masks at the entrance of the temple, some people could be seen without masks inside the temple. Further, social distancing was also hard to maintain due to the rush at the temple. However, the authorities didn’t confirm how many people had turned up on the first day.As per officials, ₹13.03 lakh was collected at Mansa Devi Mandir, ₹4.03 lakh at Kali Mata Mandir and the counting wasn’t done at the Chandi Mata Mandir yet. Gold weighing 2.3 gram and silver weighing 562.1 gram were also donated by devotees.However, this time the donations were less than the last year when ₹23.79 lakh was donated on the first day of Navratri.Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya also paid obeisance at the temple. He spoke about the importance of the festival and what the nine days of Navratri represent to him. As per temple officials, like other devotees, he had applied online for the darshan via www.mansadevi.org.in.Speaker of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha Gian Chand Gupta also visited the temple and inaugurated a blood donation camp organised here by the Haryana Red Cross Society.BP Arora, Chandigarh president, Hindu Parv Mahasabha, said, “We have asked all temples to follow Covid protocols. Till now the response of people is much better than last year when we were in the midst of the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navratri-17l-donated-at-mansa-devi-temple-on-day-1-101633639150682.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Patiala beat Amritsar to emerge champions||Patiala beat Amritsar by seven wickets in the finals of the Punjab State Inter District One Day Limited Overs Tournament at the IS Bindra Punjab Cricket Stadium in Mohali on Thursday. Batting first, Amritsar were bundled out for 117 in 45.overs. Left-arm spinner Karan Kaila wove a web around the Amritsar batsmen, claiming four wickets for 12 runs in 9.2 overs. He was ably supported by Aryamaan, who bowled a nagging length giving away only nine runs in 10 overs and claiming two wickets. Abhay Chaudhary (33) and Sharad Lumba (21) were the main scorers for Amritsar. Replying, Patiala chased the target losing three wickets. Pukhraj Maan remained unbeaten at 42 off 51 balls and Anmol Malhotra at 27 off 41 balls. Pacer Kamal Passi (3 for 34) was the most successful bowler for Amritsar.Kaila was declared man of the match. Surinder Bhave, Punjab Ranji Trophy coach, gave away the winners’ trophy and a cash prize of ₹1.5 lakhs to Patiala and a cash prize of ₹75,000 to runners up Amritsar. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSNo headway yet in theft at BJP leader’s factoryChandigarh: Police are yet to arrest the accused involved in the theft at BJP leader Manish Bhasin Manu’s factory on October 6. The thieves had allegedly stolen ₹18,000 cash, a DVR, two phone chargers and other items. A closed-circuit television camera footage in the vicinity had captured two persons, with their faces covered, entering after scaling the boundary wall. A case under Sections 380 (theft) and 454 (lurking house-trespass) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Industrial Area police station, Chandigarh. Ensure proper implementation of Right to Service Act, secys told
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Aam Aadmi Party alleges neglect of sarpanches, panches in Punjab; seeks hike in honorarium||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Thursday accused the Congress government in Punjab of neither honouring nor giving honorarium to sarpanches and panches even as it was putting a huge burden on the state exchequer by giving new cars and other allowances to ministers and officials. Mann demanded that the Charanjit Singh Channi-led government should immediately pay monthly honorarium of at least ₹25,000 to a sarpanch and ₹10,000 to a panch. The state government was to give honorarium of ₹1,200 per month to sarpanches but even this meager allowance was not received by them for the last three years, he said in a statement. He said on the other hand the heads and members of municipal councils and municipal corporations were being given monthly honorarium, meeting attendance allowance and mobile expenses. Party MLA Aman Arora also demanded regularisation of outsourced computer operators and nodal complaint centre employees, who have been working in powercom for the last eight years. They were being paid salary of ₹10,000 a month and their financial condition was not good, he said, accusing the successive SAD and Congress governments of neglecting them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aam-aadmi-party-alleges-neglect-of-sarpanches-panches-in-punjab-seeks-hike-in-honorarium-101633638904679.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Inmate stabbed to death in new district jail at Nabha||A 33-year-old inmate lodged in the new district jail at Nabha was stabbed to death by another prisoner on Thursday evening.The deceased, Sukhjinder Singh of Sirhind in Fatehgarh Sahib district, was lodged in the jail in a drug case. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Rajesh Chhibber said they received information from the jail authorities about the incident and registered a case under section 302 (murder) against Sonu of Batala in Gurdaspur district who is also an undertrial in a drug case.The victim and the accused were lodged in the same barrack and had heated arguments over sharing of space on Thursday evening, the DSP said.“Sonu attacked him with spoon and inflicted several injuries on his chest. The jail authorities immediately rushed him to the local civil hospital where doctors brought him declared dead,” he said. The victim’s body will be handed over to his family after post-mortem examination on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inmate-stabbed-to-death-in-new-district-jail-at-nabha-101633638664593.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Fake bail bond racket busted in Ludhiana, nine held||With the arrest of nine people, the Ludhiana Police busted a fake bail bond racket that had been operating in the district court complex on Thursday. The accused are Rajender Kumar Sood of Manakwal village, Mandeep Singh of Shimlapuri, Bhupendra Singh of Daba, Babbar of Phagwara, Ravinder Singh of Majri village, Pushpendra Singh of Shimlapuri, Gurpreet Singh of Manakwal, Manpreet Singh of Dhandra Road and Vijay Kumar of Jawahar Nagar.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, detective) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said the well-oiled network, which was helping criminals post bail with the help of forged documents, had been operating in the district court complex for two years. Dhindsa said the accused would prepare fake Aadhaar Cards by getting ahold of land records (fard)from the revenue department and the collusion of revenue department employees in the racket is also being probed. “We cannot rule out the possibility of the accused having contacts in the revenue department and district court complex,” the DCP said, adding that 32 fake Aadhaar Cards, 12 land documents and one voter card had been recovered from the possession of the accused. “We are preparing a list of criminals whom the accused helped secure bail with the fake documents. Most of the beneficiaries were snatchers and thieves,”said the DCP. “We will write to the judicial authorities asking them to install a mechanism or scanner to check the veracity of the Aadhaar Card submitted,” said Dhindsa.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti, said Sood was the kingpin of the gang that had been active in the district complex, while Manga was working as a Munshi with an advocate.“The gang charged anything between ₹2,000 to ₹10,000 to furnish bail bonds. The accused had been operating separately in the court complex for the last few years, but Sood had brought all of them together,” said Dhindsa.A case was registered under Section 420 (cheating) , 465 (forgery), 467 (forge document), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), and 471 (use forged document as genuine). They were presented before a court and sent to remand.How racket was unearthed The police got ahold of the gang after they noticed that snatchers and thieves were easily getting bail, and committing the same crime. When the police probed the matter, they realised that fake documents were being used by the accused, who were posing as guaranteers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-bail-bond-racket-busted-in-ludhiana-nine-held-101633638605257.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Four oxygen generation plants inaugurated||Four pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants were inaugurated at government health institutes in Chandigarh on Thursday, giving a medical boost to the city amid the possibility of the third wave of the pandemic.The 500-litre oxygen per minute (LPM) capacity plant at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, was among the 35 such units which were virtually inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi under the PM Cares fund across 35 states and union territories.The second plant was inaugurated by UT administrator and Punjab governor Banwarilal Purohit and UT adviser Dharam Pal at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). The plant holds the capacity to generate 1,000 LPM oxygen.Besides, Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher virtually inaugurated PSA plants at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, (with capacity of 1000 LPM), and GMCH’s South Campus at Sector 48 (100 LPM). So far, four oxygen generation plants have been set up at Chandigarh’s four government health institutes (including the plants which were formally inaugurated on Thursday) with a cumulative capacity to generate 3,600 litres of medical oxygen per minute.Besides, four more oxygen plants are being established at various government hospitals in the UT with the help of donations from non-governmental organisations. Once operational, 2,000 LPM oxygen will be added to Chandigarh’s in-house generation capacity.During the second wave, the demand for oxygen had suddenly increased with the rise in patient load and the UT administration had to request the Centre to raise its oxygen quota from 20MT to 35MT.“Chandigarh is the first in the country to install and make the PSA oxygen plants functional in all major government hospitals. We now have sufficient oxygen generation capacity to handle another surge in cases. We are also promoting private hospitals to install their own PSA plants,” said Yashpal Garg, health secretary, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-four-oxygen-generation-plants-inaugurated-101633638545481.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Absconding in rape case, turncoat councillor re-inducted in Congress by Patti MLA||A councillor in the Patti municipal council, who has been absconding in a rape case for nearly two weeks and had joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) earlier, was re-inducted into the Congress by party’s local MLA Harminder Singh Gill. A case was registered on September 24 against Ashwani Kumar, councillor from Patti’s ward 17, for allegedly raping a woman relative, a day after he joined the SAD in the presence of former minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon. Kumar was absconding since. MLA Gill even posted a picture of him with the accused on his Facebook page. “Patti’s ward 17 councillor Ashwani Kumar has been re-inducted into the Congress. A few days ago, some people got him honoured by Adesh Partap Singh Kairon,” the photo caption read. Gill, however, didn’t respond to repeated calls. The woman had told the police in her complaint that Kumar was raping her since May 2020 and would even thrash her for opposing his advances. “Then, he drove me and my one-year-old daughter out of my husband’s house. I had told my husband everything but he didn’t react,” she had alleged. Talking to HT over phone, the victim’s uncle said, “She has been living in her maternal house for the last six months. Kumar was not allowing her to live with her husband. The police should arrest him immediately.”Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kuljit Singh said, “The accused is absconding. He has not got any pre-arrest bail from any court. Our teams are working to nab him.”The opposition has termed the incident as a ‘mockery of the law’, claiming that it was the police who brought the accused to the MLA for his rejoining.Kairon’s political adviser Gurmukh Singh Ghulla said, “First, Ashwani was booked at the instance of the MLA because he joined SAD. He was nabbed by the local police who instead of lodging him in jail produced before the MLA who made him re-join the state’s ruling party. The MLA is using police and civil administration to meet his petty political ends. He is also threatening our other party workers to join the Congress.”Earlier, ward 12 councillor Surjit Singh was re-inducted into the Congress by the MLA. Surjit had also joined the SAD in the presence of Kairon earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/absconding-in-rape-case-turncoat-councillor-re-inducted-in-congress-by-patti-mla-101633638306344.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU planning to hold youth festival after Diwali||Panjab University (PU) is planning to hold its annual youth and heritage festival after Diwali this year. The highly-anticipated event had not been held last year in view of the pandemic and only small competitions were organised later.Over the past few months, the varsity’s department of youth welfare had been in continuous consultation with colleges over holding the festival this year. Several meetings at various zones have already been held to chalk out the plan and another such meeting is likely to be held in Chandigarh next week.The final schedule is expected to be released soon, with permission from PU authorities. PU youth welfare director Nirmal Jaura, said, “The process has started and we are hopeful that the youth festival will be held with all Covid protocols in place. We have received a positive response during the meetings so far and the plan is to hold it after Diwali.” The youth festival is usually held in September and October, with various cultural and academic competitions held over four days in PU’s 12 zones. The winners then participate in the inter-zonal youth festival.In view of the present situation, colleges are being consulted on how many competitions they can take part in. Reportedly, Punjabi University, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, have started their fests already.Participation in the festival is open to students of all affiliated colleges, constituent colleges and university teaching departments who are below 25 years of age on the first day of July in the relevant session. A student can participate in a maximum of three times at undergraduate level and two times at postgraduate level.The competitions include group shabad, bhajans, classical music (vocal), classical dance, group dance, debate, handwriting, poem-writing, short story writing, essay writing and rangoli. Also, contests are held in phulkari, bagh, dasuti or cross stitch, knitting, crochet work, pakhi designing, mehandi designing, bhangra, giddha, quiz, skit, mimicry, miming, poem recitation and one-act play.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-planning-to-hold-youth-festival-after-diwali-101633638304665.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Eight months on, elderly woman’s murder solved||Eight months on, the Crime Investigating Agency (CIA) of Mohali has solved the murder of a 65-year-old woman with the arrest of five men. Police have recovered three stolen two-wheelers, nine gold chains; one France-made pistol with three live cartridges and two toy pistols from their possession.The accused have been identified as Shiv Chopra of Old Sunny Enclave in Kharar, Vijay Kumar of Teur village in Mohali, Mustakeem Ali of Kharar, Salma Khan of Kharar, and Karanbir Singh alias Karan of Khera village in Mukstar.They had allegedly robbed Kamaljeet Kaur of Old Mata Gujri Enclave, Kharar, on February 12 and then murdered her by strangulating her with a muffler and then setting her body ablaze. One of the accused, Shiv Chopra, revealed that he stayed at Kaur’s house as a tenant.A murder case was registered four months later on June 30, after the police grew suspicious when they noticed that Kaur’s jewellery and purse were missing.The SSP added that Shiv Kumar revealed that him and his accomplices had carried out nine snatchings of gold chains, one mobile snatching, and a robbery at a grocery shop. They had committed the crimes in Mata Gujri Enclave, Sunny Enclave, Gillco Valley Market and Jandpur Road in Kharar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-eight-months-on-elderly-woman-s-murder-solved-101633638064852.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur: 28-year-old killed in road accident||A 28-year-old man was killed after a tractor-trolley hit his scooter in the Baltana area of Zirakpur, late on Wednesday evening.The victim has been identified as Rohit Kumar of Badal colony in Zirakpur. Kumar was on his way home and as he reached near Saini dairy in Baltana, the tractor-trolley hit his scooter, leaving him seriously injured. He was rushed to a government hospital in Dhakoli, where he succumbed to injuries during treatment.On the complaint of the deceased’s brother, police registered a case against the unknown tractor-trolley driver at Baltana Police Post under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-28-year-old-killed-in-road-accident-101633638004963.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers show black flags to Navjot Sidhu at Dhareri toll plaza in Patiala||Members of farmer unions on Thursday showed black flags to Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu and Congress workers at the Dhareri Jattan toll plaza on the Patiala-Rajpura road.The farmer unions, which are staging an indefinite dharna at the toll plaza, tried to stop Sidhu’s cavalcade on its way to Mohali from Patiala.Heavy police force was deployed so that the protesters could not block the vehicular movement.Barjinder Kaur, a protester, said they were sitting at the toll plazas for past one year but Punjab politicians completely failed to pay heed to their pleas against the three farm laws.“We wanted to question Sidhu, ministers and MLAs accompanying him as how they were trying to resolve the issue without playing politics,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-show-black-flags-to-navjot-sidhu-at-dhareri-toll-plaza-in-patiala-101633637944634.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Deceased farmers’ kin want justice: Priyanka||LUCKNOW/BAHRAICH The Congress continued to keep up the heat over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh amid assertions that the party’s satyagraha would continue till union minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra Teni, was sacked and his son arrested for his alleged involvement in the violence.On Thursday evening, Congress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi met families of two farmers in Bahraich who were killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on October 3.She said that the families of the deceased farmers wanted justice, laying emphasis on a neutral investigation into the Lakhimpur violence. “This should be done…but justice can be done if the union minister of state for home is sacked because all departments are under his control,” said the Congress leader.She first met the grieving family of Gurvinder Singh, 19, in Nabinagar village and later the kin of Daljeet in Banjaran Tanda village and assured them justice, said Anshu Awasthi, a UPCC spokesman.Gurvinder’s uncle Sukhdev Singh said his family expressed gratitude over Priyanka’s gesture. “A leader should be like her. We showed her somevideos related with the Lakhimpur violence. Watching these, Priyankaji saidnow she has some more evidence in connection with the violence,” he added.Later, Priyanka went to Banjaran Tanda village to meet the family of another deceased farmer, Daljeet.Earlier on way to meet the two grieving families in Bahraich, she spoke to media persons and said the BJP government did not want the truth to come out. “I wanted to meet the two families of BJP workers (who also died in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident) on Wednesday. I asked the IG that I would like to meet them if their families want to...but he told me ‘no, they don’t want to’. Then I said: Convey my condolences to them,” said Priyanka. Priyanka, along with her brother Rahul Gandhi, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and others had met grieving families of Lovepreet in Palia, journalist Raman Kashyap in Nighasan and Nakshatra Singh in Dhaurahra in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday night. After Rahul Gandhi left for New Delhi on Thursday morning, Priyanka, who was released after a nearly 55-hour detention amid high drama on Wednesday, left for Bahraich. On the way, she stopped at Mari Mata Mandir at Arjunganj to perform ‘puja’ on the first day of ‘Navratri’. As her cavalcade reached the Barabanki-Bahraich border, district administration officials stopped her vehicle for a while. “Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other party leaders were stopped at Barabanki-Bahraich border with the district administration insisting on not allowing more than five persons. After brief arguments, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, along with PL Punia, Varsha Gaekwad, Naseemuddin Siddiqui and KL Sharma, were allowed to proceed to Bahraich. We are coming back with a large group of partymen who were not allowed to proceed further,” said Onkar Nath Singh, spokesman, UP Congress Committee. Meanwhile, a Congress delegation staged a brief dharna at the gates of Raj Bhawan inn Lucknow when they were not allowed inside to submit a memorandum addressed to the President to the governor. UPCC president Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’, Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’, Congress MLC Deepak Singh were part of the delegation. As the security staff stopped the delegation at the gate, the Congress workers raised slogans demanding dismissal of the union minister. In the memorandum, the UPCC president sought immediate arrest of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra.Later, Raj Bhawan informed the delegation that they would be allowed in at 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/deceased-farmers-kin-want-justice-priyanka-101633637525736.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Son held for killing Phagwara man for not giving money to go abroad||A 21-year-old youth and his accomplice were arrested for allegedly killing the former’s father in Kapurthala district’s Phagwara for not giving him money to go abroad, police said on Thursday. Baljit Singh, 48, was murdered on the intervening night of September 24 and 25 with sharp-edged weapons. Those arrested are Baljit’s son Sukhraj Singh and Parshant Rai while their another accomplice Balwinder Singh is absconding. Sukhraj and Parshant worked at an electrical hardware shop after completing their school. Initially, a case was registered under section 302 (punishment to murder) of Indian Penal Code at Phagwara sadar police station against unidentified persons. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said their teams were working on different angles to solve the case. “We found some clues from crime spot during forensic investigation. During interrogation, it came to light that Sukhraj along with his mother and his younger sister was evicted from their house by Baljit nearly four-five years ago. Baljit was not employed and had taken to alcohol. He even used to thrash his wife and children under the influence of alcohol,” he added. Phagwara SP Sarabjit Singh Bahia said Sukhraj was in touch with his father for the past few months and was asking for money to go abroad. “Sukhraj even asked his father to sell two-kanal land but Baljit did not agree. Enraged, Sukhraj decided to kill him,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/son-held-for-killing-phagwara-man-for-not-giving-money-to-go-abroad-101633637524484.html
08-10-2021||Kolkata||Four TMC candidates for Bengal bypolls on Oct 30 file nomination papers||KOLKATA: As West Bengal geared up for Durga Puja, the state’s most important religious festival, candidates for the four assembly seats that go to the bypolls on October 30 filed their nomination papers on Thursday.The constituencies are Dinhata in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district, and Santipur in Nadia district, Khardah in North 24 Parganas and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas, in south Bengal.Analysts feel that Dinhata will witness the most-fierce contest among the four seats as the BJP is perceived to have rapidly expanded its base in north Bengal. The party bagged seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019, and 30 of the 54 assembly seats in the eight north Bengal districts although the TMC won 213 of the state’s 294 seats.DinhataThe Dinhata seat fell vacant after the local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Lok Sabha member Nisith Pramanik, who contested the March-April election and won by 57 votes in a close contest, did not take oath to remain in the Lok Sabha. He was appointed Union minister of state for home affairs in July.Ashok Mondal, the BJP candidate, said, “I am not new to elections. I am sure voters will support me and my party.”The Trinamool Congress (TMC) has once again fielded Udayan Guha, the former Forward Bloc leader who bagged the Dinhata seat for the ruling party in 2011 and 2016.“He is daydreaming. The TMC’s victory is certain,” quipped Guha who was injured in an attack after the March-April polls and hospitalized for more than two months. Two security personnel assigned for his protection suffered head injuries in the attack.SantipurLike Dinhata, Nadia’s Santipur goes to the polls since the local BJP Lok Sabha member, Jagannath Sarkar, opted to remain in Parliament after winning the state poll.The BJP has fielded Niranjan Biswas against the TMC’s Brajakishore Goswami, a member of the Vaishnav community.Located close to the Indo-Bangladesh border, Nadia has witnessed caste and religion playing a major role in recent elections because of the sizeable presence of Hindu refugees from Bangladesh. Most of them belong to Hindu Dalit communities, such as the Matuas, who were the focus of the BJP’s campaign in both Lok Sabha and assembly elections.Mahua Moitra, the TMC Lok Sabha member from Krishnanagar in Nadia, wasted no time and started campaigning for Brajakishore Goswami on Thursday along with Saayoni Ghosh, president of the TMC youth wing.“If people can elect a TMC candidate for the Lok Sabha, won’t they vote for us in the assembly? We will surely win the seat,” Moitra said at a campaign meeting.Santipur used to be a Congress stronghold and its leader Ajoy Dey has bagged the seat five times since 1991. He crossed over to the Trinamool Congress and contested the election on a TMC ticket in 2014, winning it for the sixth time. But the Congress wrested it back in 2016.“Though we have left the other three seats for the Left parties to honour our electoral alliance, we will contest from Santipur,” Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury declared on Thursday.KhardahThe Khardah seat is vacant because TMC’s Kajal Sinha, who won it, died of Covid-19 before the results were declared on May 2. The TMC has fielded Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, who won the Bhawanipore seat in south Kolkata but stepped aside so that Mamata Banerjee could contest again from her old constituency and continue as chief minister. Banerjee was defeated at East Midnapore district’s Nandigram by her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari.Khardah, which was once a stronghold of the CPI(M) and represented five times by former finance minister Asim Dasgupta, became the winning seat for Amit Mitra, who also became finance minister in Mamata Banerjee’s team, in 2011 and 2016. But Mitra did not contest this year owing to health issues.Since Mitra will not be able to continue as minister without winning a seat, the chief minister is planning an alternative arrangement for him, TMC leaders said.“People of Khardah have always stood by us. I have full faith in our voters,” Bengal power minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, said after filing his nomination papers.The BJP has fielded Joy Saha, a much younger leader compared to 77-year-old Chattopadhyay, who is among the TMC’s founder members.GosabaAt Gosaba in the Sunderbans region, TMC veteran Jayanta Naskar who represented the seat twice since 2011 died after his third victory. The TMC has fielded Subrata Mondal, a local leader, against the BJP’s Palash Rana, a debutant.In 1967, when the newly-formed Gosaba constituency went to the polls for the first time, the Bharatiya Jana Sangh bagged the seat. But between 1969 and 2006, the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), a Left Front partner, had absolute control over the constituency. The Congress managed to win it only once in 1972 when the Siddhartha Shankar Ray government came to power.The BJP, which won 77 seats in the state’s general elections, is now left with an effective strength of 71 legislators. The ruling party, on the other hand, have increased its numbers from 213 to 215 by winning two seats in Murshidabad where elections could not be held because of the death of two candidates. These results were announced on October 3 along with that of the Bhawanipore bypoll which Mamata Banerjee won. The CPI(M) and its partners have announced that they will contest all four bypolls, including Santipur where the Congress will field a candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/four-tmc-candidates-for-bengal-bypolls-on-oct-30-file-nomination-papers-101633637344730.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Government interfering in Sikh affairs, alleges Akal Takht jathedar||The Akal Takht on Thursday accused the government of interfering in the matters of the Sikh community, days after Manjinder Singh Sirsa was disqualified as a member of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) and a court reinstated Giani Iqbal Singh as jathedar of Takht Patna Sahib. In a virtual meeting with the Sikh clergy comprising Takht Patna Sahib jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh, Takht Kesgarh Sahib jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh, Akal Takht head granthi Giani Malkit Singh and Takht Hazoor Sahib jathedar Giani Kulwant Singh, Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said, “ While going through the letters received from the DSGMC and Takht Sri Patna Sahib Management Board, the five Sikh clergymen feel that the Delhi government and the Centre are interfering in the internal matters of the Sikhs,” read a statement issued by the clergymen. He added, “On August 25, dirty tricks were played to restrain the members elected for the DSGMC from constitute a committee. Also, interference is being made by the government into the religious affairs of Takht Patna Sahib Board by rejecting its decision of accepting resignation of the jathedar.” “Some Sikh leaders are violating the maryada by facilitating interference by government in the management of gurdwaras to fulfil their political ambitions. They must abstain from this,” he added. He also condemned the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri of Utter Pradesh. “The government is duty-bound to take action against the guilty. Playing politics on the deaths of the farmers is not acceptable. The political parties should put a united face to ensure stringent punishment to the culprits,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/government-interfering-in-sikh-affairs-alleges-akal-takht-jathedar-101633637284603.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||GMCH-32: 60% spike in admissions to paediatric ward in Sept||Admissions to the paediatric ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, have seen a 60% uptick in the last month.Since September, around 80 children in the age group of 1 month to 18 years have been consulting the hospital’s paediatric ward daily, with most of them suffering from fever. Of these, 25 have had to get admitted, due to health complications and severity of the ailment.“Earlier, 50 paediatric patients were consulting the hospital daily and most of them were being given consultation in the outpatient department (OPDs). Only 10 to 12 patients of the total were getting admitted. Since September, the daily consultations have risen to 80, with most of them complaining of fever,” said Dr Vishal Guglani, head of paediatrics, GMCH-32.Health experts believe that the spike is mainly due to the dengue outbreak in Chandigarh and neighbouring states. In the last three weeks, the hospital recorded 15 deaths within the paediatric population.Dr Guglani added, “Cases of fever among the paediatric population are rising mainly because of the dengue outbreak. Also, viral fever is very common during this season. Besides, infants are catching fever due to acute respiratory infections. The other reasons behind the surge in hospital admissions are snake bites and routine ailments like diabetes. Deaths among the paediatric population occurred due to chronic diseases and late admission to the hospital.”The authorities also said that tertiary care hospitals are getting referrals from other government and private hospitals, which is increasing the caseload at GMCH-32.Chandigarh director of health services Dr Suman Singh, said, “Hospitals witness a rush of patients complaining of fever every year in September and October. This is a season where catching fever is common due to viral infection, dengue or malaria. Not only the paediatric population, but adults also get infected. The cases increase annually and there is no specific reason for the hike in admissions this year.”Airing similar views, Dr Surjeet Singh, head of advanced paediatric centre, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said, “The period between July and mid-October is crucial as seasonal diseases grip the states. Due to dengue, malaria and viral infections, children get sick and need hospital admission every year. We are well equipped to provide better medical facilities.”Chandigarh records 47 dengue cases in past nine daysThe Chandigarh health department has registered 47 confirmed cases of dengue in the last nine days, taking this year’s total caseload to 125 till Thursday. No death has been reported so far.Cases of dengue, a mosquito-borne viral disease, started spiralling in the city after spells of rain. The total infection count was 265 last year, 286 in 2019 and 301 in 2018. Chandigarh had reported 1,951 dengue cases in 2017, the worst figures since 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmch32-60-spike-in-admissions-to-paediatric-ward-in-sept-101633637167063.html
08-10-2021||Other||CICU holds panel discussion on opportunities for SMEs||Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), in collaboration with CICU Bank Limited, organised a panel discussion on the ‘Opportunities for Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)’ in the Export Market at Hotel Park Plaza.“India has to be fit in terms of quality, productivity, cost, and delivery to compete with the global market,” said Upkar Singh Ahuja, president, CICU.He further said that there is competition from other Asian countries like Thailand, Vietnam, and Indonesia. They used to be net importing countries, he added. India has a good scope of beating the competition for the next 10 years as most European and American countries are realigning their supply chain, he said.Pankaj Sharma, general secretary, CICU, coordinated the panel discussion and spoke about the potential of exports, both in manufacturing as well as in services.The prominent panelists were Suvidh Shah, joint DGFT, Ludhiana; Ambrish Jain, MD, Kangaroo Group; Vishal Batra, retail head (North), ICICI Bank Ltd; Amit Thapar, president, Ganga Acrowool Ltd and Sarvjit Singh, proprietor, Man International.The panellists discussed the challenges being faced by exporters, compliances to be followed, the need of ensuring the best quality and services, and opportunities for exports from India in the present circumstances.ICICI Bank officials gave a presentation on services offered by the bank to exporters and importers. More than 150 exporters and importers attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cicu-holds-panel-discussion-on-opportunities-for-smes-101633635604730.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cotton prices at all-time high in Punjab, kharif crop fetching ₹7,500 per quintal||BATHINDAAs the second picking of raw cotton crop is set to gain momentum in Punjab, rates of the cash crop have reached an all-time high of ₹7,715 per quintal, 23% higher than the minimum support price (MSP) of ₹5,925.Punjab Mandi Board authorities say till Wednesday, 2.75 lakh quintal of cotton was purchased and private players are paying an average rate ₹7,500 for a quintal of raw cotton.This has come as a relief to farmers of the south Malwa belt, who are battling the threat of damage caused by the pink bollworm attack.In the semi-arid region of the state, cotton bolls are harvested thrice. Second picking is crucial as it comprises 60% of the total production. Due to the quality, the second harvest determines the profitability of a cotton grower.Industry watchers attribute higher prices for the kharif produce to an increase in demand by the international textile market.Director of Indian Cotton Association Limited, a body dealing in export, spinning, ginning of cotton, Rakesh Rathi said the trend may continue for another month.Bulk supply in the coming weeks may stabilise rates, but it is highly unlikely that cotton would see a sharp decline this season, he added.“Bangladesh and China, the international hub of the textile sector, are the major buyers of Indian thread and raw cotton. Since there has been a sharp increase in the global market since September 15 and the slow arrival of cotton crop in different states, farmers are getting handsome rates,” said Rathi.With 3.03 lakh hectares under area cotton this year, southern Punjab recorded an increase of 17% than 2020 when cotton was sown on 2.51 lakh hectares.But pink bollworm attack in Bathinda, Mansa and few pockets in Sangrur has left farmers worried about their major cash crop.Punjab Mandi Board cotton state coordinator Rajnish Goel said by October 6, a total of 2.74 lakh quintal cotton was purchased in centres of all seven districts of the region. By October 6 last year, Punjab mandis saw 1.29 lakh quintals of purchase. “For the first time, cotton rates have touched ₹7,700 per quintal. In 2011 the maximum rate of cotton was ₹7,000 and ₹6,725 in 2014. Mandis are recording daily average arrival of 25,000 quintals,” said Goel.Cotton Corporation of India assistant general manager and Punjab in-charge Neeraj Kumar said despite pink bollworm infestation, Punjab is likely to achieve last season’s production of 50 lakh quintals.“After an increase of 17% area under cotton this year, the CCI pegged Punjab’s production at 60-65 lakh quintals. Pest attack has hit several villages, but farmers are getting up to ₹1,800 more than MSP for their produce. The CCI is following its protocol of maintaining a watch on the market and the agency will entre if cotton rates are crashed and farmers get less than MSP,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cotton-prices-at-all-time-high-in-punjab-kharif-crop-fetching-rs-7-500-per-quintal-101633635306371.html
08-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana traders stage protest, seek roll back of professional tax||The shopkeepers staged a protest against the state government under the banner of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal in Field Ganj on Thursday and demanded roll back of the professional tax.The protesting traders stated that they are already facing financial crises due to the ongoing pandemic. They added that if the state government fails to roll back the professional tax, they will raise agitations across the state.Beopar Mandal state general secretary Sunil Mehra and district president Arvinder Makkar stated that customers from other states are also not visiting the local markets due to agitations being raised by different associations/unions.“We will raise agitations across the state if the government fails to roll back professional tax,” said Mehra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-traders-stage-protest-seek-roll-back-of-professional-tax-101633635184539.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kapurthala’s iconic Gol Kothi restored, to have restaurant||Blurb:Jalandhar The tourism department has finally restored the 187-year-old Gol Kothi in Kapurthala after nearly four years and plans to set up a restaurant on its premises. The iconic Gol Kothi was restored by the department after some parts turned into debris.A senior official said, “We have sent a proposal to the Punjab infrastructure development board for setting up a restaurant or a clubhouse under the public-private partnership mode on its premises because the location is suitable for the purpose.”He said, “We have conserved the basement and a part of the tunnel during the restoration with glasses.” Kapurthala deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal said the project had been completed. Spread over nine kanals and nine marlas, the building is being renovated under the ‘conservation and adaptive reuse of colonial heritage’ project at an estimated cost of ₹4.98 crore. The task of restoring the heritage building has been assigned to Rajputana Constructions Pvt Ltd, a Rajasthan-based company. The Darbar Hall and Buggy Khana will also be renovated under this project. The building was declared unsafe by the public works department (PWD) five years ago because it had fallen into a state of disrepair.Gol Kothi which stands opposite the official residence of the senior superintendent of police (SSP), Kapurthala, has a rich history. It was built by Raja Fateh Singh in 1833 and was once the residence of Mahamantris (prime ministers) of this erstwhile princely state. It is also believed that Maharaja Jagatjit Singh spent his formative years in the building in the 1880s. Skilled labour from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan has been hired to repair the building.The official said a mixture of red brick dust, slaked lime and other materials known for their cementing properties are being used to strengthen it. The project has been divided into two parts — one is conservation and the second is adaptive reuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kapurthalas-iconic-gol-kothi-restored-to-have-restaurant-101633635064602.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||All adults in Punjab to get first Covid jab by month-end||With an enthusiastic response in the supply of Covid-19 vaccine from the Centre in the past one month, Punjab plans to vaccinate its entire eligible population with the first dose by this month-end. So far, the state has given 2.04 crore doses to eligible persons above 18 years of which 1.50 crore have been given the first dose whereas 54 lakh have been provided both doses. “Out of the total 2.06 crore target population that is eligible for the vaccine in the state, till date, nearly 72% have been given the first shot. Since there is an increase in supply from the Centre, we are confident about giving the first jab to the entire eligible population of the state by the end of this month,” said state’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar. As per health department officials, in the past 10 days, Punjab has received 7.66 lakh doses of vaccine. Government officials claim the state is likely to get 50 lakh doses this month. The entire population of the state is likely to be fully vaccinated by the end of November, said former director PGIMR, Dr KK Talwar, who is the head of the expert group of the state government on tackling Covid-19. Out of the total doses given, 1.79 crore are Covishield doses whereas around 24 lakh are Covaxine. According to a few doctors involved in the vaccination, a sudden rush in demand is being witnessed in the rural areas of the state contrary to their earlier shyness for the vaccination. “As the elections are around the corner, sarpanches are asking for more doses in a bid to earn more points in front of voters. Villages which earlier had banned the entry of health staff giving jabs are now repeatedly asking to speed-up vaccination,” said a doctor posted in Sangrur. Health experts claim that there has not been any sign of the third wave in Punjab like most of the other parts of the country. “After analysing samples through genome sequencing, we don’t find any signal for the third wave. But we should not let our guards down. Though there is no sign of the revival of the virus, it’s nature has been unpredictable,” said Dr Talwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-adults-in-punjab-to-get-first-covid-jab-by-monthend-101633634947648.html
08-10-2021||Kolkata||Trinamool MP cautions his party as another TMC rebel returns from BJP||KOLKATA: Former Salt Lake mayor Sabyasachi Dutta on Thursday returned to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) nearly two years after he walked out to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) prompting a prominent TMC leader to caution the party that letting leaders who jumped off the ship before the elections to return might not be such a good idea.“Our workers feel aggrieved when people who insulted Mamata Banerjee in the recent assembly polls come back. Isn’t it natural that sincere party workers will feel disappointed to see people returning to become leaders again after opposing us till the other day,” TMC’s senior Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said without naming Dutta or any other leader.Dutta’s homecoming on Thursday was a low-key affair compared to the return of the five turncoat legislators who have headed back to the TMC since June this year. The modest event was held at parliamentary affairs minister Partha Chatterjee’s chamber in the state assembly shortly after governor Jagdeep Dhankhar administered the oath of office to Mamata Banerjee and TMC leaders, Jakir Hossain and Amirul Islam, as legislators. They won the polls held on September 30.But such events do offer the TMC an opportunity to take swipes at the BJP, which had projected the desertions from the Trinamool camp in the runup to the elections to indicate that the BJP was within striking distance of power. But Mamata Banerjee stunned her rivals with her party’s performance in the March-April assembly elections. Her party won 213 seats, the BJP just 77.“Let the BJP realise the effect of welcoming someone amid great hype and making him a state committee secretary,” said TMC’s Bengal general secretary Kunal Ghosh, a reference Sabyasachi Dutta who was appointed as BJP’s secretary.Ghosh continued to rub it in. “Did BJP think that it could win polls in Salt Lake? People who have realized that they have no existence outside the TMC and cannot survive without Mamata Banerjee are coming back. This will make everyone understand that TMC is the only force to reckon with. It has no alternative,” said Ghosh.Sabyasachi Dutta, who was earlier a lawmaker from Rajarhat-New Town constituency located east of Kolkata, could not be contacted for his comments.At Thursday’s event, Dutta acknowledged that his exit from the TMC was not a smart move.“I took an emotional decision and joined the BJP after some misunderstanding with my colleagues. I will earnestly serve the TMC in whatever role it gives me,” Dutta said after receiving the TMC flag from Chatterjee. Transport minister Firhad Hakim was also present.“This is homecoming for Sabyasachi,” said Chatterjee.Prepping for his return to the TMC, Dutta on Wednesday criticised his former boss, the Bengal BJP’s ex-president Dilip Ghosh for a comment on Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri killings.Bengal BJP vice president Jay Prakash Majumdar slammed Dutta for crossing over, describing him as an opportunist. “He probably came to the BJP looking for lucrative opportunities and found that our party does not allow its members to make a fortune,” said Majumdar.On September 4, BJP legislator from Kaliaganj in north Bengal Soumen Roy joined the TMC. There were others before him. Tanmay Ghosh, who won the Bishnupur seat in Bankura district, Biswajit Das, the lawmaker from Bagdah in North 24 Parganas district, and Mukul Roy, who was a BJP national vice-president and represents the Krishnanagar North seat in Nadia district, had earlier returned to the TMC.These defections have brought down the BJP’s tally in the 294-member assembly from 77 to 71.The BJP has sought their disqualification as legislators under anti-defection law as they have not resigned from the party.Krishna Kalyani, the BJP legislator from Raiganj in the North Dinajpur district of north Bengal announced on October 1 that he was leaving the party, triggering speculation that he may join the TMC. Kalyani, an industrialist who started his political career with the BJP in January this year, has been speaking against the party leadership for quite some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/trinamool-mp-cautions-his-party-as-another-tmc-rebel-returns-from-bjp-101633634824412.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||UP deputy CM inaugurates oxygen plant at Cantonment Board hospital in Lucknow||Deputy chief minister, Dinesh Sharma inaugurated a 250 litres of oxygen per minute pressure swing absorption oxygen plant at the Lucknow Cantonment Board Hospital on Thursday. “Of the 555 oxygen plants approved for UP, 392 were already functional,” Sharma said on the occassion. The oxygen plant is expected to provide assured oxygen supply to the 60 bed Lucknow Cantonment Board Hospital. The construction of the plant has been funded by the PM CARES fund. “UP government’s strategy for tackling COVID-19 situation was praised by the World Health Organisation and NITI Aayog,” Sharma said while praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. He said nearly 1200 oxygen plants that were inaugurated on Thursday will boost country’s health infrastructure. GS Rajeswaran, principal director, Defence Estates, Central Command welcomed Sharma. Students at Lucknow Cantonment Board school performed Ganesh Vandana. Satyanarayan, Pushpendra Singh, and DN Yadav, director, all directors, defence estates, Central Command and Vikas Kumar, DEO Lucknow Cantonment Board and other officials and staff of the directorate of defence estates, Central Command, Defence Research and Development Organisation Lucknow as well as Lucknow Cantonment Board were present on the occasion. Vilas H. Pawar, CEO Lucknow Cantonment Board delivered the vote of thanks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-deputy-cm-inaugurates-oxygen-plant-at-cantonment-board-hospital-in-lucknow-101633634768044.html
08-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana Improvement Trust tightens noose around transport mafia||To prevent illegal parking of buses and other heavy vehicles at the vacant land near the bus stand, Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) got height barriers installed at the site on Thursday.The officials informed that 40 tourist buses without proper documents were impounded during the inspection conducted by transport minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring on October 3. They added that the move aims to eliminate the bus mafia. Further, the authorities will also keep a check on the unauthorised parking of buses in the area.The LIT officials also got complaints regarding some miscreants charging illegal parking fees at the site. The officials put posters there stating that only two, three, and four-wheeler parking is allowed at the site. The vehicles can be parked there for free till the LIT allots the parking contract to a contractor. The posters also state that bus parking is not permitted there. LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam stated that the height barriers have been installed to tighten the noose around the transport mafia as they used to park and run the buses from the site illegally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-improvement-trust-tightens-noose-around-transport-mafia-101633634765751.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Assailants kill 35-year-old man in Punjab’s Nabha, flee with his motorcycle||Two unidentified assailants murdered a 35-year-old man in Nabha sub-division’s Halotali village on Wednesday night.After killing Sukhchain Dass, the accused fled with his Royal Enfield motorcycle and other belonging, said police on Thursday.Police said they received a call around 10pm that a man was lying injured on a road. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, police said, adding that he was attacked with sharp-edged weapons and inflicted multiple injuries in his stomach.Bhadson station house officer Sukhdev Singh said a case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code.Police have gathered clues about the movement of the accused, said the SHO, adding that efforts are on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/assailants-kill-35-year-old-man-in-punjab-s-nabha-flee-with-his-motorcycle-101633634764531.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 24 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Thursday reported 24 fresh Covid-19 cases that pushed its tally to 6,01,805, according to a medical bulletin.No fresh fatalities were reported. The death toll stands at 16,526.Of the fresh cases, eight were reported from Pathankot, three from Hoshiarpur and two each from Faridkot, Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Tarn Taran, the bulletin stated.There are 259 active Covid cases in Punjab, it said.Twenty-eight more patients recovered from the disease, taking the number of recoveries to 5,85,020, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-24-fresh-covid-cases-101633634524430.html
08-10-2021||Other||CBI quizzes saints over Mahant Narendra Giri’s death||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team probing the death of Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) chief Narendra Giri has begun quizzing seers from Haridwar, Ujjain and other places, about the relationship between Narendra Giri and his disciple Anand Giri who is currently in CBI custody. Before quizzing seers, who have come from various Hindu holy cities to attend ‘shodashi’ or the 16th day post-death rituals of Narendra Giri, the CBI officials had also questioned sewadars and seers at Baghambari Gaddi Math of which Narendra Giri was the Mahant (head priest). CBI officials said during their questioning none of the seers and sewadars alleged foul play behind Mahant’s death. Though Anand Giri alleged a conspiracy behind his Narendra Giri’s death, CBI, so far, has found no concrete clues which may indicate towards that. “The investigating agency may now question those who didn’t attend the ‘Shodashi’ and ‘pattabhishek’ ceremonies organised at the Baghambari Gaddi Math despite being invited. CBI has still not found any morphed video or photograph which had found mention in Mahant Narendra Giri’s purported suicide note. CBI has recovered the laptop and mobile of Anand Giri from his Haridwar ashram after taking him on seven days remand. Anand Giri’s lawyer Vijay Kumar Dwivedi who met him at the jail on Wednesday said that on Anand’s request a set of religious books including ‘Sundar Kaand’, Hanuman Chalisa had been provided to him. “Anand Giri has expressed faith in judiciary and said that conspiracy behind his guru’s death will soon be uncovered. He is ready for a narco test on the condition that all others who have been questioned by CBI should also undergo the same test. He has answered all questions of CBI officials with honesty and has hidden nothing related to the case,” Dwivedi informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-quizzes-saints-over-mahant-narendra-giri-s-death-101633634344382.html
08-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: MLA, councillors raise concern over delayed development projects, missing LED streetlights||Congress MLA (central) Surinder Dawar and councillors of central constituency on Thursday criticised the civic body over missing points of LED street lights in the city and delayed road construction projects.They conducted a meeting with mayor Balkar Sandhu at mayor’s camp office near Rose Garden on Thursday and demanded that immediate steps be taken to expedite the works.Talking about delayed projects, councillor Navneet Ghayal said that in some parts of the constituency, the contractors have dug the roads, but the work to reconstruct the same is being delayed. “The public criticises us for the failure of MC and contractors in taking up the development works timely,” said Ghayal.Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra informed that they also demanded that additional lights should be installed in the city before Diwali.The councillors raised their concern over parts of the city that are left in dark during night hours.They stated that the company that was assigned the work of installation of LED street lights in the city, had skipped many areas. It claims to have installed over 1 lakh street light points in the city. However, it was decided that the company will also install 15% additional lights in the city as per the contract to cover the areas with no streetlights, but nothing such has been done yet. Issues will be resolved at earliest: MayorDawar stated that the mayor had assured them that all issues will be resolved at the earliest.Mayor Sandhu said that directions have been issued to the concerned officials to speed up the development works and the department is already working to get the additional street lights installed by the contractor.Contractors burdenedWith MC claiming to have allotted development projects worth over ₹300 crore ahead of assembly elections, the contractors have been assigned more contracts than they can take on. This is also adding up to the delay in development projects as the contractors have limited resources, said Dawar, while adding that the authorities have been asked to find a solution for the problem.A few councillors also raised objections over allocation of a cabin to OSD to mayor, Parminder Mehta, in Zone B office of MC. They stated that Mehta is not even a councillor and he intervenes in their work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianamla-councillors-raise-concern-over-delayed-development-projects-missing-led-streetlights-101633634224451.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two Lok Sabha MPs of Haryana in BJP’s national executive body||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has nominated Lok Sabha MPs Sunita Duggal (Hisar) and Krishan Pal Gurjar (Faridabad) as members of the 80-member national executive committee of the party.Union minister Bhupender Yadav, who is a Rajya Sabha member from Rajasthan and hails from Pataudi in Gurugram, has also been given berth in the national executive committee from Haryana.Hisar MP Duggal is a former IRS officer and the only woman Lok Sabha MP from Haryana, while Gurjar is Union minister of state for power and heavy industries.Sandeep Singh, minister of state for sports in Haryana and former Indian hockey team captain, is among 50 special invitees nominated by the party.As per a BJP release, the party has appointed members of the national executive committee, special invitees to the national executive, and permanent invitees (ex officio).Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and state BJP chief OP Dhankar are among the ex officio permanent invitees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-lok-sabha-mps-of-haryana-in-bjp-s-national-executive-body-101633634105194.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Eminent Sikh-American represents community at multi-faith Vatican event||An eminent Sikh-American represented the community at a multi-faith climate change event hosted at the Vatican by Pope Francis as part of his effort to rally support for major measures to preserve the ecology in the upcoming UN climate conference.“The crisis of climate change is the shared concern of humanity. It would not spare anybody of its drastic impact based on one’s economic status, same is the true for nations. If one nation sinks, we all sink,” said Dr Rajwant Singh, who represented the Sikh community at the event.Leaders representing Islam, Judaism, Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, Jainism, Sikhism joined this initiative to build a strong momentum before the summit which is scheduled to take place in Glasgow, Scotland from October 31 to November 12.Singh, president of EcoSikh, a global environmental NGO, also sang a hymn written by Guru Nanak. The words of Gurbani “pavan guru pani pita, mata dharat maha (water is father, air is teacher, and earth is mother)” reverberated off the walls of the Vatican.Singh added: “Just as we don’t dishonour our mother, father, and teacher – why would we dishonour these gifts from our creator?” According to a press release, many participants appreciated the change EcoSikh is creating by generating awareness at the grassroots level and planting “sacred forests”. It has established 365 forests in India and other parts of the world.“COP26 in Glasgow represents urgent summons to provide effective responses to the unprecedented ecological crisis and the crisis of values that we are presently experiencing, and in this way to offer concrete hope to future generations,” said Pope Francis at the event.Alok Sharma spoke about the Hindu perspective of humans being part of nature while Satish Kumar from the UK represented the Jain viewpoint, said the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eminent-sikh-american-represents-community-at-multi-faith-vatican-event-101633634044384.html
08-10-2021||Other||E-auction of prime land: Ludhiana Improvement Trust chairman files criminal defamation suit against BJP leaders||Perturbed over the allegations of land scam pertaining to e-auction of 3.79 acres of prime land in Model Town Extension, chairman of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) Raman Balasubramaniam has filed a criminal defamation case in the district court against Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders including state executive member advocate Bikram Singh Sidhu and Vineet Pal Singh Monga.He also filed the suit against two journalists for allegedly presenting the ‘scam’ in news reports. After sharing information regarding the same on social media networks on Thursday, the chairman stated that the allegations levelled by the BJP leaders were baseless and defamatory.Terming the allegations as fake propaganda, the chairman said, “The e-auction was organised as per the norms and the reserve price was fixed by the committee led by the DC. Even though the local bodies department had cancelled the auction citing discrepancies in the statement issued by me and the DC regarding the reserve price, there is no proof of a scam. Baseless allegations were levelled by the opposition to gain political mileage.”“The BJP leaders and journalists defamed me by levelling baseless allegations, due to which I filed the criminal defamation suit. The petition was filed on August 28 and the documents including the news cutting, videos of these leaders etc. were submitted with the court on October 6. The next hearing is scheduled to be held on November 23,” he added.Meanwhile, Sidhu and Monga stated that the action was a tactic to suppress the voice of the public, who have highlighted the wrongdoings of the chairman and his political boss- a cabinet minister in the past. They stated that they have full faith in the judicial system.Sidhu said,” The land scam was unveiled after procurement of relevant documents and the DC also clarified that the reserve price was not fixed by the committee even when the chairman claimed that the price was fixed by the committee led by DC. We are not afraid of these tactics and will continue to unveil the frauds committed by the chairman in the past.”Monga reiterated the same and stated that the chairman filed the suit out of frustration after they highlighted the alleged scam.Earlier in August and September, BJP had raised an agitation against the alleged e-auction of prime land worth around ₹350 crore in Model Town Extension at throwaway price of around ₹98 crore.In September, the local bodies department had cancelled the e-auction of 3.79 acres of land in Model Town Extension. BJP stated that the auction was cancelled by the state department due to the alleged scam.Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra had, however, stated that the auction was cancelled as there was a difference in the statement of the DC and the LIT chairman regarding fixation of reserve prices for the said land. An inquiry was marked in the case.It was cancelled due to discrepancies, not allegations of any scam, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eauction-of-prime-land-ludhiana-improvement-trust-chairman-files-criminal-defamation-suit-against-bjp-leaders-101633633804725.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad all set for a triangular contest||The Ellenabad byelection which is scheduled on October 30 is likely to see a triangular contest after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) pitted Gobind Kanda, younger brother of Haryana Lok Hit’s lone MLA Gopal Kanda from Sirsa, and the Congress threw its weight behind BJP rebel Pawan Beniwal to take on Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala.Both BJP and Congress reposed faith on new faces and both their candidates had joined the respective parties a few days back. Gobind Kanda and Pawan Beniwal had unsuccessfully contested the assembly polls in 2014 and 2019 from Rania and Ellenabad seats on Haryana Lok Hit and BJP’s tickets, respectively.The Congress had played its cards on Pawan Beniwal while ignoring the potential of former Darba Kalan MLA Bharat Singh Beniwal, who too had unsuccessfully contested from the Ellenabad seat on Congress’s ticket in 2014 and 2019.Retired professor Anant Ram, of Bhiwani Government College, said Pawan Beniwal’s candidature is likely to upset his uncle and rival Bharat Singh Beniwal and all eyes are on him.“It is a tough task for the Congress to stop factionalism in the Ellenabad bypoll. Everyone knows how bitter rivals Pawan and Bharat Beniwal are and both of them have high political aspirations,” he added.The Jat-dominated assembly seat, Ellenabad, fell vacant after INLD’s lone legislator Abhay Singh Chautala resigned in support of farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws on January 27.He had defeated his nearest rival Pawan Beniwal of the BJP in October 2019 assembly polls by 12,000 votes.Abhay, who had shot to limelight after winning Sirsa’s Rori assembly seat in 2000, had secured victory from the Ellenabad seat in a bypoll in 2010. He had later won the same seat in 2014 and 2019 assembly polls.INLD general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala is eyeing for a third bypoll win in his political career and fifth term as a legislator.This time, he will face his old lieutenant and now ace rival Pawan Beniwal and his childhood friend Gobind Kanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-all-set-for-a-triangular-contest-101633633684563.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC asks Haryana to give government job to Kargil war solider||Almost seven years after he petitioned the government for a job under the sports policy, a Kargil war decorated solider and international athlete will get the appointment on the Punjab and Haryana high court’s intervention.The HC bench of justice Arun Monga holding that the government decision was discriminatory has directed that the soldier be given job within two months commensurate with his achievements on parity.Joginder Singh had won bronze medal for India in international athletics competition (equivalent to the Asian Games) at Kuala Lumpur in 2006. He had to leave the army in 2007 due to loss of vision. While serving in the army, he was posted at the border where he suffered an eye injury resulting in permanent loss of vision.Initially, he was found to be 75% visually handicapped as per his medico-legal examination carried out in June 2006 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi.During his 22-year tenure with the army, he was awarded commendation medals from the army known as: 9 years medal, Special Service Medal 20 years medal and Operation Vijay Medal (Kargil War).He had applied for a government job in 2014 under the Haryana sports policy. But government kept dillydallying on his appointment and he was told to apply afresh in 2019 under the new policy notified in 2018, as per which he was declared overage. Following this, he had approached the HC in 2019.The court found that while he was denied job in 2014, one Rajesh Kumar, who had participated in the same event, was given employment.“...rejecting the candidature of one and accepting that of another, for the persons who are equally placed, does smack of an element of red-tapism, perhaps nepotism and most certainly discrimination,” the court said on government handling of the case.It also came to know during the proceedings that though his application was rejected terming him overage in 2014, it was never communicated to him and he got to know about the decision in 2019.The court found that he was eligible for appointment as per the prevalent policy of the government in 2013 as there was no upper age limit prescribed for giving appointments to the candidates.The court said there is another aspect of him being 70% disabled. He was entitled to special benefit of age relaxation as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-asks-haryana-to-give-government-job-to-kargil-war-solider-101633633514295.html
08-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC finally initiates road reconstruction project||After six months of shopkeepers raising hue and cry over the pathetic condition of the stretch of Old GT Road from Rekhi Cinema Chowk to Clock Tower, the municipal corporation (MC) has finally initiated the reconstruction project on Wednesday night.A major portion of the road was constructed overnight, while the remaining work is expected to be completed on Thursday night. The officials stated that it was difficult to construct the road during the day as it is one of the busiest in the city.Mayor Balkar Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra and area councillor Rakesh Prashar met the area shopkeeper on Wednesday night and got the work initiated.The road portion was dug in May for laying of storm sewer lines and shopkeepers have been slamming the MC for delaying the reconstruction project, due to which the shopkeepers and commuters were facing a harrowing time.Apart from commuters being harried by the potholes, dust arising from them was also troubling the shopkeepers.A section of shopkeepers also staged a protest against the civic body in the area on Tuesday. Different shopkeeper associations had submitted separate memorandums with MC officials in the last two days slamming the MC for not commencing the work even after the monsoons were over.Prashar said the issue of severe waterlogging, which was witnessed in the area during the monsoons, was resolved by laying of storm sewer lines. The road reconstruction work was delayed due to the monsoon.“Majority portion of the road is constructed and the work will be completed by Thursday night,” said Prashar.One of the shopkeepers, Chanderkant Chadda, stated that even though the MC had delayed the work, it was a major relief for the shopkeepers and commuters. The MC should keep a check on the quality of work, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-finally-initiates-road-reconstruction-project-101633633325997.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Some goons protested my visit: JP Dalal||Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal on Thursday said ‘a few goons’ had protested his visit to the Adarsh Mahila Mahavidyalaya in Bhiwani, where he attended a degree felicitation programme on Wednesday.Addressing a gathering at Pahari village in his constituency Loharu in Bhiwani district, Dalal said ‘some goons’ took control of the main gate of the girls college and due to this, many students could not attend the programme.“Our police are not weak. We had directed them to stay calm while maintaining the law and order during the protests. We have identified some miscreants who have been protesting my visits on behest of some Opposition leaders,” he said.“These people want to disrupt the atmosphere and destabilise peace in Loharu and Bhiwani. A Congress leader had called many people not to allow my gathering but people did not listen to her,” he added.Dalal said he is ready to resign as a minister and MLA if he has committed any sin in the last two years.“I have been visiting my constituency every week and taking note of all problems. I had thought many times of resigning but I took my decision back after seeing the faith being reposed by you. If you think I did anything wrong, I will resign,” he added.Police had arrested a few farmers nearly five kilometres away from the venue and later released them. Farmers had blocked roads in Bhiwani and Hisar to demand farmers’ release and opened these roads later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/some-goons-protested-my-visit-jp-dalal-101633633324196.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Police arrest six for running racket to help competitive exam aspirants||A joint team of the special task force (STF) of Gurugram and Sonepat police have busted a gang allegedly involved in helping the aspirants of competitive exams by running a computer hacking racket.Panipat superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said six persons were arrested by the police. Three of them were arrested from Sonepat and produced in a court in Panipat on Thursday and sent to eight-day police remand, while three accused were arrested from Nagpur in Maharashtra and are being brought to Panipat by the police.According to the SP, the accused had set up a computer lab in an engineering college in Panipat.Police said the accused were active for the past couple of years and allegedly helped some aspirants in previous exams by leaking question papers or providing answer keys.The STF was working on a case to arrest the hackers allegedly involved in leak of an exam and police managed to arrest Ashish, Ashok and Monu of Gaurad village in Sonepat on Thursday, while another team arrested Akash, of Jaipur, Gauri, of Kodla Dosa in Rajasthan, and Akash, of Motinagar in Jaipur, from Nagpur.Two cases have been registered against the gang members in Bhiwani and Panipat under the IT Act. Accused Ashok and Monu were wanted and had carried a reward of ₹1 lakh and ₹50,000, respectively.According to police, there were reports that the gang was active in Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and Rajasthan and had also established links in these states. However, they did not disclose their modus operandi.The accused claimed that they used to get access to the exam with the help of some softwares, but police said more details will be disclosed only after the investigation is completed.The SP said they have confessed to have helped many aspirants of recruitment and competitive exams, including Indian Railways, NIIT, MTS and SSC, but this is part of investigation as there is a possibility of more arrests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-police-arrest-six-for-running-racket-to-help-competitive-exam-aspirants-101633633144471.html
08-10-2021||Other||State U-25 inter-district senior one-day tournament: Mohali beats Ludhiana by eight wickets||Mohali team registered a massive eight-wicket victory over Ludhiana in the ongoing Punjab State Under-25 Inter-District Senior One-Day Tournament in SAS Nagar on Sunday.Batting first, the Ludhiana team collapsed for 120 runs in just 40.2 overs.Ludhiana wicket-keeper Lovepreet Singh was the top scorer with 32 runs in 69 balls, hitting three boundaries. Captain Nehal Wadhera, who opened for Ludhiana, managed to only score one run.Both Harshit Takkar and Rishi of Ludhiana took a wicket each against Mohali.Mohali bowlers dominated the Ludhiana innings throughout. Harry Dhaliwal of Mohali took three wickets in his nine-over spell, conceding 36 runs. Meanwhile, Armaan Singh and Anshul Negi took two wickets each. After losing the opener on a duck, Anshul Chaudhary and Anil Yadav thrashed the Ludhiana bowlers, scoring 47 and 51 runs, respectively. Both the Mohali batsmen hit seven boundaries each.Mohali chased the target in 20.3 overs, losing just two wickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-u-25-inter-district-senior-one-day-tournament-mohali-beats-ludhiana-by-eight-wickets-101633633085775.html
08-10-2021||Ranchi||Lakhimpur Kheri tragedy should not be linked with any other incident : Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has raised questions regarding the opposition BJP for criticising him after he announced monetary assistance to the victims of violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri and said the tragedy with farmers should not be linked with any other incident. Baghel, on Wednesday, announced a financial assistance of ₹50 lakh each to families of four farmers and a journalist killed in the incident of violence in Lakhimpur Kheri following which Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Channi also made a similar announcement. On Wednesday, the Chhattisgarh’s BJP unit reacted to the announcement and termed it as “cheap politics” by Baghel. The BJP raised question over the farmers’ deaths due to suicides in Chhattisgarh and four tribals being killed in police firing in Silgar in Sukma district in May this year. “Lakhimpur tragedy was a heart wrenching incident. The way the son of a Union Minister of State Ajay Kumar Mishra allegedly crushed the farmers reflects the fascist mentality. This incident cannot be linked with other incidents,” Baghel said. He further said that BJP leaders of Chhattisgarh have not even condemned the Lakhimpur incident. “They talk of Silger incident. When did Raman Singh and his party leader went to meet (the affected people) after the Maoist incident during their 15 year rule. After the Silger incident, our party MLAs and leaders went and met people there. Has Raman Singh spoken to affected families in Silger… but I have spoken to them virtually and over phone. I called them here and asked them what they wanted. They said they will not take compensation,” Baghel said. The CM said he is not describing any incident as small but Lakhimpur violence should not be associated with other incidents. When asked about curfew imposed in Kawardha town following an incident of communal violence on Tuesday, Baghel said stern action will be taken against those who try to encourage such an incident. “Chhattisgarh is a peace-loving state and people belonging to different communities live here together in harmony. No one will tolerate such indeint and strict action will be taken against the people behind such incident,” Baghel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/lakhimpur-kheri-tragedy-should-not-be-linked-with-any-other-incident-bhupesh-baghel-101633633084403.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||PM Modi virtually inaugurates Kaithal, Panipat PSA oxygen plants||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday virtually inaugurated the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants set up at Kaithal and Panipat civil hospitals.These are some of the 35 new PSA oxygen plants set up financed by the PM Cares Fund and it will generate 1,000 litres of liquid medical oxygen every minute.Haryana minister of state for women and child development Kamlesh Dhanda also attended the programme along with local MLA Leela Ram Gurjar.She said the oxygen plant will prove to be a boon for people of Kaithal as there will be no shortage of LMO in future.Kaithal deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Dhaiya said setting up of this PSA oxygen plant gave boost to preparations for the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.He said this plant will also be a storage plant for any immediate need of the LMO. Dhaiya said the 150 beds of the civil hospital will be provided with a piped supply of LMO.Another such plant was inaugurated at Panipat civil hospital as BJP MLA Pramod Vij said the plant was set up with ₹2 crore under the PM Cares Fund. He said 100 beds of the civil hospital will get piped supply of the LMO from this plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-modi-virtually-inaugurates-kaithal-panipat-psa-oxygen-plants-101633632966043.html
08-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Parents bear financial brunt of delay in PSEB’s textbook distribution process||The Punjab School Education Board students, who are yet to receive the NCERT textbooks, are left with no other option but to buy subject guides a month ahead of their final board exams.Their families are bearing the financial brunt of the delay in textbook distribution.Khushi, a Class 10 student of a government high school, said, ‘I am yet to get my textbooks from the school including Punjabi, SST Part 1, English literature and English grammar. I have repeatedly requested my teachers to provide the same, but they asked me to buy the subject guides. Each subject guide costs around ₹250.”Though Khushi managed to buy a few old books from a private bookshop, her father, a labourer, was furious when she sought money for the same.“My father asked me why he should pay for the study guides when at the time of admission, the department had promised to provide us with the books. He works hard to earn money. I don’t feel like putting pressure on him,” added Khushi.Another student, Ajay Pal Singh of Class 10, expressed the same concern.“My father works at an electronic shop. As I haven’t received my textbooks yet, I requested him to buy me a smartphone. It will help me access the study material shared online by our teachers in the absence of books. I have bought guides from private books shops in the market,” said Ajay Pal. Meanwhile, teachers are finding it cumbersome to teach students without books. Various schools including, GHS, Kot Mangal Singh, GHS Jawaddi, and Guru Nanak Khalsa Senior Secondary School Gujarkhan, Model Town, had recently sought books from the department.“It is not easy for students to understand concepts properly without textbooks. The department should have provided them by now as there’s hardly any time left for the students to prepare for their board exams,” said Sukhdarshan Singh, a teacher at GHS, Kot Mangal.Meanwhile, a senior education official said, “A few schools have surplus books. We have asked them to deposit the same with their BPEOs. Once the books are collected at the Punjabi Bhawan, we will send them to other schools as per their requirement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-parents-bear-financial-brunt-of-delay-in-pseb-s-textbook-distribution-process-101633632904347.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Street-Vending: After Lucknow’s Charbagh, other city areas to be streamlined||After Charbagh, plans are afoot at the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) to streamline street vendors in Alambagh, Aminabad, Chowk, Mahanagar, Nishatganj, Bhootnath market, Indira Nagar, Patrakar Puram, Puranaqila road.LMC officials are upbeat after garnering praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi for releasing the maximum number of loans to street vendors under the Pradhan Mantri Swanidhi Yojana in the state. PM Modi lavished praise during the inauguration of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations at the Indira Gandhi Pratishthan, in Lucknow, on Tuesday.Municipal Commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “96,000 street vendors had registered with us for the loan but the loan was distributed to 60,367 street vendors after their economic profiling. At that time, we never knew we were at the top in the country. But after being praised by the PM our responsibility has increased. Now, we have to streamline them, like we tried in Charbagh. Soon, street vendors in Alambagh, Chowk, Aminabad, Nazirabad, Qaiserbagh will be streamlined. Our officials are in talks with their representatives.”The street vendors suffered a lot during the lockdown. They required some assistance from the government to keep their businesses going. The Pradhan Mantri Swanidhi Yojana came as a big relief for them.“Before March 24 this year, only 11,000 street vendors were registered with LMC. But now, the number of registrations has increased to 96,000 in Lucknow,” Dwivedi said.LMC had formed 55 teams to increase registration of street vendors and negotiate with various banks to provide them with loans. The loans were processed at a fast pace on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/streetvending-after-lucknow-s-charbagh-other-city-areas-to-be-streamlined-101633632844408.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress leaders protest Lakhimpur Kheri incident||High drama was witnessed at the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border in Panipat on Thursday after the UP Police stopped the Congress workers from entering the state.Hundreds of Congress workers, led by former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja, Haryana Congress in-charge Vivek Bansal and other party leaders, were going towards Uttar Pradesh to protest the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which eight people were killed and four of them were farmers.The convoy of Congress workers and leaders left from Panipat and travelled around 16km but they were stopped by the police at UP border.Heavy police deployment and barricades were installed on the Haryana-UP border in Shamli district. Congress workers and leaders on Thursday reached Panipat and took out a protest march from Panipat to UP border.But the UP Police did not allow them to enter the state. The Congress workers staged a protest and chanted slogans against BJP-led Centre and the Uttar Pradesh government.In an interaction with the media, Bansal has demanded resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra and arrest of his son for involvement in the violence.Selja said they cannot suppress the voice of people and Congress is always with the farmers and aggrieved families.Addressing the gathering, Hooda slammed the UP government and said the Lakhimpur Kheri incident has shocked the entire country. Police have failed to arrest the son of the BJP leader.Hooda has compared the Lakhimpur Kheri violence with the Jallianwala Bagh massacre and urged the Congress workers to raise their voice against the incident.As police did not allow them to enter Uttar Pradesh, Congress leaders returned after a protest at a fuel station.The barricading also caused long traffic jam on the Haryana-UP border and commuters remained stranded for hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-congress-leaders-protest-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-101633632784417.html
08-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government to provide ICT training to 10,000 teachers||The Uttar Pradesh government will provide information and communications technology (ICT) training to 10,000 teachers of government schools in the state to promote quality education and improve learning outcome, an official said. The programme is part of UP government’s five-point plan and will be done in collaboration with Saamarthya Teachers Training Academy of Research (STTAR), Ghaziabad. It will be launched in Lucknow by deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Friday in the presence of minister of state, secondary education, Gulab Devi and chairman of Seth Anandram Jaipuria Group of Educational Institutions Shishir Jaipuria. The training will be conducted by expert trainers of STTAR that is an initiative of Jaipuria School of Business. “The ICT training programme will help to empower teachers in government schools to leverage technology for better learning outcomes in classrooms,” said Shishir Jaipuria. All the training sessions will be conducted in virtual mode and is in line with the vision of the UP government to strengthen its education system by making it digitally competent, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-government-to-provide-ict-training-to-10-000-teachers-101633632246474.html
08-10-2021||Pune||How IAF squadron leader kept Lankan coast from disaster||PUNE The gallantry awards conferred on August 15 by the President of India gave the people of Pimpri-Chinchwad a local hero to look up to in the form of Squadron Leader Deepak Mohanan Nair. Nair grew up in Nigdi and has family in Ravet. He was awarded the prestigious Vayu Sena Medal (Gallantry) for his role in controlling a fire caused on-board the crude oil carrier MT New Diamond, a 340-metre-long ship, in September 2020, off the Sri Lankan coast. The operation, which involved multiple countries, was a success and saved around 340,000 tonnes of crude oil from spilling into the Indian Ocean. On the occasion of Indian Air Force Day, Nair speaks with Shalaka Shinde.How did you navigate a fire of that enormity?Majority of our methods and instructions were coming from Coast Guard headquarters and Salvors, who are experts in handling such fires. The 16-member Salvors’ team had set course from Hong Kong on a tugboat, but by the time they reached, the fire was already under control. The Coast Guard is the only agency which is able to handle such disasters at sea. It is our job and we have the wherewithal for it. There were some Navy ships in the vicinity but they are not equipped to fight fires and explosions of such magnitude. There were a few challenges during the operations viz strong winds, rough sea, marginal weather and flying in international waters in a ‘single engine’ Chetak helicopter manoeuvering through thick smoke. At a given point of time there were at least six different type of aircraft from the Indian Coast guard, Indian Navy, Sri Lankan Air Force and Sri Lankan media operating in the same area. There were a lot of intricacies and protocols to be followed to maintain adequate separation and contact between the aircrafts and also continue with the fire fighting operations.Tell us about the operation.September 3, 7pm, we left Chennai port. Our plan was to reach the destination by 3pm-4pm the next day. With whatever speed we were able to get, we were not able to cover the distance. Also, the distressed vessel was drifting and shifting continuously. It was almost 50-60 miles from us the next day at 4pm. We were supposed to click pictures and videos and be the eyes for coastguard headquarters, hence, reaching the site the same day before sunset was very important. All pictures that were subsequently published by Indian media, were released by Coast Guard headquarter (CG HQ) and were clicked by my crew. The Chetak is a VFR aircraft and can only fly during daylight. Sunset was at about 5:45pm. After taking off, the first challenge was to search for the distressed vessel in the ocean. Searching for that vessel which had been continuously drifting from 50 miles away was like searching for a needle in a haystack.What was your assignment?Initially, we were to locate the vessel and click pictures for damage assessment and further necessary course of action as directed by the CG HQ. The sea was quite rough, there was heavy rainfall in the vessel’s vicinity and the winds were also very strong. Once we identified the general location of the vessel, the thick smoke emanating from the vessel made it easier to locate it. As we went closer, we could identify the other ships that were in the area. On a detailed assessment of the pictures, we could gauge the source of the fire to be the main engine room and pinpoint the exact seat of fire. We were aware that the cargo compartment where the crude oil is stored is protected by thick metal plates. So, our job was to ensure that the fire doesn’t breach those metal plates and we succeed in avoiding a major catastrophe. The ship was reported to be carrying 340,000 metric tonnes of crude oil. Coastal tourism and marine fishing are a huge source of income for Sri Lanka and any spillage could have seriously affected it. The oil spill on the surface ensures that the sunlight doesn’t penetrate the water killing the flora ,fauna and corals underneath. Meanwhile, the Maldives government had also voiced their concern to avoid any oil spill reaching their shores.At sea, what was the fire-fighting strategy?Dry chemical powder (DCP) was air dropped directly on the seat of fire. Foam along with sea water was continuously sprayed using external fire-fighting(EFF) devices from various Coastguard ships round the clock. As we were airborne and had a better field of view, our job was to direct the ships to point their EFF towards the exact seat of fire. Overall, a total of eight Indian Coastguard ships of different classes were involved in the fire fighting operations. We were able to douse the fire for a short while after about four days, but it soon reignited and the fire fighting efforts continued. Once the fire was finally visibly doused after a week, we resorted to boundary layer cooling to avoid re- ignition, which entails maintaining surface temperature of the ship by continuous pouring of water and foam. While the fire fighting effort continued the ship was continuously drifting towards the Sri Lankan shores and was being held 30 miles away by a tug boat.What security measures were you following for your own safety?Our helicopter was required to fly in close vicinity of the vessel through thick black smoke for continuous monitoring of the fire and damage assessment. We were very well aware that Sri Lanka was staring at grave threats if we did not succeed in controlling the fire and if there was any oil spill. Hence, personal safety was our least concern. We were quite optimistic that we will succeed in not only dousing the fire, but prevent any oil spill. We were very well briefed and prepared to take calculated risks.What are the lessons learned?The entire mission was flown on a very reliable, but very old platform, ‘The Chetak’ which has quite a few limitations. In the near future the Coastguard will have twin engine helicopters operating from its ships. Well-equipped indigenously made ALH - Dhruv are already being delivered to the Coastguard since June 2021.Tell us about your childhood.I have been born and brought up in Yamunanagar, Nigdi. I’ve done my schooling from St Ursula High School, Nigdi. I completed my junior college from Jai Hind Junior college, Pimpri. I graduated with a BSc in Physics from Fergusson College in April 2007. I joined the Air Force Academy at Hyderabad in July 2007 through the NCC direct entry. I have always been fascinated by airplanes and spent most of my NCC days building and flying radio-controlled model airplanes. I am a firm believer of destiny as I recall an incident wherein, I had applied for a job interview for the post of a ‘draftsman’ at Tata Motors and got selected. Later, the interviewer summoned my father and requested him to take me away and send me for higher education. My father who has been a fire fighter in the Dehu Ammunition Depot, told me this story after I had joined the Indian Air Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/how-iaf-squadron-leader-kept-lankan-coast-from-disaster-101633632244872.html
08-10-2021||Pune||Extraordi-narris of Pune light up this Navratri||PUNE: In a bid to empower women over the nine days of the Navratri festival, Radio One, the radio partner of Hindustan Times, will air stories of women police officials of the Pune police who exemplify strength and courage in the form of ‘Extraordi narris of Pune’. Women police officers who have helped female victims of various crimes will narrate their experience to create awareness and a sense of agency among the women of Pune.Swati Patil who is part of the Pune crime branch’s ‘Damini squad’ said, “We were visiting a school to explain good touch and bad touch. A Class 8 student mustered the courage to approach us later and had tears in her eyes while confiding in us about her father’s regular sexual misconduct. This is just one of the cases. If any girl or woman feels unsafe, she can call the ‘Damini Squad’ on 1091.”Another officer narrated her experience while dealing with the case of a pregnant girl, 15, who was cheated by a man later found to be married with a son.Assistant police inspector Vrushali Patil who works at the Pune police commissioner’s office, said, “The communication between parents and children has become imperative in today’s times. Both parents work to survive in a fast-growing city like Pune. Clear communication between children and parents will help reduce the number of such incidents considerably. We are here to help always. You can reach us on 100, 1091, and 112 as well.”Radio jockey Meenal of Radio One will bring a wealth of such stories of courage and good will over the nine days of Navratri, a festival personifies the Goddess aka Shakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/extraordinarris-of-pune-light-up-this-navratri-101633631644345.html
08-10-2021||Kolkata||‘Joined TMC as Didi asked me to come back home’: Sabyasachi Dutta on leaving BJP||Trinamool Congress (TMC) turncoat Sabyasachi Dutta, who earlier in the day, returned to his old party, following a two-year term with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said that he came back because Mamata Banerjee asked him to do so.“I had disputes with one or two persons in the party (BJP), which is why I left. Today, Didi (West Bengal chief minister Banerjee) called me and asked me to come back home (TMC),” he told news agency ANI.Notably, Dutta was inducted into the ruling party of West Bengal in presence of state cabinet ministers Partha Chatterjee and Firhad Hakim in Kolkata. With this, Dutta joined a string of politicians, including former BJP MP Babul Supriyo, BJP MLAs Tanmoy Ghosh and Soumen Roy, among others, who have exited the saffron party for the TM.Soon after joining the TMC, Dutta told reporters that whatever he is and his achievements are all because of the “grace of Mamata Banerjee.”Dutta had joined the BJP prior to the 2019 Durga Puja, and had an unsuccessful bid to win the Bidhannagar constituency in the 2021 West Bengal Assembly elections as a saffron party candidate.The Banerjee-led TMC has also been conducting recruits from other opposition parties with Assam MP Sushmita Dev quitting the Congress and joining TMC in August. Following in her footsteps was yet another Congress leader Luizinho Faleiro, the former chief minister of Goa, who joined the TMC in Kolkata last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/joined-tmc-as-didi-asked-me-to-come-back-home-sabyasachi-dutta-on-leaving-bjp-101633630851278.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||With teachers out on Covid duty, Delhi’s public schools flag staff shortage||With the Class 10 and 12 board examinations scheduled for November and authorities likely to deliberate on reopening schools for students of classes 6 to 8 next week, principals and teachers across government schools in Delhi are concerned about the shortage of staff, with many still engaged in Covid-19 duties.Hundreds of Delhi government school teachers are currently working with district administrations in various capacities —at the airport, in vaccination centres at hospitals, as well as cracking down on Covid-norm violations across the city.Sant Ram, the district secretary of the government schoolteachers’ association in west Delhi-A, which has over 58 schools in the area, said institutions need even more teachers than usual to ensure Covid-19 protocol are followed inside school premises.“Due to Covid-19 protocols, classes have been split into two or three batches, which necessitates thrice the number of teachers. Instead of allocating more teachers, the sanctioned staff has been given other duties. We need staff to look over mid-day meal preparations or to ensure Covid-19 protocols on the premises. If we reopen schools for classes 6, 7 and 8, where there are more students than secondary and senior secondary classes, the shortage of teaching staff will create a problem,” he said.An education department official, however, said these considerations will be taken into account while the government decides to resume in-person lessons for more classes.“This is going to be one of the factors while deciding whether to reopen schools for classes 6 to 8, and it will not be overlooked. When the decision is taken to reopen the schools, it will be ensured that the teachers are back to schools from the Covid-19 duties,” said the official.Principals across several Delhi government schools echoed similar concerns.Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of the government principals’ association, said, “We are in touch with several schools where 20% of the staff are engaged in Covid-19 duties. Principals have expressed concerns in helping students learn under the new exam pattern and address learning gaps. Due to the festive season, there are several holidays in the coming weeks, including an autumn break. Students’ preparations have been hit, even as the pre-board exams start from October 21. Without allowing teachers to join schools, it is not possible to reopen classes 6 to 8, especially when an increased number of students from private schools have been admitted this year.”In September, the Delhi government said the enrolment figures in government schools had reached 1.76 million for the 2021-22 session — a jump from 1.62 million from the 2020-21 session and 1.50 million in the pre-Covid academic year of 2019-20.Principals across government schools said that this was due to the migration of students from private schools under the non-planned admissions category which saw a sharp spike this year.Referring to an order released this week asking teachers to report back to school duties, Yadav said, “Teachers from classes 9 to 12 have been waiting for relieving letters from district administration to join schools. This will happen in a phased manner,” he said.On Tuesday, education director Udit Prakash Rai also issued directives asking all district and zonal deputy directors of education (DDEs) to ensure that teachers of classes 9 to 12 report back immediately “so that the students’ preparation with regards to pre-board/mid-term/projects and board examination is started immediately.” This came after the divisional commissioner issued a letter on September 3 asking district magistrates to deploy staff from other departments not teaching classes 9 to 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-teachers-still-out-on-covid-duty-delhi-s-public-schools-flag-staff-shortage-101633630387883.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||E-charging stations set up by Delhi’s south civic body to charge ₹10 per unit||Electric vehicles charging stations being set up by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will fix a fee of ₹10 per unit, officials aware of the matter said on Thursday.A senior municipal official from the remunerative projects cell said that in the first phase, three public sector undertaking companies and BSES are installing 109 charging stations, of which 35 will specifically cater to electric scooters. SDMC officials say the overall tariff will be kept lower than other parts of the city.The official said that of ₹10, the municipal body will take ₹1 for infrastructure and land, and the rest will be shared by the power distribution company and the installation agency. Standing committee chairman Col (retd) BK Oberoi said the policy aims to encourage people to buy electric vehicles by providing a large number of charging stations, and keeping the operating cost low. “We will complete the phase 1 of installation work within this year. The south corporation will also procure four electric mechanical road sweepers, the proposal for which will be tabled in the next standing committee meeting. We are also using electric cars for movement of senior officials,” he added.The Delhi government notified the Delhi EV policy last year which aims to ensure that 25% of all registered vehicles in Delhi by 2023 are electric vehicles. The policy is part of the Delhi government’s larger long-term action plan to fight air pollution in the city.In July, the Delhi government floated a tender to select vendors to set up charging stations for electric vehicles in spaces such as shopping malls, theatres, multiplexes, departmental stores, hospitals and residential areas. It was separate from tenders floated and work orders issued by the government to empanel vendors to set up 500 EV charging points across 100 public spaces locations – most of them located in bus depots and outside metro stations – in the city.Talking about the focus on providing exclusive charging stations for electric scooters, a senior SDMC official explained that the electric two wheelers take five units of power to charge fully in 15 minutes. “35 e-bike charging stations are being developed. With five units of charging, these two wheelers can cover 70-80 kms,” the official said.Within next one year, SDMC plans to develop 200 charging stations in two phases, and the north civic body has approved 50 charging stationsThe New Delhi Municipal Council was the first local body in Delhi to set up an e-charging station. An NDMC official said that they are operating e-charging stations with EESL (Energy Efficiency Services Limited) and a charging plaza has been developed on Rafi Marg. “The tarrifs being charged by EESL are divided in two categories. The charging rates for high-capacity vehicles is ₹26 per unit, and the rates for normal capacity vehicles is ₹9.5 per unit,” he added.Speaking at the EV forum organised by the Dialogue and Development Commission, a Delhi government’s think tank, in August, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the number of electric two-wheelers during August 2020-July 2021 doubled in the state from 1,013 units to 2,243, and the adoption of electric four-wheelers has grown by 20%, from 813 to 1,002 units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/echarging-stations-set-up-by-delhi-s-south-civic-body-to-charge-10-per-unit-101633630325619.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Many SDMC citizen service centres run only on paper, say RWAs||Nearly one year after the South Delhi Municipal Corporation cleared a proposal to set up a large number of Citizen Service Centres (CSCs) in municipal wards to provide access to digital services such as issuance of certificates and licenses, a large number of such facilities continue to exist only in papers. Local councillors have alleged that many CSCs in their area remain non-operational, and several RWAs added that no such units were there in their areas. The lack of such facilities has hit the citizens who do not have access to digital devices. The official website of the south corporation lists 1,441 citizen service centres where services like birth certificate and death certificate, updating birth certificate and filing of property tax returns have been operationalised. 477 centres are listed in the Central zone, 307 in Najafgarh zone, 338 in the South zone and 319 in the West zone. Last year, the civic agency signed an agreement with a company for setting up these services. The centres are expected to provide 13 more services such as veterinary licence, community hall booking, e-mutation of properties among others. CSCs can charge citizens Rs10-Rs100 for providing assistance in accessing these services under various categories.Atul Goel, president of URJA (United Residents Joint Action) --a collective body of RWAs, said the process of digitisation of services needs to be reviewed. “I have only seen one such centre. Overall, the new service portals developed by corporation are not performing well, and people end up paying cyber cafes or touts for accessing services. The quality of digital services can be gauged from the fact that corporation doesn’t provide any acknowledgement, and it will not inform applicants about faults in the rejected applications,” he added. Chetan Sharma, general secretary of the Confederation of NCR RWAs said that they are not aware of any such CSC centres operational in Greater Kailash area.Khanpur councillor Suresh Kumar Gupta said earlier people were able to get a certificate manually by paying ₹10. Now, they are forced to pay Rs500 to private cyber cafe operators for the same online service, he added. “80% of applications get rejected. We should open assistance counters in zonal offices to help people,” Gupta said. Other members of standing committee agreed that people are facing problems in accessing even basic services such as getting birth and death certificates. Standing committee chairman Col (retd) BK Oberoi acknowledged the problem and added that the project will be reviewed. “We agree that this problem exists. Many of these CSCs are not working. We will review their operations. If people are not doing their job after signing agreement with SDMC, they are either professionally not capable or not taking their work seriously. We can choose a new vendor if required,” Oberoi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/many-sdmc-citizen-service-centres-run-only-on-paper-say-rwas-101633630027364.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Durga Puja, Ramlila organisers in Delhi reel from bruising Covid punch||Durga Puja and Ramlila organisers in Delhi are battling a severe cash crunch, even as they prepare to set up festivities in sync with the state’s norms for celebrations, which were issued last week. To exacerbate matters, organisers said, the changes wrought by the advent of Covid-19 will leave the industry reeling for a few years at least, and are likely to leave an irreversible impact on public celebrations of two of the Capital’s biggest festivals. The changes, organisers said, could range from reduced sponsorships, to fewer people at the food stalls due to a heightened sense of hygiene, and an overall reduction in repeat visitors.Mrinal Kanti Biswas, general secretary of the Purbanchal Bangiyo Samiti, an umbrella body of 38 Durga Puja committees in east Delhi, said sponsorships and donations have reduced by about 70%. “It will take at least two to three years to recover. Sponsorship for Durga Puja committees in Delhi used to come from small, medium and micro industries, which have been hit badly by the pandemic. Our dedicated sponsors have never been big companies or industries. So, funds are really tight. Before the pandemic, our budget to organise Durga Puja used to be at least ₹35 lakh. This year, we are doing it within ₹5-6 lakh, not just because it’s a low-key affair, but also because donations and sponsorship have dried up. Why will a company give us money if they are running into losses? Some of them have even closed down,” he said.Even donations have taken a major hit. Before Covid-19, individuals used to donate up to ₹20,000, which now has come down to a maximum of ₹5,000. “This trend is likely to continue for a few years, and even then we will only see an incremental increase. People have either lost their jobs or faced salary cuts, so there’s nothing that we can do about it,” said a member of Kali Bari puja committee. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) last week allowed Durga Puja celebrations this year but with several riders — organisers will have to ensure venues do not have visitors beyond the seating capacity, and there can be no stalls of any kind.Arjun Kumar, secretary of the Luv Kush Ramlila Committee, which organises the Ramlila on the Red Fort grounds, said such events may no longer be the same as, before people’s priorities have changed. “People have become more health conscious now. Many have either reduced or stopped eating street food and going to extremely crowded areas,” he said. Robin Bose, general secretary of the Durga Puja committee in Kashmere Gate, said pandals used to be hubs for friendship and “adda”.“A majority of the Bengalis would come to the pandal on each day of the Pujo only for the adda. But people are now more comfortable within the confines of their homes. They have gotten used to it,” he said.Bose also said that the magnitude of celebrations will also be scaled down, due to a sharp drop in sponsorships. He said they are spending from the committee’s funds, since there have been no sponsorships.“There used to be cultural performances each day, all day long. All that may reduce as it entails a lot of prize money or sponsorship items,” he said. Ravi Jain of Shri Dharmik Leela Committee, recalled how Ramlilas, used to be a meeting point for families to fix marriages. “The families would meet and let the man and woman spend some time in the fair. This gradually changed and Ramlilas became an event where parents would bring their children to give them an insight about the story of Ram and Sita. Now, they just Google it. So, times will continue to change and we have to adapt to it. For instance, we are live-streaming our Ramlila now and the five-day affair has been reduced to just a day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/durga-puja-ramlila-organisers-in-delhi-reel-from-bruising-covid-punch-101633629725100.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Delay in land for compensatory plantation delays Akshardham-EPE highway project||The construction of a nearly 15km-long elevated corridor in the trans-Yamuna area, a part of national highway 709B between Akshardham (Delhi) and Saharanpur Bypass (Uttar Pradesh), is yet to start, despite the work having been awarded, as the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) is yet to provide National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) with 15 hectare of land for compensatory plantation.NHAI has written to DDA to expedite the process. “The environment clearance for the project is stuck as DDA is yet to provide us land for compensatory plantation. From our end, the work is complete and we can start the construction within 15-20 days,” said a senior NHAI official aware of the development.In January 2019, Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari laid the foundation stone for the 31.3km-long corridor between Akshardham and Eastern peripheral Expressway (which includes the 15km-long stretch in Delhi). The corridor is an extension of the NHAI’s ongoing national highway 709B project that is aimed at providing seamless travel between Delhi and Saharanpur.The 14.7km-long elevated corridor will pass through some of the most densely populated areas in east and northeast Delhi, such as Geeta Colony, Shastri Park, Khajuri Khas, Karawal Nagar etc.NHAI officials said that the land-owning agency had provided them a 15 hectare of land in Delhi a few months ago. “But it turned out that the land was already in use for compensatory plantation by another agency. So, we wrote to DDA again for an alternate land parcel,” said the official.When contacted, DDA officials said, “There was an overlap due to some miscommunication. We are in the process of addressing the issue. The request will be processed soon.”The official added, “We are finding it difficult to meet the demand for land for compensatory plantation and afforestation. Delhi is largely urbanised and most of the areas identified as recreational green under the Master Plan have already been used either as parks or for plantation.”NHAI officials said that to carry out preparatory work for the project, they will have to make space for traffic diversions. “The corridor will be constructed on an extremely congested road. The piers of the elevated corridor will be constructed on the median so we will have to make space for traffic diversions. So, we need tree-cutting permission before we start any work on the ground,” said a senior NHAI official. The ₹2,388-crore project in Delhi has been marred by delays. Months after the project was announced in 2019, the road transport and highways ministry asked NHAI to reassess the financial viability of the project and explore options to bring down the cost. The direction came as the ministry was focusing on prioritising highway projects after evaluating them financially.After the evaluation, the total cost of the project was revised to ₹2,388 crore from the earlier estimate of ₹2,820, said an official. In February this year, the work was awarded.“Now that everything is ready, we hope we get the permission at the earliest,” said the NHAI official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delay-in-land-for-compensatory-plantation-delays-akshardham-epe-highway-project-101633629664356.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||After Covid lull, Delhi tax collections pick up in 1st two quarters||The Delhi government has collected ₹9,560.52 crore in goods and services tax (GST) in the first two quarters of financial year 2021-22, compared to ₹5,712 crore for the corresponding period the previous fiscal -- an indication that trade and commercial activities are recovering in the national capital after remaining in a state of limbo due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Similarly, government data showed that the government collected ₹2,546.18 crore in value added tax (VAT) in the first two quarters of the current fiscal, against ₹1,532 crore collected between April and September in 2020-21.It is important to note that the collection of indirect taxes such as GST and VAT in a particular month essentially provides a reflection of the scale of trade and commerce activities in the month preceding it. Indirect taxes are those in which the tax burden is on the ultimate consumer of a product on which the tax is levied. While VAT is levied on automobile fuel and liquor, GST is levied on almost all products and services, ranging from groceries and medicines to garments and electronics.A closer look into the monthly collection figures of VAT and GST this financial year shows a direct correlation with the Covid-19 situation.According to government records that HT has seen, Delhi collected VAT of ₹417.01 crore and GST of ₹2,325.64 crorein April. In the month of April, the capital also witnessed its Covid-19 peak, which left the health-care system overwhelmed and forced the government to impose a lockdown from April 19. Therefore, in May, the VAT collection dropped to ₹358.17 croreand GST to ₹ 991.05 crore.For the whole month of May, Delhi was under lockdown, which reflected in the VAT and GST collections of June, with the tax figures further dropping to ₹207.35 crore and ₹968.4 crore, respectively.The government started implementing a phased relaxation of lockdown curbs from May 31 and markets in the city were allowed to open at 50% capacity from the first week of June and at full capacity from mid-June, even though working hours were truncated.These relaxations are reflected in the collections for July, which show a sharp rise. In July, the government collected VAT of around ₹440 croreand GST of ₹1,584.75 crore.Government records showed that the numbers have been going up steadily since then. In August, the government collectively recorded VAT and GST of ₹2,271.56 crore and in September, it further went up to ₹2,542.74 crore.“The numbers show clear signs of economic recovery. In Delhi, we have implemented a data-based enforcement system and a mechanism for internal assessment of finance through key performance indicators. These efforts have contributed to higher filing of tax returns and we also plugged gaps in the system,” said Ankur Garg, commissioner of trade and taxes department, Delhi government.For 2021-22, the Delhi budget tax revenue is ₹43,000 crore of which around ₹30,000 crore is supposed to come from GST and VAT. In 2020-21, Delhi’s budget GST and VAT collection was ₹30,000 crore but, during revision, it was later slashed by around 41% in light of the pandemic.In the first two quarters of 2019-20, Delhi’s VAT collection was ₹2,507 crore and GST was ₹9,150 crore, data showed,Between April 2020 and now, Delhi has witnessed four distinct waves of Covid-19, with the worst one in April 2021 which peaked at a weekly average of around 25,000 new cases a day and a daily positivity rate that often exceeded 30%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-covid-lull-delhi-tax-collections-pick-up-in-1st-two-quarters-101633629606202.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt launches anti-dust campaign to curb air pollution||The Delhi government on Thursday kick-started a month-long anti-dust campaign to ensure that pollution from construction sites is controlled ahead of winters.During an inspection at construction sites on Thursday, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said the government will take strict action against agencies found violating the dust control guidelines. Rai also conducted a surprise inspection of the construction site at Pragati Maidan, and levied a fine of ₹5 lakh on the contractor for not adhering to dust control guidelines while constructing an underpass.“During an inspection, we found lots of dust at the site. The green net installed to control dust pollution was torn. There was no water in the tank of the anti-smog gun,” the minister said.Rai also said that a notice has been issued to the construction company, asking it to comply with the 14-point dust control guidelines issued by the Delhi government. If it fails to do so in two days, a fine of ₹5 lakh per day will be imposed, he said.According to a study by IIT-Kanpur in 2016, road dust contributes 56% of the overall pollution in the national capital.The Delhi government also launched a ‘dust pollution control self-assessment portal’ to further bolster the anti-dust campaign. Senior officials said that monitoring of sites will start from November 1, through the portal, till October 29. Thirty one teams have been tasked with on-ground investigation.Rai said that all agencies, both government and private, will have to mandatorily adhere to all anti-dust norms, adding “the Delhi government will not tolerate any laxity”.“The online portal that we have launched as part of the anti dust campaign will prove to be a historic step. Through this portal all the construction work going on in Delhi, whether it is a house or a project, it will be closely monitored. Training will start from next week to help people connect with the portal,” Rai said.Environment department officials said agencies including Public Works Department (PWD), Delhi Jal Board, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), the three municipal corporations are already being trained to register and use the website.A senior nodal official from East Delhi Municipal Corporation said they were not aware of any order regarding mandatory registration of smaller construction sites with a government website.“We will enforce the dust control measures as stated in the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap). Our Junior Engineers will make regular visits to the construction sites to ensure that green screens are used, construction material is not left uncovered and water is used to suppress dust,” the official said.The civic body issued an order on Wednesday that building plan approval may be cancelled if the owner of a property or developers fail to safely dispose of and transport the construction and demolition waste from their site to Shastri Park plant.The junior engineers (building department) have been asked to make fortnightly visits to the construction site in their area, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-anti-dust-campaign-to-curb-air-pollution-101633629484637.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||‘Need to come together to tackle pollution’: Delhi environment min Gopal Rai||The Delhi government has been working persistently throughout the year to prevent an air pollution emergency this winter, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said. In an interview, he added that the state government has not only come up with an action plan, but is also building resources to monitor pollution in real-time across the city so that containment measures are taken at the source. Excerpts: Delhi has come up with its own winter action plan against the annual winter pollution. Has there been any assessment to check, how effective it would be if implemented fully. It would be difficult, but we extensively studied the patterns over the past years, and considered them while making the 10-point winter action plan. We saw that besides the local sources of pollution such as vehicular emission, waste burning, dust etc, but during winters it is the external factors like stubble burning that aggravate the situation. Because of a common air shed, which spans up to 250km, the impact of pollution in the neighbouring areas is witnessed in Delhi too. We cannot sit idle.We are doing our best. Last year we were able to bring the pollution levels down, and we are constantly taking to experts on measures to further reduce pollution in the city. Through the winter action plan, we are planning to tackle both internal and external causes of pollution. We have launched India’s first war room to monitor pollution. From there, we will keep a close watch on how the stubble fires contribute in pollution load, and note which local sources are active. This will help us take timely action. You spoke about how Delhi does not have control over external pollution sources, but even within the city there is a multiplicity of agencies. For instance, the municipal agencies and the police do not report to the government. What is the plan to bring all the agencies together this season?Before coming up with the winter action plan, we held several meetings with all agencies, including municipal corporations and Delhi Traffic Police to sensitise them about the gravity of the situation. We also conducted several training sessions for all agencies so that they are better equipped to handle the emergency measures as the season progresses. The point is that we all have to come together, irrespective of our political ideologies, to tackle this problem. Because pollution impacts you as much as it impacts me or the next person. From an accountability point of view, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) will be assessing action being taken by each agency, and if any laxity is found, the pollution monitoring and control agency has the power to take action and even levy fines on them. You have made a detailed plan for winters, but there has been criticism that the government acts only when air quality becomes hazardous, instead of taking measures throughout the year. This is not true. Though we have been planning to avert the worst, we were taking up both long and short-term measures. However, we have intensified action because of the unique challenges during winters. The smog tower that was inaugurated recently, did not come up overnight. Work on setting up of our dedicated war room for pollution monitoring was also going on for the past six months. Apart from this, we have also worked on the e-vehicles policy, transplantation policy and plantation drives, which proves our government’s commitment towards resolving this problem. There have been mixed reactions to the ban on crackers. Some people have backed your decision, but some people have said that this could not be only solution.Diwali is traditionally a festival of lights, and that’s how the festival got its name. Firecracker bursting was something we picked up on the way. But we are not against the traditional practices. However, we cannot ignore ground realities. We need to understand that these are not regular circumstances. In a few months, pollution levels will spike, and people’s health will be at risk. We will have to choose if bursting crackers is important or the lives of our children and senior citizens. Last time, we had announced a ban but since it was a late decision, many cracker traders had already stocked up on green crackers. This time, to avoid any inconvenience to traders, and also to ensure that violations are kept in check, we announced the ban early. You had also requested the Centre to consider imposing a cracker ban on other states around Delhi. Did you get any response?Not yet. But the idea behind our request was that Delhi cannot implement a strict ban without the Centre’s support. Last year, we saw violations because people bought crackers from UP and Haryana. You have said repeatedly that environmental protection is a priority for your government. Over the years have you seen any change in the attitude of people and agencies in Delhi towards the issue of environment and pollution control? Definitely. We are seeing that every year people’s sensitivity towards the issue of air quality management is increasing. This year we launched our green war room and the Green App, and we have received over 27,000 complaints on it. Out of this, we have managed to resolve 23,000 complaints. We also managed to increase the number of pollution hotspots from 13 to 150 based on the complaints of waste burning and dumping, traffic jams etc we received from people last year. We are also going to launch a large scale ‘Jan Bhagidari’ campaign in a few weeks to ensure public participation in our fight against pollution. As I said, everyone needs to come together to tackle pollution in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/need-to-come-together-to-tackle-pollution-delhi-environment-min-gopal-rai-101633629307899.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: East civic body to hand over 15% parks to RWAs for maintenance||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has decided to hand over around 15% of its parks to the local residents’ welfare association (RWA) for maintenance and upkeep. The civic body will compensate the RWAs at a rate of ₹2.14 per square metre per month. Shyam Sunder Aggarwal, the east corporation mayor, has given anticipatory approval to the policy, officials said on Thursday.Aggarwal said the scheme will be on a public-private partnership (PPP) model. “The EDMC has approximately 950 acres of parks and, under this scheme, about 135 acres will be handed over to RWAs in each area for maintenance. The EDMC will make quarterly payments to the RWA concerned on priority basis,” he said.The EDMC has 2,098 parks in Shahdara North and Shahdara South zones. The three municipal corporations together oversee 15,064 parks in the city with the south corporation alone managing the maximum number of parks at 6,812. There are more than 18,000 parks and gardens in Delhi spread over about 8,000 hectares. Several of them are looked after by central agencies and garden society.A senior EDMC official from the horticulture department said under the scheme, RWAs will be given the responsibility of maintaining the parks, appointing gardeners, irrigation, greenery and beautification of the park. “The compensation rate has been determined as per the central public works department manual for the maintenance of parks and the RWA concerned will be paid ₹2.14 per square metre per month. The rates will be increased when changes are made to the manual,” official said, asking not to be named.Aggarwal said if the RWA is not willing to do the maintenance work, then any NGO with three years of experience in this particular work in the zone concerned can also apply and a no objection certificate will be needed from the local RWA for the handover of the park to the NGO. “Officials of the horticulture department will inspect parks from time to time to ensure that proper maintenance is being done,” Aggarwal said. Similar PPP schemes are also run by the other two civic bodies and the Delhi parks and garden society but payment delays have often impacted park upkeep, EDMC officials said.BS Vohra, who heads the East Delhi RWA joint front, said the timelines for payments must be adhered to. “RWAs want to maintain and beautify their parks but payments should be timely and the quantum should be enough to sustain the parks on a no profit, no loss basis,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-east-civic-body-to-hand-over-15-parks-to-rwas-for-maintenance-101633629305581.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 3 arrested in connection with stolen CCTV camera hard disks in Burari||Two men, who stole hard disks from CCTV cameras on roads, have been arrested, along with a third person who bought the stolen hard disks, Delhi Police said on Thursday. Police said the three were arrested in connection with a case registered in Burari regarding the theft of at least 17 CCTV cameras installed on the roads of north Delhi’s Burari.Police recovered three stolen hard disks of 4TB storage each and five DVR boxes from the three men. Deputy commissioner police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said that on September 22, CCTV cameras in the Burari area had stopped working. “Service engineers of the CCTV camera company confirmed that the hard disks of 17 cameras were missing. A case was then registered based on the complaint of the company’s area manager,” said DCP Kalsi. During investigation, police said, the investigating officers checked footage of at least 150 cameras in nearby areas. “On the footage, we saw the two persons involved in stealing the disks. They were also seen riding a motorcycle after stealing the hard disks. With technical help, a clearer photograph of the suspected persons was obtained and many photos were circulated on social media. Local informers were also deployed. With the help of local sources combined with technical support, the team conducted raids and succeeded in arresting the two accused persons Rajan Billa alias Sonu,42, and Pankaj Saini, 29. Police found one of the hard disks in their possession.Police said the two men confessed to have stolen the hard disks and selling them to their contact at the Lajpat Rai Market near Red Fort.“After questioning the two men, we conducted raids and arrested the third person, Chander Shekhar Chauhan, 41. He admitted his role in the present case. Two other hard disks were recovered from his possession. He also disclosed that he had sold the rest of the disks to unknown customers for ₹20,000,” said DCP Kalsi. Police said Billa has a history of being involved in burglary cases. Police have found his name registered in connection with at least 21 burglary cases across the city. His accomplice Pankaj too has at least two cases of burglaries and one of motor vehicle theft registered against him. Police are probing the criminal history of Chauhan. The two men told police that they stole the CCTV hard disks at night and sold them to Chauhan for about ₹1000-1500 each. Chauhan then sold them for ₹3000-4000 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-arrested-in-connection-with-stolen-cctv-camera-hard-disks-in-burari-101633629244948.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Mark an emergency lane at Nehru Place: Delhi high court orders authorities||The Delhi high court on Thursday directed the authorities to earmark a lane for unhindered movement of fire engines and ambulances at Nehru Place, and sought a status report within 15 days containing suggestions and observations.The directions passed by a bench of justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla came on hearing over poor safety measures in the busy market where a fire incident took place in August.The bench directed the Delhi Police, Delhi Development Authority and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to conduct an inspection within the next fortnight in the area and file the status report.The court itself initiated a plea after the August 12 fire incident. On Thursday, it said that only verified vendors will be allowed to squat in the area. “This court directs SDMC, DDA and Delhi Police to ensure that no other individual or entity other than 95 vendors, hawk in and around Nehru Place. Even the identities of the 95 vendors shall be verified and the respondents shall ensure that the vendors comply with the terms and conditions of Tehbazari/vending,” the bench said.While initiating the PIL, the court had said that the enormity of the problem caused by hawkers and vendors in the Nehru Place area is shown in the difficulty faced by the fire tenders in accessing the building where fire broke out due to a short circuilt.During the hearing, advocate Divya Prakash Pande, who was representing SDMC, told the court that despite the specific area being delineated for hawking, the vendors are not restricting themselves to the area. He further said that only 95 vendors have interim orders in their favour from the Supreme Court and the high court to operate from the area.Pande also told the court that the hawkers are not complying with the terms of Tehbazari/conditions of vending. He also stated that out of 95 street vendors who have injunction in their favour, 33 have filed petitions in the high court while 62 street vendors who are part of Manushi Sangathan have filed petitions before the Supreme Court.The Delhi Fire Service (DFS) told the court that it had conducted a mock drill in Nehru Place area and highlighted the challenges that emergency services face in the area.The fire services told the court that none of the vehicles (fire engine, ambulance) could reach the incident spot on August 12. It said that fire tenders could only reach up to the upper plaza, and lower plaza was not reachable for the vehicles.It also said that the time taken by the first fire unit was 11 minutes, and as the lower plaza was not approachable to fire units, pitching of rescue vehicles like hydraulic platforms was not possible.“The time taken by the various agencies was too much, which indicates that there are significant hindrances due to heavy pedestrian movement, heavy traffic, hawkers and parking problems,” the fire services said.The DFS recommended that all the entries to the upper plaza as well as lower plaza should be cleared of boom barriers, barricades, etc, adding that the market may be made a hawker-free zone. It also said that all levels in the market must be made approachable to fire engines by making a minimum six-metre wide motorable road/ramps.Taking note, the court said that the issue is “serious” and asked the authorities to take necessary steps.“DCP (Traffic) will ensure that the said lane (emergency vehicles lane) is not encroached upon, and is always free for movement for fire brigade and ambulance,” the court said.The matter will now be heard on November 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mark-an-emergency-lane-at-nehru-place-delhi-high-court-orders-authorities-101633629064204.html
08-10-2021||Delhi||Kerala students row: DU says academic merits of all valued equally||The Delhi University on Thursday rejected assertions that students from a particular state board were being favoured in admissions to the undergraduate admissions, saying that the university equally values the academic credentials of all students.In a press statement released on Thursday, DU Registrar Vikas Gupta said, “The University of Delhi strongly refutes and condemns the falsity of news which is being circulated regarding favouring candidates from a few boards.”The university statement comes a day after the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) on Wednesday alleged that top scorers from the Kerala state board were being denied admission on flimsy grounds by various Delhi University colleges in a controversy that erupted amid condemnation of a physics professor from Kirori Mal College who coined a communally sensitive and derogatory term -- “marks jihad” -- to contend that students from the state were being given higher marks in Class 12 so that they could systematically take over the country’s top higher education institutes.In the statement, the Registrar said, “DU equally and uniformly values the academic credentials of all the candidates irrespective of their States and School Boards. This year too, equal opportunity was maintained by accepting applications based on the merit only.”The Communist Party of India (Marxist)-linked SFI, in a statement on Wednesday, said that DU must “stop discriminating against” students from Kerala state board.“It has come to our attention that certain colleges are rejecting applications without stating any substantial reason or withholding applications arbitrarily stating ‘clarifications to be sought from the university’. DU is bound to admit students satisfying all the eligibility criteria, it is a matter of shame that applicants are being discriminated against based on their board,” second-year law student Akhil KM, who is convener at SFI-DU, wrote in the statement.According to admissions committee members of several colleges, students from the Kerala state board had mark sheets under two names– Board of Higher Secondary Examination and Directorate of Higher Secondary Education. The list of approved boards only had the former’s name, leading to confusion. The university officials later found out that both the boards were eligible for admission.Till Thursday evening, DU received 60,904 applications, from which 27,006 candidates completed the formalities by paying the fees. The numbers are expected to increase by Friday as applications of 14,205 candidates have been approved by principals of various colleges, and the students were yet to pay the fee.The Registrar also said that of 60,904 applications received under the first cut-off, 46,054 were from the CBSE board, and the rest from all other boards across the country. “By the end of October 7, 2021, 31,172 candidates from CBSE board, 2,365 from Kerala Board of Higher Secondary Education, 1,540 from Board of School Education Haryana, 1,429 from Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations and 1,301 from Board of Secondary Education Rajasthan in addition to other State Boards have successfully secured their admissions,” Gupta said in the statement.Last week, eight DU colleges announced a 100% cut-off in 11 undergraduate courses due to an increased number of top-scorers this year.The DU will announce the second cut-off list on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kerala-students-row-du-says-academic-merits-of-all-valued-equally-101633628824194.html
08-10-2021||Mumbai||ED’s intentions behind summons questionable: Anil Deshmukh to Bombay high court||The Bombay high court (HC), while hearing the petition filed by former home minister Anil Deshmukh seeking quashing of the proceedings arising out of the summons being issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED), was informed on Thursday that the actions of the ED created apprehension in his mind on their intentions, as they neither provided him with the list of documents they sought from him nor waited for the outcome of the petition filed by him before the Supreme Court while issuing a third summon on August 2. Deshmukh’s counsel argued that as the central agency refused to share the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) or the list of documents they wanted from him showed that they wanted to play the game of ‘Heads I Win, Tails you Lose’ which was prejudicial to his interests and hence sought to quash of the proceedings arising out of the summons. The ED has filed an ECIR against Deshmukh in connection with the April 21 Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) first information report (FIR) which has accused Deshmukh of being involved in corruption and money laundering. The ED has been issuing summons to Deshmukh since June 25.The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal while hearing the petition was informed by additional solicitor general Aman Lekhi for the ED that the petition was not maintainable as Deshmukh had sought similar reliefs in his petition in the Supreme Court.However, senior advocate Vikram Choudhary for Deshmukh submitted that the petition could be heard and decided by the HC. The court accepted the same but asked Choudhary to stick to the merits of the matter only.While making submissions, Choudhary informed the bench that the ED had conducted a raid at his client’s house and he had cooperated and his statement was also recorded thereafter by the ED officials. After that ED had issued him a summons and asked him to appear at the ED office to which he responded and had said that an authorised representative would appear which was accepted.Choudhary submitted that after the authorised representative had appeared, the ED issued him a second summon, to which he sought a list of documents required from him and also requested a video conferencing appearance. Deshmukh also informed the ED officers that he was approaching the SC. After hearing the petition SC had said it would pass orders on August 3, however, ED issued a third summons on August 2 without responding to Deshmukh’s request and only asked him to appear before it.Choudhary submitted that this created apprehension in Deshmukh’s mind as the ED had similarly called two persons attached to him and when they had reached the ED office they were arrested. Choudhary argued that ED was playing the ‘Heads I win, Tails you Lose’ game with Deshmukh and hence he was seeking quashing of the proceedings arising out of the summons.Choudhary, however, reiterated that his client was willing to cooperate with the agency but was apprehensive of their intentions, hence sought interim protection.Lekhi, however, interjected and submitted that Deshmukh could not dictate the way in which the agency carried out its investigation by asking for appearance through video conference.Due to paucity of time, the bench adjourned the hearing to Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eds-intentions-behind-summons-questionable-anil-deshmukh-to-bombay-high-court-101633621263849.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Vehicle in Haryana BJP MP’s convoy hits farmer in Ambala district||Four days after the Lakhimpur Kheri violence left eight people, including four farmers, dead, a protesting farmer was injured at Naraingarh in Ambala district of neighbouring Haryana when he was allegedly hit by a vehicle in the convoy of Kurukshetra BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini on Thursday. BJP MP Saini has refuted the allegations and said in fact, his driver was attacked by the farmers. Cross-complaints have been filed by both the parties, police said.The lawmaker was in Naraingarh to attend a social event organised by a local Saini Sabha, where Haryana sports minister Sandeep Singh was also invited but was said to be busy in Ellenabad. Instead, state transport minister Moolchand Sharma was the chief guest at the event to honour corona-warriors.Farmers alleged that a protester was hit by a Toyota Innova in the convoy when Saini was leaving the event, fearing their protest. Protesters demand police actionMalkit Singh, the district president of the Gurnam Singh Charuni-led Bharatiya Kisan Union faction, said: “A serious accident was averted. Farmer Bawan Preet Singh of Yamunanagar received minor injuries on a leg and was not taken to any hospital.”“Saini left the venue before we could reach. He was not in the vehicle that hit the farmer. We’ve submitted a complaint to the Naraingarh DSP for action, otherwise we’ll gherao the police station on October 10,” Malkit Singh said.However, Singh, along with other farm leaders, asserted that a video of the incident is not available and they are trying to arrange it.In the complaint, the injured farmer has alleged that Innova driver Rajiv Kumar tried to run him over with the intention of murder and he sustained injuries after he was kicked away. “He told us that if we protest again in Naraingarh, he’ll turn it into another Lakhimpur Kheri, as instructed by the MP,” the complaint reads.My driver was attacked: SainiHitting back at the farmers, the MP has alleged that no farmer was hit, instead, his driver was attacked by the protestors and he has filed a police complaint.“I, along with the transport minister, was leading the convoy in my car, followed by an escort and an Innova that was left behind. Farmers followed it thinking that I’m at the back seat and instead attacked my driver, who was rescued by my staff,” he told HT.He added, “Farm unions are most active on social media nowadays and they should release the videos. We have a few of the incident and are arranging more.”The MP assured of sending the complaint’s copy and videos through his staff, but it was not received till the filing of this report.SSP Hamid Akhtar remained unavailable for a comment, while Dhoom Singh, station in-charge, Naraingarh police station said, “We have received both the complaints. No FIR has been lodged and the matter is under investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vehicle-in-haryana-bjp-mp-s-convoy-hits-farmer-in-ambala-district-101633606083146.html
08-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana byelection: Gobind Kanda is BJP’s nominee for Ellenabad contest||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday announced the candidature of Gobind Kanda for the October 30 Ellenabad byelections in Haryana. Kanda, who is the elder brother of Gopal Kanda, the lone MLA of the Haryana Lokhit Party, joined the BJP in Sirsa last week. His father, the late Murlidhar Kanda, was an advocate and an RSS worker. Sirsa MLA Gopal Kanda has been supporting the BJP in the 90-member Haryana Vidhan Sabha. The 54-year-old Kanda filed his nomination papers on Thursday in the presence of party’s state chief OP Dhankar, bypoll in-charge Subash Barala, state sports minister Sandeep Singh, state power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala, JJP’s state chief Nishan Singh and others.Gobind faced protest from farmers while filing his nomination and it might be a tough task for him and other BJP-JJP leaders to campaign in Haryana villages as farmers are boycotting their entry.The nomination filing exercise ends on October 8. The nominations will be scrutinised on October 11 and the last date of withdrawing it is October 16.Gobind Kanda, 54, had unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections in 2014 and 2019 from Rania segment in Sirsa district, and will be the joint nominee of the ruling BJP and Jannayak Janta Party (JJP). Keenly contested election The Ellenabad slugfest will be keenly contested. The challenge before the ruling BJP-JJP combine is how to reach out to the electorate in view of the farm agitation and the cultivators not allowing its leaders to move freely in the state to hold public meetings or government functions. The Jat-dominated assembly seat in Sirsa district had fallen vacant after Abhay Singh Chautala, the lone MLA of the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD), resigned in January from the assembly in protest against the Centre’s three farm laws. The INLD has again fielded Abhay Chautala, who during the October 2019 Haryana assembly elections won the seat by 12,000 votes as he got 57,055 votes of 1,49,947 valid votes polled. His nearest rival in the fray BJP’s Pawan Beniwal polled 45,133 votes and Congress’ Bharat Singh Beniwal had got 35,383 votes. The BJP had to look for a new candidate as its nominee in the October 2019 assembly elections, Pawan Beniwal, has deserted the party to support the ongoing farmers’ agitation and joined the Congress recently. The Haryana Congress is yet to announce its candidate for the byelection. (With inputs from Rohtak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-byelection-gobind-kanda-is-bjp-s-nominee-for-ellenabad-contest-101633583462403.html
