09-10-2021||Lucknow||Coal shortage hits power production in UP||The electricity crisis in Uttar Pradesh is deepening with the countrywide coal shortage hitting power generation in the state. Consequently, UP’s share in the power from the Central pool also stands reduced, people dealing with the issue said.Due to the coal shortage, the state is already losing around 8,000 MW of power. As a result, the demand-supply gap has increased to around 4,000 MW in the state even as the demand continues to be more than 20,000 MW. The UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) is trying to manage things by resorting to additional power cuts of six hours in rural and semi-urban areas that are getting power supply for only 12 hours a day these days.“As per the government roster, rural and semi-urban areas are supposed to get power supply for 18 hours but we are not able to provide electricity to them for more than 12 hours due to the reduced availability of electricity in the state,” disclosed a senior UPPCL official requesting anonymity.“However, no additional load shedding is being done in cities including district headquarters,” he added.The total power outage in UP is around 8,000 MW due to the coal crunch. “The power outage is more than 1,200 MW in the state-owned thermal plants and 4,000 MW in the private thermal plants while the state’s share in the power available from the NTPC is also down by around 2,500 MW,” the official disclosed. According to information available on the Central Electricity Authority’s website the UP Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam’s Hariduaganj and Parichha thermal plants have already run out of coal stock while the Obra and Anpa plants are left with stock sufficient for only two-three days each. Similarly, the eight private thermal plants in the state are also left with two-three days’ stock.Utpadan Nigam managing director P Guruprasad said that the daily coal supply had been halved in the state hitting power production in the coal-fired plants. “He said pent up post-Covid demand due to resumption of economic activity, low coal stocks as well as heavy rains last month hampering mining of coal appear to be primarily responsible for the sudden coal and power shortages,” he pointed out. Energy minister Shrikant Sharma said that the crisis had arisen because of the world-wide shortage of coal and the shortage, he added, had naturally hit power production in UP as well. “Despite the tough situation, all efforts are being made to provide power to the people as per the roster. State energy department officials are in regular touch with their counterparts in the coal and power ministries to find a way out,” he said.Sharma further added that the UPPLC had been asked to purchase electricity from all available sources, including the energy exchange, to meet the power demand in the state.Expressing concern over the situation UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman Avadhesh Kumar Vema demanded that the Centre fix the maximum per unit price of electricity that the energy exchanges sold to the states. “Energy exchanges are trying to take advantage of the crisis by selling power at as high a rate as up to ₹10 per unit. The government must put a price cap,” he demanded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/coal-shortage-hits-power-production-in-up-101633804176870.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police busts gang of snatchers, three arrested||The Tibba police busted a gang of snatchers with the arrest of three men on Saturday. Ten stolen mobile phones, two sharp-edged weapons and a motorcycle were recovered from their possession. The accused have been identified as Ishant Shrivastav, 20, of Tibba, Sunny Singh alias Bhatha, 23, of Meharban and Mani Kumar alias Mani of Shimlapuri.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 4) Rupinder Kaur Sra said the accused were arrested on the basis of a tip off while they were going towards Subash Nagar Chowk on a motorcycle to sell the stolen phones.The ADCP added that two snatching cases are already lodged against the accused at Basti Jodhewal police station and Jamalpur police station.Inspector Jasbir Singh, station house officer at Tibba police station, said that a case under Sections 379-B and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered against the trio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-busts-gang-of-snatchers-three-arrested-101633804117134.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana STF arrests two drug peddlers with 850-gm heroin||The special task force (STF), Ludhiana range, arrested two drug peddlers with 850-gram heroin on Saturday. They also seized their scooter and recovered ₹22,500 in cash and an electronic weighing machine from them.The accused have been identified as Harjit Singh alias Happy, 30, of Phullanwal village and Gurpreet Singh alias Billu, 28, of Mohalla Satjot Nagar.Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge of STF Ludhiana Range, said that the duo was arrested from Satjot Nagar after they left from Gurpreet’s residence to supply the heroin. The inspector added that the accused are unemployed and they have been into heroin smuggling for a long time.The Inspector added that Harjit is a convict in a drug peddling case registered at Dugri police station. He had been sentenced to 10 years in jail and ₹1 lakh penalty. He had come out of jail on parole around two years ago, but he didn’t return, following which a case under Section 8(2) and 9 of the Punjab Good Conduct Prisoners Temporary Release Act was also registered against him.A case under Section 21 and 29 of NDPS Act has been lodged against the accused at STF police station, Mohali. They were produced before a court on Saturday and remanded to two days in STF custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-stf-arrests-two-drug-peddlers-with-850-gm-heroin-101633803937373.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police take actor Leena Maria Paul, partner, into 3 days’ remand||Two Tihar jail prisoners, actor Leena Maria Paul and her partner Sukesh Chandrashekhar, were taken out on custody by the Enforcement Directorate(ED) on three days’ police remand.The ED is probing allegations of money laundering against the two, who were recently arrested for duping the wife of a city-based industrialist. Delhi Police have said that Sukesh Chandrashekar spoofed a senior government officer’s landline number and called Aditi Singh, wife of Shivinder Singh, the former promoter of Religare Enterprises. Chandrashekhar allegedly promised to help get her husband out on bail and took the money from her, which was handed to his contacts, according to the Delhi Police. A Tihar Jail officer confirmed that the ED on Saturday took the two prisoners into custody for three days. Police in June registered a case after Singh’s wife filed a complaint. Though police have officially not revealed the amount that Singh’s wife paid, people aware of the investigation said this was at least ₹4 crore.The Delhi Police have arrested at least 13 people in the case, including jail officials, a branch manager of a private bank in Connaught Place and Chandrashekhar’s partner, actor Leena Maria Paul. Paul was arrested on September 5 for helping Chandrashekhar pull off the scam.Chandrashekar was arrested in 2017 by Delhi Police for allegedly duping an All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader of ₹2 crore on the pretext of helping his party retain its two leaves symbol by bribing Election Commission officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-take-actor-leena-maria-paul-partner-into-3-days-remand-101633803885254.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Experts corelate spike in mental health issues among kids to smartphone addiction||Even as gaming addiction has claimed several children’s lives across the country, a study has found that smartphone addiction is to blame for a spike in mental health and behavioural issues among kids, with the tiny tots going as far as banging their skulls against the walls!The coronavirus pandemic, which has shifted our lives from real to virtual, have not helped matters one bit. Ludhiana-based experts say addiction to mobile phones is resulting in increased anger among children and resulting in serious psychological issues. They said that most children turning for treatment are not willing to attend physical classes anymore, and incidents of aggressive and violent behaviour has increased among them.Calling the pandemic the “tragedy of the century”, Dr Ranjive Mahajan, professor and head of psychiatry at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC&H), said, “The Covid pandemic has left an everlasting impact on physical and mental health of people across the world. In fact, the change in lifestyle that people have been accustomed to for centuries has proven detrimental. The sudden change can trigger serious mental illnesses like depression or anxiety in previously healthy people.” “This rapid transition to digital solutions during the pandemic has exacerbated problems for children’s online safety as well. Children spend more time on learning, socialising and entertainment on virtual platforms, which makes them more vulnerable to online abuse and exploitation. Besides, the transition to online learning due to the pandemic has affected not only the quality of education, but also interpersonal relations between children. Internet bullying, which was already a problem before, has intensified. The limited extracurricular activities has hindered personality development of the youth, which has sown the seeds for future mental illnesses,” Dr Mahajan added.Dr Tarlochan Singh, senior psychologist and HOD of behavioural health at Hunjan Hospital, said that he is currently counselling six children who are addicted to their mobile phones and surfing the internet.“They turn angry and in some cases violent, if their mobile phone is confiscated. In two such cases, the children had smashed their hand against the wall and ended up fracturing it, as their parents took their smartphone from them and asked them to participate in physical and creative activities,” said Dr Tarlochan.Dr Rupesh Chaudhary, professor at DMC&H, highlights that levels of anxiety, fear, isolation, uncertainty and emotional distress have also increased. “Shutting down of schools and shifting of traditional classrooms to digital platforms increased learning inequality among children and pushed a large number of children out of school due to the digital divide— the gap between those who have access to the internet and technology at home and those who do not”, Dr Chaudhary adds.Dr Leenu Gupta, consultant neurologist at Deep Hospital, Ludhiana, “Increase in screen time is leading to behavioural disorders among children of all ages. These disorders cause depressive symptoms, decreased concentration and poor academic performance. Unsupervised smartphone/laptop usage is increasing among children. Children with working parents usually stay at home all by themselves and while parents have allowed their children increased access to the internet for online classes, they have unrestrictedly started engaging in other internet activities such as adult content and violent gaming, which are having serious repercussions on their mental health.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-experts-corelate-spike-in-mental-health-issues-among-kids-to-smartphone-addiction-101633803766719.html
09-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Inter-state gang of marijuana smugglers busted, two held||HT Correspondent allahabad.htdesk@hindustantimes.com PRAYAGRAJ: A team of Special Operation Group (SOG)-- Narcotics, on Saturday busted an inter-state gang of marijuana smugglers and arrested two of its members with half a quintal of the contraband hidden in a car at Lavayan Kala village in Prayagraj district, police said. Superintendent of police (crime) Ashutosh Mishra said, “Acting on a tip-off, the SOG team led by in-charge Mahaveer Singh carried out a raid and intercepted a car near Lavayan Kala village under Industrial area police station on Saturday. Police searched the car and found over 48 kg of marijuana hidden in the car following which the suspects identified as Sandeep Jaiswal and Subedar Prajapati, residents of Karchhana, were arrested.” The SP said that during questioning, both revealed that they used to bring marijuana from Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh in their car and supply it in the region for the past many years. “Earlier, Sandeep Jaiswal was also arrested for marijuana smuggling and other offences. The accused are being questioned further to identify other members of the gang,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-inter-state-gang-of-marijuana-smugglers-busted-two-held-101633803696925.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Civil services aspirant found dead in Delhi flat||A 25-year-old civil services aspirant allegedly killed herself at her rented flat in central Delhi on Friday night. Police said they did not recover a suicide note.The civil services 2021 prelim exam will be conducted on Sunday (October 10) by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). The police did not clarify if the woman was appearing for the exam.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Chauhan said that someone in the building called the police around midnight and told them that the woman was seen hanging from a ceiling fan in her rented flat. When the police reached, they found the door locked from inside. They broke open the door and rushed her to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared her dead on arrival.DCP Chauhan said that the woman had shifted to Delhi to prepare for UPSC exams in June 2021 from her hometown in Uttar Pradesh. She was last seen around 11am on Friday by her flatmate. Her parents have been informed and the body has been preserved in a government hospital’s mortuary, the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/civil-services-aspirant-found-dead-in-delhi-flat-101633803336807.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police file case against Ramlila committee for not following Covid norms||Delhi Police on Friday filed a case under Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) against Luv Kush Ramlila Committee officials for not following Covid-19 guidelines.Police said that at least 10-20 other similar cases and fines were issued against people in the walled city area for similar offences, such as not ensuring social distancing and not wearing masks.“The organisers assured us that they will follow the guidelines. We fined many shopkeepers in the area as well. Fines are issued and reports under Section 188 of IPC are filed daily as part of the enforcement drive. The committee has permission to hold Ramlila and is following the requisite guidelines today (Saturday),” said a police officer, who asked not to be named.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has allowed Ramlila, Dussehra and Durga Puja celebrations to be held in public places but with a set of restrictions such as ensuring the number of people does not exceed the number of seats in a venue, no stalls and fairs are set up, 100% mask compliance, and separate entry and exit points at the venue.Arjun Kumar, general secretary at Luv Kush Ramlila Committee, said, “We don’t know anything about this. But if we receive the fine, we will contest it and find out the reason behind it. We have been following DDMA guidelines. Though permission has been sought for 600 people, there are only a few people on the ground and we are not allowing the general public. The event is being live-streamed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-file-case-against-ramlila-committee-for-not-following-covid-norms-101633802918080.html
09-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj:Tanker containing spurious petrol seized, one held||PRAYAGRAJ: Dhumanganj police on Saturday claimed to have busted a gang, involved in supplying spurious fuel, and arrested a member of the gang with adulterated petrol worth ₹20 lakh. The accused was being questioned further to identify his accomplices, police said. SP (city) Dinesh Kumar Singh said that acting on a tip-off the police arrested one Akhilesh Sharma of Jaunpur with a tanker containing 25,000 litres of spurious petrol. During questioning, Sharma informed that he came from Noida to supply the spurious fuel but the deal failed. Sharma confessed that he purchased the spurious fuel mixed with solvent for ₹45 per litre and was going to sell it for ₹65 per litre. The tanker containing the spurious fuel had been seized by the police, the police officer added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagrajtanker-containing-spurious-petrol-seized-one-held-101633802916658.html
09-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Artistes get less time to prepare for Ramlila, yet remain undeterred||Uncertainty loomed large and performers and organisers remained anxious about whether Ramlila, the dramatic folk re-enactment of the life of Lord Ram that is staged for 10 days and concludes on Dussehra, will be held this year on account of Covid-19, that forced authorities to cancel the event last year. However, authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar giving the green signal for the 10-day cultural extravaganza only two weeks ago has lifted the spirit of the artistes. Though they are enthusiastic about returning to the stage and reconnecting with the audience, they hope they are able to deliver their best and their performances are not affected, given that they have had very less time to prepare for the theatrical rendition of the Ramayana. The training and rehearsals for this year’s Ramlila were very different from usual with actors connecting over video calls to rehearse their performances and dialogues, and some others rushing to book their vaccination appointments.“This year was filled with uncertainties as we were not very hopeful whether Ramlila will be staged in Noida or not. Still, keeping faith in God, we started virtual rehearsals in September but with only those actors who were fully vaccinated. It was only on September 27 that we got the confirmation that Ramlila will be staged and we were booked by organisers. Then, within 10 days, we had to arrange for dresses, fittings as well as makeup artists and be ready for the play,” said Sudip Arora (50), director at Sriji Kala Manch theatre group from Greater Noida that is staging Ramlila in Sector 62.While every year, the theatre troupe starts practising between July and August, this year the group got only a month’s time to practice.“Every year, we practice for at least two to three months before the Ramlila but this year, we could practice only for a month. However, our actors have worked hard and we hope the lack of practice does not affect their performances,” said Rakesh Ratnakar (62), director at Ratnakar Dramatic Art Production theatre group from Delhi, that will be staging Ramlila at the Noida Stadium in Sector 21A.Ujjwal Rana (22), who will be essaying the role of ‘Ram’ for the rendition that will be performed at Noida Stadium, was at his hometown in Himachal Pradesh when he got to know he has been selected for the role.“Since colleges are conducting online classes, I have been in my hometown since the pandemic began. However, since I have been active in theatre, our guruji knew about me and told me that I have been selected for the role of Ram this year. Since the rehearsals were online, I attended most of the sessions from my hometown and came to Noida just last week,” said Rana, who is pursuing masters of mass communication at an institute in Noida’s Sector 16.As soon as their roles in Ramlila were confirmed, some actors said they had to rush for their second vaccination doses as it was made mandatory by the Ramlila organizers.“I crossed my date for the second vaccination dose in August and was not able to find a slot at that time. In September, when we were told we can participate only if we are fully vaccinated, it almost became an emergency for me to book a slot. I used to log in on the Cowin portal every night to book a slot. It took me three days but I managed to book a slot and got fully vaccinated,” said Mohit Sharma (23), a resident of Ghaziabad, who will be playing Raavan’s role at Sector 62. Amit Bharti (37), who is playing four roles, including that of Kumbhkaran for the Ramlila that will be staged at Noida Stadium, said he was disappointed last year when the event was cancelled in Noida.“Though I am a businessman by profession, I have been a part of Ramlila since the last 15 years and look forward to essaying different characters on stage all year long. Last year was hard for the community of actors who perform in Ramlila but we accepted the decision,” said Bharti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-artistes-get-less-time-to-prepare-for-ramlila-yet-remain-undeterred-101633802856662.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi to organise free Covid vaccination camp in 7 mega centres today||The Delhi government will organise a free Covid-19 vaccination camp on Sunday with at least seven mega centres across the city, a government spokesperson said on Saturday. “The camp will be free of cost and anybody with a valid photo identification card will be allowed to simply walk in and get vaccinated. The camps are open for all beneficiaries—be it for the first dose or the second dose,” the spokesperson said. The seven camps will be open from 9am to 6pm. Some of the locations include Dilli Haat, Pitampura; Yamuna Sports Complex, Surajmal Vihar; Mata Sundari College for women, Mandi House; Ramlila Ground, Dwarka Sector 10, and so on. On Friday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued an order making it mandatory for all Delhi government employees to get at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine by October 15. Employees will not be allowed to come to work and their absence from duty will be counted as leave if they do not comply, said the order. “The aforementioned government employees, health workers, frontline workers, teachers, and other staff in schools and colleges, who do not get vaccinated (at least first dose) by 15.10.2021 shall not be allowed to attend their respective offices, healthcare institutions, and educational institutions with effect from 16.10.2021 till they have obtained the first dose vaccination. The said period of absence from duty shall be treated as ‘on leave’ till the administration of the first dose of vaccination,” said the order dated October 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-organise-free-covid-vaccination-camp-in-7-mega-centres-today-101633802736734.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati plays up ‘soft Hindutva’ as BJP readies for Dalit-connect rallies||LUCKNOW: In line with majority of political parties tapping soft Hindutva ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said if elected to power her government would continue with the present Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government’s focus on development of Hindu religious cities of Ayodhya, Mathura and Kashi (Varanasi) and other religious places. “My government will not hamper the ongoing development work in Ayodhya, Mathura and Kashi and ensure that all projects get completed,” she declared on Saturday. The BSP, seeking a replay of the Dalit-Brahmin social chemistry that propelled the party to power on its own strength in 2007, has been wooing Brahmins. Ayodhya, Mathura and Kashi or Varanasi are the three Hindu religious hotspots in UP where the BJP government in UP has been pushing for development. Projects worth several crores have been started in these places by BJP and these projects,, especially in Ayodhya, are being monitored by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Office (PMO) and chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Mayawati, however, claimed that the ruling party had copied the BSP model by launching these projects in Hindu hotspots. “The BJP, taking a cue from the BSP government,, introduced development projects in Ayodhya, Varanasi, Mathura and other religious places. But these projects are as yet incomplete and we will ensure that they projects get completed,” she said, making it evident that along with her Dalit politics she would add a dash of soft Hindutva to her UP poll campaign. Some BJP leaders felt that Mayawati’s play of ‘Hindutva’ had been forced by the party’s decision to expand its appeal among Jatavs, the Dalit sub-caste to which Mayawati belongs. “There is a feeling that there has been a steady breach in Mayawati ji’s Dalit vote bank, which has been leaning towards the BJP, especially since the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. After its sweep in 2014 LS polls, the BJP had won 71 of the 85 seats reserved seats in 2017 UP polls, underlying the significance of Dalits along with others in BJP’s handsome win. In 2019, the BSP did win 10 Lok Sabha seats in alliance with Samajwadi Party but 2022 is her big test, especially as BJP, with its development plank and religious appeal, has begun targeting Jatavs too,” said Irshad Ilmi, a political observer. He felt that Mayawati had responded to the BJP’s attempts to poach on her core Dalit Jatav voters, by playing the Hindutva card. The BJP has only recently decided to get Baby Rani Maurya, its current national vice president, a Jatav, to hold rallies across UP with the avowed intention of getting Jatavs to veer towards the BJP. Maurya was recently made to quit as Uttarakhand governor and made party’s national vice president, making it evident that the BJP leadership had planned to woo Maya’s core supporters through her. The BJP has also elevated another woman Dalit leader Kanta Kardam from Meerut, by making her a Rajya Sabha MP. Another Jatav in UP BJP government is GS Dharmesh, a minister of state and who like Maurya, also hails from Agra where Dalits make up about 20 per cent of the population. Overall, Dalits make up about 21 per cent of UP’s electorate and of these, Jatavs make up for around 11 per cent. Mayawati’s plan is to get around 10 to 11 per cent Brahmins in UP too to support her as they did in 2007 when she had won 206 of the 403 seats, say party leaders. “In Prayagraj, while attending a ‘prabuddh varg sammelan’ Satish Chandra Mishra had played up the 2007 slogan: “Brahmin shankh bajayega, haathi chalta jaiyega (Brahmins will blow the conch shell, elephant (BSP’s symbol) will triumphantly march ahead),” a BSP leader said, adding that the focus was on expanding the party’s voter base while holding on to one’s base vote. “That’s the model all the political parties are following. One distinct advantage that the BSP has over others is that in our party, the command structure is clear. Lesser time is wasted, so leadership’s directions are quickly implemented,” the BSP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-plays-up-soft-hindutva-as-bjp-readies-for-dalit-connect-rallies-101633802436531.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||Cases of depression, anxiety have gone up during pandemic, say experts||Cases of depression, anxiety disorder and post-traumatic stress disorder have gone up manifold among people of all age groups during the pandemic, said doctors.“Students have got addicted to screen and have shown changes in behaviour much to the dislike of parents. Now, parents have to play a greater role in diverting the child’s energy into activities that give similar kick to the brain as does mobile phones,” said Dr Mohd Aleem Siddiqui, addressing a press conference on “mental health in an unequal world” at IMA Bhavan on Saturday, a day before World Mental Health Day. He added that during the first and second waves of Covid-19, many people lost their kin and many are still facing financial crises. “Even after the Covid period, people have been suffering from sleeplessness, irritability. We get frequent calls from such people,” said Dr Siddiqui. Dr Omar Musheer, consultant psychiatrist at Apollomedics Superspeciality Hospital said: “About 20-30% of the people, who have been affected with Covid, were found to experience post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and anxiety. People are unable to sleep properly because of stress.” Also during the day, King George’s Medical University organised a webinar on the topic. “Among elderly the key issue is loneliness. During pandemic they were virtually locked up inside their houses and even today the risk of getting infected is keeping them restricted from walking in parks or open spaces. With a long spell of isolation the impact upon mental health has been tremendous,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, head of Aastha Geriatric Centre. Dr Shantanu Bharti, psychiatric consultant, Medanta Hospital, said: “The pandemic has made us all realize that mental health issues are real and everyone faces them at some point in their life. It is very important to take care of your brain just like it is important to take care of other body parts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cases-of-depression-anxiety-have-gone-up-during-pandemic-say-experts-101633802256583.html
09-10-2021||Noida||Firms in GB Nagar enlist mental health specialists to help staff tackle stress||In the past one and a half years, working professionals across the globe have gone from going to work to working from home (WFH). As Gautam Budh Nagar is a hub of corporate firms with a large number of working professionals living here, mental health specialists have reported a rise in work-related psychological stress among their patients.The World Health Organisation (WHO) observes October 10 as World Mental Health day in order to raise awareness of mental health issues and mobilize efforts in support of mental health.According to Dr Samir Parikh from Noida’s Fortis Hospital, the number of corporate and IT professionals reaching out to mental health specialists in the city has increased in the past year.“WFH has brought about a drastic change in lifestyle and a lot of employees could not cope up with it. There is lack of social connect, no physical contact, no time or space boundaries between work and professional life and so on. As a result, we are seeing a spike in the number of patients who are reeling under work-related stress and having issues such as problems in sleeping, burnouts, anxiety and uncertainty regarding the future, work and life,” said Dr Parikh, director of mental health & behavioural sciences at Fortis Healthcare.The WFH structure, which became the global norm after the pandemic, has after a year and a half now, started showing signs of mental fatigue, say experts.“Social isolation, long work hours and multitasking has affected mental health of many working professionals. Sleep disorders, mood swings, interpersonal conflicts and depression are some of the psychological and clinical manifestations of WFH. The initial advantage of WFH, such as saving on the commuting time, flexibility in working, spending time with the family, has gradually been dwarfed by mental distress, anxiety and depression,” said Dr Priyanka Srivastava, consultant, department of behavioural sciences, Jaypee Hospital (Noida).In Gautam Budh Nagar, a number of corporate firms are helping their employees deal with mental stress and facilitating mental health specialists for them. “Corporate firms have started having discussions around mental health, more so since the pandemic hit us. Since the last one year, we have been conducting virtual sessions with at least eight companies in the city every month,” added Dr Parikh.At Tech Mahindra, located at Noida’s Special Economic Zone in Sector 82, professional counsellors and experts have been roped in for the employees.“The mental health specialists organize various wellness webinars like ‘ease your stress’, for our employees, to help them manage stress and build resilience. We have also introduced ‘mind plan’, a mental health initiative that will provide daily doses of mindful tips and exercises to help our employees relax and feel positive during challenging times,” said Harshvendra Soin, global chief people officer and head, marketing, Tech Mahindra.Similar initiatives have been taken at Barco India--an electronics firm in Sector 64. “We have initiated a month-long ‘let’s address the elephant in the room’ campaign on World Mental Health Day to help employees discover ways to address and enhance their emotional well-being. We have also roped in a firm that offers professional psychological counselling and comprehensive wellness programme for our employees,” said Rajiv Bhalla, managing director, Barco.Some firms are also training their managers to be supportive and be aware of their subordinates’ mental well being. “Since Covid-19 continues to throw challenges, we have roped in mental health professionals who hold sessions for the senior management so that managers can not only manage their own mental well being but also become a guide and mentor for the employees,” said Agendra Kumar, managing director, Esri India, a technology firm located in Sector 16.Dr Abhay Singh Tomar, a psychiatrist at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida, advises confiding in colleagues or family members at the onset of stress.“Often mental health disorders worsen when people bottle it up and don’t talk about it. My advice to anyone suffering from distress at work is to seek a friend, colleague or a family member to confide in. One should also take small breaks while working at home to avoid getting bogged down by stress,” said Dr Tomar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/firms-in-gb-nagar-enlist-mental-health-specialists-to-help-staff-tackle-stress-101633801780838.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||18th National Book Fair: Several books released on penultimate day||A flurry of activities, including six book launches, marked the penultimate day of the 18th National Book Fair in the state capital on Saturday. The book fair had got under way at Moti Mahal lawns October 1. Of the many, the unveiling of “Afghanistan se Khat-o-Kitab”—a book by an author and former director general, Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Rakesh Tiwari—remained the centre of attraction.“Indeed, it’s a beautiful piece that well highlights the living conditions in Afghanistan way back in 1977 when Rakesh ji himself visited Afghanistan. In the book, he has narrated the lifestyle, freedom and above all the liberty which people in those times used to enjoy,” said Indu Prakash, one of the speakers, while admiring the book.Akarshan Jain, one of the organisers of the National Book Fair, said the present Afghanistan-Taliban conflict and deteriorating political scenario in Afghanistan made the book even all the more interesting as by reading the book, people will get a fair idea about the Afghanistan of 1970s when people there were all smiles.Jain said being an archaeologist, the author had also covered several historical places and explained how rich the country used to be in terms of heritage structures now in a shambles. The book was released in the presence of senior journalist and author Haricharan Prakash, senior journalist Dr Atal Tiwari, archaeologist Dr Shamoon Ahmed and archaeologist Indu Prakash. Other books, including “Prarambhik Shiksha-Vyanktitva Vikas” and “Kathputli” were also released during the day. Akarshan Jain said several competition and cultural programmes were also organised during the event that would conclude on Sunday. A book reading competition, a kavi sammelan (poets’ meet) and a discussion on the effect of Covid on mental health will mark the concluding day of the national book fair, Jain added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/18th-national-book-fair-several-books-released-on-penultimate-day-101633801779744.html
09-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Four offer lift to man, rob him of ₹15,000 cash at gunpoint||A man was allegedly robbed of ₹15,000 cash at gunpoint by four men who offered him a lift in a car to Rabupura in Greater Noida on Saturday night. The victim, identified as 30-year-old Shyam Kumar, works at a restaurant in Delhi. Kumar told police that he received his salary on Friday and decided to go to his hometown in Rabupura village the next morning. “I took a bus from Noida’s Sector 37 and reached Greater Noida. I was waiting for a bus to Rabupura at Zero Point on the Yamuna Expressway when four suspects reached there in a black car. The suspects offered me a lift saying they were going towards Rabupura,” said Kumar adding that he boarded the car. In his complaint with the police, Kumar said that on the way, the suspects overpowered him at gunpoint and snatched his cash. “The suspects also thrashed me for resisting the robbery. They removed the battery of my mobile phone to ensure I do not make calls to the police. They dropped me near Chapargadh village and fled the spot,” said Kumar in his complaint. Kumar added that he wanted to pay the school fee of his two children with the remuneration he received. With the help of a passerby, he informed police about the matter. Anil Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Sector Beta 2 police station, said a case has been registered against unknown persons under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. “We are scanning CCTV footage of the expressway to zero in on the suspects and arrested them,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-four-offer-lift-to-man-rob-him-of-15-000-cash-at-gunpoint-101633801778189.html
09-10-2021||Noida||Garbage set afire days after Noida gets action plan to combat pollution||Days after the Gautam Budh Nagar administration approved of a pollution mitigation plan for the winters, a large pile of garbage dumped on the roadside was set afire in Sector 63 on Saturday.The garbage kept burning for at least seven hours with residents stating that no one from the Noida authority or the pollution department came to douse the fire. A common sight near Bahlolpur village in Sector 63, the garbage was set ablaze allegedly by some ragpickers on Pushta road along the Faridabad-Noida-Ghaziabad (FNG) Expressway, locals said. The residents’ welfare association (RWA) members of Bahlolpur on Saturday also shared some videos of the burning garbage on social media. Stating that the garbage dumping and burning have become a menace in their area, they said the waste from the local vegetable market was burnt during the afternoon and kept smouldering till evening.“We have complained several times about the garbage burning to the authority officials. It often happens that garbage is set ablaze and we have to call the fire department to douse the flames. The authority workers clean the area, but garbage is dumped in the night and set afire next day. The residents suffer as the foul smell reaches out to their houses,” said Sonu Yadav, vice-president of Bahlolpur RWA, Sector 63, who shared the video on social media.According to environmentalists, the issue is concerning given the fact that the administration recently released winter action plan for pollution mitigation.“It’s a continuing issue and happens primarily because the authority is least bothered about it. It’s dangerous especially when the air quality has started to deteriorate,” said Vikrant Tongad, a Noida-based environmentalist.The action plan prepared by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) was released on October 6 by the district administration that also asks for formation of quick response teams to check open burning, among other measures. UPPCB officials said that they will look into the incident. “Open burning of the garbage is banned throughout the year anyway. I will direct the officials concerned to check the same,” said Utsav Sharma, acting regional officer, UPPCB, Noida.Noida authority officials could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Noida generates around 700 tonnes of domestic waste daily. The door-to-door garbage collection covers 220 high-rises having 140,000 apartments, about 98 RWAs having 40,000 houses and about 70 small and big villages within the city, the officials said.After collection, the garbage goes to 21 different transfer stations of the Noida authority, where the waste is separated manually with the help of ragpickers and later sent to the main storage facility at Sector 145.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/garbage-set-afire-days-after-noida-gets-action-plan-to-combat-pollution-101633801656885.html
09-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: 147 dengue cases in first nine days of October, tally now 459||Dengue cases are increasing at a rapid rate in the district with 147 such cases coming to the fore in just the first nine days of October, taking the tally to 459till Saturday evening. Officials of the district health department said they are conducting extensive drives of fogging and eliminating mosquito breeding spots, both in urban and rural areas, to curb the spread of dengue. According to officials, as many as 20 dengue cases were reported on Saturday. The first dengue case reported this year was on September 1 and the tally of the cases arising from the vector borne disease stood at 312 till September 30, indicating an average of 10.4 cases per day. With 147 more cases till October 9, the incidence of dengue has increased to 15.87 cases per day. Of the 459 patients, 320 of them required admission in hospitals, taking the rate of hospitalisation to 69.71%. According to officials, dengue cases are still on the rise and increasing at a faster rate.  “Our teams are regularly carrying out fogging and anti-larvae activities; each and every case is being mapped for containment exercise in the locality. We have also deployed four ambulances in rural areas to attend to patients in need. We are expecting the dengue cases to decline after October 15, which has been the trend over past years,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. The positivity rate of dengue is also on the higher side. According to official records, till October 9, the district conducted 1,572 tests for dengue, of which 459 returned positive. The positivity rate stands at 29.19%. So far, the district has reported 16 cases of malaria of the 27,102 tests it has conducted for the disease. The sample positivity rate of is about 0.05%. According to officials, areas like Govindpuram, Harsaon, Vijay Nagar, Raj Nagar Extension, Shastri Nagar, Nyaya Khand 1 and 2 in Indirapuram, Gyan Khand and Ahimsa Khand 1 in Indirapuram and Prahlad Garhi have high incidence of dengue cases, and likely accounts for 250 of the total cases. Experts said dengue cases have not seen any decline so far. “It is expected that the dengue cases, like in previous years, will subside only after Deepawali. The figures of the district health department could be less as the hospitals are receiving many dengue patients,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). Officials from the health department said chances of under reporting of dengue cases are less. “Our teams call up hospitals and nursing homes on a daily basis to gather information about new admissions. Moreover, they are also required to send a sample of each patient for a dengue confirmatory test in our laboratory. It is only after confirmation that cases are declared positive. Hence, the chances of under reporting are negligible,” said Dr Gupta. Apart from dengue and malaria, cases of scrub typhus have also been reported in the district. However, the tally of scrub typhus has stood at 39 since September 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-147-dengue-cases-in-first-nine-days-of-october-tally-now-459-101633801603681.html
09-10-2021||Noida||Traffic jam on Noida expressway as portion of road caves in||A heavy traffic jam was witnessed on the Noida expressway on Saturday as a portion of the road (Noida-Greater Noida side) caved in near Sector 142 on Friday evening. Only two lanes, out of four, on the Noida-Greater Noida side of the expressway are currently operational due to an underpass work. After the cave-in incident, only one lane was operational on Saturday, officials said. Anil Nigam, a resident of Noida’s Sector 49 and dean of journalism department at a Greater Noida college, said that he was stuck in a traffic jam for more than an hour on Saturday morning. “There was at least 2km jam around 8.30am on the expressway. There were no officials from the traffic police at the spot. Due to confusion, some commuters started taking U-turn which added to the traffic mess,” he said. Nigam also tweeted some photos from the spot drawing attention of the officials.The cave-in took place due to an underpass work through box push technology, officials of the Noida authority said, adding that the situation on the stretch will be normal in 10 days. “A portion of the road caved in around 6.30pm on Friday which resulted in traffic jam. We have deployed a team to fix the problem,” said PK Kaushik, general manager, Noida authority.In the box push technology, the reinforced cement concrete (RCC) boxes are pushed with the help of hydraulic jacks to create a subway tunnel under the road. This ensures the traffic movement on the road does not disturb due to the work. Another authority official, who wished anonymity, said there are four lanes on the expressway. “The two right lanes were blocked last week due to the construction work. The traffic movement on the two left lanes were functional. After the cave-in incident on Friday evening, we restricted the movement on that lane for repair works,” he said. The Noida traffic police diverted the Greater Noida bound traffic to service lane near Mahamaya Flyway in Sector 93. Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the two right lanes are blocked while one of the left lanes is unpaved due to Friday’s cave-in and repairing works. “The navigation of vehicles is not smooth on the stretch,” he said. Saha said that the traffic police personnel have been deployed at the spot to guide commuters. “We also took to social media to inform commuters about the diversion. We have also deployed a crane, in case a vehicle breaks down at the spot,” he said. The authority started the work on the 434-metre underpass in June 2020 with an aim to provide smooth connectivity between Sector 137/142 and Sector 168, located along the expressway. The underpass is estimated to be ready by December 10, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traffic-jam-on-noida-expressway-as-portion-of-road-caves-in-101633801602371.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||HC stays MP/MLA court order granting bail to ex-minister Prajapati||The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has stayed the order of the MP/MLA court granting bail to former UP minister Gayatri Prajapati who is an accused in a gang rape and many other cases. Special judge/ additional sessions judge, MP/MLA court had granted bail to Gayatri Prajapati in July this year. A single judge bench of Justice Rajeev Singh on October 5 said: “Till the next date of listing, operation and implementation of the order dated 14.07.2021 in case crime no. 537 of 2020, under Sections 420, 467, 468, 471, 506, 386, 388,120-B I.P.C., police station-Ghazipur, District Lucknow, shall be kept in abeyance.”“District and Sessions Judge, Lucknow, is directed to send the complete record of Bail Application no. 08 of 2021 decided by Special Judge, M.P. M.L.A./Additional Sessions Judge, Court No.19, Lucknow, forthwith,” the court said.Appearing on behalf of the state government, additional advocate general Vinod Kumar Shahi opposed the bail order granted by the MP/MLA court. Shahi apprised the court that Prajapati had been in prison since March 15, 2017 after being arrested in a case of gang rape of a 40-year-old woman and attempt to rape her minor daughter and a first information report (FIR) in another case was lodged against him on September 17, 2020. “This means Gayatri Prajapati was having criminal history. But this fact was not considered by the court (MP/MLA court) while granting bail,” argued Shahi. While granting bail to Prajapati, the court (MP/MLA court) had observed that the prosecution (government advocate) had not placed any criminal history of the opposite party (Gayatri Prajapati) before the court. Shahi apprised the court about seven criminal cases lodged against Prajapati. The court listed the case for next hearing on November 16. AAG’s submission before the court Additional advocate general (AAG) Vinod Kumar Shahi submitted before the court that a lady, after she was allegedly administered some intoxicating substance, was subsequently raped by the opposite party (Gayatri Prajapati) as well as other accused persons and obscene photographs of the victim were clicked. On the basis of same, she was being blackmailed and forced to have physical relations with the accused persons, Shahi apprised the court. She had filed a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India before the Supreme Court seeking registration of an FIR against Gayatri Prajapati as the FIR was not being lodged because he was a minister in the then ruling government (Samajwadi Party), Shahi told the court. The Supreme Court passed an order on February 17, 2017, in the aforesaid writ petition and directed the police station concerned to register the FIR on basis of the complaint and further directed the police to investigate the matter and submit its report in a sealed cover within seven weeks from the date of order. Thereafter, an FIR was lodged at the Gautam Palli police station, Lucknow, on February 18, 2017, against Gayatri Prasad Prajapati, Ashok Tiwari, Pintu Singh, Vikash Verma, Chandra Pal, Rupesh and Ashish Shukla under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and POCSO Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hc-stays-mp-mla-court-order-granting-bail-to-ex-minister-prajapati-101633801296526.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||Dharmendra Pradhan lauds Uttar Pradesh over implementation of New Education Policy||Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Saturday lauded Uttar Pradesh for leading in implementing the National Education Policy (NEP) with emphasis on skill development.Dharmendra Pradhan also said Uttar Pradesh was emerging as a leader in the quantity and quality of education in the country. Praising the state government, Dharmendra Pradhan said 15 to 18 per cent students of the country study in Uttar Pradesh.“Uttar Pradesh has over 50 million students. We can establish good governance in the country only if we have good governance in Uttar Pradesh. I am very satisfied by the progress made by the Uttar Pradesh education department in the last couple of years. Their effort to join skill in education is commendable,” Dharmendra Pradhan said at a review meeting with education department officials of the state in Lucknow. The review meeting was also attended by Uttar deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, the state’s technical education minister Jitin Prasada, along with officials of state and Union education ministry.Besides lauding Uttar Pradesh over implementation of New Education Policy, the Union minister appreciated the secondary education department for partnering with NCERT to ensure the timely availability of books to students. “Construction of roads in the name of toppers can also be a model for other states to motivate students,” said Dharmendra Pradhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dharmendra-pradhan-lauds-uttar-pradesh-over-implementation-of-new-education-policy-101633801116401.html
09-10-2021||Jaipur||Dalit man beaten to death in Rajasthan over love affair, 3 detained||A dalit man was allegedly beaten to death by a group of men in Rajasthan's Hanumangarh district over his love affair, police said on Saturday. Three people have been detained in this connection, they said.Taking strong note of the incident, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat hit out at the Congress-led state government for keeping “silence” on the matter."Rahul ji, don't worry about Lakhimpur where Yogi ji has his governance and not your dear Gehlot ji. Show some courage to speak about the murder of dalit youth in Prempura of Rajasthan so that people get to know how truthful you are?" he said in a tweet in Hindi.The incident took place on October 7 in Prempura area of Hanumangarh where the accused thrashed Jagdish with sticks until he died. The culprits also shot a video of the entire incident in which they are seen giving water to the victim to drink and then thrashing him repeatedly with sticks.The accused later dumped Jagdish’s body outside his residence, police said.Meanwhile, the victim’s family members refused to take the body demanding early arrest of the accused and adequate compensation.According to police, the incident took place over the Dalit man’s love affair.“A case has been registered against 11 people. Three people -- Mukesh, Om Prakash and Hansraj -- have been detained and two teams have been constituted to nab the remaining accused,” Pilibanga SHO Inder Kumar said.SDM Ranjeet Kumar on Saturday met the victim’s family members and convinced them to cremate the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/dalit-man-beaten-to-death-in-rajasthan-over-love-affair-3-detained-101633800325624.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka’s Kisan Nyay rally in Varanasi today||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra would address “Kisan Nyay” (justice for farmers) rally in Varanasi on Sunday (October 10). Preparations for the rally to be held at a ground in Rohania area of the temple town have been completed. Two large tents have been set up for the rally. Mega cut-outs of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have also been put up at the venue. Senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari and party national secretary Rajesh Tiwari besides several other leaders inspected the venue on Saturday. After the Kheri incident, the Congress changed the name of the rally to “Kisan Nyay” rally which was earlier named “Pratigya” rally. Congress leader Ajai Rai said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will first offer prayers at Kashi Vishwanath Temple, Baba Kaal Bhairav Temple and Maa Durga at Durgakund Temple in the holy city before addressing the rally and launching a poll campaign for the Mission-2022.Party leaders have held several meetings with people in eastern UP districts, including Varanasi, Mirzapur, Bhadohi among others, and appealed to them to participate in large number and make the “Kisan Nyay” rally in Varanasi a mega show. The Congress leaders, including Tiwari, took the blessings of elderly Congressmen and locals during the meetings in Ballia, Ghazipur, Mau, Azamgarh, Bhadohi and Jaunpur. Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Singh Lallu is also in Varanasi for the rally. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Lallu said the Congress party was fighting for farmers to ensure justice to them. The Congress had decided to take this fight to every village, town, hamlet and street until the farmers got justice, he added. On the Kheri incident, Lallu demanded that Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ should be dismissed and his son should be arrested without delay.He claimed that it was the first time when police served a summons to a person against whom a case is registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.Dismiss MoS home, tweets Priyanka On the eve of the rally, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted, “The aggrieved farmer families have only one demand: justice to them. It is impossible to get justice without the dismissal of the minister and the arrest of the accused of murder. What message does the government want to convey by sending an invitation to the accused of murder to appear?” She tweeted in Hindi, “Sarkar doshiyon ko sanrakshan nahi, saja de.( The government should not protect the guilty but should punish them).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyankas-kisan-nyay-rally-in-varanasi-today-101633800816726.html
09-10-2021||Other||Noida: Man stabs sister-in-law to death, arrested||A 26-year-old man was arrested on Saturday evening for allegedly stabbing his wife, sister-in-law and niece after an argument in Noida’s Sector 46. Police identified the suspect as Anil, 26, a resident of Narela in Delhi.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that Anil lived with his wife, Kranti, 24, and son Aryan, 6, in Delhi. “The couple had developed some differences lately and a few days ago his wife came to Noida with her child to her brother Ravindra’s place in Sector 46,” he said.Ravindra, 30, who works at a construction site, lives with his wife Bhagwati, 28, and 8-year-old daughter in a rented accommodation in Noida.Police said on Saturday evening Anil also visited Noida and asked his wife to return to Delhi. “This led to an argument. Anil took out a knife and stabbed his wife. When Bhagwati tried to rescue Kranti, Anil stabbed her also. He then stabbed Ravindra’s daughter when she came to rescue her mother,” Singh said.Local people informed police and a team from Sector 39 police station reached the spot. The three injured persons were admitted to a private hospital where doctors declared Bhagwati brought dead. Kranti is critical and has been referred to a hospital in Delhi. Police said the child is recovering in the hospital.“We have registered a case against the suspect under Section 302 (murder) of IPC and arrested him. We are investigating what led to this incident. The knife used in the crime was seized,” said the additional DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-man-stabs-sister-in-law-to-death-arrested-101633800577850.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party leader booked for torching scooter during protest in Agra||A case was registered against vice president of city unit of Samajwadi Party on Friday for torching a scooter during a protest against hike in fuel prices, police said.A report has also been sent to regional transport office (RTO) and Agra Nagar Nigam for further action as burning of scooter caused pollution and damage to property, said Rajeev Kumar, circle officer for Sadar circle. “The case was registered at Rakabganj police station on Friday night against ten named persons, including vice president of city unit of Samajwadi Party Rizwan Raisuddin ‘Prince’, for torching a scooter during protest near Dholpur House,” said Kumar. The case was registered for violation of prohibitory orders under section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code and relevant provisions of Epidemic Act. Traffic was disturbed due to protest and air pollution was also caused, Kumar said. Speaking on the issue, SP leader Rizwan said: “It was a protest against hike in prices of petrol and diesel by Samajwadi Party and we chose to burn a scooter to symbolize the agony faced by common man.” District unit president Madhusudan Sharma and city unit president Wazid Nisar too had held protests on Friday at separate locations but they chose to offer flowers to drivers of vehicles to convey the message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/samajwadi-party-leader-booked-for-torching-scooter-during-protest-in-agra-101633800576627.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath reaches out to farmers, says no move to snap their power connections||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday reached out to farmers and said no power connections of cultivators were snapped due to non-payment of bills anywhere in Uttar Pradesh. He reiterated that his government decided to withdraw all cases registered against farmers for burning crop residue.Yogi Adityanath made these points in a meeting of party’s lawmakers from Braj and Kanpur regions at his official residence in Lucknow.“Neither has the government snapped any power connection of farmers due to non-payment of bills nor does it intend to do so in the future,” Yogi Adityanath said at a time when the government has been under fire over the killing of eight people, including four farmers, in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3.Union minister of state for home and BJP MP Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra is the prime accused in the violence.“We have also decided to withdraw all cases registered on farmers for burning crop residue. We are also planning to launch a one-time settlement (OTS) scheme under which all interest on pending farmer bills would be waived,” Yogi Adityanath said. Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who has been named head of the party’s election panel for UP, the party’s current UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev and state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal were also present during the meeting. Yogi Adityanath has been meeting BJP lawmakers in a phased manner in the run-up to the 2022 UP polls. He had met the party’s lawmakers from the Awadh region of central UP on Friday. For organisational purposes, the BJP has demarcated the state into six organisational regions. “Three nodes of the defence corridor are in Kanpur region and in Bundelkhand great development has been done,” Yogi Adityanath said while tasking the lawmakers to ensure the benefits of the government schemes reach majority of the people. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said the world was watching Uttar Pradesh ahead of the 2022 state assembly election and that is why a campaign was underway to malign the image of the state. “A malicious campaign to malign the state, to magnify small things is on. We are a party whose cadre is committed to the country. We need to stay united, focused and vigilant,” he said. UP BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal said that the party, set to embark on a membership drive, plans to add 1.5 crore new members by December. Bansal said all lawmakers and party functionaries would participate in the party campaign that would be undertaken in each of the 1.63 lakh booths across the state. “We are also undertaking a campaign to cross check the voter lists. The lawmakers must ensure that no eligible voter is left out of the party campaign to enlist voters,” he said. Bansal said the party’s panna pramukh (head of the page on the voters’ list) campaign would continue till October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-reaches-out-to-farmers-says-no-move-to-snap-their-power-connections-101633800036302.html
09-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand mulls to make anti-conversion law more stringent. What to expect||The Uttarakhand government is mulling to make the state's anti-conversion law more stringent and a proposal to this effect has already been sought from the state police chief. According to a report carried by PTI, the Pushkar Dhami government is contemplating to tighten the law as it apprehends the worsening of communal amity amid demographic changes in some regions of the state.The state police department has already sent a two-page proposal to the government, with recommendations to amend the anti-conversion law on the lines of Uttar Pradesh.Speaking to PTI, Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar said that the police have recommended to make the acts of forcible religious conversion a cognisable offence with a sentence of a minimum three-year jail term to the maximum of 10 years along with a fine of ₹25,000.As per the current law, a forcible conversion is a non-cognisable offence and requires the complainant to file a complaint in a court seeking its directions to the police to register an FIR.If the new proposal were to come into effect, then the state police will be authorised to lodge an FIR on its own without needing any court direction.The proposal is currently being examined, PTI quoted Additional Chief Secretary Abhinav Kumar of Chief Minister Dhami as saying.The government's decision to tighten the law follows an attack by miscreants at a church in Roorkee of Haridwar district for allegedly promoting mass conversion. The state government had last month directed police to act against the consistent migration of people of a particular community amid the rising population of another community in a particular region of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-mulls-to-make-anti-conversion-law-more-stringent-what-to-expect-101633799397044.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||Ahead of UP election, Maya seeks ban on pre-poll surveys||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday reiterated her demand for Bharat Ratna, India’s highest civilian award, for her mentor and BSP founder Kanshi Ram even as she sought a ban on pre-poll surveys ahead of UP assembly election to be held early next year.She said she will write to the Election Commission demanding surveys by media organisations and other agencies be banned six months before any election so that the polls in the particular state are not influenced by it.Addressing BSP cadres in Lucknow on the occasion of Kanshi Ram’s 15th death anniversary at a memorial built in his memory, Mayawati said “I bow my head to Kanshi Ram ji on this occasion.” She cited the case of pre-poll surveys that projected losses for Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress in West Bengal assembly election. “Ahead of polls, Mamata Banerjee was shown trailing but when results came in, she won by an overwhelming majority and hopes of those dreaming to attain power were shattered,” she said. Accusing some agencies of being in “dhandha” (business) of pre-poll survey, Mayawati said a ban on pre-poll surveys was necessary to stop this. Mayawati has in the recent past too has shown her displeasure at such pre-poll surveys predicting gains for BJP and alleged that it was part of a conspiracy to underplay her party’s impact ahead of the 2022 UP polls. Claiming that people in UP have made up their mind to unseat the BJP, Mayawati alleged that the ruling party’s governments at the centre and in UP were misusing official machinery for electoral gains. “I would appeal to people to not waste their vote on BJP,” she said. She also claimed that the BJP could give a communal twist to things ahead of 2022 UP polls. “It is known that BJP ultimately resorts to giving Hindu-Muslim spin and seeks advantage through polarisation,” she said urging the cadres to be wary of such things. BJP’s former ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) and a Dalit organisation Bhim Army led by Chandrashekhar Azad are active ahead of the polls. SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar has claimed that Azad would be part of his Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, an organisation comprising various smaller caste-based parties. Without naming any particular smaller party, Mayawati cautioned the cadres against them too. “Various smaller parties or organisations are there wanting to contest elections independently or together. But their main aim is not to win elections but to discreetly help the ruling party,” she alleged.She also alleged that ahead of the polls, the BJP government had started resorting to caste politics and cited the recent foundation stone laying function of a university in name of a Jat community leader and unveiling of a statue of a leader of Gurjar community in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ahead-of-up-election-maya-seeks-ban-on-pre-poll-surveys-101633799496153.html
09-10-2021||Gurugram||SGT University murder: Students, parents rattled by incident, police inquest||Even as security was enhanced at the SGT University, where a 24-year-old student was shot dead on the campus, students and parents said that the incident and subsequent questioning by the police has left them rattled.The Gurugram police said that they are conducting raids to arrest the prime accused, Pankhil alias Lucky, and his three other accomplices, who shot dead Vineet Kumar. “Raids are being conducted and the accused will be arrested soon,” Subash Boken, the spokesperson for Gurugram police, said.According to a preliminary probe, it was revealed that there had been an ongoing tussle between Kumar and Lucky over the past six months, the police said. The body of the deceased was handed over to his relatives after a post-mortem examination around 1pm, following which they left for Shamli in Uttar Pradesh to perform the last rites.Officials of the SGT University said that staff and students had gone along with the victim’s family to attend the last rites. “We are shocked by the incident as there has been no such incident in the past. We have increased security and screening on the campus,” Rajneesh Yadav, a spokesperson for the university, said.A condolence meeting was also held on the campus on Saturday, which was attended by the university staff and management, said Yadav. “We are also installing more CCTV cameras to keep a strict vigil on the campus,” he said.Vineet Kumar, a 24-year old student of SGT University in Budhera, located around 10 kilometres from Gurugram, was shot dead on Friday afternoon on the campus by a student of the same institution over a personal rivalry. Kumar was pursuing a BAMS degree, while the accused, Lucky, was pursuing a law degree. A case of murder was registered against Lucky, a resident of Najafgarh, and his accomplices.“My son is extremely disturbed by the murder and he is badly depressed. I took him to a doctor on Friday evening and again today (Saturday) to get some medicine so that his stress can be released. He is also completely confused as he and his friends can’t process the murder incident,” the father of a student, who was also a BAMS student and had gone to Shamli for the last rites, said.He said, “A number of students have come from Gurugram to attend the cremation and they are shocked. My son insisted on going along, so I brought him, but he is not in a condition to speak. He is quite nervous after being questioned by the police and even we are not feeling comfortable.”A group of students also held a march on the campus on Friday evening in homage to Kumar. They also called for enhanced security on the campus and ensuring justice for the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sgt-university-murder-students-parents-rattled-by-incident-police-inquest-101633798841407.html
09-10-2021||Pune||Nine-year-old seriously injured after being run over by a car in Pimpale Saudagar||A nine-year-old was run over by a speeding car in Pimpale Saudagar area of Pimpri-Chinchwad city on October 3, according to the police. The victim is identified as Ishaan Pradip Kasab. The FIR was lodged on October 9 as the family was busy attending to the child who suffered serious injuries. The incident was captured on a CCTV camera installed on the society premises and its video later went viral on the social media. According to the police, the boy was seriously injured when the car went over his chest, stomach, mouth and shoulders. The Incident took place at Sai Vastu Housing Co-operative Society in Pimple Saudagar around 5.45 pm on October 3. Ishaan was playing with his friends on the society premises. Sonal Deshpande, a resident of the society, was driving the vehicle that ran over Ishaan, the FIR stated. A case has been registered against the driver for rash and negligent driving at Sangvi police station. Police said that the investigation was on to find more in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nineyearold-seriously-injured-after-being-run-over-by-a-car-in-pimpale-saudagar-101633798840124.html
09-10-2021||Gurugram||Dengue case count reaches 108 ahead of predicted November peak||The dengue case count in the Gurugram district has reached a five-year high, with the addition of seven new cases on Saturday taking the total to 108, even as officials are anticipating a further spike.Officials had predicted that cases will be high this year and that they would peak in November.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “With increased cases of dengue, we have increased sampling and surveillance. We have already identified 13 hotspots and more areas are being identified. Next week, the district task force will also be meeting, after which the number of hotspots might be increased. The peak for dengue cases is likely to hit by October end or early November.”According to the health department data, over the past five years, 86, 66, 94, 22 and 51 cases of dengue were recorded in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively.Officials said that this year, over 2,000 samples have been collected for the dengue test in the district so far.Doctors from hospitals across the city said that over the past few weeks, the maximum number of patients at the out-patient department have been complaining of viral fever, high fever, cold or cough.At Civil Hospital in Sector 10, almost 90% beds of the hospitals are occupied with patients suffering from viral fever, while 10 of the 30 beds in the dengue ward are currently occupied.Dr Manish Rathi, deputy medical superintendent, Civil Hospital, said, “Around 500 patients walk in with fever or similar symptoms in the OPD for our internal medicine department. Most of the beds in the hospital are occupied by patients suffering from viral fever.”Dr Amitabh Parti, director (internal medicine), Fortis Memorial Research Institute, said, “At this point in time, there must be at least eight to 10 patients of dengue and the criterion for hospitalisation is when platelet count is 50,000 and below. Since last week, there has been a surge of 15-20% in the number of dengue cases. Fewer than 5% of those patients require transfusions when the platelet count drops to below 20,000, but most of them are recovering on their own. So, the severity of dengue cases is much less. Dengue shock syndrome or dengue haemorrhage is very rare.”Last week, the district administration had also issued two helpline numbers, 18001801817 and 0124-44055779, for residents to request fogging drives in their areas from 9am to 5pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dengue-case-count-reaches-108-ahead-of-predicted-november-peak-101633798837307.html
09-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram crime: Delhi cop held for ₹50 lakh robbery in Manesar||The Gurugram police arrested an assistant sub-inspector of the Delhi Police, who was posted with a special cell, for allegedly partaking in an incident of robbery at Manesar by three criminals allied with Delhi-based gangster Vikas Lagarpuria. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the arrested cop was involved in several criminal activities and has confessed about them. He was mainly involved in criminal activities involving Lagarpuria and his gang, as they belong to the same village and were friends.The police said the Delhi cop had taken ₹15 lakh, as his share of the robbery in Manesar, which was carried out by the gang on August 4. He was arrested on Friday. According to the Gurugram police, a group of robbers had struck at a flat owned by a real estate company and robbed ₹50 lakh. A part of this money was shared with the Delhi cop and Lagarpuria, the police said. The three gang members, identified as Dara Singh alias Dhare, Amit Alias Meeta and Abhinav Sharma, were arrested by the crime team of Sector 31 on October 1, following a shoot-out at Bajghera.During questioning, the trio allegedly pointed to the role of the Delhi cop, who was close to the gang and had taken a share of their loot. The cop was undergoing training at a training centre in Delhi and was recently promoted as well, according to the Gurugram police. Subhash Boken, the spokesperson for Gurugram police, said, “The Delhi police ASI has been arrested in connection with a robbery in Manesar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-crime-delhi-cop-held-for-50-lakh-robbery-in-manesar-101633798836119.html
09-10-2021||Noida||Two persons arrested for sexual harassment in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: Two persons were arrested on Friday for sexually harassing a 22-year-old woman in Rabupura. The victim lives with her parents in a village that falls under the Rabupura police station limits. The woman’s father filed a complaint on Thursday. “A few days ago, two local youths – Naveen, 23, and Arun, 24, intercepted my daughter and forcibly hugged her at an isolated place. They also captured the incident in their mobile phones. The two suspects started pressurising her to make a physical relation or they will post those photos on social media,” he said. The complainant said that the victim started living depressed recently. “Later, I came to know that the suspects have started blackmailing her. They were demanding ₹25,000 to delete the photos or they will post them on social media,” he said. Dinesh Singh, SHO of Rapupura police station, said that a case was registered against the two suspects under sections 354-A (sexual harassment), 384 (extortion), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. “The woman recently got engaged with a person. These two suspects started harassing and blackmailing her. A police team visited their houses and arrested the two suspects. They were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-persons-arrested-for-sexual-harassment-in-greater-noida-101633798595995.html
09-10-2021||Pune||Man arrested in wife’s death by suicide case||The Bhosari police have arrested a man and his mother in connection with the death by suicide of his wife. According to the police, the family took ₹83 lakh from her family and yet harassed her leading to the victim taking the extreme step. According to the police complaint, the woman was harassed from January 2015 till October 7, 2021, at their house located at Moshi Pradhikaran area. The accused identified as Akhil Vipin (33) and mother Sudha (53) were booked on October 8. The FIR was lodged by the 64-year-old father of the victim. According to the FIR, the accused took ₹83 lakh from her and yet subjected her to mental and physical harassment. Fed up with the treatment meted out to her, she died by suicide after hanging herself in the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-in-wife-s-death-by-suicide-case-101633798476139.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of festive season, 18 Chandigarh markets to have makeshift parkings||With the start of Navratri and other major festivals like Dussehra and Diwali lined up, the Chandigarh traffic police has written to 18 market associations of the city over parking management during this period.Various government schools, colleges and open areas close to these 18 markets will be made into makeshift parkings to manage traffic congestion.Senior superintendent of police (SSP, traffic) Manisha Choudhary has written to the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) president Charanjiv Singh about this. As per the letter, the shopkeepers have been asked to park behind the markets to keep the front parkings free.Market welfare associations (MWAs) have been requested to appoint volunteers and affix sign boards to guide people towards these alternate parkings. Shopkeepers have been advised to keep pedestrian paths and cycle tracks free and to not let carts open up outside their shops.In total, makeshift parkings have been earmarked at 33 locations including 29 government schools, a government-aided school, a government college, a small park and an open space close to the respective markets. The school parking areas can be used for parking after school gets over after 2pm till the time the markets stay open.Most people unaware of parking spacesEven though every year such parkings spaces are assigned, most people don’t use them because they are generally too far from the markets or residents aren’t aware of them.Speaking about this, CBM president Charanjiv Singh said, “This year we will request all markets to put up visible boards at the entrances to tell people about these parkings. Many markets will also designate volunteers to ensure people park properly and to guide them to the makeshift parkings.”During the festive season, the traffic police also put up barricades and make roads one-way outside some of the busier markets including Sectors 22 and 19. Speaking about this, Singh added that the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal hadn’t written about this to the authorities yet but MWAs could contact the authorities by themselves in case the arrangement was needed.Chief spokesperson Diwakar Sahoonja added that they will work with the traffic cops posted in various markets to ensure that people didn’t have to suffer.List of designated parking lots during festive season1. Sector 8 market: GMHS-8B2. Sector 15 market: GMSSS-15C3. Sector 22 market: GMSSS-22A, GMHS-22C and park in front of GMSSS-22A4. Sector 18 market: GGMSSS-18D5. Sector 19 market: GMSSS-19C, GMHS-19D6. Sector 20 market: GGMSSS-20B, GMSSS-20D and GMHS-20D7. Sector 29 market: GMHS-29B, GHS-29B and GMSSS-29A8. Sector 30 market: GMHS-30 and Guru Nanak Khalsa Senior Secondary School, Sector 30B9. Manimajra market: GMSSS, Manimajra, GMHS, Manimajra, and GMHS, Manimajra, near bus stand10. Sector 32 market: GSSS-32C11. Sector 34 market: GMHS-34C12. Sector 44 market: Open space near Sanjay Public School, Sector 44, and GMSSS-4413. Sector 46 market: GSSS-46D and government college, Sector 46, parking14. Sector 35 market: GMSSS-35D, and GMS-35C15. Sector 37 market: GMHS-37C and GMS-37C16. Sector 38 market: GMHS-38D17. Sector 40 market: GMS-40B and GMHS-40A18. Sector 41 market: GMS-41D||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-festive-season-18-chandigarh-markets-to-have-makeshift-parkings-101633798296434.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Cash-starved Ramlilas struggling to stay afloat||Even though most Ramlilas have started in the city, organisers are adopting the no-frills approach owing to a major cash crunch in post-Covid times.The Ramlila in Vikas Nagar of Mauli Jagran remains the worst affected, so much so that the organisers have decided not to open the show this year owing to a shortage of funds.One of the organisers, Bobby Mehta, said, “For organising a Ramlila, we need a minimum ₹2 lakh. I run a tea stall in Ram Darbar, but I would still contribute ₹50,000 per year. Now, none of us have that kind of money.”Mehta added that it was unfortunate that political parties never hesitated to use their stage for spreading their own political messages in the past, but none had come forward to help them. “Conducting a Ramlila every year is a sacred service, but it is out of our hands now. I hope people can help us next year. In 2020 too, we were unable to hold the Ramlila,” he said.Recycling costumes to save costsFrom the OCF Sanskritic Manch, Sector 29, senior artiste Jyoti Bhardwaj said, “In previous years we would have three to four musicians, but this year we are using pre-recorded music to save on costs.” He added that they were also re-using the costumes from previous years and no money was spent on new dresses or props.Most Ramlilas have asked their patrons, the viewers, and even the performers to donate funds to run the Ramlila.BP Gaur with the Garhwal Ramleela Avam Sanskritic Mandal in Sector 22C said that the performers had contributed ₹10,000 of their own to keep the Ramlila running. “Performing the Ramlila is a sacred duty. While times are difficult we will keep the show on the simpler side, but we won’t give up,” he said.Some Ramlila organisations are also disheartened by the donations they are receiving. Vice-president of the Sector-20 Ramlila, Ashok Choudhary, said, “Definitely there is an effect on the spending capacity of people and they can mostly only spare around ₹500. Even some of our donors with the deepest pockets have been more cautious with their money this time. Earlier we would receive donations over ₹1 lakh, but now they haven’t gone over ₹21,000.”Director of the Sector-17 Ramlila, Rajinder Bagga, however said that even though the organisers themselves had to put in money, he was inspired by how people were still helping them even when they were facing problems of their own, and Ramlilas were also working with what they had to do their best.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cash-starved-ramlilas-struggling-to-stay-afloat-101633798061392.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hostel for SC students: PU plans to send proposal to Union ministry||Panjab University (PU) is planning to send a proposal to the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment for the construction of hostels for scheduled caste (SC) students under the ministry’s Babu Jagjivan Ram Chhatrawas Yojna (BJRCY).Under this scheme, the ministry provides financial assistance to institutions for constructing hostels for SC students. The matter was discussed during a recent meeting of the varsity.A university official who attended the meeting said, “It was discussed that a proposal will be prepared and sent to the ministry in the coming days. The plan is to propose the construction of blocks with 100 seats each for boys and girls.”Details sought from departmentsAccording to a circular issued by the office of the dean students’ welfare, the departments have been asked to send the data of SC students for the 2019-20 session by October 13. They have been asked to submit the details on the number of students, number of those who applied for hostel accommodation and number of students who were allotted hostels.The departments have also been asked to send the details of SC research scholars. Presently, there are 17 residence halls for students on campus: eight each for boys and nine for girls along with a working women’s hostel.What is the schemeThe scheme for construction of hostels for SC students is one of the means to enable and encourage children/students belonging to SC category to attain quality education. Its primary objective is to attract implementing agencies for undertaking construction of hostels, especially for SC girls, towards the broader vision of containment and reduction of their drop-out rate.The other objectives include having a girls’ hostel with a capacity of 100 seats in every block headquarters of low literacy districts not having one as of now, by way of priority, repairing and proper maintenance of hostels, and having an effective mechanism for monitoring, review, etc.Funding patternFor girls’ hostels, 100% central assistance is provided to state governments/UT administrations and central and state universities/institutions, as per the cost norms prescribed in the scheme. But for state universities/institutions, central assistance is 45% in case of boys’ hostels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hostel-for-sc-students-pu-plans-to-send-proposal-to-union-ministry-101633797876176.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administrator launches ₹100-crore development works in 13 villages||Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit on Saturday laid the foundation stone of various developmental projects worth ₹102 crore scheduled to be undertaken in 13 villages of the city. The work was initiated from Behlana village.The administrator admitted that due to the pandemic the pace of development works got hampered to some extent, but the intention remained intact.With the execution of sewerage and water supply schemes alone, a population of approximately 1.3 lakh would be benefited, he said.Purohit exhorted the residents to use water judiciously: “Integrated water resource management has now become absolutely necessary. Similarly, the existing institutions involved in providing the basic needs will be restructured and strengthened. The 3 R strategy of reduce, recycle and reuse of the resources has to find a place in our day to day lives.”Local MP Kirron Kher, who joined the meeting virtually, stressed the need to upgrade village infrastructure. In his address, city mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said the work on internal streets, roads, footpaths, horticulture, electrical work, etc., will be undertaken with an amount of ₹20 crore.There are 22 villages under the jurisdiction of the MC of which 13—Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas—were transferred in 2019. The major push for rural infra upgrade comes ahead of MC elections slated for November-December this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administrator-launches-100-crore-development-works-in-13-villages-101633797696057.html
09-10-2021||Pune||15.88% children in Maharashtra underweight, 4.05% severely underweight: ICDS||According to the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), Maharashtra has about 15.88% underweight children and 4.05% severely underweight children, with the tribal population accounting for the highest number of underweight children in the state.According to the June 2020 ICDS report, there are about 7.858 million children in the zero to six age group in the state, out of which 5.11 million are from rural areas; 1.08 million are from tribal pockets; and 1.655 million from urban areas. Of these, 15.88% children under the age of six are underweight and 4.05% are severely underweight.In terms of malnourished children, Nandurbar with 48.26% children underweight and 15.12% severely underweight is the worst performer whereas Sangli with 7.80% children underweight and 1.45% severely underweight has the healthiest children. In terms of malnourished children, Nandurbar is followed by Palghar and Yavatmal. The districts with a lower-than-state average percentage of underweight and severely underweight children are: Nandurbar, Palghar, Yavatmal, Gondia, Gadchiroli, Nanded, Parbhani, Amravati, Wardha, Ratnagiri, Aurangabad, Nashik, Satara, Jalna and also the financial capital Mumbai suburban which has about 5.25% severely underweight and 15.64% underweight children. While Pune district has about 7.53% underweight children and 1.94% severely underweight children, and is at the lower end of the spectrum in terms of both underweight and severely underweight children; just behind Osmanabad and Sangli that have the healthiest children in the state.Rubal Agarwal, ICDS commissioner who held a review meeting with both the urban and rural administration in the last one week said, “We have asked the administration to ensure that every child’s health is reported. There is a difference in the numbers reported by the local administration and the central team, so we have asked the district administration to accelerate the action and also necessary interventions to ensure that no child remains malnourished.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1588-children-in-maharashtra-underweight-4-05-severely-underweight-icds-101633797216027.html
09-10-2021||Ranchi||Police opt for awareness campaign as opium trade continues to flourish in Chatra||With opium cultivation and smuggling of cannabis and other drugs having grown into a menace in Jharkhand’s Chatra, the district police are set to launch an awareness campaign against opium trade with special focus on highlighting its health hazards, even for those involved in its cultivation, besides stringent penal provisions that can lead up to death penalty.The heavily forested and Maoist-infested Chatra district in the coal-bearing North Chhotangpur division has been a den of opium cultivation in the state, with several small and marginal farmers being involved in it allegedly having support of outlawed CPI (Maoists) and their splinter groups.Till recent pasts, the district administration would deny that it was an organized crime and their action and would be limited to occasional raiding in the interior forest areas and destroying the standing crop. However, the district administration has now decided to launch an awareness campaign to educate people about the practice, besides continuing to crackdown against the syndicate involved in the crime.“We can’t deny the fact that we have a problem at hand and we need to solve it. The police has been cracking down against those involved in the crime and have done several seizures of opium and drugs and have made several arrests. While the crackdown continues, we also want to educate people about the different dynamics of the illegal trade,” said Chatra superintendent of police, Rakesh Ranjan.As per data provided by the district police, from January 1, 2021 to October 6, 2021, the police have registered 123 cases related to the trade and arrested 129 persons. In this period, the police seized 605.77kg opium, 61.65 quintal of Doda (dried opium stem), 2.621 kg brown sugar, 120kg of Posta (poppy seeds), besides vehicles ranging from two-wheelers to trucks, arms and ammunition and cash.Most forested areas in the district,including Pratapur, Lawalong, Rajpur and Hunterganj--which also share border with Bihar--are some of the areas where opium cultivation is done, sources said. The awareness campaign of the police is largely aimed at reaching out to people explaining them about the health hazards, environmental impact as well as stringent legal provisions. Banners and posters having messages on those counts are being installed at several locations in the state, said the SP.Symbolically, one of the banners was unveiled by chief minister Hemant Soren during his visit to Chatra last week for an inaugural function.The banners spread the message about impact of opium cultivation on forest and soil degradation, impact on health of pregnant woman and the growth of unborn babies, and legal provisions such as capital punishment.“We have planned to target the family as a unit to create awareness because most of the members are involved in it. Also, most of them are not aware of many of these things. For example, law even provides for capital punishment under Section 31 (A) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. Those involved will ultimately be chased down even if they are practising in deep forests, as we are using drones to detect such fields,” said Ranjan.The officer said the police, in association with the district civil administration, is also educating and encouraging people to take up alternative agricultural practices and grow other cash crops.“Some farmers have started saffron cultivation in the district. We are encouraging farmers, in association with the department concerned, that they grow such produce which are equally rewarding. We are also engaging the Indian Council of Agricultural Research in our efforts,” said Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/police-opt-for-awareness-campaign-as-opium-trade-continues-to-flourish-in-chatra-101633796495972.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||Tiger carcass found floating in Uttar Pradesh canal||The carcass of a male tiger was found floating in a canal in the Katarniaghat Wildlife Sanctuary in Bahraich, Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, forest officials said.No external injury marks were found on the tiger carcass, they said.The tiger carcass, which was floating under the Chaudhary Charan Singh (Girijapuri) Barrage built on a canal connected to the Ghaghra river in Uttar Pradesh, was spotted by villagers around 3.30pm, divisional forest officer (DFO) Akashdeep Badhawan said.The locals immediately informed the forest and irrigation departments. A forest department team was rushed to the spot to bring the carcass to the Katarniaghat forest range office, he said.Prima facie, the tiger was 3-4 years old, DFO said, adding no external injury marks were found on the carcass. A panel of veterinarians will conduct a post-mortem examination to ascertain the cause of death, he added.Senior Indian Forest Service officer Ramesh Kumar Pandey, an expert in tiger conservation, said as per the standard operating procedure of the National TigerConservation Authority (NTCA), every tiger death is considered as unnatural unless proven otherwise.To prove a tiger’s death as natural, one has to rule out all other angles like poaching and poisoning, he explained.It is very rare for a tiger to be found dead in water because big cats are good swimmers, he said.(WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tiger-carcass-found-floating-in-uttar-pradesh-canal-101633796435984.html
09-10-2021||Other||Capital punishment to 21-year-old in 2019 minor rape-murder case||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court in Bihar’s Araria has awarded death sentence to the 21-year-old accused in connection with the rape and murder case of a minor girl two years ago. The court has also directed the government to pay compensation to the victim’s mother.On August 5, 2019, the 12-year-old victim, who used to live with her maternal grandmother, was raped and murdered after she was kidnapped while returning home from a local fair. Her body was recovered on August 6 from near a village temple. Later, the Simraha police lodged an FIR on the basis of the written statement of her grandmother against unidentified persons. Police later nabbed the accused, who confessed his crime. “Special POCSO court judge Shashikant Roy on Friday, while pronouncing the judgment in the case, awarded capital punishment to Amar Kumar, and directed the district legal services authority (DLSA) to pay ₹10 lakh to the victim’s mother from the victim compensation fund,” said public prosecutor (PP) Shyam Lal Yadav.The court found the accused, a native of an area under Simraha police station of the district, guilty of Sections 376 (D) (B) (rape of a woman under twelve years of age), 302 (murder) and 201 (disappearance of evidence ) of the Indian Penal Code, besides Section 4 (sexual assault) of the POCSO Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/capital-punishment-to-21-year-old-in-2019-minor-rape-murder-case-101633796315810.html
09-10-2021||Patna||Nine Indian states adopt Patna Covid vaccination model||Nine Indian states have replicated Patna’s successful Covid-19 vaccination model of administering jabs to people at their convenience through 24x7 or 12 hours-a-day vaccination camps. Three other states are set to roll out such mega camps soon, said a resource person of Care India, which provides technical support to the Bihar government’s health, nutrition, education and livelihoods programme. Jharkhand, Assam, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi (NCR) have commenced Covid vaccination mega camps in collaboration with Care India, after its successful implementation in Patna, said the official quoted above. The initiative will soon be rolled out in Andhra Pradesh, Manipur and Himachal Pradesh, he said. “The Inter State Bus Terminus (ISBT) and the airport at Guwahati (Assam’s capital) operate 24x7 mega camp in our collaboration. Likewise, Malleshwaram, in Bengaluru, has also initiated a 24x7 vaccination mega camp, after its success in Patna,” said Mansoon Mohanty, team lead for Patna district resource unit of Care India. “Other places like Jharkhand’s Ranchi, Hazaribagh, Bokaro and Jamshedpur; Udaipur in Rajasthan; Bhopal, Panna, Balaghat and Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Lucknow and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi (NCR) have mega camps, which operate 12 to 15 hours a day,” he said. All mega camps, hosted in our collaboration in other states, have been initiated in August and September, after their success in Patna, where we launched them in June,” said Mohanty. The 24x7 vaccination mega camps at the government polytechnic in Patliputra Colony, hotel Patliputra Ashok on Beer Chand Patel Path and the Patliputra stadium at Kankerbagh, managed by the Care India in Patna, have administered over 50% doses to the nearly 12 lakh urban population of Patna, said Chandrashekhar Singh, Patna’s district magistrate (DM). Patna, which has an estimated target population of 4,424,678 to vaccinate, is a success story as far as Covid vaccination in Bihar is concerned. It has done better than the state and national average and tops among 38 districts in the state in terms of administering Covid doses to beneficiaries. With a total of 5,193,789 doses administered till 6.30 pm till October 7, Patna has a first dose coverage of around 76% and 58% second dose achievement against the first shot. The state’s vaccination coverage was 64% and 28%, respectively, as on October 7(6.40 pm). Around 26.3% had been fully vaccinated with both doses in India, while the country’s first dose coverage was 70.1%, as of 7am on October 3. Having inoculated 136,560 doses on August 7, Patna became the fifth district in India to cross the 1 lakh vaccination mark in a single day. It achieved another milestone by becoming the second district in the state after East Champaran to vaccinate over 2 lakh people in a day, having administered 201,142 doses during a mega camp on October 2. East Champaran administered 240,054 doses on September 17, during a special vaccination drive on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, when Bihar logged 3,339,879 Covid jabs, the day’s highest in India when it administered 2.5 crore doses. “Patna ranks ninth among Indian districts in terms of administering Covid vaccine doses. We have vaccinated over 114% of our urban population and 57% of the district’s rural population. Many people from rural areas and adjoining districts have come to take shots at our 24x7 vaccination centres,” said Singh. “We understood the people’s need and convenience and launched the special vaccination centres in June so that we can tap the people interested in taking jabs early in the morning, before going to the office or on their return from work in the evening. We opened three 24x7 centres and a couple for 12 hours a day. Their response was very encouraging, prompting other districts to adopt it,” the DM said. Danapur, Sheikhpura and Kankerbagh branches of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Sri Krishna Memorial Hall, ITI-Digha, Anugrah Narayan College, the Ram Dev Mahto Samudayik Bhawan (community hall) and the Patna Women’s College were venues of special centres in Patna, most of which were operational from 9am to 5pm, while a couple functioned for 12 hours a day. “We reduced the waiting time at the special camps by deploying our best workforce, increasing the number of vaccinating teams, segregating people based on their choice of vaccine, age and gender, having separate queues for them. We also ensured cleanliness and hygiene, providing basic facilities like drinking water and washroom, having proper waiting areas with arrangement for sitting and opened up to 1,000 slots a day at each such camp, before introducing on-spot registrations,” said Singh. “Many other districts (Katihar, Darbhanga, Rohtas, Gaya and Bhagalpur) in Bihar and some other Indian states are also learnt to have recently adopted our model,” added Singh.Headline: A shot in the arm Intro: Bihar’s capita; has done better than the state and national average in Covid-19 vaccination 4,424,678: Patna‘s estimated target population to vaccinate5,193,789: Doses administered till 6.30 pm till October 7Vaccination coverage so farPatna76%: First dose 58%: Second dose Bihar64%: First dose 28%: Second does 24x7 vaccination mega camps in PatnaGovt polytechnic in Patliputra ColonyHotel Patliputra Ashok Patliputra stadium at Kankerbagh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nine-indian-states-adopt-patna-covid-vaccination-model-101633796258699.html
09-10-2021||Other||Bihar crosses 6-cr jabs mark||Bihar crossed the 6-crore dose vaccination mark out of its target population of 7.22 crore on Saturday, state’s health minister Mangal Pandey said.“We achieved administering 6-crore Covid-19 vaccination doses to beneficiaries in the state today with people’s cooperation, support from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and guidance of chief minister Nitish Kumar. We had set up 15,000 vaccination sites and pressed into service over 50,000 personnel on the job,” Pandey said. “If we continue to get the same cooperation of our people, we will achieve administering 8 crore doses in the state by December,” the minister said. Chief minister Kumar had on June 11 set a target to administer 6 crore jabs to 6 crore people by December. The state had then achieved around 1.16 crore jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-crosses-6-cr-jabs-mark-101633796257131.html
09-10-2021||Other||Bihar bypolls: Left pledges support to RJD against Congress||PATNALeft parties in Bihar have decided to support the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in the bypolls for Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats, to be held on October 30, where the Congress is also in the fray.Left parties — CPI(ML), CPI and the CPI(M) — together have 16 seats in the assembly and are constituents of the RJD-led Opposition alliance of which Congress too is a part. “Congress has lost its roots over the years and hence is unable to pose any strong challenge to the BJP-led coalition in Bihar,” said CPI (M) legislator Satyendra Yadav. CPI(ML) state secretary Kunal Parwez said his party had an alliance with the RJD and hence it was obliged to support its candidates. CPI MLA Indu Shekhar Singh hoped RJD could wrest the seats despite cracks in the Opposition’s Grand Alliance (GA). Congress was expecting support from the left parties. “Our leaders are in touch with the left parties. I will write formal letters to the left leaders for help soon,” said Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha. BPCC chief spokesman Rajesh Rathore, however, said the biggest leader of the left parties in Bihar, Kanhaiya Kumar, had joined Congress. “Congress is sure to win both the seats. People are looking at the grand old party as the only reliable option to defeat BJP. People will ditch RJD in the bypolls as it did it with Congress,” he said. Former Patna University teacher and political observer Nawal Kishore Yadav said, “Whatever the consequences of the left’s move, it would ultimately benefit JD (U)-led dispensation, which is contesting to retain both the seats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-bypolls-left-pledges-support-to-rjd-against-congress-101633796255879.html
09-10-2021||Patna||Bihar plans inter level residential schools for girls for backward classes in all districts||The Bihar government Saturday decided to open intermediate level residential schools for girls belonging to other backward class (OBC) in all the districts.A direction to this effect was given by chief minister Nitish Kumar during a review meeting of backward class and extremely backward classes welfare department.“Open plus two level residential schools for girls belonging to other backward class (OBC) in all the districts and ensure early completion of Jannayak Karpoori Thakur Welfare Hostels in districts where they are being constructed,” Kumar told officials. In another decision, it was decided to provide online classes and coaching facilities to students from backward classes lodged in various hostels run by the state government. The meeting was also attended by deputy CM Renu Devi, who is also the minister for the department concerned.The Bihar government had earlier announced to reserve 33 per cent seats for girls in medical and engineering colleges. The state has 2,035 engineering seats and 1,330 medical seats in the 38 engineering and 11 medical colleges it runs. In 2006, Kumar-led NDA government had reserved 50 per cent seats for girls in primary schools and 35 per cent in secondary schools at the panchayat levels. The state had in 2016 reserved 35 per cent jobs for women in the police and 33 per cent in other government jobs. Besides, to encourage girls to pursue higher education, the state gives a cash incentive of ₹50,000 to those who pass their graduation. The government has also come up with a women’s entrepreneurship incentive, under which up to ₹10 lakh worth of financial assistance would be provided to women to help them set up businesses. While ₹5 lakh will be provided as grant or subsidy, the remaining amount will be interest-free loan.Earlier, the entrepreneurship scheme was available only to SC (Scheduled Caste), ST (Scheduled Tribe) and EBC (Extremely Backward Caste) women. Now, it has been extended to all women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-plans-inter-level-residential-schools-for-girls-for-backward-classes-in-all-districts-101633796230526.html
09-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 510 new Covid cases, 4 deaths; 96,832 vaccinated||According to the state health department data, Pune district has reported 510 new Covid cases and four deaths due to the infection, on Saturday. This took the progressive count to 1.14 million out of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,855 deaths reported and 8,422 are active cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 264 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 361,399 and the death toll stood at 6,828 as four more deaths were reported on the day.Pune city reported 135 new Covid, cases which took the progressive count to 518,733 and the death toll stood at 9,179.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 111 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 267,304 and the toll stood at 3,499.Meanwhile, the district also saw 96,832 vaccinations on Saturday as per the Co-Win dashboard and in total 11,102,599. Out of which 7,376,864 are first doses and 3,725,735 are second doses. A total of 890 sites conducted vaccination out of which 626 were government centres and 264 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-510-new-covid-cases-4-deaths-96-832-vaccinated-101633794275562.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Coal crisis leads to power cuts across Punjab||Amid shortage of coal to run thermal plants, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has resorted to up to six-hour cuts on electricity supply across the state.The move comes despite the corporation purchasing power for ₹6-14 per unit from the grid. In fact, it is for the first time that Punjab, which usually sells power on the grid in October, is forced to buy it.On Saturday morning, Patiala, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Barnala, Sangrur and Bathinda witnessed power cuts for two to four hours. Cuts lasted for even six hours in some parts of the state. More power cuts are in the offing in the evening too.Punjab is facing an acute coal crisis with stocks available to run its five thermal plants fast depleting. At the three private plants, the available stocks are not expected to last even two days. The Rajpura plant has 1.9 days of coal stock left, while Talwandi Sabo has 1.3 days of coal, and GVK plant at Goindwal Sahib has just 0.6-day stock. PSPCL plants in Lehra Mohabbat and Ropar have coal stock for 4.9 and 4 days, respectively.Coal to all these plants is supplied by various Coal India Limited (CIL) subsidiaries under their respective fuel supply agreements. According to the government, presently the receipt is much below the required level. Only 50% power generation“Against an installed capacity of 5,620 MW of thermal power generation, only 2,800 MW is being generated, as two units of Ropar plant are shut while one unit each of Talwandi Sabo and Lehra Mohabbat is shut. The others are operating at half of their installed capacity to conserve coal,” said a PSPCL official, who did not wish to be named.Punjab is facing a shortage of 1,000-1,200 MW of power daily. The demand is set to soar as the festival season has just started. On Friday, PSPCL had to purchase 131 lakh units from the grid at a whopping rate of ₹13.52 per unit. It has already finalised purchase of 1,200 MW for the month of October for prices ranging between ₹7 and ₹14.CM demands supply as per quotaReviewing the situation on Saturday, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said power cuts on domestic consumers in cities and villages are being imposed to ensure sufficient supply to the agriculture sector as well as to maintain grid discipline.Slamming the Centre for inadequate coal supply against the PSPCL’s agreements with various CIL subsidiaries, the CM asked it to immediately enhance the state’s coal supply as per the quota to tide over the power crisis.He also reiterated his government’s commitment to provide adequate power supply for irrigation of paddy crop. Earlier, A Venu Prasad, chairman-cum-managing director, PSPCL, told the CM that thermal plants throughout the country are reeling under coal shortage. Prasad said he is in touch with the coal ministry officials to bring more stocks, and the situation is likely to improve in the coming days.(With inputs from Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coal-crisis-leads-to-power-cuts-across-punjab-101633794156351.html
09-10-2021||Pune||Woman arrested in Wakad for possessing 2kg cannabis||The Anti-Narcotics Squad of the Pimpri-Chinchwad Police Crime Branch has arrested Radha Balu Phadtare (62), a resident of Kalakhadak in Wakad for possession of cannabis (Ganja).The sleuths have recovered 2.07 kilograms of cannabis worth ₹68,050 from her on Thursday.Police constable Prasad Jangilwad lodged a complaint against her at Wakad police station. A case has been registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Act.Police sub-inspector Shingare, the investigating officer, said that the woman is being questioned over her role in supplying the contraband to different places in Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-arrested-in-wakad-for-possessing-2kg-cannabis-101633794095730.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bandh to show solidarity with farmers, says MVA||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies on Saturday said that statewide bandh announced on October 11 to protest the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri is to display that Maharashtra is with the farmers of the country. Essential services have been exempted from the bandh, the leaders said. Senior leaders of the MVA, including Sena leader Sanjay Raut, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister Nawab Malik and Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant, said that the one-day strike on Monday will be successful. Raut said that Shiv Sena will participate in the bandh in full strength. Four farmers were mowed down by an SUV while they were returning from the protest against the Central government’s farm laws in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on October 3. The farmers alleged that Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of home Ajay Mishra, was in the vehicle and later fled the scene. “Shiv Sena will participate in the bandh with its full strength. All three parties will actively participate in the bandh. What happened in Lakhimpur Kheri was a murder of the country’s Constitution, a violation of the law and a conspiracy to kill the food-provider (annadata) farmers of the country. To awaken the people of the state and to tell the farmers that we are with them, MVA has announced a complete bandh on October 11,” said Raut, who was flanked by Malik and Sawant, in a press conference in Mumbai.Malik said that workers of the three parties across the state would meet people, shopkeepers, etc., and seek support for the bandh. “We appeal to people that they must come together. We must keep our work shut for one day; shopkeepers on their own must keep shops shut. Workers of the three parties will request shops, establishments and people to show support for the farmers,” said Malik.The NCP minister further said that the bandh would come into force from Sunday midnight. He said, “We appeal to all the workers to not create any issues for the essential services, such as hospitals, ambulance, medical stories, milk supply, during the bandh.”The three leaders targeted the BJP-led Centre over the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. Congress leader said that the incident was a “blot on humanity” and a “stain on the democracy”. “It is a blot on humanity how the peacefully protesting farmers were crushed to death. The accused, who are shielded, this is nothing but a stain on Indian democracy,” he said.Malik called the incident a “massacre” and said BJP has become a party that kills farmers. “Despite such a massacre, they (government) were initially not ready to register a case. Like [NCP chief Sharad] Pawar saheb said that the country had not seen a cruel incident since Jallianwala Baug. The BJP has branded farmers protests as Khalistanis and terrorists... Until now, we use to say that BJP does not care for the farmers, but they are plunderers of their produce. After the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, BJP has become a party that kills farmers,” Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-to-show-solidarity-with-farmers-says-mva-101633792655503.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Beautifying footpaths at 33 locations on BMC’s cards||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned to beautify footpaths of around 90-km stretch in island city including central Mumbai. Under this plan, the paver blocks will be removed to make way for the cement concrete surface of the pavements.Under this project, footpaths at 33 locations including Dadar, Churchgate, Marines Lines, Colaba, Kemps Corner, Walkeshwar have been identified in the island city and central Mumbai.According to civic officials, most of these footpaths have paver block surfaces, because of which the civic body had faced criticism, as the blocks would come off due to sub-standard work and the surface would remain uneven. Under the new plan, the surface would be made of cement. The BMC will install road signages and pedestrian-friendly signages besides taking measures to make it convenient for the disabled citizens. It has also included maintenance work of manholes and stormwater drains along with surfacing a few of the roads along with footpaths. The cumulative cost adding the above is around ₹50 crore.The project to beautify the footpaths at five locations in the city will be taken up on the line of the improved footpaths around the Fort area in south Mumbai. The BMC floated bids for the same on Thursday and the last date to submit bids for the contractors is October 28.Earlier, a month ago, the BMC had passed a ₹69 crore proposal to beautify footpaths at Lady Jehangir Marg from St Joseph Circle near Wadala station to Ruia College; Maharshi Dayanand Saraswati Marg from Diamond Garden to Chembur railway station; Sant Gyaneshwar Mandir Road and RKP Road in Bandra (East); and MG Road at Goregaon etc.However, corporators have criticised the plan.Ravi Raja, leader of Opposition and BMC corporator said, “Spending huge sum of money on the conversion of footpaths from paver blocks to cement is the sheer wastage of money. On one hand, BMC cries of fund shortage and here they will spend so much on footpaths. Our roads are in a very bad shape and they more focus.”Meanwhile, Prabhakar Shinde, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator and group leader of BJP in BMC said, “Our objection is simple even now and earlier, that if BMC wants to beautify footpaths, it should do it across the city. Why pick and choose areas? Also, BMC is appointing consultants for the design of these footpaths despite having in-house engineers. This is not spending money wisely.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/beautifying-footpaths-at-33-locations-on-bmc-s-cards-101633792535977.html
09-10-2021||Pune||Pune civic body to conduct Covid vaccination at college campuses after reopening||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned to carry out a vaccination drive at college campuses which are scheduled to reopen coming Tuesday, October 12.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “We took the decision to conduct vaccination at college campuses once they reopen. The PMC will make available the facility within campuses as students who haven’t got their first or second doses can then get them easily. It will help vaccinate more people above 18.”Earlier, Pune’s guardian minister Ajit Pawar gave his nod to reopening colleges in Pune district from next week on the condition that only students who have taken both doses will be allowed to attend. Considering this, the PMC decided to make the facility available inside college campuses so that students no longer have to suffer delay in the learning process. The mayor said, “The PMC managed the vaccination drive efficiently and hence, stood first in Maharashtra. Even the state government is going to felicitate the municipal corporation very soon for its effective vaccination drive.”Meanwhile, vaccine availability has increased in the city and there are enough vaccine doses.Vaccine in numbersVaccination till October 7 – 4,720,591First dose – 3,085,515Second dose – 1,635,076Vaccination through special drive - 284,198||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-civic-body-to-conduct-covid-vaccination-at-college-campuses-after-reopening-101633791755386.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||2 incidents of pipeline burst reported on Kalyan – Shilphata||Two incidents of pipeline burst were reported on the Kalyan-Shilphata stretch in Mahape MIDC jurisdiction on Saturday at around 7am.The pipeline burst occurred near Khidkaleshwar temple and Desai Naka, leaving a portion of this stretch heavily waterlogged.“We have initiated the repair work at the spot and the work will go on till late in the night,” said Rajaram Rathod, executive engineer, Mahape, MIDC.The water supply to the Mahape MIDC limits was stopped due to the pipeline burst. On-duty traffic police rushed to the spot to manage the traffic on the stretch. “The traffic was not affected much. However, vehicles found it difficult to move due to the waterlogging,” said a traffic police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-incidents-of-pipeline-burst-reported-on-kalyan-shilphata-101633791455579.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||2 lanes of Kopri Rail Over Bridge opened for commuters by MMRDA, Thane civic body||On the day Hindustan Times highlighted the delay in the opening of two lanes of the Kopri Rail Over Bridge (ROB), the MMRDA and Thane Municipal Corporation opened the two additional lanes of the Kopri Bridge for commuters on Saturday evening.Cabinet Minister, Eknath Shinde, said, “This will gradually develop into an eight-lane flyover within a year. Currently, there are two lanes on either side of the bridge. Work for demolishing the old bridge and reconstructing it will be completed within a year. We have requested MMRDA and Central Railway to take the construction on war footing. This is a crucial flyover that connects JNPT to Thane.”The authorities claim that the girders for the reconstruction of the flyover are ready and work will begin soon.“This is a crucial flyover that can ease the traffic block within Thane city. Regular commuters in Thane have been waiting for a long time for this flyover to be widened and reopened,” said Mahesh Itvani, a 36-year-old resident of Thane who was among the firsts to use the flyover on the inaugural day.The Kopri Road Over Bridge is on the Eastern Express Highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-lanes-of-kopri-rail-over-bridge-opened-for-commuters-by-mmrda-thane-civic-body-101633790798377.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai police crime branch issues notice to Param Bir Singh in extortion case||The Mumbai Police crime branch on Saturday issued a notice to former police commissioner Param Bir Singh in connection with an extortion case registered against him on the basis of a complaint by a city hotelier and civic contractor. The notice has asked Singh to appear before the investigating officer concerned for the enquiry on October 12.A copy of the notice, issued by unit-11 of the crime branch, has also been pasted on the door of Singh's official residence at Nilima Building in Walkeshwar.A team of police officials has also gone to Chandigarh to serve the notice at his native place, said a crime branch officer.The case concerns a complaint lodged by private contractor Bimal Agarwal who had alleged that Singh along with dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin had threatened him and extorted (hafta) monthly payments from January 2020 till March 2021 for “letting him run his hotels in Goregaon and Andheri without any police hassles.” The case was originally registered by the Goregaon police but was later transferred to the Crime Branch.In order to meet their extortion demand, Agarwal claimed that he had paid a sum of 9 lakh in cash along with giving them two Samsung Fold-2 mobile phones worth ₹2,12,000 to the accused. The contractor had further alleged that the accused had extorted money from other hotel owners and bookies in Mumbai.Singh is a 1988-batch IPS officer and has been slapped with five FIRs in Mumbai and Thane. He is also facing two open inquiries by the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) with regards to allegations of corruption made against him by two serving police inspectors.Singh's mobile phone is switched off, prompting the investigating agencies to suspect that the senior cop might have fled abroad.On March 18, 2021, Maharashtra government shunted out Singh as Mumbai police commissioner following Ambani security scare and Hiran murder case and transferred him to home guards.(With inputs from bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-issues-notice-to-param-bir-singh-in-extortion-case-101633790361586.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Few takers for vaccination against Covid in Thane city||Vaccination centres within Thane city hardly had beneficiaries visiting on Saturday whereas ample doses were available. Vaccination centres in Tembhi Naka and Wagle Estate saw fewer beneficiaries owing to the ongoing festive season.“During Ganeshotsav, we had discontinued vaccination on select days. We have not done the same during Navratri. Also owing to the weekend and fasting rituals that many follow, a decrease in the number of beneficiaries would have been noted in centres. However, we are getting a good response overall. On Friday, we had vaccinated more than 13,000 beneficiaries across Thane city,” said a senior officer from TMC.On Saturday, TMC conducted vaccination in 19 centres including five on wheels or mobile units.Meanwhile, a vaccination centre in Kalyan had no staff to give away the token to citizens who thronged the centre on Saturday at around 7am. Around 40 citizens who arrived to get their jab at Saket College in Kalyan (E) had to wait for three to four hours for the staff to arrive and give away the tokens.“Usually, the tokens are given at around 8.30am and that is why I went to the centre at 7am. However, there was no one at the centre to give the tokens and when we asked the security guard, he was also clueless. After waiting for a long time, I got the token at around 10.30am and then they allowed us in for the dosage,” said Jagdish Rai, 36, who arrived at the centre to take his second dose.The KDMC was undertaking vaccination drives at its 29 centres on Saturday. “We will check if there was a delay caused due to negligence at the centre and take necessary steps. However, at around 10.30am the vaccination was initiated by the staff,” said an officer of the health department of KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/few-takers-for-vaccination-against-covid-in-thane-city-101633788998002.html
09-10-2021||Pune||Spoken Sanskrit certificate course soon at Savitribai Phule Pune University||In a welcome move, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will soon start a certificate course in the Sanskrit language, made available both online and offline, to help learn the language and increase communication in it. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) to that effect was signed between the SPPU and Shri Sadguru group on October 8. During inking of the agreement, professor Dr Nitin Karmalkar, vice chancellor, SPPU, said that anyone interested in the course can apply for it by visiting the SPPU website.“We also have full-time Sanskrit courses but not everyone can take up those while also working. Hence we are starting this certificate course. This will increase dialogue in the Sanskrit language,” Karmalkar said.Along with Karmalkar, pro-vice chancellor of SPPU Dr N S Umrani; director of innovation, incubation and linkages Dr Apoorva Palkar; head of Sanskrit and Prakrit department Devnath Tripathi; management council members Rajesh Pandey, Prasenjit Fadnavis, Dr Sanjay Chakane and Dr Ravindra Mule; founder-president of Shri Sadguru group Yashwant Kulkarni and group members Atul Bhagre, Bharat Jagtap and Ghate guruji were present on the occasion.Yashwant Kulkarni said, “Eight hundred ‘Gurujis’ are affiliated with our organisation. Almost all of them are interested in studying Sanskrit and speaking the language. It is not possible for them to study full-time so they are keen on learning Sanskrit through this certificate course.”Course informationName - Certificate course in spoken SanskritDuration - 30 hoursFormat - online / offlineStudent capacity - 50More information- www.unipune.ac.in||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/spoken-sanskrit-certificate-course-soon-at-savitribai-phule-pune-university-101633788754984.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Most active Covid cases in Navi Mumbai fall in 31-40 years age group||Of the 574 active Covid cases, those in the 31-40 years age group are affected the most with 107. Overall, 79 active cases are below 18 years and 495 are above 18 years. Fifty active cases are also among children below 14 years, out of which 26 children are below the 10 years while and 66 are between 11 years and 20 years. “These 26 positive children are from a total of 1.70 lakh children in Navi Mumbai. The children who are positive are all in home isolation and have been infected as someone from the family would have contracted the virus. There has been no mortality in this age group except for one that happened last year since the child had a genetic disorder as well,” medical health officer, Dr Pramod Patil, said.The second highest number of cases is in the age group between 21 years and 30 years with 95 active cases followed by 88 in the age group of 41-50 years. The active cases are seen reducing from the age of 51 years. From the age group of 51-60 years, 80 are active while 66 are active in 61-70 years, 31 in 71-80 years, 14 in 81-90 years and one in 91-110 years age groups. “The age group of 21-40 years is most vulnerable as people in this category have to go out for work. The only way to protect oneself from the virus is by wearing masks, getting vaccinated and following all the Covid norms. We have got a delay in the third wave and that is because of the preventive steps taken by the people themselves and they need to be continued,” Dr Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/most-active-covid-cases-in-navi-mumbai-fall-in-31-40-years-age-group-101633787558555.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||Obey launches cab services in Lucknow. Check details||Obey Cabs on Saturday announced the launch of its services in the state capital. The company in a statement said that it has 35,000 cabs service to people in around eight cities. By 2022, the company has set up a target to provide its services to the entire country. "The brand has already established its roots in the cities of Kolkata, Guwahati, Jorhat, Bulandshahr, Bilaspur, Korba, and Dhubri. Today we launched it in the City of Nawabs. Obey Cabs is also gearing up to launch its services in five cities of Gujarat in November, including Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Rajkot, Surat, and Vadodara," the company's founder Sanjay Kumar said. Kumar said that the company was founded with the vision to provide taxi drivers better financial and income opportunities while minimizing surcharges for customers. Obey Cabs has quickly gained its position as India's second-largest taxi aggregator company under the start-up India scheme, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/obey-launches-cab-services-in-lucknow-check-details-101633786916606.html
09-10-2021||Pune||Maharashtra bandh: Pune’s Market Yard to remain shut on October 11, essential services won’t be affected||To condemn the Lakhimpur Kheir violence, the traders associations have decided to keep Pune Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) closed on Monday (October 11) by participating in a Maharashtra bandh.The bandh has been called by Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) comprising of Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena, the three parties which are rival to BJP in the state as well as at Centre.The Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard traders’ association on Saturday announced that all the fruit, vegetable, onion, potato markets will remain closed on Monday. The traders’ union has also appealed all the members to keep their trade closed on Monday. They have appealed the farmers not to bring their agriculture produce in the market on Monday.Meanwhile, the three parties have clarified that the bandh will start at 12 am of October 11, but essential services will be affected by the strike.NCP leader Nawab Malik while speaking in Mumbai said that the workers of the three parties which are allies in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government will urge everyone to participate in the bandh. During the strike, essential services involving medical facilities, hospitals, milk and vegetable supply will not be affected.The Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that all the three parties in the Maha Vikas Aghadi will actively support the bandh. He also said other parties outside Maharashtra will also call for bandh in their respective regions. “I spoke with Rahul Gandhi and we discussed that other non-BJP parties should also undertake bandh in their respective states,” said Raut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-bandh-pune-s-market-yard-to-remain-shut-on-october-11-essential-services-won-t-be-affected-101633785574696.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||77% cancer patients hesitant to take Covid vaccine: Study||Nearly 77% of cancer patients are hesitant to take the Covid-19 vaccine due to fears about the side effects, vaccine interfering in chemotherapy and radiation therapy, lack of information and misinformation, a questionnaire-based study, carried out by a team of doctors from the Tata Memorial Hospital (TMH), has found. The medical team highlighted the need for robust communication strategies and systemic programs for the dissemination of information to fortify the Covid-19 vaccination. “Cancer patients are more vulnerable to Covid-19 because of their low immunity level and vaccinations are thus crucial for them,” said oncologist Dr Shripad Banavali, who is one of the co-authors of the study published in the Cancer Research, Statistics and Treatment journal. The survey was carried out between May 7, 2021, and June 10, 2021, in patients aged 45 years and above, with solid tumours. “The Covid-19 vaccination does not interfere with chemotherapy or radiation therapy. There are no additional side effects associated with the vaccine among cancer patients,” said Banavali. A total of 435 patients were included in the study. Of these, 348 or 80% of patients had not received even a single dose of the vaccine; 15.2% of patients had received the first dose and only 4.8% had received both doses. Vaccine hesitancy was seen in 259 or nearly 77% of the surveyed patients. Among the most common reasons for hesitancy were fear of side effects and impact on cancer therapy (38%) and lack of information (26.7%). The study noted that the lower educational level and lack of prior advice regarding the Covid-19 vaccines played a significant role in the hesitancy. The survey data was analysed end of June. Since then the vaccination numbers in the country have picked up with over 94 crore doses administered to date. “But many patients who are coming to our OPD’s (outpatient department) are still unvaccinated,” said Banavali. “We sensitise them and bust their myths about the vaccines,” he said adding that the hospital also receives many calls from patients outside Mumbai asking if the Covid vaccines are safe for them. A comment piece written by TMH doctors published on Friday also deliberated on India’s vaccine hesitancy and the many factors contributing to it. “The development of the Covid-19 immunisation programmes is hampered by vaccine hesitancy,” said head and neck surgeon Dr Pankaj Chaturvedi who authored the piece along with Dr Mihir Dani and Dr Arjun Singh. The piece noted that vaccine hesitancy is a complex problem and should be tackled at the policy level, interpersonal level and organisation level. For instance, interpersonal communication training should be provided to auxiliary nurse midwives, anganwadi workers, Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha), traditional healers, local doctors, and other mobilisers, the piece noted.Cancer and Covid-19 vaccination-Covid-19 vaccines can be taken by cancer patients who are on active chemotherapy or radiation therapy -Covid-19 vaccine does not hamper cancer therapy or cause any additional side effects-Cancer patients fall under the vulnerable category and Covid-19 vaccination is thus crucial for them||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/77-cancer-patients-hesitant-to-take-covid-vaccine-study-101633785154570.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||19-year-old gets 15-year jail term for sexually assaulting minor||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court on Friday sentenced a 19-year-old to 15 years rigorous imprisonment for allegedly sexually assaulting a 12-year-old-girl. Judge Priti Kumar Ghule convicted the accused under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 376 (rape) of Indian Penal Code and under sections 4 (Penetrative Sexual Assault), 8 (sexual assault) and 10 (aggravated sexual assault) of Pocso Act, 2012.Reacting to the plea of the accused for leniency, the judge observed, “The court has to strike balance between reformative theory and principle of proportionality. Sentencing for any offence has social goals, the accused must realise the crime has created a dent in his life and also concavity in the social fabric. Punishment should serve as a deterrent.”“The accused has chosen a minor to satisfy his lust. The accused did not protect the child but abused her and her childhood. The children are the future of the country. The offence will leave a scar on the mind and body of the survivor. It will be difficult for her to concentrate on her studies and make a good future. Hence, minimum punishment is not appropriate in the matter,” said the court.Special public prosecutor VD More had argued that the case date backs to 2019, the victim has two brothers, her father works as a carpenter and her mother had gone to their native place when the accused, a neighbour allegedly assaulted her.The accused, on several occasions called the survivor to his house under different pretexts and misbehaved with her. One day he dragged her to his house and misbehaved with her, she managed to rescue herself and called for help. Her father and the public gathered and even beat the accused.More argued that the offence of sexual assault was proved beyond reasonable doubt and sole testimony of the survivor was sufficient to convict the accused. There was sufficient content and trustworthy evidence for a conviction.Advocate Roshni Singh, who appeared for the accused argued that the entire complaint is based on false and fabricated statements of the survivor’s father and the victim. Though there are several witnesses, only interested witness survivor’s family members are examined by the prosecution. The survivor’s statement lacks adequate corroboration and cannot be relied upon and benefit of doubt should be in favour of accused.”The court observed, “It is pertinent to note that the offences of rape are in the four walls and the survivor is the best witness.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/19yearold-gets-15-year-jail-term-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-101633785034547.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||'Only one day's coal stock left': Delhi minister warns of power crisis||The national Capital has only one day of stock left at the thermal power station, from where Delhi gets its electricity, power minister Satyendra Jain said on Saturday amid the coal crisis in the city. "There is an acute shortage of coal in coal-fired power plants across the country. There is only one day's stock left in the plants from which Delhi gets electricity, there is no coal at all," said the power minister, according to an ANI report.He also noted that the city is dependent on the Centre-run power plants, which provide power supply according to the demand and warned that the city might plunge into darkness after two days. "After two days, there will be a complete blackout in the whole Delhi, if we do not receive more power supply from the Centre," ANI quoted him as saying.Delhi is staring at a severe power crisis due to the acute coal shortage at thermal power plants in the country. In India, over half of 135 coal-fired power plants, which supply around 70% of the country's electricity, have fuel stocks to last less than three days, news agency Reuters had reported Friday. Other states that are facing a similar crisis include Tamil Nadu and Odisha.The minister further informed that the city's power plants are running on only 55 per cent capacity and it has now "come to the point of rationing". "There is a coal shortage even when production plants are not running at full capacity. Appeal to Centre look into the matter. We have a power purchase agreement where they are giving us half of the electricity. We have come to the point of rationing," Jain also said, as per ANI.In order to resolve the power crisis in Delhi, the government is ready to buy expensive electricity at present, Jain said. He also held a meeting with the representatives of power distribution companies (discoms) in Delhi to discuss the issue."We want the plants to generate 45,000 MW of electricity during this peak hour," he said, adding, "we have also made power purchase agreements with NTPC of 35,000 MW-45,000 MW. Still, we are ready to buy the expensive electricity today at the cost of ₹20 per unit."Speaking further on the crisis, Jain warned that there could be politics on the issue, as it "appears to be a man-made crisis similar to the oxygen crisis". "We have 3.5 times more production capacity than what we require and still, we aren't able to produce power," Jain added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-one-day-s-coal-stock-left-delhi-s-power-minister-warns-of-power-crisis-101633783542323.html
09-10-2021||Pune||CID arrests absconding advocate Rajabhau Suryavanshi||The State Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has arrested accused advocate Sagar Maruti alias Rajabhau Suryavanshi in connection with 11 serious offences lodged against him recently.The district court had declared him an absconder and the CID had formed different teams to nab Suryavanshi. He was picked up at 10 pm on Friday from Renuka Mata Mandir area.According to the police, there are criminal cases lodged against him at Pimpri, Bhosari, Shivajinagar and Navghar police stations.Most of the criminal cases are serious in nature and related to land scams and other offences. The high court had even questioned the state CID as to why was Suryavanshi absconding for three years and not arrested. CID chief Riteish Kumar and IG Makarand Ranade had issued orders for the arrest of Suryavanshi. CID superintendent Shrikant Dhivare and his team laid a trap based on confidential information and nabbed him from near Renuka Mata Mandir area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cid-arrests-absconding-advocate-rajabhau-suryavanshi-101633783594376.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Bhiwandi lacks infrastructure to accommodate lakhs of vehicles on daily basis||With more than 35,000 heavy vehicles and more than a lakh of other vehicles commuting through Bhiwandi daily, the road and transport infrastructure in the city is insufficient to take this load. The result is pothole-riddled, accident prone roads and hours of traffic jams.There are around two lakh godowns and many power loom factories in Bhiwandi. These warehouses are functional for neighbouring cities of Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. Many vehicles head from JNPT towards Ahmedabad or other parts of Gujarat as well.Apart from the arterial roads and the Mumbai-Nashik Highway that passes through Bhiwandi city, the route between Mankoli to Anjurphata and Thane to Kasheli are the most affected roads. Moreover, the ongoing Metro work on the Thane-Kasheli route is such that diversions are also not possible and often heavy vehicles get stuck on this stretch causing traffic jams.Experts claim that the city requires better infrastructure in terms of roads and transport facilities as it is one of the major links to Northern Maharashtra and metro cities.Pankaj Joshi, principal director, Urban Center, Mumbai, said, “In the last decade, Mumbai Metropolitan Region has developed into an industries and logistics hub. It is creating its own job opportunities and Bhiwandi is one among them. Along with infrastructure development, there is an urgent need to improve the connectivity within Bhiwandi. Keeping in mind its rise, there is a requirement for public transport facilities. A hop-on-hop-off bus service connecting the industrial areas with the neighbouring cities will ease private vehicles on the road.”The traffic department has implemented various measures like strictly not allowing heavy vehicles or vehicles from outside the city to enter inside during the day or during peak hours and are focussing on traffic regulation.Currently, the traffic police are halting heavy vehicles outside Vasai Naka or near Gaimukh and restricting entry into the city precincts. Balasaheb Patil, DCP (Traffic), said, “We are currently managing the situation by stopping entry to outside vehicles and heavy vehicles during peak hours. Moreover, we have asked all officers to focus on traffic regulation and avoid taking action against vehicles during the peak hours. We have a lot of manpower involved in stopping heavy vehicles’ entry into the city. This has helped manage the traffic situation considerably. We have also coordinated with local authorities and soon after rains subside, the roads will be repaired.”Darshan Thakker, a 49-year-old resident of Thane, said, “I am a businessman and have to visit the power looms quite often for work. Since the last few years, the potholes and bad roads have become a common phenomenon during monsoons in Bhiwandi. The traders and residents have often written and complained to the local authorities but all have fallen on deaf ears. It is a struggle to spend six hours almost on a regular basis only for commuting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhiwandi-lacks-infrastructure-to-accommodate-lakhs-of-vehicles-on-daily-basis-101633780655730.html
09-10-2021||Pune||Colleges to reopen in Pune from October 12||As Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has called for Maharashtra bandh (on October 11) to protest against violence at Lakhimpur Kheri, the colleges and coaching classes in Pune will reopen on Tuesday (October 12) instead of Monday.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar issued a fresh circular on Saturday and announced that instead of Monday, colleges will reopen on Tuesday. The PMC commissioner did not give any specific reason for the change, but the administration confirmed that the changes are made by considering the bandh called by Maha Vikas Aghadi and many other organisations.To avoid any untoward incident, the administration has decided to reopen colleges from Tuesday.After the weekly Covid review held in the city on Friday, Pawar had announced that colleges and universities in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural parts can reopen from Monday.Only fully vaccinated students would be allowed to attend offline classes. Also, a negative RT-PCR test is mandatory for all students from other districts.Meanwhile, the civic body has also planned to vaccinate students at the college campus to avoid inconvenience.Shivajinagar legislator Siddharth Shirole tweeted, “College Students in #Pune will be Vaccinated at the colleges itself. The PMC will soon be launching a special on-site #vaccinations drive for eligible students (18+ years) who have still not been vaccinated.” (sic)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/colleges-to-reopen-in-pune-from-october-12-101633780115455.html
09-10-2021||Other||Cheer in Goa tourism industry as plea to allow foreign tourists granted||The tourism industry in Goa has welcomed the decision to lift the ban on tourist visas thanking the Union government for heeding their demand for an early relaxation to coincide with Goa’s upcoming tourism seasons.With the timely relaxation, the first charter flights with tourists will arrive by mid-November providing relief to Goa’s tourism-related businesses, stakeholders from the state tourism industry said.“It was largely due to our requests that the Central government decided to allow foreigners to arrive in Goa. Goa makes up 92% of the charter flight arrivals in the country and the announcement ahead of the season will allow us to plan in advance and allow charter companies to book slots at the Goa airport,” president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), a body which represents businessmen from the tourism industry, Nilesh Shah said.Repeated requests, letters and meetings between the industry, the state government and the Union government helped speed up the process and ensure that the announcement was made to coincide with the start of Goa’s tourism. Besides repeated letters, Goa’s tourism secretary J Ashok Kumar held a meeting with officials of the central government - the most recent meeting being earlier this week - in which the modalities of allowing charter planes to land as early as October 15 were worked out.The TTAG has been consistently seeking the restart of foreign tourist arrivals which they say is the bread and butter of small and medium hotels, most of whom are yet to reopen ever since March 2020 when the lockdown was introduced.Unsurprisingly, the decision was greeted with cheer in Goa’s tourism industry.“The decision will benefit every tourism stakeholder - from the charter operator to small and medium hotel owner and everyone in between. We are grateful for this,” the TTAG’s Shah said.Being a tourist-centric state, Goa’s tourism industry sought special dispensation going so far as to request that even if regular international flights were not going to be resumed, tourists should be brought in via chartered planes through reciprocal bubble agreements with countries that were already accepting tourists from India.“As Goa is one of the leading states for tourism, we propose charter flights be allowed to land in Goa especially from safe destinations that have allowed Indians to travel to their countries on a tourist visa. International flights are already operating in between two countries like Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan. So we should reciprocate the same way. As tourists arriving in Goa don’t travel to any other state and majority of them spend their time at their respective hotels so it becomes easy to control and monitor them,” the TTAG said in a representation to the Union Home Ministry in September this year.According to the association, tourism is one of the most adversely affected sectors for the Covid-19 pandemic. The tourism sector employs over 40 million skilled and trained manpower and generates approximately US $29 billion foreign exchange per annum.“With the full closure of international flights and visas since March 2020, many operators and stakeholders have shut shop and are facing severe financial constraints,” the TTAG had said.In 2020 too, the TTAG sought the reopening of the sector in a limited way; no sooner did cases begin to plateau towards the end of October. While tourists from within India flocked to Goa in hundreds, foreign tourists were conspicuous by their absence.In 2020 too, the TTAG sought the reopening of the sector in a limited way when cases began to plateau towards the end of October. While tourists from within India flocked to Goa in hundreds, foreign tourists were conspicuous by their absence.Goa’s tourism season usually begins with the receding monsoon and as winter sets in across the northern hemisphere, those seeking to escape the often biting cold climate choose to spend time in warmer parts of the world and Goa is among the preferred destinations for those seeking to travel.For many who had made a winter visit to Goa an annual affair, not being able to travel to Goa and having to spend Christmas back in the UK was something they “never experienced before.”The UK, Germany, Poland, Russia and Ukraine are the primary sources of foreign tourists to Goa. Visas weren’t relaxed last year as much of Europe was battling an especially severe second wave at the time.The Prime Minister first dropped hints that the Union government was willing to relax its suspension of tourist visas during an interaction with health workers from Goa after the state became the second one after Uttarakhand to complete vaccinating its targeted population with at least one dose of the vaccine.“India’s vaccination drive is not (only) a cover for health, but a cover for livelihood too. It is important that tourism destinations open as soon as possible (like) the Char Dham yatra in Uttarakhand. Goa’s 100 percent vaccination has become important to revive the tourism sector,” Modi said. “You imagine, hotel industry people, taxi drivers, hawkers, shopkeepers... Once everyone is vaccinated, tourists can come to Goa with peace of mind. Politics aside, Goa is a part of a select group of tourist destinations where people are vaccinated,” he said.“Tourism can resume in the coming tourism season just like before. Domestic and international tourists can take pleasure in coming here. This will be possible when we give as much importance to corona precautions as much as we have given to vaccinations. It is our duty,” he said, adding that he was apprised of Goa Tourism’s requests to allow foreigners to set foot in the sunny state once more and that a decision was in the offing.“The Central government is taking steps to welcome foreign tourists back. The government has decided to give the first 5-lakh tourists free visas,” he added.The industry in Goa is hopeful that demand will remain high after a gap of one and a half years. “Our charter partners have reported that inquiries have already begun and we can expect a strong start to the season.“Foreign tourists travel in larger groups and stay for a longer time, often the average duration of stay is between 21-28 days. To compensate for the loss of a single foreign booking, a hotel will have to secure four to five different bookings of domestic tourists to maintain the same level of occupancy,” Nilesh Shah, the president of the TTAG, told HT.A domestic tourist on average stays on average between 3-7 days.Prior to the pandemic, the state witnessed close to 90-lakh tourists including around 9 lakh foreigners.Goa Tourism Development Corporation had conducted a state-wide survey through a consultant to understand the impact of Covid-19 on Goa’s tourism industry. As per the survey, the overall loss of earnings in the tourism industry during the lockdown has been estimated at ₹2,062 crores. Potential loss of earning for the 2020-21 season has been pegged at ₹7,239 crores and the potential job cuts were to the tune of 1.22 lakh (58%).Goa’s tourism sector is a big source of revenue for the state with the industry directly contributing 16.43% towards the state Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and also provides employment to nearly 35% of the state’s population that is dependent on the sector, according to official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cheer-in-goa-tourism-industry-as-plea-to-allow-foreign-tourists-granted-101633779816046.html
09-10-2021||Pune||FIR against builder Avinash Bhosale, Vinod Goenka, Vikas Oberoi and 11 others for forgery||The Vishrantwadi Police have lodged an FIR against prominent builder Avinash Bhosale, Vinod Goenka, Vikas Oberoi, Sangam City Township’s Siddharth Mayur and 11 others on charges of forgery. According to the police complaint, the accused allegedly misled the registrar by forging bogus entries in a sale deed, by mentioning incorrect boundaries and wrong CTS numbers. Joint sub-registrar LM Sangavar (41), had given a detailed complaint after which the case lodged against Bhosale, a resident of Baner road, Vinod Goenka, Vikas Oberoi, both residents of Mumbai, Sapna Jain, Kalpana Raisoni, Suman Nikam, Nitin Nikam, Rupali Nikam, Nilesh Nikam, Devaki Nikam, Neelam Suryavanshi, Akshay Suryavanshi, Vitthal Pawar and Jyoti Pawar. According to the investigators, Sangavar is posted at the joint sub-registrar Office Haveli No. 8 in Dhanori since 2019. Landowner Chetan Nikam had lodged four complaints with his office in 2015, 2016 and 2019 about seven documents registered at this office. According to the FIR, while registering the sale deed of the land at Sangamwadi, false entries were allegedly made on the land belonging to Nikam. His land was not mentioned in the document. Instead, it appeared to belong to the person who was selling it. Moreover, alleged bogus entries were made regarding the original owner Ardesar Sethn and Dadabhai Sethna by mentioning false CTS numbers in some sale deeds. An inquiry conducted by the Joint District Registrar and Stamp Duty Collector led to a violation of rules regarding the registration of documents. It was inaccurately mentioned that the complainant’s land allegedly belonged to Kalpana Raisoni. Index 2 of a sale deed also had wrong entries, the complaint stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fir-against-builder-avinash-bhosale-vinod-goenka-vikas-oberoi-and-11-others-for-forgery-101633777593878.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Kirti Vyas murder: Court refuses bail to accused||The sessions court on Friday rejected the bail plea of Siddhesh Tamhankar, a former Bblunt salon chain employee, booked along with his colleague for allegedly murdering Kirti Vyas, finance manager of the firm, in 2018.Tamhankar, 42, who had applied for bail on the grounds of parity, approached the court after the apex court granted bail to his co-accused, Khushi Sahjwani, in July. However, the trial court rejected his plea, saying the offence is very serious and there is strong technical evidence in the case. The trial court said the apex court granted bail to Khushi as she is woman, and that Tamhankar is not entitled to parity nor there is any change in circumstance.Advocate Sandeep Karnik had argued for Tamhankar that the 42-year-old is behind bars since May 5, 2018. The case of the prosecution is on a DNA sample collected from Sahjwani’s car, that too after two months. He said undue weightage is given by the prosecution to CCTV footage, in which the victim is seen near the car.He had pointed out that there is no witness to the killing, there is no evidence that the car had stopped at any point, it is impossible to believe prosecution theory of murder that Vyas was killed in a moving car and the body was shifted to the boot of the car. The alleged extra-judicial confession of co-accused Sahjwani is not reliable, the body of the victim is not found, hence in the absence of recovery of corpus-delicti, case of murder cannot be inferred. The co-accused is released on bail charges against both are same, hence Tamhankar is also entitled for bail on the grounds of parity.”Special public prosecutor AK Chimalkar had argued for the state that co-accused was granted bail by the apex court as she is a woman undertrial prisoner and looking into her family conditions. We are ready to begin trial, but accused is consuming time by filing bail applications.”Additional sessions judge, MG Deshpande, rejected the bail application, observing that “there is strong technical evidence in the case, we are ready to expedite the trial the accused are delaying it, the apex court granted bail to Sahjwani as she is a woman, Tamhankar is not entitled to parity nor there is any change in circumstances.Though there are 110 witnesses and a 936-page charge-sheet, the prosecution won’t examine all of them during trial. The Bombay high court (HC), while rejecting Tamhankar’s bail application, has earlier already observed that in a trial for murder it is not an absolute necessity or essential ingredient to establish Corpus-Delicti.The day when Sahjwani went missing she was seen in the car with the accused. There are several calls between Khushi and Tamhankar before and after murder.While arresting the two, the police had alleged they killed Vyas who worked with BBlunt Salon as a finance manager along with the two. The police had claimed that Tamhankar and Sahjwani had eliminated Vyas as she had served notice to Tamhankar to terminate him for his bad performance.The murder took place on March 16, 2018.In June 2021, a sessions court had rejected bail plea of both sent from prisons, citing the high power committee recommendations for the release of prisoners on temporary bail to decongest prisons during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kirti-vyas-murder-court-refuses-bail-to-accused-101633777533915.html
09-10-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||Healthcare startup iCardin raises $100K fundingPune-based brain stroke and neurology healthcare company iCardin (Nuclius Health) has raised $100,000 in its first round of funding. The current fundraising campaign aims to create a network of fully – equipped neurology care units across Pune and Mumbai.iCardin is currently operating its brain stroke and neuro-care units in Pune with Lokamanya Hospital Nigdi and Senapati Bapat road; and Oyster and Pearl Hospitals (ONP), Shivajinagar. The startup has raised funding from Jitendra Patel, a UK-based businessman, who operates a drugstore business in Liverpool, United Kingdom. Sameer More, CEO & Founder, iCardin, said, “Neurological disorder is a growing problem in India with stroke, headache and epilepsy contributing to about 70 per cent of neurological cases in India today. Due to lack of awareness and well-equipped neuro facilities, more than 90 per cent of people don’t get timely and appropriate treatment. Early treatment of neuro symptoms can reduce morbidity and mortality. To alleviate these problems, we at iCardin are building a network of stroke-ready centres along with creating the right awareness and encourage patients to seek help on time.”SoftZeal conducts NAPS awareness driveSoftZeal Technology conducted an awareness programme about National Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme (NAPS) for entrepreneurs and businesspersons at MIDC Bhosari. The programme was organised in association with All India Rubber Association and Rubber Sector Skill Council.Daulat Bafna, managing director, SoftZeal Technology said, “NAPS is proving to be beneficial in bringing freshers into employment stream. This will provide financial support to industries and businesses. About 10,000 youth will get employment through the NAPS programme.”Sadashiv Kale, president, Pune Chapter, All India Rubber Industries Association, said, “As per the Apprenticeship Act 1961, unemployed people are trained for about a year to develop professionals and on-the-job skills in various companies. Students can undergo such training and gain hands-on experience. Government of India and companies also provide monthly allowance.” Suchita Roy, Western regional manager, Rubber, Chemical and Petrochemical Skills Development Council), Vikram Makar, president; Rohit Bansal, vice-president; Prashant Wani, Western region president; Vinod Patkotwar, managing committee, All India Rubber Industries Association were also present.EzySpit launches eco-friendly spitoon productsEzySpit has launched eco-friendly spittoon products in Pune, Mumbai and Nagpur to curb the growing problem of spitting in public places. EzySpit is a product which will allow its users the freedom to spit anywhere without the fear of spreading germs. The product has been designed and created by Ritu Malhotra, Prateek Harde and Pratik Kumar Malhotra. The spittoon products are pocket pouches (reusable 10 to 15 times), mobile containers (reusable up to 40 times) and spit bins (reusable 5,000 times). The EzySpit spittoon features macromolecule pulp technology and is equipped with a material that locks in bacteria and viruses present in saliva.Ritu Malhotra, co-founder EzySpit said, “We are sure that this innovation will break the notion of spitting in public places. The campaign aims to prevent open spitting among individuals as well as to spread awareness about the use of these reusable spittoons. We have been studying this product since 2015. The entire manufacturing team is being handled by a team of 24 women.”Quick Heal appoints Richard Stiennon to its boardQuick Heal Technologies has appointed global industry veteran Richard Stiennon to its board. Currently, Richard is chief research analyst at IT-Harvest, the firm that he founded in 2005 and sits on the advisory board of several startups. Dr Kailash Katkar, MD and CEO, Quick Heal Technologies, said, “Richard’s expertise and extensive experience in cybersecurity will help Quick Heal to continue to grow and bring out innovative products in the enterprise security space. His guidance will also be helpful in Quick Heal’s journey in global markets. This is an exciting time for us as we expand our footprint in the enterprise segment with brand “Seqrite”.”Richard Stiennon said, “Quick Heal is well positioned to grow into the enterprise space and offer innovative solutions that can quickly and easily help organisations protect against the ever-rising tide of cyber-attacks. I have advised executive teams on their cybersecurity strategy for 25 years. I look forward to working with the board on guiding Quick Heal.”Wint Wealth crosses ₹100 crore AuM within 18 monthsAlternate debt asset platform Wint Wealth has crossed the ₹100 crore mark for assets under management (AuM) within 18 months of the platform’s launch. Wint Wealth works towards democratising assets that were previously only available to HNIs and makes it available to retail investors at low ticket sizes. Wint Wealth has launched Wint Gold, Wint Wheels and Wint Bricks. The debt asset platform has seen interest from over 43,000 retail investors so far. Ajinkya Kulkarni, co-founder, Wint Wealth said, “We are elated to cross the ₹100 crore AuM milestone; more so because a closed group study at the launch of our services had indicated that the product will be too complex for retail investors. Wint Wealth’s core values of transparency and educating investors on the actual financial scenario have helped them bridge the gap.”Registration opens for second edition of HCL JigsawRegistration is now open for the second edition of HCL Jigsaw, a critical reasoning platform. HCL Jigsaw echoes a focus on critical thinking as outlined in the new education policy. It assesses school students in Classes 6 to 9 on key skills including research, critical thinking and communication, and helps them to apply these to solve real-world challenges.Interested students or schools can register themselves for the competition at www.hcljigsaw.com, by November 26, 2021. The competition will take place virtually in three rounds. The qualifiers’ round will take place from December 3 to December 8 . Semifinals will be held on December 18 and the finale on December 19. Winners of HCL Jigsaw 2.0 will earn gift prizes and gadgets worth upto Rs1 lakh each, along with learning opportunities at HCL Engineering and Innovation labs.Sustainable food chain goes ‘live’Holistic lifestyle coach Luke Coutinho unveiled an e-commerce platform, YouCareLifestyle.com, that claims to be a sustainable food chain from farmers and vendors who follow ethical practices. Coutinho has envisaged YouCareLifestyle.com as a destination for all locally sourced products which are chemical-free, organic and generate zero waste by following ethical food practices. Coutinho is co-founder YouCare Lifestyle along with Narendra Firodia, social entrepreneur, and CFO, Gautam Kapadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101633776993736.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Ramlila 2021: Catch the action BTS||Restrictions are aplenty yet actors in various Ramlilas in Delhi-NCR have not let the challenges of performing in Covid times get to them! Ramlilas, in Delhi, have got the permission to be conducted in a smaller format with a maximum of 200 people in closed auditoriums and a variable capacity of audiences in outdoor venues; while maintaining adequate social distancing. But it’s not just during the performance that the Ramlila actors are following precautions. During the rehearsals as well they avoided flouting Covid norms even if that meant rehearsing virtually on phone. And as these artistes proceeded to their respective performance venues, they are ensuring that everyone participating in performances are getting their temperature checked and sanitising regularly, to keep Covid-19 at bay. Vaccination status significant for selection!“Humein bahut strictly bola gaya hai ki bas jin artistes ka act hai, wohi honge stage ke aas paas. Iske illawa koi bhi allowed nai hai,” says Himpy Jain, a dance teacher from Rohini, who has been portraying Hanuman in the Ramlila organised by Shri Ramlila Committee Indraprastha at Ipex Bhawan, for the last three years. Jain adds that before allowing anyone as part of the cast, their vaccination status was checked. “Koi bhi artist select nai hua tha jab tak unhone apna vaccination ka certificate submit nai kiya. Abhi bhi jab hum venue mein enter kar rahe hain, tab humara temperature check kiya ja raha hai aur sanitiser bhi diya jata hai. Main Hanuman ka role pichle teen saal se kar raha hun, par iss saal alag tareeke se performance ho rahi hai. Iss saal hum episodes mein dikha rahe hain puri Ramlila,” he shares.For actors of Ramlilas in NCR, too, there was a great stress to get at least one dose of vaccination. Take for instance Shri Durga Ramlila in Gurugram’s Jacobpura, where preparations began months ago, and as the on stage acts kick off, what’s mandatory are masks and social distancing protocols. Gagandeep Saini, the actor who plays the role of Kaushalya in this Ramlila, shares, “Mujhse pehle mere papa bhi kiya karte the Kaushalya ka role. I’ve been performing for 17 years in this Ramlila. Hum chhote the toh papa ke saath aate the; tab 7-8 saal ke the. Director sir ne dekha ki acting kar sakta hun aur papa ke baad ab mai play kar raha hun. Ye toh Ram ji ki sewa hai. Agar aapki lagan hai toh jo role aap chaho zarur milega. Acting ka shauk toh hai shuru se par iss saal kaafi mushkil tha Covid time me practice karna. Humari sanstha ne bahut facilities provide karayi.”‘Watched TV show to learn the nuances’Karan Bakshi, 23, who works in a BPO in Gurugram, says Ramlila is an “inseparable” part of his life! His father used to carry him as a child to watch the epic on the stage, and Bakshi, who has been part of Ramlila for over 12 years now, says, “I’ve always dreamt to play the character of Ram. Bada mann karta tha mai bhi aisa banoo. Mujhe bhi koi tayyar kare. Ram ka kirdar karke mujhe yeh pata chala ki kaise apne mata-pita ki sewa karni chahiye. Kaise humein unki har agya ka palan karna chahiye. I used to watch the TV show Siya Ke Ram to learn the nuances of playing Ram. Humare niyam bhi hote hain. Jab se maine Ram, Bharat aur Shatrughan ki bhoomika nibhani shuru ki, pyaz khaana band kar diya. Humari ek aur maryada aur hoti hai; hum zameen pe sote hain. Rehearsals mein humne raat ke dedh do baje tak practise kari. Mask mein hi practise karte the aur sanitise karte the ache se.”‘Theatre se pyar karte hain isliye karte hai’Govind Maurya, 37, whose role as Sita has won him several accolades, is portraying the character of Kaikeyi this year. He says, “Mask laga ke practise kari iss bar. Thodi der ke liye utar bhi dete the kyunki bolna bahut mushkil hain aise. Kaikeyi ka role Sita se bhi mushkil hai. Kayi log kehte hain that we get paid and that’s why we perform in Ramlila. Par sach ye hai ki theatre se pyar karte hain, isliye har saal rak dekhte hain rehearsal aur performance karne ki! Mera shauk tha bachpan sa. Iss saal socha chod dun, pandemic mein kaafi mushkile ayi par phir socha jab tak sans chalegi tab tak Ramlila karenge!”And a similar vigour is showcased by 13-year-old Lucky Sood, who plays Surya Dev in the same Ramlila in Gurugram. “My favourite role is Shatrughan par main iss baar woh ban nahi paya... Hum badon ko dekh dekh ke seekhte hain. Mere friends kehte hain woh bhi kuchh banna chahte hain, mere jaisa role karna hai. Bahut khush hote hain mujhe stage par dekh ke. Surya Dev ke role mein mushkil kuch nahi bas ghabrahat hoti hai stage pe jaane ki. Rehearsal mai ek baje tak karta tha kyunki phir school bhi jaana hota tha.”Rehearsals have happened over calls: Samikssha BatnagarWell, we are still not out of the pandemic and while the Ramlila is being showcased, the actors barely met to rehearse together. “Most, if not all, of our rehearsals happened over phone calls! We got the script a month back and were preparing at our individual homes. So we were aware of our lines. They (organisers) gave us prior notice about when the show would take place and we came accordingly,” says Samikssha Batnagar, who enacts Sita in Ramlila by Lav Kush Ramlila Committee’s at Red Fort grounds. She adds, “The in-person rehearsal happened only on the October 5, a day prior to when we began. We are all experienced and we only needed to understand the positioning on stage.”Ghar mein sabko bol diya ki online dekhna mujhe: Satish Kumar The fear of a third wave still looms large, and actor Satish Kumar, who plays Ravana in the Ramlila by Shri Ramlila Committee Indraprastha at Ipex Bhawan, says he has asked his family to watch him virtually. “Hum zyada bheedh mein vaise hi nai jaate. Maine bola hai sabko ghar par bhi ki online dekh lena,” says Satish, who is a dance teacher at a school in Gurugram.Kumar, who has a two-year-old son, adds, “I’ve been playing Ravana since a decade. But this time hum costumes bilkul bhi share nai kar rahe; jaise pehle karte the. This time we will wear the costumes and then sanitise them before wearing them the next day. We have also ensured that all participants are vaccinated. Jinki vaccine nahi lagi thi, unko time diya lagwane ka... Meri family bahut concerned thi ki main bahar jaa raha hoon, Ramlila ke liye. Woh bolte rahe mujhe ki bach ke rehna. Jab mai ghar jaake pehle nahata hun aur phir apne baby ko milta hun!” It’s a bio bubble we have maintained: Gagan MalikWhile off the stage one can be fully masked and sanitised, it’s not always possible when on the stage. “At times even maintaining social distance is a challenge,” says actor Gagan Malik, who portrays Ram in Lav Kush Ramlila Committee’s Ramlila at Red Fort grounds, and adds: “Only those actors who are fully vaccinated have been selected here. Sanitisers are provided, and everyone has their masks on very strictly. And there’s a team of doctors as well to check if anyone gets any symptoms. Our oxygen level and temperatures are checked regularly. The whole stage as well as dressing room is sanitised... Stage pe you can’t wear a mask and many scenes mein gale lagna padta hai story ke according. Woh toh karna hi padhega, and that we can’t let go. But since every one is fully vaccinated, it’s a sort of bio bubble that we have maintained.”Author tweets @anjuri and @NainaArora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ramlila-2021-catch-the-action-bts-101633776801729.html
09-10-2021||Pune||Pune Startup Mantra: This personal Gyde makes your company’s software easy to use||A less-talked about change in work behaviour during the “work-from-home” phase of our existence, is that of, “call IT”, while using or installing an application or software. You can still call IT but the process is now a business opportunity with AI (artificial intelligence) and ML (machine learning) now primed to solve your issues.Cure the “paper-clip feature in Office applications, which provides, based on most user feedback, the kind of help that is needed. Identifying this need for handholding end-users, Gyde – a Pune-based startup – has created a software assistance platform and is on a mission to democratise software guidance and reduce the go-to-market time for companies. Founded by Prasanna Vaidya and Shubham Deshmukh in January 2018, Gyde uses a set of AI-based tools for educating software application users to drive actions for better on-boarding, adoption, engagement and customer success. In the beginning… After completing his BE Mechanical from Mumbai University in 2006, Vaidya changed course and started working in software development. After a short stint in USA, he returned to India with good exposure to artificial Intelligence (AI) and natural language processing (NLP) and machine learning (ML). His co-founder Deshmukh, is a computer engineering graduate from Pune and worked on a team led by Vaidya in the USA. The duo shared ideas and brainstormed about creating a B2C application which would be used by millions. After a lot of pivots, pilots and failed attempts, since 2015, Vaidya and Deshmukh finally realised that they both were from an engineering background and did not have the marketing nous for a B2C product. Says Deshmukh, “We had created a platform for creating chatbots at a hackathon, which we eventually won. We started pitching this platform to customers from the fintech segment and travelled to Mumbai. Slowly, we understood and learnt the B2B sales process. We realised that this is something we can pursue. Then we pivoted into Gyde. I handle product development and customer onboarding, while Vaidya handles sales.”What is Gyde?Explaining the concept of Gyde, Vaidya says, “In any big enterprise, a single person uses around 50 applications. During lockdown and work-from-home, our colleagues were not around to seek help. The learning curve is so steep that if we don’t understand a certain step in 15 minutes, we will raise ticket, or email someone and finally end up reducing the use of that application. That’s why adoption decreases. Gyde helps users to use such applications by providing step-wise help. That’s why we call it as a software assistance platform.”“During and post-Covid, the pace of buying, replacing and deploying applications like CRM, HRMS, Content Management Systems in businesses has also increased. Enterprises invest a lot of money in new applications, replace old with new ones and they always want more and more people to use those applications to get a good return on investment,” he adds.Identifying the spaceRecalling the pivot moment, Deshmukh said, “We also wanted to do something niche in chatbots, something different than a marketing or support chatbot. Some customers of our chatbot platform were application owners. We noticed that most of questions asked to the bot were about how to use the application… the questions were ‘how-to’… That’s when we realised that there are many such applications and the opportunity is huge. After eight months of a pilot, we got Bajaj Allianz as our first customer.” Do big companies not offer their help or support services? “The problem is that most applications are customised for the user (company). They have a basic documentation about features, but the documentation for the process implemented by the company has to be made by the company itself. One can approach the forums or help pages and ask questions, but there’s no guarantee of getting an answer within time,” Deshmukh claims.Digital adoption Enterprises conduct classroom trainings, prepare user manuals and share it with their employees or end-users to increase adoption of any application. For that they have a dedicated learning and-development team. However, there are lot of inconsistencies in this process and it is difficult to manage content as softwares or applications keep changing. The problem is multiplied if the end-user is a field operative. Another aspect is behavioural changes on the end-consumer side. Deshmukh and Vaidya agree that voice- assisted or voice-driven applications are increasingly being used. Says Vaidya, “Localisation in regional languages is also a trend in all markets especially India. Millennials or younger populations don’t want to call support numbers and helplines. They try to figure it out and if they fail, they just abandon it. Hence, walkthrough videos in regional languages are now popular. The English- speaking population segment is now served and hence, next growth is going to come from regional-language speaking internet users. Interestingly, this learning or training penetration has not happened in digital applications. That is why this space is called ‘Digital Adoption.”“Data quality also needs to be checked. Since users are filling lot of forms online, handholding them improves the quality of data gathered significantly. Gyde helps in providing byte-size and to-the-point help during this process and resolves the last-mile training or adoption issue. That’s how Gyde is envisioned,” he adds. Lockdown experienceRecalling the first national lockdown period in 2020 after the Covid-pandemic breakout, Vaidya said, “Bajaj Allianz had become our first customer just before pandemic hit us. They were rolling out lots of applications for their audience and wanted to make these apps self-served. They wanted fewer enquiries to customer support regarding application usages. Classroom/in-person training sessions in Maharashtra and northern India were planned along with implementation of Gyde. However, due to lockdown their offline training plan had to be scrapped. Now they completely relied on Gyde. They downloaded videos, shared on WhatsApp groups and took exams based on Gyde content about understanding the application. We also provided multiple language voice-over support.”All on board?Deshmukh said, “Onboarding duration depends on the underlying application size. For an average application consisting of 100 processes which should be covered by Gyde, it would take about 15 days to a month. Our customers can tell us what content should be distributed via Gyde or they can take our platform and create their own content. It is a self-served platform. They don’t need coders or certified professionals for this purpose. We have chrome extensions, dashboards and the integration is also easy.”Says Deshmukh, “Every page content - for managers, employees, consumers – is contextual and differs according to their role. We are now launching a new feature called product feedback. Users can give their feedback based on ratings or questions. As of now, mechanism of collecting feedback from end-users is not available, but we get response or feedback from trainers.”“Be it enterprise software, SaaS software or mobile application, ‘Using Software Should Be Easy’ is our motto, mission and vision. We also track clicks optionally. Going forward using those clicks we want to identify behaviour of the users – who clicks where and how much time they take to complete the process. On the basis of those clicks we will auto-trigger the guide content to make that user go towards completion of that process. That will also act as a feedback mechanism for Gyde and the application users,” Deshmukh explained. Where’s the money?Shubham Deshmukh says, “We were kind of incubated in a company with whom our investor Ashish Achrekar had business relations. He used to visit the office and we had pitched the chatbot platform initially. Although that plan did not work, we stayed connected. Achrekar has seen how we have pivoted and how we finally had a stable product. He was investing in Canada-based startups actively then and was also looking to get into the Indian startup ecosystem. At the same time, we met Vaibhav Domkundwar of Better Capital. We had some brainstorming sessions and ideations with Vaibhav about how to establish Gyde as a brand.” Future plansRevealing their future plans, Vaidya says, “While working with enterprises we also realised that software product companies is also our customer segment. We have started generating some numbers like what is the customer acquisition cost, churn and lifetime value. Post-funding, customer acquisition will be our major focus. In the next two years we want to reach up to 100 customers including enterprises or product companies in various markets. Says Vaidya, “We are focussing on developed markets, because all the big players and platforms like Salesforce have huge penetration in those markets unlike India. We have ready-to-use guides for platforms like SAP SuccessFactors, Salesforce, Zoho CRM, LinkedIn Sales Navigator, and Microsoft Dynamics, among others. If you are using these, you can get started from day one. You can simply install one extension and with 10 important walkthroughs and you can customise it based on your requirement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-startup-mantra-this-personal-gyde-makes-your-company-s-software-easy-to-use-101633776574403.html
09-10-2021||Bangalore||5 men rape minor in Karnataka's Dakshina Kannada||Months after the Mysuru gangrape case sent shockwaves across the nation triggering protests all around, another such incident has come to light from Karnataka. Five men allegedly raped a minor girl in Amtady village located in the Bantwal taluk of Dakshina Kannada district, news agency PTI reported police as saying on Saturday.It is alleged that the accused men took the 16-year-old girl to a secluded place and raped her, according to the PTI report. The incident reportedly took place on October 8 (Friday). The police have already recorded the victim's statement and are working on the clues provided by her.The incident took place when the girl was on her way to school at 7am when she was kidnapped by a man and his accomplices who came in a car, the FIR read.According to sources, the assailants had dropped off the girl at Brahmarakootlu and the same had been caught on CCTV camera, PTI reported.The girl is currently undergoing treatment at the Lady Goschen hospital in the city.Police have launched a search operation to nab the accused. A case under IPC sections and POCSO Act has been registered at Bantwal police station.On August 24, a young woman along with her boyfriend was attacked by a group of men and later the woman was gangraped at Lalithadripura layout near the Chamundi Hills in Mysuru. As per the police complaint, six men committed the crime and also beat up the girl's male friend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/5-men-rape-minor-in-karnataka-s-bantwal-dakshina-kannada-101633772704209.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||‘NCB let off 3 individuals including BJP leader’s kin after cruise ship raid’: NCP’s Nawab Malik||Three days after claiming that Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and Arbaaz Merchant were brought to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office by private individuals with one of them being a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office-bearer, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief spokesperson Nawab Malik on Saturday alleged that the NCB let off three individuals after detaining them from the cruise party.“The day raid was conducted, NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said 8 to 10 people were detained but the fact is a total of 11 people were detained by the NCB that night. They were brought to the NCB office but later three of them were released. They are Rishabh Sachdeva, Pratik Gaba and Amir Furniturewala. Sachdeva is the brother-in-law of Mohit Bhartiya alias Mohit Kamboj. He was allowed to go after his father and uncle reached the NCB office,” Malik told reporters at NCP headquarters at Ballard Pier in south Mumbai.He said that a total of 11 individuals were detained from the raid conducted at the cruise ship and brought them to its office but let off three of them. Of them, one was Rishabh Sachdeva, the brother-in law-of Mohit Bhartiya, a former Yuva Morcha chief of BJP, Malik alleged. The other two are Amir Furniturewala and Pratik Gaba - the ones who invited Aryan Khan to the party, Malik told reporters and demanded an explanation from the NCB for allowing them to go.He alleged that Sachdeva was allowed to go after BJP leaders from Delhi and Mumbai intervened. He will now write to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to conduct a probe in the matter.Malik also released video clips in which Sachdeva can be seen being brought to the NCB office and later leaving it along with his father and uncle.“Who ordered them to be released? Our information is that BJP leaders, right from Delhi and Mumbai, intervened after which Sachdeva, Furniturewala and Gaba were released by the NCB. If nothing was found from then why only these 11 were detained among 1100 present at the cruise? We demand Sameer Wankhede clarify this. The entire probe is going ahead based on WhatsApp chats as nothing was found in Aryan Khan’s possession. Did the NCB take the mobile phones of these three and check them?” the NCP leader said.“It was a pre-planned conspiracy. Those who invited Aryan Khan to the party at the cruise ship, Pratik Gaba and Amir Furniturewala, were detained and later allowed to go. Satish Maneshinde too has said in the court that Aryan went to the party as he was invited by Gaba and Furniturewala,” Malik said in reply to a question.Malik earlier alleged that the two people —Manish Bhanushali and KP Gosavi — who brought Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant to the party were private individuals. Of them, Bhanushali is a BJP office-bearer and Gosavi is a serial offender and also an absconder in a cheating case in Pune. NCB officials could not answer the questions as to how the private individuals were allowed to handle high profile accused.Terming it a conspiracy, the NCP leader demanded a free and fair probe in the matter. “I will write to the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and demand that things are very serious and need to be looked into. If required, call an inquiry and let the real facts come out before the people,” Malik said.BJP leader Pravin Darekar told the media that the concerned authorities will probe the allegations. As of now, they are allegations by Malik. Let it be probed by the authorities,” he added. Meanwhile, responding to the allegations, Pravin Darekar, leader of opposition in the legislative council, said that they are only allegations and videos and pictures can be morphed. He also alleged that Malik is making allegations to save the accused. “These are just allegations. As far as pictures and videos are concerned, they can be morphed. BJP cannot be held responsible even if Mohit Kamboj’s brother-in-law was involved. With the same criteria, we can hold NCP and Nawab Malik responsible for the arrest of his son in law (Sameer Khan) by the NCB in a drug abuse case,” Darekar said.“He is trying to create sensation by making allegations every day to save the accused. The action was necessary as drugs can spoil the entire generation,” he added.He further said the MVA government can conduct a probe with the Mumbai police and its anti-narcotics cell by obtaining call detail records (CDR) and probe the matter for their own satisfaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-let-off-3-individuals-including-bjp-leader-s-kin-after-cruise-ship-raid-ncp-s-nawab-malik-101633775975407.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||NCB raids residence of film producer Imtiyaz Khatri||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday morning raided the residence of film producer Imtiaz Khatri in Bandra and summoned him to appear before the agency for inquiry in connection with the cruise ship rave party bust.Zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB confirmed the raid at Khatri’s residence by his team. He, however, refused to divulge anything more on the raid.Khatri has been summoned for investigation at the NCB office today, added Wankhede.The agency also detained a drug peddler from Santacruz for investigation. The peddler’s link was found during the interrogation of the arrested accused in the cruise drug bust case, said an NCB officer.The NCB has arrested a total of 18 accused so far in the cruise drug bust case including Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant, fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha, a Nigerian national drug peddler and others.Eight accused, including Aryan Khan, were sent to judicial custody on Friday while others are in NCB custody for further investigation.The agency on Saturday (October 2) night raided a cruise ship at an International cruise terminal, green gate in Mumbai and busted a drug party. Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha and five others were nabbed and brought to the NCB office and were arrested on October 3. They were arrested under section 8C, 20B, 27 read with 35 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, after officers seized 13 grams of cocaine, 21 grams of charas (hasish), 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), 5 grams MD and cash worth ₹1.33 lakh from the cruise ship. After the investigation with the arrested accused, the NCB team conducted a raid at Jogeshwari and arrested one drug peddler, Qadir Abdul Qayyum Sheikh with 2.5 grams of ecstasy and 54.3 grams (commercial quantity) of mephedrone worth ₹5 lakh in his possession on October 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-raids-residence-of-film-producer-imtiyaz-khatri-101633774903625.html
09-10-2021||Gurugram||Residents ask Haryana CM to end farmers blockade, open Singhu border||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday met Union home minister Amit Shah to discuss the demand of people from villages around the Singhu border in Sonipat district who have been facing trouble due to the road blockade caused by the long-standing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s contentious farm laws. A delegation of people from the area apprised the Haryana chief minister of the situation and demanded that the road be opened at the earliest.“A delegation of people from the villages around the Singhu border of Sonipat district came to meet me and demanded the road to the Singhu border be opened. Supreme Court has also taken cognisance of it and we're hopeful that the problem will be solved soon,” Khattar told reporters in Delhi, as quoted by news agency ANI.“I met with Amit Shah Ji today, we briefed him on the issue of opening of Singhu and Tikri borders. I have also told him about farmers' protests being held at several locations in the state. I am hopeful that borders will be opened soon,” he added.Supreme Court rejects plea over Singhu border road blockadeThe appeal to the chief minister comes after a Supreme Court bench led by Justice Chandrachud refused to entertain the petition filed by Sonipat residents seeking immediate removal or dispersal of the mass gathering of farmers at Delhi borders. The plea stated that it was disturbing the right to movement for people who have regular connectivity to the road.However, the Supreme Court rejected the petition saying that the matter can be addressed by the high court. "Why don't you approach the High Court, being a resident of Sonipat? Why are these petitions filed here for publicity? There is no need for us to intervene when high courts are well versed with the local conditions and what is happening. We should trust HCs," the top court had said on Monday.Life came to a standstill for shopkeepers and traders at Singhu and Tikri border in Haryana due to the more than 10-months-long farmers’ protest against the three enacted farm laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-ask-haryana-cm-to-end-farmers-blockade-open-singhu-border-101633771382627.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Coal crisis: Delhi may soon face load shedding; Kejriwal seeks PM's intervention||As India battles severe coal shortage impacting power generation, power discom Tata Power Delhi Distribution Limited (TPDDL) CEO Ganesh Srinivasan on Saturday said that Delhi may see an intermittent rotational load shedding in the coming days. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting his intervention for the diversion of adequate coal and gas to power plants supplying electricity to the national capital amid the prevailing crisis.Taking to Twitter, Kejriwal informed that he is personally keeping a watch over the situation and his government is trying its best to avoid it. "In the meanwhile, I wrote a letter to Hon’ble PM seeking his personal intervention," he further wrote, attaching a copy of the letter to the Prime Minister.Delhi could face a power crisis. I am personally keeping a close watch over the situation. We are trying our best to avoid it. In the meanwhile, I wrote a letter to Hon’ble PM seeking his personal intervention. pic.twitter.com/v6Xm5aCUbmTPDDL CEO Ganesh Srinivasan, in a statement, said coal-based power stations are left with coal stocks that will last one-two days to meet generation requirements as against 20 days as per applicable regulations, reported PTI. "As a result, Delhi might go through intermittent rotational load shedding," he added.Both Delhi and the Centre are mulling ways to handle the grim situation to arrange or divert coal for power generation, Srinivasan further informed.Meanwhile, TPDDL has already started sending SMS to its customers based in north and northwest Delhi, urging them to use electricity judiciously."Due to limited coal availability in generation plants across north, power supply scenario between 2 pm to 6 pm is at critical level. Kindly use electricity judiciously. Be a responsible citizen. Inconvenience caused is regretted,” read an SMS received by a TPDDL consumer in Burari.According to a report carried by PTI earlier this week, the coal supply crisis seems to be deepening as 64 non-pithead power plants are left with less than four days of dry fuel stocks.The latest report from the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) also showed that 25 such power plants had coal stocks for less than seven days as on October 3. The report also showed that 17 plants -- with a cumulative installed power generation capacity of 21,325 MW -- had zero coal stocks while 20 power plants of 22,550 MW capacity had one day of the dry fuel stocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/coal-crisis-delhi-may-soon-face-load-shedding-kejriwal-seeks-pm-s-intervention-101633771087824.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Diesel rates cross ₹100 mark in Mumbai, highest among metros||Diesel price crossed the ₹100 per litre mark for the first time in Mumbai on Saturday, highest in metros, as state-run oil marketing companies again raised petrol rates by 30 a litre and diesel by 35 paise even as India’s average crude oil import price softened marginally by 2.47% from a seven-year peak of ₹6,026.47 a barrel on Wednesday.After the 10th hike in the last two weeks, on Saturday, petrol became costlier by ₹2.65 per litre while diesel soared by ₹3.85 a litre (the 13th rate hike since September 24). Consequently, petrol is now priced at ₹109.83 per litre across Mumbai pumps and diesel at ₹100.29.Pump rates of petrol and diesel in Delhi also made another fresh record at ₹103.84 a litre and ₹92.47, respectively. While the benchmark automobile fuel prices for the country are set by the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in Delhi, retail prices vary from place to place due to local levies.The highest fuel rates are often recorded in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar because of a high incidence of local levies. Petrol is now sold at ₹115.86 per litre and diesel at ₹106.48 in Ganganagar.International oil rates, which are often volatile, directly influence the retail prices of petrol and diesel in India.Benchmark Brent crude on Friday closed 0.54% up at $82.39 a barrel, which was its three-year high. It had surged to $82.56 on Tuesday (October 5) after producers’ cartel - the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies (together known as OPEC+) – on Monday rejected the pressure from oil consumers to ramp up output to meet surging demand beyond what it had already planned in July.Heavy loads of central and state taxes are also responsible for astronomically high fuel rates. At present, the central and state levies on petrol and diesel are about 50% of their retail prices. According to IOC data, the pump price of petrol in Delhi has about 32.3% central excise component and 23% state levy (VAT). Central tax on diesel is about 35.2% of its retail price, while the VAT component is 14.62%.Throughout 2020, as global crude prices plunged (below $20 a barrel in April last year), the Central government raised excise duty on fuel to shore up its finances. States, too, followed suit as their revenues were hit on account of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/diesel-rates-cross-rs-100-mark-in-mumbai-highest-among-metros-101633768834664.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Cruise rave party raid: Nawab Malik names BJP leader's kin 'let off' by NCB, says it must reveal facts||A day after accusing the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) of letting off the brother-in-law of a key Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader after its raid on a cruise ship off Mumbai coast, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik stepped up his attack on the central agency. The NCB has so far arrested 18 people, including Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, after allegedly seizing drugs from the Goa-bound ship. “After raid on a cruise ship off Mumbai coast, NCB's Sameer Wankhede had said that 8-10 people were detained. But the truth is that 11 people were detained. Later, three people—Rishabh Sachdeva, Prateek Gaba and Amir Furniturewala—were released,” Nawab Malik was quoted as saying by ANI.Rishabh Sachdeva is the brother-in-law of Mohit Bharatiya, a former chief of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha—the youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)—and Furniturewala and Gaba invited Aryan Khan at the party, alleged Nawab Malik. “We want to ask NCB that when they had detained 11 people after cruise ship raid, then on whose directions did they release the three people. We demand NCB to reveal the facts. We think there might have been some talk between Sameer Wankhede and BJP leaders,” Malik added. “Mumbai Police Anti Narcotics Cell should conduct an independent investigation into this. I will write to CM also. If required, an inquiry commission should be set up to probe the raids.”Also read | Aryan Khan arrest: Nawab Malik releases new videos, questions WankhedeOn Friday, Malik alleged that two were let off by the NCB after “intervention from higher level” and also targeted the agency’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede, saying the officer should clarify how many phone calls he had received during the detention and on whose direction the “high-profile detainees” were allowed to go. The allegations by the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party against the NCB comes a day after the income tax department raided the premises of commercial entities linked to its party leader and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. Nawab Malik also said the motive behind the I-T department's raids on entities linked to Pawar was to malign him.Also read | Cruise ship drugs case: NCB raids producer Imtiyaz Khatri's Mumbai office, homeBefore this, Malik produced video footage on the involvement of two men in the arrest of the accused after the raid on the cruise ship from where drugs were seized on October 2. The footage showed that a BJP officer-bearer, Manish Bhanushali, and a person named Kiran Gosavi, who faces criminal cases, were part of the NCB team which had arrested actor Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan and actor Arbaaz Merchant for their alleged involvement in the rave party.The BJP, however, hit back on Friday, saying that the ruling party’s claims against the NCB were "baseless", and added that Malik "vents out" his anger against the agency due to personal reasons.Notably, Malik's son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB on January 13 this year in an alleged drugs case. He got bail in September. The NCP shares power with the Shiv Sena and the Congress in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-names-bjp-leader-s-kin-let-off-by-ncb-says-it-must-reveal-facts-101633767319528.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Durga Puja 2021: ‘Don’t want third wave, so keeping puja small, safe’||New Delhi The stage is set for Durga Puja, and the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has given a nod to celebrations this year. But, the Puja committees have decided to keep it a simple affair. Some committees say that there was paucity of time — as permissions came in late — for large scale preparations, and most confirm that they are purposely trying to keep the festivities within Covid-19 compliant behaviour, since the fear of a third wave remains.Conscious decision to be cautious Though Durga Puja holds immense importance for Bengalis, they are choosing to forego grand celebrations, for the greater good. “Our celebrations used to be so big that there’d be traffic jams,” says Prodip Ganguly, secretary, Kali Mandir Society (KMS), Chittaranjan Park. But this year, they will go hybrid in their celebrations, with “devotees allowed in batches of 50 only, for darshan of about five minutes and within barricades”. “We’ll have only the idol of Maa Durga. No bhog or pushpanjali will be allowed inside,” says Anita Halder, convener, KMS, adding, “There will be no sindoor khela, and the idol immersion will be done in an in-house tub.” Submit vaccination proof in advanceAt Arambagh Durga Puja, near Jhandewalan, the puja samiti is inviting devotees to their social media channels for live streaming of Pujo. “Entry in the pandal is only for organisers and their family, who have submitted vaccination certificates in advance. Even hired staff are fully vaccinated,” shares Abhijit K Bose, chairman of the committee. And committee’s president, SK Chakraborty adds, “Hum koi risk nahin le rahe.”‘People are more tech savvy now’ Besides facilitating virtual streaming of celebrations, most committees are facilitating home delivery of bhog with advance booking to avoid contact. “People are more tech savvy now. So we have online pre-booking of bhog, and pushpanjali in sync with the live streaming of mandir purohit chanting mantras,” informs Halder. Suvendu Bagchi, from CR Park B-Block Puja, which is organising a symbolic ghot (Kalash) puja on Mahashtami (October 13), says, “Only 50 people will be allowed in at a time. There’s no pandal hopping this time. We have to be responsible to hold back any possibility of a third wave.” While E-Block mela ground and Milan Samity committee in CR Park are organising one day puja with no devotees allowed, Sarbojanin Puja Samiti, D Block, CR Park, will have the celebrations on small scale and restricted entry in small batches. “The puja set-up is small because we didn’t have time,” says Soumili Sen, from D Block committee. And Sujoy Ghosh, general secretary, Sarbojanin Puja Samiti, adds that as it’s their silver jubilee, “An online anjali will be scheduled and we’ll have a two-feet idol that can be dissolved easily.”“We are holding the Puja in a park, but the tent is not even half of what we used to put up before Covid-19. All of us have to be responsible to hold back any possibility of a third wave,” adds, Suvendu Bagchi, From CR Park B-Block PujaAuthor tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/durga-puja-2021-don-t-want-third-wave-so-keeping-puja-small-safe-101633764932660.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Diesel price crosses ₹100-mark in Mumbai, 4 months after petrol jumped over ₹100||Diesel price on Saturday crossed the ₹100-mark in Mumbai at ₹100.29, up from ₹99.92 on Friday. The price of petrol is also inching towards ₹110 per litre with its current price at ₹109.83. In Mumbai, petrol crossed the ₹100 mark on May 29, 2021.The prices of petrol and diesel in Thane and Navi Mumbai are ₹109.97 and ₹100.42 per litre, respectively.The highest price of petrol is at Parbhani in Maharashtra at ₹112.39 per litre. Diesel is the costliest in Amravati at ₹101.83 a litre. According to oil marketing companies, the hike in the price of fuel is related to a rise in global crude prices.Prices of petrol and diesel, along with LPG cylinders used for cooking in homes, have substantially increased in the last 18 months ever since the first lockdown in the country was announced in March 2020. Earlier this week, Mahanagar Gas also hiked the retail price of compressed natural gas (CNG) and piped natural gas (PNG) by ₹2 each.On the other hand, transporters are planning an emergency meeting to discuss the hike of diesel price on Monday. This comes as the majority of the transportation takes place using diesel vehicles. The increase in fuel prices directly increases goods transportation charges resulting in price rise across several sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/diesel-price-crosses-rs-100-mark-in-mumbai-4-months-after-petrol-jumped-over-rs-100-101633762774130.html
09-10-2021||Other||Lakhimpur Kheri: Minister’s son appears before police, investigators begin questioning||The Lakhimpur police started questioning Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra on Saturday after he appeared before the investigators at the crime branch office at Lakhimpur reserve police lines, officials said.A senior police official said Ashish Mishra reached the crime branch office at 10:40 am on Saturday. He appeared A few hours after the Lakhimpur police on Friday evening issued a second notice asking him to appear in connection with the violence that killed eight people, including four farmers.Ashish Mishra, the prime accused in the case, was accompanied by his counsel Awadesh Singh and Lakhimpur Sadar MLA Yogesh Verma of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Mishra was taken to a room inside the crime branch office where police personnel investigating the matter began questioning him. His counsel accompanied him in the questioning.The second notice was issued against Ashish Mishra on Friday after he failed to show up in response to the first one and missed his 10 am deadline on Friday. Like the first, the second notice was pasted on the minister’s Lakhimpur Kheri residence directing Ashish Mishra to appear before the Lakhimpur Kheri police crime branch at reserve police lines at 10 am on Friday.The notice to Ashish Mishra was issued under Section 160 of the criminal procedure code and he was asked to appear in person and present evidence that he is aware of about the incident.Earlier on Friday, members of the investigating reached the crime branch at around 9.30 am expecting that Mishra will present himself or at least send a representative. However, he did not show up.A Lakhimpur Kheri police official said Ashish Mishra was untraceable and his last location was traced somewhere near the India-Nepal border close to Banbirpur village under Tikunia police station limits where the violence erupted after a car allegedly mowed down four farmers on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lakhimpur-kheri-minister-s-son-appears-before-police-investigators-begin-questioning-101633762413725.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra at ‘far end of Covid-19 second wave’, says official||Mumbai has now overtaken Thane in terms of having the second-highest number of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra for the past five days, as per official data.On Friday, Maharashtra recorded 38,011 active Covid-19 cases wherein which Pune topped with 8,683 cases, followed by Mumbai with 5,941 and Thane with 4,217. On Friday, Maharashtra recorded 2,620 Covid-19 new cases with 59 deaths. The total tally from the outbreak has reached 6,573,092 cases.Mumbai clocked 529 new Covid-19 cases with eight deaths thus bringing the total death tally to 16,149. The total number of cases in Mumbai reached 747,685 since the outbreak of the virus.Mumbai overtook Thane from Monday onwards when it recorded 6,198 new cases compared to 3,848 in Thane.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said that the overall have cases reduced across the state. “We are at the far end of the second wave. In Thane, we did reconciliation of cases, hence they were reduced. In Mumbai, we are still witnessing 400 to 500 new cases daily due to which Mumbai has overtaken Thane,” said Dr Awate. With regards to Pune, he said “Though cases are reducing in Pune city, the problem is in the rural pockets, which pushed the whole tally up,” he added.Dr Ishwar Gilada. secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild said that this was the aftermath of the Ganesh festival. “Mumbai cases were expected to rise after the Ganesh festival. However, it will be marginal and even the deaths have reduced significantly,” said Dr Gilada.The death toll in the state has now reached 1,39.470 with Pune leading with 19,502 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,149 patients and Thane with 11,385.Meanwhile, the state government on Friday launched Mission Kavach Kundal, a seven-day special campaign to boost its Covid-19 vaccination drive. The initiative has set a target of vaccinating a minimum of 1.5 million people a day. It is also looking to prioritise covering the first doses of all citizens at the earliest. State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the aim is to blunt the impact of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-at-far-end-of-covid-19-second-wave-says-official-101633759773382.html
09-10-2021||Other||Congress leaders urge people to make ‘Kisan Nyay Rally’ a mega show in Varanasi||Preparations for the Congress’ Kisan Nyay Rally, to be held on October 10, are in full swing in Varanasi. A large tent is being set up at the ground in Rohania area of the city. Mega cut-outs of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have been put up and other arrangements are also being made, Congress leaders said. Senior Congress leaders, including party national secretary, Rajesh Tiwari, former MP Rajesh Mishra, among others, inspected the preparations at the venue on Friday. A senior Congress leader said that the major demand of the Congress is to dismiss Ajay Mishra AK Teni from the Union cabinet, arrest the accused involved in the Lakhimpur Kheri tragedy and withdraw the three agri laws.According to party leaders, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will first offer prayers at Kashi Vishwanath Temple and Maa Durga at Durgakund Temple in the holy city before addressing the rally and launching a poll campaign for the Mission-2022. Congress leaders have held several meetings with people in eastern districts of Uttar Pradesh and in a door-to-door drive, appealed to them to participate in large numbers to make the Pratigya Rally a mega show. “Rajesh Tiwari held over two dozen meetings in Varanasi, Sonbhadra and Mirzapur districts during the last four days and formulated strategy for making the rally a mega show. He has asked the party workers to go door-to-door and appeal to the people to participate in the rally,” said Varanasi Congress city unit president Raghvendra Chaubey. Tiwari also met old loyalists of the Congress and sought their blessings. In addition, other senior Congress leaders held meetings in Ballia, Ghazipur, Mau, Azamgarh, Bhadohi and Jaunpur. Tiwari said, “Congress workers are making all preparations for the mega rally with full enthusiasm. Our party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi will address the rally, which is likely to be attended by around 1 lakh people.” He said that the party workers received a positive response from the people during the door-to-door appeals. They would give their blessings to Congress. “The people are angry with the BJP state government due to rise in inflation, skyrocketing prices of petro-products and growing unemployment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-leaders-urge-people-to-make-kisan-nyay-rally-a-mega-show-in-varanasi-101633756053644.html
09-10-2021||Other||‘No plan, no salary’: NGT denies Goa govt 6 more months to complete coastal plan||Peeved at the repeated extensions sought by the Goa government to finalize the Goa Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP), the National Green Tribunal has ruled that the Goa Environment Secretary will not be entitled to claim his salary if the plan is not ready by December 31. Passing an order based on an application filed by the Goa government seeking a six-month extension from its earlier deadline of August 31 until February 2022, the NGT rejected the government’s request owing to its “leisurely manner” and gave it until December 31 to complete the plan. “We note that there is a breach of the mandate of finalizing CZMP as per CRZ Regulations, 2011 for the last ten years, causing failure to regulate the matters as per law, to the detriment of the environment. Having regard to the long delay which has already taken place, we see no justification for granting the extension sought,” the Tribunal bench of Adarsh Kumar Goel, Sudhir Agarwal, Brijesh Sethi and Dr Nagin Nanda said. “The State cannot go on in a leisurely manner without concern for its duty. Accordingly, we direct that if CZMP is not completed even up to 31.12.2021, the concerned Secretary of State of Goa will not be entitled to salary from 01.01.2022 till the default continues. This direction is being issued in the light of the earlier direction in the order dated 27.11.2019, which remains uncomplied, in view of the further extensions of time granted earlier, as above,” the NGT said. The Goa government filed an application seeking an extension of time for finalizing the Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) by six months i.e. till 28.02.2022, as against the time granted and extended from time to time which finally expired on 31.8.2021.The plan has been pending since 2014 when all coastal states were expected to draw up fresh coastal zone management plans based on the CRZ notification of 2011. However, more than a year later very little had moved, forcing a petitioner to approach the NGT in 2015 with a plea to expedite the process. By 2017, the Tribunal directed the MoEF&CC to file an affidavit as to why CZMP for different States was not being finalized besides also issuing notices to 13 coastal States and UTs concerned. It was observed that even though six years had passed after the said regulations were notified, CZMP had not been finalised.The NGT had earlier given the state a deadline of August 31 to complete the plan, which was initially supposed to be completed back in 2014.In its application, the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority said that it was still processing the thousands of objections and suggestions it has received at the public hearings held in August. Activists have alleged that the plan, as it stands, is full of discrepancies, missing geomorphological features and the lack of an adequate plan for protecting and restoring the coast, (which is the basis of the CZMP) without which the plans will remain incomplete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-plan-no-salary-ngt-denies-goa-govt-6-more-months-to-complete-coastal-plan-101633751492792.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Cruise ship drugs case: NCB raids producer Imtiyaz Khatri's Mumbai office, home||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is searching the residence and office of film producer Imtiyaz Khatri in the Bandra area of Mumbai in connection with the cruise ship drugs case, an official said on Sunday. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede refused to share further details regarding the raid on Khatri’s house. Khatri’s name came into the spotlight last year after the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Ashok Saraogi, the lawyer of late actor’s former manager Shruti Modi, claimed that Khatri supplied drugs to Sushant Singh Rajput and Rhea Chakraborty.On Friday, a local court in Mumbai rejected the bail plea of Aryan Khan, the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha in the case related to the seizure of drugs following a raid at a party on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast last Saturday, October 2.Also read | Cruise ship rave party case: Court rejects bail plea of Aryan Khan, two othersMeanwhile, NCB’s Wankhede said on Friday that the agency and the prosecution will take the cruise ship raid case to a logical conclusion. "Our case is strong and will be presented in the sessions court," Wankhede said.Wankhede led the NCB team which busted an alleged drugs party onboard the Cordelia Cruise ship late on October 2. As many as 18 people, including a Nigerian national, have been arrested by the NCB in connection with the case related to the seizure of drugs after the raid on the party on the Goa-bound cruise ship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-ship-drugs-case-ncb-raids-producer-imtiyaz-khatri-s-mumbai-office-home-101633750282984.html
09-10-2021||Kolkata||Babul Supriyo, Nusrat Jahan find no mention in TMC campaigners' list for Bengal bypolls||Babul Supriyo, former Union minister of state who recently switched over from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to the Trinamool Congress (TMC), did not feature in the list of star campaigners that the ruling party issued on Friday for the October 30 bypolls to four assembly segments in West Bengal. In a related development, actor-turned-TMC MP Nusrat Jahan, who recently made headlines over her alleged relationship with another actor-turned-BJP leader, also did not feature in the list.Trinamool supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who solidified her post days ago after winning the Bhabanipur by-election with a record vote margin, is expectedly among the star campaigners featured in the TMC list. Among other names are Trinamool Congress general secretary and Mamata's nephew Abhishek Banerjee, and other film artist-turned-politicians such as Dev, Mimi Chakraborty, Raj Chakraborty, and Sayani Ghosh. Veteran Trinamool leaders such as Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Sougata Roy, and Arup Biswas were also featured in the list of campaigners for the upcoming bypolls.Also Read | Babul Supriyo says Mamata Banerjee's words music to his earsNusrat Jahan and Babul Supriyo are among the notable names missing from the list. Jahan actively campaigned for the party ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections held in March-April earlier this year. Supriyo, on the other hand, switched over from the BJP ahead of the Bhabanipur bypolls. According to reports, he requested Mamata Banerjee to spare him “the embarrassment of campaigning against long-time BJP friend Priyanka Tibrewal”. Now the Trinamool has skipped any mention of him in the list of campaigners for the upcoming bypolls as well.Also Read | Trinamool MP cautions his party as another TMC rebel returns from BJPMeanwhile, the BJP's list of star campaigners for the Bengal by-elections features a number of heavyweight names from outside the state such as Union minister Smriti Irani, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, and Bihar MP Giriraj Singh. From inside the state, too, the party has roped in veteran leaders such as national vice president Dilip Ghosh, leader of opposition in the state assembly Suvendu Adhikari and BJP Bengal chief Sukanta Majumdar for the campaigning. Union ministers and North Bengal MPs John Barla and Nisith Pramanik, and minister-MP from the Matua community Santanu Thakur were also featured in the BJP list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/babul-supriyo-nusrat-jahan-find-no-mention-in-tmc-campaigners-list-for-bengal-bypolls-101633747500123.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan, 2 others denied bail in drugs case. What next?||Aryan Khan, Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, was sent to the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai on Friday after a local court refused him bail in a drug seizure case. Five other men arrested in the case were also sent to the same jail and the two women accused, including Munmun Dhamecha, were taken to Byculla women's prison, a police official said. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate RM Nerlikar rejected the release on bail of Aryan Khan, Munmun Dhamecha and Arbaaz Merchant, who were arrested this week in a drug raid on a luxury cruise ship, and said the pleas filed by them were "not maintainable" even as the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) expressed fear that Khan could tamper with evidence and influence witnesses. "The court has rejected the bail application for now because the application was not maintainable. So, now we will move to sessions court and file a bail plea,” Ashwini Achari, who is representing Arbaaz Merchant, told news agency ANI.Also watch | Aryan Khan to spend weekend in jail; court rejects bail plea in NCB's drug case
09-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The South Ex promenade||Very often restless people have the habit of pacing to and fro in their living room or on their terrace, if they have any. Such an exercise is said to bring clarity to the thought process. That same pacing can also be executed on the dream-like walkway here.If the redesigned Chandni Chowk in Old Delhi can be celebrated these days for its new pedestrian-friendly ambience, what’s preventing people from singing about this airy promenade, just outside the South Extension Metro station in South Extension-2?This late afternoon, the paved stretch is soaked in a soothingly warm sun. A young woman is repeatedly trying to click a perfect selfie with a stray cat under a lamp post. A young man is reading that timeless classic ‘How to Win Friends and Influence People’. A woman in long skirt is… well, pacing thoughtfully. Two boys are strolling in circles, their arms on each other’s shoulders. And then there are other people, probably Metro commuters, hurriedly ambling along the avenue, immersed in their daily tensions.There’s no other place in Delhi like this. The stretch (made of tiled and untiled portions) is almost as broad as the Ring Road that divides the locality in two halves. It’s definitely wider than the circular corridor of Connaught Place (CP), another superb pedestrian destination. The promenade is spiritually superior to the CP roundabout (and even to the one in Chandni Chowk) in the sense that it is situated far from showrooms and storefronts, freeing the walker from the distractions of window shopping. Opened simultaneously with the area’s Metro station some years ago, the walkway is too short. But why crib on that point—one ought to be simply grateful that a public infrastructure that would be taken for granted in any great city of the western world has found a breathing corner in our city, otherwise so hostile to pedestrian civilisation.A cynic might point out that nobody’s stopping anybody from enjoying a walk in, say, Lodhi Gardens. But walking this avenue is profoundly different from walking in a park. In a park, one enters to escape from the city, but here one enters right into its heart—yet remains secluded from its irritants. The current easy-going buzz in fact resembles that of a tourist town’s car-free plaza, filled with weekend dwellers. While hanging out in this walkway, one’s eyes instinctively search for a Delhi counterpart of the lady with a little dog, the lonely Russian heroine in a famous Chekhov story—the story begins with her sighting in a seaside promenade. Meanwhile, the lady with the cat is still trying out various selfie poses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-south-ex-promenade-101633740883994.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana road cave-in: Water supply lines repaired; road reconstruction underway||The Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) got the water supply lines in Guru Nanak Pura repaired on Friday after they were damaged in a road cave-in on Wednesday night. The civic body will take a few days to repair the damaged portion of the road.Mayor Balkar Sandhu, along with area councillor Jai Prakash, inspected the ongoing works of repair of the damaged portion on Friday and directed the officials to expedite them.As per officials, the incident was reported on Wednesday night after a major portion of the road, which had been built over a five-decade-old brick sewer line, could not take the load of a heavy truck and collapsed. No injury was reported while the truck driver had a narrow escape.The truck was pulled out with the help of a crane and MC officials commenced the repair works on Thursday.The officials stated that the water line got damaged due to the incident and the supply was snapped in Guru Nanak Pura, and Shahi Mohalla besides other adjoining areas after the incident on Wednesday night.However, temporary arrangements were made to ensure supply of water in regular intervals. Prem Nath, one of the shopkeepers of the area, said, “The residents could have faced issues as the main water supply line got damaged after the incident but the MC had made temporary arrangements to provide them with water.”MC subdivisional officer Anshul Garcha said that the line was repaired by Thursday night and now the bridges and road (B and R) department of the civic body is working on repairing the road. The repair work will be completed in a few days, he added.Road cave-in incidents are being increasingly reported across the city. Several such incidents have been reported in different areas where old sewer lines are still in place, such as the Kaka Marriage Palace Road, Dugri, and Model Town extension.A driver had lost his life due to a sudden cave-in on the Kaka Marriage Palace Road in 2011. In 2013, an 80ft crater had developed near the Dhami Eye Hospital after the sewer line collapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-road-cave-in-water-supply-lines-repaired-road-reconstruction-underway-101633738348996.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Court to hear Umar Khalid's bail plea today||A Delhi court is scheduled to hear on Saturday a plea filed by activist Umar Khalid seeking his release from jail after he was arrested for “conspiracy” over the riots that took place in the Capital in February last year. The court will hear arguments on a fresh bail plea filed by Khalid, who did so last month after the prosecution raised objections towards maintainability of his earlier plea, which led to the former JNU student withdrawing it.Also Read | Umar Khalid files fresh bail plea after police’s objectionOn September 23, the hearing was adjourned to October 9 as Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat was on leave.In a previous hearing, Khalid’s lawyer, senior advocate Trideep Pais, argued before ASJ Rawat that the Delhi Police’s chargesheet in the case read like a script of the Amazon Prime web series “Family Man.” Pais said, “The chargesheet uses rhetoric like ‘veteran of sedition’ for my client. It, therefore, reads like a 9pm news script of one of those shouting news channels. Please understand that the investigating officer is writing all this in a chargesheet, and not in a script of Family Man.”Also Read | Delhi Police chargesheet reads like ‘Family Man' script: Umar Khalid’s lawyer to court“This is the kind of stuff that is read and peddled so that public opinion can be created in order to substitute for the lack of evidence. This is done with the objective to unfairly prosecute people when there is no material to do so lawfully,” he further argued.Khalid, whom the police have described as the “mastermind” behind the February 2020 violence, has been booked under the stringent anti-terror UAPA law, as are several others. Communal riots broke out in northeast Delhi as a result of clashes between those supporting the contentious CAA and those opposed to it. At least 53 people lost their lives while hundreds were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/northeast-delhi-riots-court-to-hear-bail-plea-filed-by-umar-khalid-101633736502853.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Despite backlog, Ludhiana mayor calls another F&CC meeting to sanction more projects||At a time when the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) is struggling to complete the already allotted/proposed projects worth crores ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, mayor Balkar Sandhu has announced to hold another meeting of the finance and contracts committee (F&CC) next week to sanction more development works. Likely to be a result of the pressure mounted by a section of councillors, the meeting is expected to take place either on Tuesday or Wednesday.Even MLAs and councillors of the ruling Congress have been slamming the authorities for delayed projects while residents have been raising hue and cry over the failure of MC to build the roads dug by contractors for reconstruction or laying sewer lines. As per MC officials, projects worth more than ₹300 crore have already been allotted or approved in different parts of the city. Congress MLA (central) Surinder Dawar and councillors of central constituency also lambasted the MC officials over the delay in completing the projects during a meeting held with mayor Balkar Sandhu on Thursday. They complained that the contractors have secured the projects moving above their capacity and now they are not able to complete the works in time.Leader of opposition in the MC House and councillor of ward number 30, Jaspal Giaspura said that a contractor has dug roads in Hargobind Nagar and not reconstructing the same citing pending payment by MC. “The MC should get the previous projects completed as the residents are facing a harrowing time. The tender of laying sewer lines in Amardas colony has not been allotted even as six months have elapsed after the project was approved,” he added. District president of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and councillor Harbhajan Singh Dang said, “The ruling government thinks that it will benefit them in the upcoming elections if they give nod to more development projects, but it will rather have a negative impact if they fail to complete the projects in time-bound manner.” The opposition leaders demanded that the MC should first finish the already allotted works rather than allocating more projects. The leader of BJP councillors, Sunita Rani, said that few roads in Gandhi Nagar area have also been ignored by the contractors and residents/shopkeepers are being troubled due to dug roads. “The councillors have to bear the brunt for the failure of MC as the public criticises their representatives,” she added. Mayor Sandhu said directions have already been issued to the officials to speed up the development projects and prepare a roster so that residents do not face any trouble due to incomplete projects. The officials have also been asked to take action against the contractors for delaying projects, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-backlog-ludhiana-mayor-calls-another-f-cc-meeting-to-sanction-more-projects-101633737328876.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Snatcher who escaped custody lands in police net||The snatcher who had managed to escape from the custody while being taken to a court two days ago was arrested and also booked in a case of theft, police said on Friday.According to the police, after fleeing from the fuel station in Chhawanni Mohalla, accused Deepak alias Deepu of Salem Tabri had stolen a bicycle from the area and pedalled away to escape the police.Daresi SHO Davinder Singh said the accused was nabbed from Bhatiyan village.Deepak, along with another accused Manjit, was arrested by the police in a snatching case registered at the Division Number 4 station on October 4. The accused were in police custody after their one-day remand was granted by the court. On October 6, the accused were being taken to the local court in a private vehicle.Both the accused were sitting in the back seat of the car while two ASIs were in the front. Before going to the court, the ASI drove the vehicle to a fuel station in Chhawanni Mohalla. When the car slowed down, the snatchers opened the door and rushed towards the back of the petrol pump and scaled a wall to escape. Both the cops chased them and caught Manjit, while Deepak managed to escape.The SHO said that after the accused managed to flee, a special team was formed as per the directions of joint commissioner of police Deepak Pareek and additional deputy commissioner of police Pragya Jain. “The team scanned the footage of CCTV cameras which were installed at different locations under the Safe City project,” he added. Tracking the movement of the accused through the footage of CCTV cameras, the police learnt that he was hiding in Bhatiyan village, following which Deepak was arrested.A case under Section 224 of IPC and a separate FIR under Section 379 were registered at the Division Number 4 police station against Deepak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-snatcher-who-escaped-custody-lands-in-police-net-101633737148341.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three bikes, two scooters stolen in Ludhiana||City police on Friday registered five cases against unidentified thieves who reportedly stole three motorcycles and two scooters from different parts of Ludhiana. Sohan Singh, a resident of Patiala, complained that thieves had taken away his Bajaj CT 100 motorcycle parked near Bank of Baroda at Baba Than Singh Chowk on September 30.After failing to recover the motorcycle, the Division Number 3 police registered an FIR against unidentified thieves and started investigation. The second case of theft was reported at Dugri. According to Sham Singh, a resident of Phase 2, unidentified thieves took away his Honda Activa which had parked outside a house in Phase 3 on September 25. The third case was registered in Model Town, wherein Anuj, a resident of Sukhdev Nagar, told the police that his Hero Splendor motorcycle that was parked outside a house in Atam Nagar was stolen on September 29.Division Number 5 police have also registered two cases of vehicle theft in their jurisdiction. According to Ravinder Singh of Janta enclave in Dugri, his motorcycle that was parked outside a mall on Satpal Mittal Road was stolen by vehicle lifters on September 25. The thieves also took away a Honda Activa of Ankit Arora, a resident of Sethi enclave in Dhandra, from the same location.The police have registered the FIRs under Section 379 of the IPC and launched probes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-bikes-two-scooters-stolen-in-ludhiana-101633736908169.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 30 cases in two days take dengue count to 281||In the last two days, 30 new cases of dengue have been registered in the district.Of these cases, 26 were reported from different parts of the city. With this, the overall number of dengue cases in the district has reached 281, 223 of which are from the city alone. According to the district health department, 1,603 suspected cases of dengue have been reported, of which 281 are confirmed.223 cases reported from Ludhiana cityWhile 223 cases have been reported from urban Ludhiana, 14 have been logged in Jagraon, 11 in Sudhar, eight in Sahnewal, seven in Koom Kalan, four each in Sidhwan Bet, Malaud and Khanna, two each in Hathurand Payal and one each in Pakhowal and Samrala.In city, the cases are being reported from areas Kailash Chowk, Bhamia Road, Chander Nagar, Janta Nagar, Model Town, Basti Jodhewal, Rani Jhasi Road, Ferozepur Road, Ashapuri, Civil Lines, Kundanpuri, Sua Road, Jahangir Road, and others. 43 buildings inspected in Ludhiana, two challans issuedWith a rise in cases of dengue being reported in the city, Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) and district health department teams conducted inspections to check mosquito breeding on Malhar Road on Friday. Additional MC commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal also accompanied the teams during the exercise. Forty-three buildings were checked on Malhar Road and challans were issued to the owners of two buildings after the teams found mosquito larvae on their premises.The teams inspected the rooftops of these buildings and other points which are susceptible to mosquito breeding. The owners and tenants were also asked to avoid water accumulation on their respective premises. As per officials, joint teams of district health department and MC have been conducting inspections to check mosquito breeding and 18 such teams are working in the city. Senior MC officials accompanied the teams on Friday to supervise their working.MC health officer Dr Vipal Malhotra said that two challans were issued after mosquito larvae were found in buildings. Continuous inspections will be conducted in different parts of the city to keep a check on mosquito breeding, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-30-cases-in-two-days-take-dengue-count-to-281-101633736728059.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 3 booked for abetting suicides of man, son||After a 10-month-long probe in the case of suicides of a man and his son, Ludhiana rural police have registered an FIR against three persons under abetment charges. According to the police, the accused have been identified as Gurmeet Singh of Lotbaddi village, Narinder Bansal of Punjabi Bagh and Yaspal Bansal of Ludhiana, who had duped the victim of ₹80 lakh. The case has now been registered on the basis of the initial complaint lodged by the wife of one of the victims, a resident of Raikot’s Brahmpura, on December 11, 2020. As per her complaint, the accused had “forced” her husband to end his life. “After being duped by the accused, my husband was under immense stress. He shot himself dead with his licensed revolver. My son was not able to bear the loss of his father following which, he also ended his life by hanging himself,” the complainant added. It came to the fore during the police investigation that the accused had promised to give ₹80 lakh to the victim or a land equivalent to the amount. The deal was made in return to the transfer of ownership of victim’s land in Kup Kalan village to Narinder Bansal and his friend Yaspal Bansal. The victim had transferred the ownership to the accused in December 2014, but had been since then waiting for either the money or the property equivalent to the amount. ASI Sayed Shakeel, who has been investigating the case, said after a probe, the accused were booked under sections 306 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The FIR against them has been registered at the Sadar Raikot police station. The accused are yet to be arrested, the ASI added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-3-booked-for-abetting-suicides-of-man-son-101633736548020.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bypolls: Kanhaiya, Sidhu, Channi among Congress’ star campaigners||The Congress announced a list of 20 star campaigners for byelections to one parliamentary and three assembly constituencies in Himachal Pradesh on Friday.The list includes Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, his Punjab counterpart Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president Kanhaiya Kumar, who was recently inducted into the Congress.The names of former Union minister Anand Sharma, former Haryana chief minister Bhupender Singh Hooda, Punjab industry and commerce minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli, former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, Himachal All India Congress Committee in-charge Rajeev Shukla and his deputy Sanjay Dutt are also in the mix.Dalhousie MLA Asha Kumari, state party chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri, former ministers Dhani Ram Shandil and Kaul Singh, former state chief Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, Sujanpur legislator Rajinder Singh Rana, Shimla (rural) MLA Vikramaditya Singh and former Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC) chairman Maj Gen (Retd) Dharamvir Singh Rana will also be campaigning for the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bypolls-kanhaiya-sidhu-channi-among-congress-star-campaigners-101633733127550.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||28 civilians killed in Kashmir this year: J&K Police||Twenty-eight civilians have been killed in Kashmir this year, the Jammu and Kashmir Police have said amid a series of targeted attacks this week. Seven civilians have been killed in Kashmir since Tuesday and triggered panic in the region. “Out of 28, five persons belong to local Hindu/Sikh community and two non-local Hindu labourers,” said inspector general (Kashmir) Vijay Kumar in a statement.Kumar said the killings were a result of frustration due to the killing of terrorists, especially their leaderships, destruction of their support structures and continuous and effective maintenance of law and order. He added terrorists handlers have changed strategy and started targeting unarmed policemen, civilians, politicians, and now people from minority communities including a woman.“In all such cases, terrorists have been using pistols. These acts are committed by newly recruited terrorists or those who are about to join terrorist’s rank. In some cases, OGWs (overground workers) have been found directly involved.” Kumar added police were working hard and identifying the terrorists involved. He promised the strictest action. “We have received several leads and are working on them. We have also been launching operations along with security forces. We appeal to the general public especially minority communities not to panic. We have been maintaining peace and a secured environment and will continue to do so,” the IGP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28-civilians-killed-in-kashmir-this-year-j-k-police-101633732647479.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal: BJP quells rebellion in Arki, Bragta revolts in Jubbal-Kotkhai||Leaders of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party managed to quell a rebellion in Arki, a day after it announced tickets for three assembly and one parliamentary seat. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and other leaders had to pacify former legislator Govind Ram Sharma, who had threatened to contest as an independent candidate. Sharma has been vying for a ticket for a long time. Union sports and information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur had flown in for the nomination filing of Ratan Pal Singh. He had also been denied a ticket in 2017, while Ratan Pal had been pitted against former six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh. Meanwhile, BJP’s information technology in-charge Chetan Bragta, whom the party had projected its candidate, after his father Narendra Bragta’s death filed his nomination as an independent candidate from Jubbal-Kotkhai after the party decided to go with Neelam Saraik at the last moment. Party against dynastic politics: Jai Ram “The decision taken by the party high command is supreme. In the by-election, the kith and kin of the deceased leaders were claimants for the ticket. However, the high command took the decision to discourage dynastic politics. The decision was not aimed against any individual. BJP is the biggest party in the world. I am hopeful that those who are not present here will join us tomorrow,” chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said, alluding to Chetan Bragta. There was thin attendance at the public meeting. Party workers, including office bearers of the block unit and district unit owing allegiance to Chetan Bragta, we conspicuous by their absence at the rally. Chetan Bragta, who filed his nomination as an independent candidate, castigated the party for denying him a ticket “ I did not hold a show of strength. All party workers came on their own accord. My agenda is to strengthen horticulture and work towards the development of the region,” he said. “My only demand is that the party should reconsider its decision,” he said, when told about the CM being hopeful of his return to the party fold. Meanwhile, Saraik said, “Chetan is my younger brother. I am hopeful that he will reconsider his decision. I have the support of the party and the entire government. Saraik has been pitted against Rohit Thakur, former chief parliamentary secretary. Thakur is grandson of former chief minister Ram Lal Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bjp-quells-rebellion-in-arki-bragta-revolts-in-jubbalkotkhai-101633732408514.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pratibha Singh files nomination from Mandi||Former chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s wife and Congress nominee from Mandi parliamentary constituency Pratibha Singh filed her nomination papers on Friday amid rousing reception by supporters. Singh was accompanied by senior leader and former minister Kaul Singh Thakur.The nomination was followed by a public rally at Mandi town’s famous Seri Manch which was attended by Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, Asha Kumari, and Shimla (Rural) MLA and Pratibha’s son Vikramaditya Singh.Two-time MP from Mandi, Pratibha Singh is pitted against Kargil war veteran Khushal Thakur from BJP. The Mandi by-election was necessitated after the death of incumbent MP Ram Swaroop Sharma in April this year.Addressing a public meeting, Pratibha Singh urged the people of Mandi to vote for Congress. Talking about the BJP nominee, Pratibha said he had done an excellent job in the army, however, this was not an army ground but a political battlefield where the people decided the fate of a candidate.Speaking on the occasion, Vikramaditya Singh said the by-election was a semifinal to the 2022 assembly elections. He raised the issue of rising prices of edible oils and slammed the BJP governments at the Centre and the state for people’s sufferings.He said Mandi has lagged behind in development under the current BJP regime and that Congress will fight the elections on the issues of inflation and unemployment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pratibha-singh-files-nomination-from-mandi-101633732108659.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||UP govt protecting accused of Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Congress||The Congress party on Friday accused the Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government of protecting the accused of Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Addressing a press conference at Shimla, All India Congress Committee (AICC) spokesperson Charanjit Singh Sapra said that the main accused, Ashish Mishra, who is the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni, was still roaming free despite being named in the FIR and abundant evidence of him being behind the killings of farmers.“Congress demands the resignation of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra as his son is involved in Lakhimpur Kheri violence, there is ample evidence against him for killing farmers,” said Sapra.Both the state and Centre government are protecting the accused, he said, adding that it was well known that Ajay Mishra was a smuggler and a goon, but still BJP made him a minister of state.“If Ajay Mishra doesn’t come to the police, the cops must arrest him,” he said. Taking a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said the PM preferred to interact with peacocks and not with the victims of violence.Congress also alleged that the Union government was involved in a bribery scandal of ₹8,546 crore paid by Amazon India to the people involved in the government. Sapra said that 14 crore people had lost their jobs and 2.5 crore small factories and industries had been shut. He alleged that “na khayenge aur na khane denge” slogan of the BJP government had now turned into “khayenge, khilayenge aur mitayenge”. He said the current regime in its seven-year rule had spoiled the efforts of 70 years by Congress.Sapra further alleged that celebrating 20 years of Modi was just a PR exercise and headline mongering. He also charged the Union government of failing to tackle terrorism. He said during the last one month 28 people had died due to terror attacks. Sapra also slammed the Centre over rising prices of petrol and LPG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-govt-protecting-accused-of-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-congress-101633731687371.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||JK: Slain school principal Supinder Kour cremated amid protests||The last rites of Supinder Kour – the slain principal of a government school in Eidgah locality of the city – were performed on Friday amid a protest by members of the Sikh community.Militants had killed the principal, and another teacher, Deepak Chand, on the premises of the government school. Later, the The Resistance Front (TRF) has claimed responsibility for the attack. Her family and friends staged a sit-in protest outside the Srinagar Civil Secretariat with the body and demanded that the killers be punished. Later, senior police officers persuaded them to end the sit-in protest. Kour’s body was later consigned to flames at the Cremation Centre in Karan Nagar. Members of the Sikh community were carrying placards demanding justice. Political leaders condemn killing Several mainstream party leaders also visited Kour’s house to express their condolences, among them were PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti and National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah. Calling the attack on civilians an attempt to divide the community, Omar said, “The attacks are taking place back-to-back and no one feels secure here today. The Muslims here have also been targeted, Kashmiri Pandits and Sikh brethren also. They do not feel safe.” “There is an atmosphere of fear, everyone is thinking of leaving from here. It is our responsibility, especially of the majority community, to try to give a sense of security to our brothers and neighbours so that we will not see a repeat of the 1990s-like situation,” he said.“The situation is worsening day by day and the BJP government is responsible for it. Its wrong steps and measures taken since August 5, 2019, (abrogation of Article 370) and before that as well, are directly responsible for the fast worsening situation in Kashmir,” Mehbooba said.Policy failure to blame: PAGD Meanwhile, People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration spokesperson Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami said, “These killings have created a climate of fear that has not been seen in Kashmir since the early 90s. The current situation is the result of the failure of the policies of the government that have brought Jammu and Kashmir to this point. Be it demonetisation or scrapping of Article 370, these decisions were sold to the country as a solution to the problems of militancy and alienation in Kashmir.” “ In fact, some recent decisions of the Jammu & Kashmir administration have only served to heighten differences between the communities that were otherwise were living peacefully,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-slain-school-principal-supinder-kour-cremated-amid-protests-101633731027171.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||PDP demands J&K lieutenant governor’s resignation||The PDP on Friday demanded the resignation of Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha over the recent civilian killings by militants, saying the administration has “failed” to provide a sense of security to the people.PDP also demanded that officers in-charge for security should be divested of their charge. The party workers took out a protest rally in Srinagar against the civilian killings in Kashmir over the past one week and blamed the administration for interrupting the rally. The party’s chief spokesperson Suhail Bukhari said, “So, for its (administration’s) failures, for not being able to protect the people, for the worsening situation and for working against the people, the PDP demands that lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha has no moral authority left to continue and he should resign. He has failed in his work to provide security and development.”Meanwhile, PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti also demanded accountability and said heads should roll. “PDPs attempts to take out a unity march in view of recent targeted killings was stopped by police. Ironically, the Centre spreads canards that Kashmiri Muslims do not stand up for minorities.The truth is that this vicious hateful propaganda suits BJPs electoral narrative and prospects,” Mehbooba said in series of tweets. Mufti said attacks could have prevented had the focus been only on security issues. “Until yesterday, the security grid was completely immersed in organising normalcy picnic tours and horseback riding for visiting ministers. Perhaps these attacks could have been averted if their sole focus was not these ministerial visits and normalcy acrobatics.” Perpetrators will be punished: Sinha Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said perpetrators of recent civilian killings will be punished and every drop of blood spilled will be avenged. “ I am deeply pained and anguished and I promise the family members of the innocent victims that perpetrators of the barbaric acts will be punished soon,” Sinha said.“Everyone wants justice. I assure you that we have given free hand to the security agencies to eliminate the enemies of humanity, and soon the terrorists and those aiding and abetting them will pay for their heinous crimes. I want to assure the people of J&K that terrorist’s nefarious plan to destabilize the process of peace, development and prosperity in Jammu and Kashmir will never succeed. Every drop of innocent civilians blood will be avenged,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pdp-demands-j-k-lieutenant-governor-s-resignation-101633730367102.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Terror attack: ‘Deepak loved Kashmir, but now it is a living hell,’ say kin||Amid widespread anger and protests by different social and political organisations, the mortal remains of government teacher Deepak Chand Mehra were consigned to flames at the Shakti Nagar cremation ground on Friday. Hundreds of people turned up for Mehra’s funeral. Heart-wrenching scenes were witnessed at his Patoli residence and at the cremation ground where family members, relatives and friends wept inconsolably. Mehra and school principal Satinder Kour were first identified from their identity cards and segregated by the Islamist terrorists before being shot dead from point blank range at Government Boys Higher Secondary School, Eidgah in Srinagar on October 7. Deepak is survived by his widow Anuradha,minor daughter and his mother. The funeral was also attended by politicians from the BJP and Congress. Anuradha, said, “My husband was brave.He never wanted us to get scared. Even if he came across something disturbing, he would never share anything with us. Can the government bring him back?” His tear-stricken mother said, “We do not want a job. We want our son back.” Kanta Devi and with her family had migrated from Kashmir in the 1990s during the emergence of terrorism. Vicky Mehra, Deepak’s cousin, said, “Deepak loved Kashmir and would invite relatives and friends there. Now, it has become a living hell for us...it is not heaven.” J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina, who also attended the cremation, said, “The development comes following the abrogation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and the the communal brotherhood in the region was not going down well with Pakistani terrorists.” Jammu Chamber protests against innocent killings in Kashmir Valley The Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industries (CCI) along with different trader associations staged a strong protest against unabated and innocent killings in the Kashmir Valley. Led by JCCI president Arun Gupta, traders of various business organisations Kanak Mandi, Raghunath Bazar, Pacca Danga, Shalamar Road, Old Hospital Road, Hari Market, Gumat Bazar etc assembled at City Chowk area of Jammu city, raised slogans against the anti- national forces funded by Pakistan. J&K HC Bar body boycotts workEnraged over selective killings of Hindus and Sikhs in Kashmir, the lawyers of the J&K High Court Bar Association on Friday abstained from work and staged protests at Janipur.The protest was led by the president of the Bar MK Bhardwaj and other office bearers of the Bar Mohinder Pal Singh Pali, Surjeet Singh Andotra, Aditya Sharma,S. Amandeep Singh and Nitin Bakshi. Bhardwaj strongly condemned Pakistan for carrying on the policy of enmity against India and harbouring terrorists on its soil and using them to threaten life of the people and security forces in Jammu & Kashmir.Rajni Patil visits Bindroo’s family (BOX) All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of J&K affairs Rajni Patil arrived at Srinagar on Friday to offer condolences to the families of the martyrs on behalf of the Congress leadership and rank and file of the party.Soon after her arrival, Patil accompanied by J&K Congress president GA Mir, Congress Working Committee member Tariq Hamid Karra and others visited the residence of Makhan Lal Bindroo, who was martyred on Tuesday. She will also offer condolences to other victims of yesterday’s selective killings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/terror-attack-deepak-loved-kashmir-but-now-it-is-a-living-hell-say-kin-101633730067106.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Heightened security in Kashmir no reason to open fire: Omar Abdullah||Condemning the killing of a youth by the CRPF in Anantnag, former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah said the heightened state of alert cannot be a reason to open fire at a civilian.Yasir Ali, a resident of Jammu, had been killed by CRPF jawans after he failed to stop his vehicle near checking point at Anantnag on Thursday night. He died on the spot.“Yasir Ali killed by security forces at a check point in South Kashmir last night. A heightened state of alert cannot be a reason to open fire like this. Senior officers of the security forces need to ensure calmer heads prevail & nothing happens to worsen the situation,” said Omar Abdullah. Police said that the CRPF personnel had fired in self defence. The incident took place at Monghal Bridge in Anantnag when troopers of 40 battalion CRPF fired on a Scorpio vehicle that did not stop at checking point.“A Naka was established by 40BN CRPF at Monghal Bridge. A suspected vehicle without number was signalled to stop by the Naka party. However, it rushed towards the naka party. It was then challenged by the on duty troops,” the police spokesman said in a statement. “Troops fired upon in self defence in which one person died. But the driver of the vehicle managed to escape from the spot,” the spokesman said.Former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said action should be taken against the trigger-happy personal. “This appears to be the start of a knee-jerk reaction to what has transpired during last two days. Disproportionate force has been used by CRPF, which has resulted in this innocent civilian’s death. Will there be any action against the trigger happy personnel?” Mufti tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heightened-security-in-kashmir-no-reason-to-open-fire-omar-abdullah-101633729467119.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Militant killed in chance encounter in Srinagar||A militant was killed while another escaped during a brief shoot-out in Srinagar’s Natipora area on Friday evening.Police spokesperson said that militants fired upon Srinagar police team and the police also retaliated.“During the chance encounter, one militant got neutralised but one escaped. Arms and ammunition were recovered,” said the spokesperson.The spokesperson further said that as per the identity card recovered from the killed militant, he had been identified as Aqib Bashir Kumar of Trenz Shopian affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba.After the back-to-back terror attacks in the union territory, there has been a high alert in the city and the police are checking vehicles at several places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/militant-killed-in-chance-encounter-in-srinagar-101633728926911.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hit-and-run mishap claims scooterist’s life in Mohali||In yet another hit-and-run accident in Mohali district, a 42-year-old man was killed after a truck hit his scooter in Dhakoli on Thursday night.Police said Manish Pal, a resident of Sector 19, Chandigarh, was on his way home on his Honda Activa, when a rashly driven truck hit him and drove off. A seriously injured Pal was rushed to the Dera Bassi civil hospital, but declared brought dead.Investigating officer Gulab Singh said the unidentified truck driver had been booked for rash driving and causing death by negligence under the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hitandrun-mishap-claims-scooterist-s-life-in-mohali-101633725453541.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man caught with banned injections jailed for 10 years||A Sector 37 resident has been sentenced to 10 years in jail for possessing banned injections in 2017. The court of additional district and sessions judge Jagdeep Singh also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh on the convict, identified as Vikas Garg, 34. Garg was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act on October 10, 2017, after he was found carrying 10 vials of buprenorphine injection near the Sector 61/52 dividing road. Arriving from Phase 3B2 in Mohali, he had tried to flee on spotting a police team at a check post, but was caught.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-caught-with-banned-injections-jailed-for-10-years-101633725451994.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Oxygen plant inaugurated at Panchkula civil hospital||A pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant, installed at the Sector-6 civil hospital, was inaugurated by Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Friday.Set up with the help of PM Cares fund and corporate social responsibility (CSR) fund, the plant extracts oxygen from the environment with purity between 93% and 95%. Multiple such plants were inaugurated all over the country, under the virtual observation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Dr VK Bansal, additional director general, health services, and Dr Suvir Saxena, principal medical officer, civil hospital, Sector 6, were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oxygen-plant-inaugurated-at-panchkula-civil-hospital-101633725450856.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon leaves Chandigarh with 29% shortfall||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced monsoon withdrawal in the region on Friday, 13 days later than its normal departure on September 25.This is the most delayed rainy season withdrawal since 2019, as per IMD officials. It retreated on September 30 in 2020 and on October 10 in 2019.According to IMD, monsoon withdrawal is announced when no rain is recorded in the whole region for four to five days in a row and an anti-cyclonic movement starts to form over the region.“Rain continued till the end of September due to the formation of Low Pressure Areas (LPAs) over the Bay of Bengal and due to pressure differences in the region. LPAs had a huge impact on monsoon in this region this year,” said Manmohan Singh, director, IMD, Chandigarh.Weakest monsoon since 2016This year, the region received 600.2mm rain against a normal of 846.5mm, a deficit of 29%.This made it the weakest monsoon since 2016, when 456.9mm rain was recorded.“July and August, which are supposed to be the rainiest months of the year, didn’t see enough precipitation this time. In comparison, September was the wettest month, which is unusual, but has emerged as a trend in the recent years,” said Singh.Monsoon had started off strong with 119.4mm rain in June, though it was 8% below normal. However, at 148.1mm, the rain in July was 48% deficient. The deficit continued in August that saw 160.2mm rain, a 44% shortfall.September sprang a surprise with 172.5mm rain, which was 15% surplus, making it the only monsoon month this year with above normal rain.Punjab and Haryana were wetter than ChandigarhWhile rain remained on the lower side in Chandigarh, overall, the region saw sufficient rainfall.Haryana received 30% excess rain (573.1mm), highest in the past 18 years, which brought along problems for farmers, delaying harvest and sowing of next crop.Though rain was 7% deficient in Punjab (436.8mm), it was highest in the past eight years.IMD officials said Chandigarh remained drier in particular due to local factors and pressure differences that developed over the city.Dry weather aheadOn Friday, the maximum temperature went up from 33.7°C on Thursday to 33.8°C, one notch above normal. But the minimum temperature decreased from 22.3°C to 22.1°C, still four degrees above normal.Dry weather is likely to continue in the coming days, which will see a drop in the night temperature. It is expected to remain lower than 22°C, while the day temperature will be between 33-34°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoon-leaves-chandigarh-with-29-shortfall-101633725449359.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Intruder steals diamond, gold jewellery from Chandigarh house||An unidentified man broke into a Sector-42 house while the family was home, and stole diamond and gold jewellery worth lakhs on Thursday night.Anuradha Gupta, 68, told the police that she lived with her husband, and their son, who stays in the US, was visiting them. Around 1.30am, her husband was woken up an unusual sound and he saw someone leaving his room towards the balcony. He alerted his son, who was attending a virtual work meeting. His son raised the alarm and on checking the storeroom, they found an almirah’s locker open. Gupta alleged that the thief took away a diamond set, a gold chain with a diamond pendant, another gold chain, two pairs of diamond earrings, a diamond ring and a pearl necklace, besides some documents, including a passport.In another burglary case, ₹20,000 cash, gold jewellery and a watch were stolen from a locked house in Sector 39.Home owner, Purshottam, complained to the police that his wife and son were out for some work on Wednesday. When they returned around 3.30pm, they found the lock of the main door broken and the entire house ransacked.Separate theft cases have been registered.Teen robbed of ₹6,500 at knifepoint A 17-year-old boy was robbed of ₹6,500 cash at knifepoint near the Sector 25/38 light point in Chandigarh on Wednesday night.The minor boy told the police that he was returning from work around 8.30pm when four men suddenly restrained him. One of them pulled out a knife and snatched his cash. When the robbers were about to snatch his mobile phone, the victim managed to run away. A case under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered. Another man was also targeted by snatchers in Sector 38 on Wednesday. Vishal, a resident of Sector 38, told the police that three men on a motorcycle sped away after snatching his mobile phone and ₹2,000 in cash near Vivek High School, while he was headed to a chemist. A case under Section 379A (snatching) of the IPC was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/intruder-steals-diamond-gold-jewellery-from-chandigarh-house-101633725447192.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: 4kg opium seized with arrest of two drug smugglers||The crime investigating agency (CIA) of Mohali police arrested two drug smugglers after recovering 4kg opium from them near Bhagomajra bus stand on Friday.The accused were identified as Krishan Mandal, 40, of Sohana in Mohali, and Mandeep Singh, 27, of Bathinda. “Krishan owns two car wash shops in Mohali and Mandeep was his customer. They both joined hands to start a drug smuggling racket,” said SSP Navjot Singh Mahal. He said the duo was arrested by a CIA team headed by DSP Gurcharan Singh. The DSP said the accused were travelling in a Toyota Innova when they were stopped for checking following a tip-off. On searching the vehicle, police recovered 4kg opium in sacks. CIA inspector Sukhbir said the accused revealed that they brought the consignment from Assam to sell it in Mohali, Kharar and Ropar at five times the buying cost. The duo was produced in a court and sent to police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali4kg-opium-seized-with-arrest-of-two-drug-smugglers-101633725446066.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGIMER gets country’s first HR-pQCT scanner||The endocrinology wing of the Nehru Hospital Extension Block of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is now equipped with country’s first high-resolution peripheral quantitative computed tomography (HR-pQCT) scanner, which will be used in early diagnosis of bone disorders.The machine, worth ₹5 crore, has been imported from Switzerland and provides minute details on bone quality and mass, and architectural details comparable to a bone biopsy. Bones scanned using the scanner are usually in the forearm and leg. A HR-pQCT scan emits much less radiation than a standard Chest X-ray. It was inaugurated by PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram in the presence of Kumar Gaurav Dhawan, deputy director (administration); Dr Sanjay Bhadada, head, endocrinology department and other senior faculty members.Dr Ram said, “The HR-pQCT machine is non-invasive and gives quick results on diagnosis of bone disorders, unlike bone biopsy which is invasive, painful and time-consuming. Also, when a patient undergoes CT scans, the machine produces high radiation, but this advanced technology won’t. This treatment option opens a new avenue in PGIMER, not only in patient management but in clinical and basic research.”While detailing the multi-pronged usage of the scanner, Dr Sanjay Bhadada said, “HR-pQCT is useful for the early diagnosis of multiple bone disorders like osteoporosis, primary hyperparathyroidism, steroid induced bone damage, bone disease in diabetes, celiac disease, transplant bone disease, bone disease associated with malignancy, bone disease in thyroid and pituitary disorders and other rare metabolic diseases.”Dr Bhadada added, “Early diagnosis of bone diseases can help prevent future fractures. Also, HR-pQCT can be used to monitor improvement in bone health following initiation of treatment which can be picked up as early as three months. Besides, HR-pQCT will help us conduct advanced research in the field of bone disorders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pgimer-gets-country-s-first-hr-pqct-scanner-101633724965854.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police recover ₹1.6 lakh from three gamblers||Three Chandigarh men were arrested while gambling near garbage centre park in Sector 45 and ₹1.59 lakh were recovered from them. The accused have been identified as Sandeep 30, a resident of Sector 52; Ompal, 55, of Phase 1, Ram Darbar; and Khalil Ahmed, 41, of Burail village.Meanwhile, Ram Kishan of Sanjay Colony, Phase 1 Industrial Area and Narender of Hallomajra were also arrested while gambling at Sanjay Colony. Police recovered ₹1,140 from them. Both cases were registered under Gambling Act and all five accused were released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-recovers-1-6-lakh-from-three-gamblers-101633724605913.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala city: Four years on, three development projects hanging fire||Even after four years, three development projects worth ₹28 crore are yet to be completed due to paucity of funds. The projects -- Mahavir Park at Agrasen Chowk; Bal Bhawan, which is next to the park and Navrang Rai Talaab, behind Panchayat Bhawan -- are being developed by the municipal corporation and have missed several deadlines despite the budget being increased twice, official said.Engineers of the civic body said that the process for allotting new tenders with revised budgets is still underway for all the projects.Municipal commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata, said, “Specifications and requirements for all three projects have changed, which lead to increase in costs and stalled their development.”Mahavir ParkThe construction of Mahavir Park started in September 2017 at a cost of ₹9 crore over 25 acres of land. It was planned to have a walking path shaped like a turtle and a restaurant in the lake among other attractions.It is coming up at one of the busiest intersections in the city, which has many sparkling markets and the park is being transformed from a barren water body to a tourist spot.The work was halted in 2019 over paucity of funds and resumed with a revised budget of ₹18 crore after a few months. However, the process stopped again during the lockdown last year and now, more funds are needed.A controversy had erupted earlier when the then health minister and Ambala Cantt MLA Anil Vij wrote to the then urban local bodies minister Kavita Jain, seeking an inquiry into alleged irregularities in a maintenance tender in 2016, before the beautification work started.Navrang Rai TalaabThe pond is surrounded by at least 14 temples and attracts devotees from many north Indian states during the annual vaman mela in September. Its beautification was announced by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in 2015,with an initial budget of ₹3.5 crore. However, the cost increased to ₹11 crore and work has now stopped due to the change in budget, officials said. Recently, a few devotees were injured after a railing fell into the pond at the site on the last day of a three-day mela last month. BAL BHAWANThe foundation stone of the Bal Bhawan was laid by Khattar in March 2018 in the presence of MP Rattan Lal Kataria and MLA Aseem Goel. It was initially supposed to come up at a cost of ₹6 crore, but after the cost rose to ₹9 crore, the construction was halted. The building adjoining Mahavir Park is in a decrepit state, with more than half its basement filled with rain and sewage water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-city-four-years-on-three-development-projects-hanging-fire-101633724436337.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: College teachers protest for pay hike||College Teachers under the banner of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisation (PFUCTO) and teachers working at private colleges in Chandigarh held a protest march on Friday demanding implementation of the seventh University Grants Commission (UGC) Pay Scale. The teachers assembled at DAV College in Sector 10, but were stopped near the Mountview Chowk. Officials of the UT administration have fixed a meeting with them on October 13.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSMortar shell found at empty plot A mortar shell was recovered during by labourers constructing a boundary wall at an empty plot in Khuda Lahora on Friday.The contractor informed the owner and the police and the army was also informed. Police said that this was old mortar as this area was under Chandimandir, where the army used to carry out exercises. Rally on leprosy awareness The Mohali health department conducted a rally on Friday to raise awareness on leprosy eradication. It was flagged off by Dr Bhavneet Bharti, principal of Dr BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences. Dr Bharti said that leprosy is not contagious and is totally curable disease. She added that it is a bacterial infection that grows very slowly and can have severe health consequences, if not treated.Workshop on cyber crime As part of the National Cyber Security Awareness Month, a session on cyber crime awareness was organised for the parents of students at Gurukul Global School, Manimajra. The parents were made aware of the national cyber crime helpline number, 155260, and Whatsapp cyber helpline number, 7087006997, through which complaints on cyber offences can be filed.PU V-C meets Union law ministerVice-chancellor of Panjab University, Raj Kumar, met Union minister of law and justice Kiren Rijiju in New Delhi on Friday. During the meeting, the V-C discussed various achievements of the university and its recent progress.Two-day conference starts at UIET A two-day international conference on multi-disciplinary aspects of materials in engineering started at University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), Panjab University, on Friday. It is being held in physical and online modes. The conference is a multidisciplinary event covering themes on innovative research related to engineering and will provide a forum to the best talents from academia and research institutions, industry experts, management professionals, engineers and executives to collaborate and address challenges.Annual convention at Christ Church beginsThe three-day Annual Varshik Masihi Sammelan (annual convention) of Christ Church CNI in Sector 18, started on Friday. The theme of the first day was “fear not, stand firm” and the main speaker and chief guest was pastor John Peter, pastor-in-charge of Good Shepherd Church, Suranassi, Jalandhar. The convention was instituted in 1994 by the then pres-byter-in-charge, Reverend Warris K Masih||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhcollege-teachers-protest-for-pay-hike-101633724128831.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh toilet scam: HC stays non-bailable warrants against 2 accused||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday stayed the non-bailable warrants issued against two accused in the infamous toilet scam pertaining to the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), wherein the exchequer had allegedly incurred losses worth ₹ 25.8 lakh.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) special court had on Wednesday issued the warrants against two of the accused — Jimmy Subawalla, director of Selvel Media Services, and Bishwadeep Dutta, general manager of the company — after they failed to appear before the court.The court is yet to frame charges against the accused- Jimmy Subawalla, Bishwadeep Dutta, Mysa Ganesh and Ramesh Chander Diwan, former superintending engineer.In the chargesheet submitted by the CBI on October 1, 2016, it had booked all the accused under Sections 13 (2) read with 13 (d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The toilet scam pertains to the operation and maintenance of 86 public toilets between 2006 and 2014. The FIR was registered in 2014 following allegations that the firm embezzled government funds in connivance with officials at the helm of affairs in the MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-toilet-scam-hc-stays-non-bailable-warrants-against-2-accused-101633723827850.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||21-year-old cook held for molesting British diplomat in Chandigarh||Police’s hunt for the motorcyclist who molested a senior British diplomat in Sector 10 on Wednesday ended on Friday with the arrest of a 21-year-old cook.The accused, identified as Vishwas, lives in Nayagaon and works as a cook for an online restaurant in Manimajra. His family comprises his parents and two brothers.He was arrested near the Housing Board light point and identified by the diplomat. Police have also recovered the motorcycle that he was riding when he molested her.“The accused was arrested through technical assistance and human intelligence network, and the police team’s professional acumen,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh.A Class-10 pass-out, Vishwas is facing charges for molesting the envoy while she was on her way to play tennis at Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) courts in Sector 10 on Wednesday.Targeted envoy early morningIn her complaint, the diplomat, who assumed office in February this year, said the incident took place when she left her residence in Sector 9 around 6.30am to walk towards CLTA, opposite DAV College in Sector 10.She had crossed Jan Marg and was at the roundabout near Hotel Mountview when the man arrived on his motorbike and molested her. “I was walking past the residential houses when a motorcycle came up behind me. The rider hit my back hard with his hand or something. I shouted at him and ran after him, but he sped away,” she had told the police.Facing up to three years in jailOn the diplomat’s complaint, the accused was booked under Sections 354 (sexual harassment) and 354-A (physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual overtures) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 3 police station.If proven, Section 354 entails a jail term of up to two years and Section 354-A rigorous imprisonment of up to three years.“We are grateful to the Chandigarh police force for their professionalism, courtesy and efficiency,” a spokesperson at the British Deputy High Commission in Chandigarh said.CCTV camera gave initial cluesPolice sources said a CCTV camera installed at a house near the crime scene gave police initial clues about the accused, who was captured around the time the incident took place. With the help of the CCTV footage, the police traced his route and gathered more inputs through human intelligence.Derived pleasure from touching female walkersInvestigators said the accused was a habitual offender and had confessed that he derived pleasure by touching women, mostly those out for a walk in the morning.“His work starts early. While going to his workplace in Manimajra from his Nayagaon house around 6am, he would ride his motorcycle through the inner roads of Sectors 8, 9 and 10, besides Sukhna Lake. On the prowl for women walking alone, he would touch their buttocks or chest and speed away,” said a police officer, privy to the matter.While most victims never approached the police with a complaint, they have dug out another case with his involvement.Here, he had inappropriately touched a 40-year-old gazetted officer, living in Panchkula. She was cycling towards Sukhna Lake on June 4, 2021, when the accused molested her.A case under Section 354 of the IPC was registered on her complaint at the Sector 26 police station. She has also identified the accused, said a police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/21yearold-cook-held-for-molesting-british-diplomat-in-chandigarh-101633723586290.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navratris: Haryana CM offers prayers at Mata Mansa Devi temple||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar offered prayers at the Mata Mansa Devi Temple on the second day of the Navratris on Friday. Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta was also present on the occasion.The CM participated in the havan organised in the yagyashala and inaugurated development works worth ₹4.4 crore on the temple premises. The works inaugurated were the main corridor connecting Mata Mansa Devi temple to Patiala temple, built at a cost of ₹2.8 crore, and Shree Vatika Parking for the devotees constructed at a cost of ₹2.4 crore. Khattar also dedicated the Shakti Stambh of Kali Mata Temple at Pinjore and Kalka, on which ₹22.65 lakh was spent. Khattar said that crops have suffered a lot due to rains and considering the problems of farmers, the government has ordered for special girdawari (revenue assessment). After girdawari, the farmers will be given proper compensation for the damaged crops. He said that due to the rains, the procurement of crops has also been affected in some places and orders have been issued to streamline this process.Khattar also spoke about the Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivar Utthan Yojana under which the government will directly reach out to the doorsteps of poor families to ensure their economic upliftment. “Small farmers and labourers will benefit directly from this scheme,” he added.On the second day of the festival, ₹18.23 lakh, 3.86 grams of gold and 589.66 grams of silver were donated by devotees at the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navratris-haryana-cm-offers-prayers-at-mata-mansa-devi-temple-101633723406064.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CITCO told to set clear criteria for discounts||Coming down heavily on the way discounts are being given out at Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Corporation (CITCO) Hotels, managing director Yashpal Garg on Friday told the corporation’s officials that it should be based on certain objective criteria rather than pick-and-choose basis.Expressing disappointment at the CITCO officials, Garg said, “If we are allowing a certain average discount to almost all walk-in customers, then instead of bargaining in each case, we should allow it to all customers and remaining discounts should be extended based on specific criteria. The criteria should be known to all guests and be available on the corporation’s website to bring transparency and fairness.”Garg had held a marathon meeting with the officials on Thursday. He said, “The in-charges need to make their best effort by contacting potential customers with aggressive marketing strategies instead of wasting their time in bargaining even for the discount which they are eventually extending.”The criteria may be developed at their levels and after approval from the undersigned, they should be displayed in the hotel and be widely publicised for better business prospects, Garg directed.Questioning the business acumen of the GM/DGMs, Garg said, “Some of us don’t know even know the basic business strategy where break-even point is decided on the basis of variable cost and not on the basis of total cost.”Further castigating the working of some of the officials, Garg, said, “One of GM/DGM was not aware of the average occupancy of the hotel during the last few months/weeks. He didn’t even know the average discount on each category room being allowed by the front-desk on his behalf. In fact, the ongoing rack-rate for each category of room was also not readily available with him.”Avail festive discounts till Oct 31In view of the upcoming festive season, CITCO has decided to offer discounts of up to 35% for room bookings at Hotel Mountview, Hotel Shivalikview and Hotel Parkview from October 11 to 31. In Hotel Mountview, discount for business standard room is 25%, and for executive room and royale suites, it is 35%. In Shivalikview, discount on regular and semi-deluxe room is 30%. For standard room, deluxe room and suite, and premium suite, it is 25%. To utilise these offers, guests can directly walk in to any of CITCO hotels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/citcotold-to-set-clear-criteria-for-discounts-101633723289983.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||HT Readers’ take: Check reality of your realty dreams||RERA should act to protect hard-earned money of buyersTo reduce mental agony for buyers and curtail unfair practices by builders, GMADA must proactively come up with appropriate measures i.e instant registration of FIR by exposing the builders and promoters. RERA should not become toothless hence Punjab government must intervene to protect the hard earned money of buyers.Gian Singh, ChandigarhLegal tools in place to protect buyers’ moneyThe available legal tools to regulate real estate business in Punjab is so exhaustive and gives so much strength to competent authorities and government that there is not an iota of doubt that anyone can misuse buyers’ money or flee the country. Breach of trust is a criminal offence, 90-95% end users put in their hard earned money, raise loans to realise life’s one-time dream to own a house. So the government is required only to do introspection to find out what and where it has gone wrong to follow the prescribed processes and legal provisions and plug the loopholes to create accountability.MS Aujla, via emailStricter regulatory authority need of the hourRight from allotment of land to allotment of built up dwelling units to the needy, there is a big nexus of promoters, government agencies as well as financial institutions. There are a large number of cases where innocent buyers are being fleeced on one pretext or the other. In the absence of any concrete solution, they are helpless as to which doors to knock on if they end up losing their money. There needs to be a permanent solution to this problem. There has to be will and intention to honestly implement the Acts framed by our legislative bodies. Besides, there needs to be a strict regulatory body as in the case of Insurance Regularly Authority and Telecom Regulatory Authority to protect the rights of the buyers.SK Khosla, ChandigarhBuyers must examine the veracity of builders carefully One had always thought the GBP group was a reputed real estate group but the recent news that their promoters had fled the country was shocking. This news shows that the authorities should keep a close eye on real estate builders. Authorities should ensure that the promises of these builders are being fulfilled. People should be advised not to be fooled by beautiful images and look into the building projects carefully. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhResearch thoroughly before investing in dream homesOver the past decade, Chandigarh has seen a sudden boom of construction and ongoing residential projects in its periphery. The recent controversy regarding the GBP group has created tension in the minds of people who have already invested in their dream homes. To stop such incidents, people should carry out a thorough research on real estate projects before investing in them. Also, RERA should make it mandatory for each and every builder to upload their financial and legal documents on their companies’ sites. Transparency must be very important before starting any project/investment. Firms that have a history of duping people must be legally barred from working on any upcoming future development projects.Sandeep Rawat, ChandigarhPay only security amount before start of projectThe toothless RERA needs more powers, including judicial, to deal with all types of real estate regulatory matters effectively. To keep tabs on builders and realtors who fleece the buyers, they should be allowed to take only security amounts of ₹5,000 to 25,000 (as per the size of the flat and plot) at the time of starting the project. Full payment should be made by buyers only after completion certificate is issued by the RERA. The practice of bookings by developers or realtors should be banned and public will not be trapped and cheated.Subhash Chugh, ChandigarhAbsence of tough regulator to be blamedIn the absence of a tough regulator and unwillingness of an average home buyer to get into expensive court proceedings that could take years, most builders – reputed or otherwise – have been shamelessly taking hapless home buyers for a ride. Builders avoid paying penalties for late delivery of possession by inserting smart clauses in thick apartment buyers’ contracts that most buyers don’t bother to read and later repent having no real recourse. Diversion of money collected from one housing project to another or for speculation in land deals jacks up land prices, and makes homes increasingly un-affordable to most end users. Delays also happen because builders divert funds. Plus they somehow avoid paying penalty. To check diversion of fund, the bill stipulates that 70% of the money collected for a project will be kept in a separate escrow account which can only be used for that project. Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhNeed qualified authorities to check anomalies RERA was formed to control the malefic intentions and actions of property dealers and look after the interests of purchasers. But it has failed miserably due to lack of executive powers. To be effective, the authority should have a team of qualified engineers, architects, town planners, environmentalists and accountants. The authority should monitor the activities of the builders right from the time of purchase of land to the final sale of plot/flat strictly as per the laid out norms. Any violation or deviation must be checked at the first point itself. Only then can the menace could be controlled.Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd), ChandigarhPromoters dupe unsuspecting buyers and flee abroadThe real estate sector in our country is very opaque. Promoters lure potential home buyers with flashy advertisements all over the place. They promise heaven in the flats and bungalows but the reality is entirely different. We never find any scheme getting completed within time. Promoters take lakhs of rupees as advance from buyers and then when they become millionaires, they flee abroad. Real estate regulatory bodies, such as RERA, have failed to enforce the provisions of the Act and poor gullible buyers have nowhere to go. Even court-monitored projects are taking years to complete. The only way out of the mess and opaqueness is to create an Escrow account for every real estate project so that the money of the buyers is in safe hands.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhChoose carefullyThe buyer should choose a good broker while buying any kind of property since the broker knows the sector inside out. A good broker plays a vital role as a matchmaker for both the buyers and sellers. So the government should promote this kind of system and keep on checking on unscrupulous brokers. Jaspreet Kaur, via emailShattered dreams, lost savingsThere is a lot of development happening around the tricity. One can see lots of residential and commercial towers everywhere these days. Around 15 years ago, construction was very negligible. But now, construction of residential towers is a trend. What’s more, the rates are so high that a person ends up exhausting their entire life’s saving to purchase one flat. This makes it all the more important for RERA to keep its vigil up. Government must also certify trusted builders so that buyers can approach the right places. Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhBuy only ready-for-possession properties Even if one has to secure a higher amount for housing loan, it is always safe to pay the full and final payment and occupy the allotted accommodation, instead of paying the advance installments and waiting for completion by the builder. To obviate the eventuality of builders fleeing investors, RERA will do well to seek bank guarantees of adequate amounts from the builders before granting approval to a builder to start any housing project, so that the interests of gullible investors remain protected. SC Luthra, ChandigarhMandatory NOC after completion of flatsIt is the duty of the government to verify the builder and check their credentials before giving nod to launch any real estate project. All the essential criteria, including green area, construction material used, safety norms, number of floors, occupied area, working of lifts should be checked from time to time to keep a check on the ongoing construction. In most cases, government officials don’t visit the construction site and give the nod without proper inspection. Sometimes builders have a nexus with government officials, and may bribe them to get a nod by bypassing norms. Government needs to keep tabs on such violations and bring transparency in the working by installing closed-circuit television cameras and recording every activity. Government should take feedback from flat owners to check if the promises made by the builder have been fulfilled. An app or website should be launched where flat owners can make their complaints directly without any hassle. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliInvestors, be cautiousThe past ten years have witnessed Mohali and its peripheral towns of Zirakpur, Kharar and New Chandigarh becoming the tricity’s real estate hub. There are 500 residential and commercial projects in the pipeline. Eight of these projects are being developed by the GBP group. Recently, its promoters have fled the country, leaving 2,500 investors in a fix. They have sought civil and criminal proceedings against them for leaving the work midway. Panjab Real Estate Regulatory Authority(RERA) is expected to keep a watch and oversee the progress from day one till its completion but it has failed to do so. Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act was passed in 2016 to address the grievances of the hapless buyers but it seems to be toothless. The investors should be cautious; they must have a written deal/memorandum of understanding on a non-judicial stamped paper and must obtain the required documents which establish the legality of the case. The buyers, then, can file a case in the court individually or collectively. This will deter the builders from looting the buyers.Usha Verma, ChandigarhThousands fell prey, govt’s duty to protect themThousands of home buyers, who have invested in housing projects of various real estate companies such as GBP group, have knocked the doors of the Supreme Court for protection after being cheated of their investment. The court said it was primarily the government’s duty to step in to rescue them and protect their interests. These people have invested their hard-earned money. They are paying interest on home loans but are not getting their homes. Sanjay Chopra, MohaliStop accepting one-sided agreements It is a known fact that builders and buyers agreement is often one sided and always favourable to builders resulting in physical, mental and financial loss to buyers. Need of the hour is to have model builder buyer agreement to safe guard the interest of buyers from builder’s default. RERA authorities should also be involved in finalising model builder/ buyer agreement. Builder should be penalised with interest to buyer in case of delayed possession to allottee of the flat/ house by due date. It is also pertinent to mention that majority of buyers took housing loan and have to pay interest on the loan amount which adds to their mental and financial agony. Therefore, need of the hour is to have model Builder/ Buyers agreement dully endorsed by RERA authorities to save guard the interest of buyers. Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliScams growing at the rate of real estate growthThe real estate sector is growing at a rapid rate and so are the frauds associated with it. Even consumers are well aware of this but still suspectable to scams. It is government’s obligation to protect the citizens who invested their hard earned money into buying property but unfortunately get cheated by builders. To protect the gullible buyer, the government should take over the management of the groups who cheated on the buyers and get the work of pending construction work completed and hand over possession to buyers. Government should step in to rescue the investors by taking the strict action and imposing huge penalty on defaulting builders. Government should do in-depth checks on the builder’s background and his past work experience before giving the legal rights of development to residential as well as commercial buildings. In case something is fishy, the builder must be immediately blacklisted. Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurReader of the weekNeed strict monitoring, simplified processThe root cause of problems being faced by investors and buyers of residential and commercial properties is the total lack of monitoring by licensing authorities. As an interim measure, the competent authorities should strictly enforce projects as per the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act, 1995. All financial transactions of builders should also be monitored to protect the interests of the buyers. Since the present situation continues to be alarming, the state government should set up a task force to urgently review and simplify the working of the real estate sector as most of the realty players in Punjab seem to be heavily stressed due to the cumbersome procedures. Hardaman Singh Bhogal, MohaliExpert takeSingle window for plaintsThe state government should appoint one authority so that allottees can go to one place, instead of multiple agencies. At present, the allottee is totally confused, whether to go to RERA, consumer court or police. State government should also give more powers to RERA so that they can execute their orders.Ravinder Taneja, chairman, TDI, managing director Give teeth to RERARERA should be made powerful enough to deal with such complaints and another agency should be attached to it to execute its orders. Investors should also do their homework and check whether the builder has a valid license, and fulfills norms of the building bylaws. Vipul Ujjwal, chief administrator, GMADA Timely plaintsIn case of problems, home buyers must immediately lodge a complaint with RERA so that action can be taken in a timely manner. Sanjiv Gupta, member, RERA, Punjab Official willingness Despite challenges in the new law, we have given remarkable relief to thousands of consumers in a short period. If officials are willing, then the authority has enough powers to ensure justice is done. Dr KK Khandelwal, chairman, Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Gurugram) Check builder’s credentials Before investing money, the investor should look into the history of the builder. They should also check whether the builder has a license or not. Before taking possession, the buyer should check the completion certificate. Umang Jindal, secretary, CREDAI-Punjab||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ht-readers-take-check-reality-of-your-realty-dreams-101633723046401.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administrator’s advisory council meeting: Common PCR for tricity in the works||A common police control room (PCM) for tricity is in the works and the Chandigarh administration has already approached the neighbouring states, Punjab and Haryana, for setting up the facility. The modalities are being finalised. The issue was discussed during the UT administrator’s advisory council meeting held here on Friday. The meeting comprised a series of staggered sessions for submission of action-taken reports (ATR) by the administration on the suggestions and decisions of the council’s nine standing committees.  Officials say the common PCR will help control crime and give quicker access to emergency help to residents of the tricity. In the past few years, inter-city crimes have increased and coordination issues between Panchkula, Mohali and Chandigarh Police have exacerbated the problem. Chandigarh administrator and Punjab governor Banwari Lal Purohit, UT adviser Dharam Pal, senior UT officials and members of respective committees attended the first of its kind meeting, wherein members could evaluate the action taken by the administration on their suggestions. The administrator highlighted that the council meeting has given them the opportunity to brainstorm and undertake suitable reforms for the development of the city. He asked all officials and members to ensure that all agendas raised in the meeting are taken up seriously and action is taken in a time-bound manner. He stressed that innovation must be encouraged to provide better opportunities in every field including education, health, skill development and urban planning. Action-taken presentedMembers of the nine standing committees of the advisory council -- education, health, urban infrastructure, social welfare, law and order, sports, transportation, culture and environment gave presentations on the actions taken that are contributing to the development of the City Beautiful. Key recommendations made by the committee include making Chandigarh a model destination for urban sports, under which facilities for skateboarding and basketball have been created at the football stadium and sports and climbing facilities have been created at the lake complex. The members also apprised the council that the draft sports policy has been prepared and circulated for feedback and suggestions. The agenda of conversion of properties located in Industrial Area Phases 1 and 2 from leasehold to freehold basis was also discussed and it was informed that the matter that has already been taken up with the Centre. Lowering of charges for additional floor area ratio in industrial plots was also discussed. A child protection officer has been nominated at every police station under the recommendation of creating a one stop centre comprising councillors, drug experts etc for juveniles committing crimes. The standing committee on transport listed actions like making roads free from human and animal propelled rickshaws, regulation of auto rickshaw ,and operation of battery operated vehicles for the last mile connectivity etc. The committee on environment highlighted action taken to improve air quality, protection of choes, tertiary treated water, waste management and disposal of carcasses. The administrator welcomed the constructive discussion and suggestions made by the council and assured that these suggestions would be seriously considered in the course of decision-making. He will be reviewing all the actions taken by the standing committees after three months.  ATR to be submitted every three months The administrator directed UT officials to hold the ATR meetings every three weeks, so that recommendations of the advisory council can be implemented effectively. The UT adviser will also review the implementation process after one and half months. The submission of the ATR has been long standing demand of the council members. In first introductory meet of the council, on September 2, after Purohit took over as the UT administrator, the issue of effectiveness of the council again came up. The administrator had assured that steps would be taken to streamline its working including submission of action taken reports so as to make it more effective.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administrator-s-advisory-council-meeting-common-pcr-for-tricity-in-the-works-101633722988694.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||November 15 deadline to upload employees’ data: Haryana govt||The Haryana government on Friday again directed the administrative secretaries and heads of the departments to ensure completion of data entry and finalisation of employees’ records in the human resources management system (HRMS) by November 15.All administrative secretaries, heads of departments, managing directors, chief administrators of boards, corporations, divisional commissioners, deputy commissioners, registrars of all the universities have been directed to upload employee data relating to service books and disciplinary proceedings into HRMS and complete it in a time-bound manner.An official spokesperson said these officers have been directed to check the quality of data by October 22 and verify their data by employees between October 23 to November 4.Directions have been given to freeze the uploaded data on HRMS after scrutiny by the headquarters from November 5 to 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/november-15-deadline-to-upload-employees-data-haryana-govt-101633722865963.html
09-10-2021||Other||DSP-rank officer to probe Naraingarh incident: Vij||A day after a protesting farmer was injured at Ambala’s Naraingarh when he was allegedly hit by a vehicle in the convoy of Kurukshetra BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini, Haryana home minister Anil Vij on Friday said a DSP-rank officer will probe the incident.“Naraingarh DSP has been marked probe to enquire into the allegations of both the parties,” the minister said.Farm leaders are claiming that their fellow Bawan Preet Singh, of Yamunanagar, was deliberately hit by a Toyota Innova in the convoy of Saini, when he was leaving from a social event. A complaint was submitted to DSP Anil Kumar, alleging that the driver, on instructions of the MP, intended to turn Naraingarh into another Lakhimpur Kheri.However, the lawmaker refuted the allegations and said in fact, his driver and a PRO in the Innova were attacked by the farmers and a complaint has been filed.“They chased the vehicle thinking that I’m inside while I was in the front vehicle of the convoy with state transport minister Moolchand Sharma. They should present a video of the incident,” Saini had said.Meanwhile, Ambala SSP Hamid Akhtar called the farm leaders for a meeting at his office on Friday. This came hours after the top cop met Vij at the latter’s residence, along with Range IG Bharti Arora and DSPs. Vij is said to have discussed the law and order situation in the region.Malkit Singh, district BKU (Charuni) president said they were called by the SSP, who asked them to keep protests peaceful and avoid confrontations.“I told him that our protests are always peaceful and the BJP intends to turn it violent. Police should ask Saini that he is a representative of Kurukshetra, what is he doing in Ambala? On Thursday, speaker Gian Chand Gupta and MLA Aseem Goel also attended a few religious events, but we didn’t agitate against them. But if Saini comes again, we will protest against his presence,” Singh said.For a comment on the same, Akhtar remained incommunicado despite several attempts.In October last year, a similar incident happened a few kilometres away from Thursday’s venue on Naraingarh-Sadhaura Road, near Milan Palace on Ambala-Roorkee national highway, where a 70-year-old farmer Bharat Singh, of village Baragarh died during a tractor rally in support of three farm laws. He was a BJP member and farm unions had protested against the rally.Later, a murder case was lodged against protesting farmers including Malkit Singh on October 14. However, an SIT-led probe found that he had died of heart failure and the FIR was quashed on December 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dsprank-officer-to-probe-naraingarh-incident-vij-101633722747426.html
09-10-2021||Other||Three killed of asphyxiation in Panipat sewage system||Two sanitation workers engaged in manual scavenging and a passerby have died of asphyxiation while cleaning a sewage system in a residential colony of Panipat on Friday.They have been identified as Zahid Khan, 18, a sanitary worker and resident of Amroha in Uttar Pradesh, Sumit Mita, 25, a site engineer and resident of Badoli village in Panipat.They were engaged by a private contractor of TDI City in Sector 24 of Panipat, and had entered into the sewers to open a blockade.The third deceased could not be identified yet but police said he was a passerby and was reportedly trying to help them when they were stuck inside the sewers.Police said Jahid and Salman, along with Sumit, had come to open the blockade and entered the sewers but when they started inhaling poisonous gas, Salman managed to come out, but Jahid lost consciousness.Later, Sumit and a passerby went inside to save Jahid, but they could not come out.The locals called an ambulance and were rushed to hospital but they were declared brought dead by the doctors.As per initial reports, the workers did not have safety kits and allegedly were not in compliance with the safety measures.According to Chandni Bagh police station in-charge Manjeet Singh, soon after reports of the incident, a police team had rushed to the spot.He said two deceased have been identified but the third is yet to be identified. The bodies have been sent to a civil hospital for postmortem and investigation is on.Statements of the families are being recorded for registration of FIR and further action, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-killed-of-asphyxiation-in-panipat-sewage-system-101633722685824.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana VB recommends departmental action against officers||The state vigilance bureau of Haryana on Friday said it has recommended departmental action against one gazetted officer and four non-gazetted officers.The VB has registered five new investigations in August on directions of the state government and completed four investigations.An official spokesperson said after inquiry, the bureau has recommended to the state government to initiate action against a gazetted officer.In August, the bureau had also sent report of two special checking/technical investigations to the government, recommending to recover ₹16,242 from the contractor concerned.The spokesperson said in the recent past, the bureau had nabbed seven employees and their associates red-handed while accepting bribes ranging from ₹5,000 to ₹40,000.For instance, peon Ram Pal posted in the office of drug controller in Hisar was caught receiving a bribe of ₹40,000, while Manoj Kumar (head constable) posted in Karnal was nabbed while receiving ₹20,000 bribe.The spokesperson said Hansraj, watchman of the Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes Welfare department in Panipat was caught taking ₹19,000 bribe; Narendra Sharma, supervisor working on contract basis in oxygen plant at Ambala civil hospital, was caught taking a bribe of ₹10,000; Lajwanti, estate manager of housing board at Sector 23 Faridabad and Rahul Ahlawat, junior engineer in development and panchayat department in Sonepat, were caught taking bribe of ₹20,000 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-vb-recommends-departmental-action-against-officers-101633722567695.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Over 4 yrs, no development of focal points in Punjab: Industry||Over four years after the Punjab government, then led by Captain Amarinder Singh, highlighted in its own report how focal points in various parts of the state were in a bad shape, the condition still remains the same with no progress being made on this front. The issue of ailing infrastructure in focal points of Ludhiana and Amritsar was highlighted during a virtual stakeholder meeting of the PHD chamber of commerce and industry (PHDCCI), Punjab chapter, with the state government on Friday. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president, federation of industrial and commercial organisation (FICO), highlighted how since 1996, no new focal point had been given to Ludhiana. “Ludhiana is the world’s second-largest manufacturer of bicycles and bicycle products. The only little progress is that a chunk of land has been given to the Hero group for the Dhanansu cycle valley project. What we need is a focal point in Dhanansu where ancillary units can be set up, but that has not been done. Other focal points are also in a pitiable shape in the state with the government paying no heed to the same,” he said. Kamal Dalmia from Amritsar Textile Association said the industry had suffered a lot post the pandemic. “Amritsar needs special funds to be allocated for infrastructure development of the focal point. There are no proper roads and a lack of sewerage at the old focal point in Amritsar. Plots allocated for the fire substation are lying vacant. In 2009, ₹5 crore was allocated for the development of focal points and in the last 12 years, no fresh allocation of funds has been provided by the government,” he said. In 2017, soon after the Congress government was voted to power, an internal report submitted to the chief minister’s office (CMO) by the Ludhiana administration had highlighted the non-availability of waste compactors in focal point areas and the tendency of industries to litter in nearby vacant plots that was taking a toll on solid waste management. Four years on, the situation is still the same. The industrialists also highlighted that the strength of any state was the MSME sector, but the government had not put in place any policy to strengthen this sector and all emphasis was always on the large-scale units while the MSME sector continued to be neglected. Besides, issues like the demand for the abolition of professional tax, trade licence and fulfilling the long-pending demand of the industry to provide power at ₹5 per unit was also raised. Dr Ashok Khanna, former president, PHDCCI, said the government should focus on strengthening the existing infrastructure with modern facilities and an uninterrupted power supply that would act as a magnet for the industries to invest. Tejveer Singh, principal secretary, industries and commerce, said the department of industries and commerce had taken various initiatives to bolster the growth of the industry in the state in terms of providing a stable policy regime, good infrastructure, focal points industrial parks, skilled manpower, good air and road connectivity, reduced compliance and easy allotment to do business. Avneet Kaur, joint CEO, Invest Punjab, said Invest Punjab was a one-stop office for all investments to happen in the state. She apprised industry members of various initiatives taken by the Punjab government in the last 4.5 years with 3,300 projects on board and proposed investment of ₹99,000 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-4-yrs-no-development-of-focal-points-in-punjab-industry-101633722449530.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjit Singh murder case: Dera Sacha Sauda head Ram Rahim found guilty||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Panchkula on Friday held Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim guilty of conspiracy in the murder of Ranjit Singh, a former dera manager, in 2002. The court also convicted four others, three for killing Ranjit and one for conspiring the murder plot. Special CBI judge Sushil Kumar Garg held Jasbir Singh, a follower; Krishan Lal, a dera manager; Sabdil, gunman of Dera head, guilty of murder, and Avtar Singh, a key functionary of the dera, of conspiracy. The quantum of punishment will be awarded on October 12, said, CBI special prosecutor HPS Verma. All convicts face punishment up to death sentence. HC dismissed plea for transfer of trial On Tuesday, the high court had dismissed a plea of Ranjit Singh’s son Jagseer Singh, seeking the transfer of trial to another court in neighboring states, levelling allegations against a CBI lawyer. However, the high court termed the allegations based upon surmises and conjectures. Acting on the plea of Jagseer Singh, the high court stayed further proceedings on August 24, two days before the trial court was to pronounce the final judgment. Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra. Two remains unidentified till now. Ranjit stood against sexual abuse at dera According to the CBI, Ranjit was murdered as Ram Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter highlighting sexual exploitation of female disciples at the dera. The CBI had stated that the letters on sexual exploitation of female disciples had reference to Ranjit Singh and one of his sisters and in June 2002, he was summoned to Dera when content of the letter came to light. He was threatened with dire consequences but Ranjit Singh refused to “seek pardon”, telling the convicts that he had done nothing wrong. The dera head is lodged in Rohtak’s Sunaria Jail, serving a 20-year-jail term for raping two disciples and life sentence in the murder case of a journalist in 2002. There were mainly three cases registered against the Sirsa-based dera chief since 2002-03. All were investigated by the CBI. The dera chief has been convicted in two cases, one related to sexual exploitation of women disciples and the second of the murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati. The third case was of Ranjit Singh in which he was convicted on Friday. The first conviction was in a sexual exploitation case in August 2017, which had resulted in widespread violence in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ranjit-singh-murder-case-dera-sacha-sauda-head-ram-rahim-found-guilty-101633722448428.html
09-10-2021||Other||Ellenabad bypoll: Abhay Chautala, Pawan Beniwal file nomination||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala and Congress’ Pawan Beniwal on Friday filed their nominations for the Ellenabad bypoll which is scheduled for October 30.The bypoll for the rural dominated Ellenabad seat was necessitated after Abhay resigned from the Haryana assembly while extending support to farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws.After worshiping at Salsar Hanuman Temple in Sirsa, Abhay filed his nomination papers.Speaking to the media, the INLD general secretary said he had resigned from the Haryana assembly after seeking the opinion of voters of the Ellenabad constituency.“People of my constituency have asked me to file for re-nomination and raise their voice inside and outside the state assembly. The Congress is shedding crocodile tears in the name of farmers protesting against the three farm laws. Had all MLAs of Congress resigned with me, it would have built immense pressure on the BJP,” he said.“If this had been done by Congress, many MLAs from the BJP-JJP would have been forced to resign in solidarity with farmers. The result of the Ellenabad bypoll will make the coalition government realise that these black laws are their death warrant,” he added.Hitting out at the BJP and Congress, Chautala said both the parties have fielded turncoats who have joined both the parties recently but people are waiting to teach them a lesson.“This time I will hit a four (referring to the fourth consecutive win from Ellenabad) and in the next assembly polls, I am aiming for a six (sixth term as an MLA in his political journey) with the blessings of Ellenabad voters. This election will be fought between the farmers and Opposition parties who had betrayed them in their struggle,” Abhay added.Pawan Beniwal was accompanied by leader of Opposition and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, party’s Haryana affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal, Congress state president Kumari Selja, and others.Hooda said what farmers have gained from Abhay’s resignation and this was done to gain political mileage.“The farmers are still protesting and these three laws were not taken back after Abhay’s resignation. If he had resigned for farmers, why is he contesting the election as the farmers are still camping,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ellenabad-bypoll-abhay-chautala-pawan-beniwal-file-nomination-101633722445519.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||3,000 kg heroin haul: NIA raids ex-Akali leader’s house||Amritsar Two days after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the probe into the seizure of 3,000 kg heroin by the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) at the Mundra port in Gujarat last month following a directive from the ministry of home affairs, the agency on Friday raided the house of former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Anwar Masih in this connection. Masih, a former member of the Punjab subordinate service selection board, is already one of the accused in the 194-kg heroin seizure case. On Friday, two officials visited Masih’s residence. As per unconfirmed reports, his role is under the scanner in the 3,000 kg-heroin seizure case. However, officials did not speak to the media during the raid. In July 2020, contraband was recovered from a house that was on Masih’s name on the disclosure of Sukhbir Singh, alias Happy, who was arrested with 6-kg heroin in Mohali. After the raid on the house, the police had also arrested seven persons, including Masih and an Afghanistan national. During the investigation, many more people were named in the case, including the racket’s kingpin Simranjit Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3000-kg-heroin-haul-nia-raids-ex-akali-leader-s-house-101633721905668.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC expresses concern over safety of Sikhs, Hindus in J&K||Condemning the killing of a teacher in a government school and its principal by militants in Srinagar on Thursday, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Friday expressed concern over the safety of Sikhs and Hindus in the Union Territory. Satinder Kour , principal of Government Boys Higher Secondary school in Eidgah, and a teacher at the school, Deepak Chand, were shot dead on the school premises by militants. The Resistance Front (TRF), which police say is the front for terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba, claimed responsibility for the attack and said the teachers were killed for their role in getting students to participate in a “function at school on August 15”.Taking serious note of the killings, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said: “There is outrage among the Sikhs over the incident. The minority communities are not safe in the region. It is the responsibility of the Union government to ensure the safety of the Sikhs in every state of the country.Expressing condolences with the grieving families, she said the SGPC will approach the Centre to raise concerns of the community in Jammu and Kashmir. Besides, the SGPC delegation will also meet the Sikh leaders of the state, she said. State BJP condemns killings Chandigarh: State BJP chief Ashwani Sharma on Friday said the brutal attack by terrorists in which two teachers were gunned down in Srinagar on Thursday due to their religious affiliation is most unfortunate. In a statement, Sharma said the recent incident is orchestrated by Pakistan-sponsored terrorist group and is aimed to create an atmosphere of fear and division between different religions. “The Hindus and Sikhs are being targeted. Terrorists lined up teachers and checked their identity cards and massacred a Sikh and a Hindu,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-expresses-concern-over-safety-of-sikhs-hindus-in-jk-101633721605469.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 18 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths||Three coronavirus-related deaths were reported from Punjab on Friday, while 18 fresh cases raised the infection tally to 6,01,821, according to a medical bulletin.With two deaths reported from Amritsar and one from Tarn Taran, the toll reached 16,529, the bulletin said. Among new cases, Pathankot reported four, followed by three in Gurdaspur and two each in Ludhiana, Mohali and Hoshiarpur.The number of active cases stands at 236 in Punjab.Thirty-six more people recovered from the infection, taking the number recoveries to 5,85,056, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-18-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-101633721365591.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab ropes in Bains in two more cases against former DGP Saini||The Punjab government has roped in senior advocate RS Bains in two more cases in which former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini is being probed. Earlier, on October 1, Bains was appointed as a special public prosecutor in politically sensitive 2015 post-sacrilege violence cases to appear before trial courts as well as in the high court (HC). Saini is an accused in these cases too.Both Bains and Punjab advocate general APS Deol confirmed the development. “He will be appearing for the state in high court as well as in trial court in two more cases (against Saini) as a special public prosecutor,” said Deol. In one of the cases, Bains appeared on Friday.However, Bains will not appear in the 1991 Balwant Singh Multani disappearance case, in which Saini is an accused. Bains had been associated with this case for long, and some important court orders came when he was the counsel of Multani’s family.The two corruption and criminal conspiracy cases in question were registered by the vigilance bureau (FIR No. 11, dated September 17, 2020, and FIR No. 13, dated August 2, 2021) against Saini and others on allegations that he acquired a house in Chandigarh through a fraudulent deal with fake documents and questionable financial transactions. Earlier, lawyers from the Supreme Court were appearing in HC, while before trial court, HC lawyer Sartej Singh was specially appointed by the state government.Meanwhile, the HC on Friday adjourned the hearing in the corruption case for January 6. The high court also extended interim protection from arrest to Saini till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ropes-in-bains-in-two-more-cases-against-former-dgp-saini-101633721187012.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||5 more pvt buses impounded in Punjab for non-payment of taxes||The transport department impounded five more buses of private companies plying without paying tax in Ferozepur district on Friday. Assistant transport officer (ATO) Pardeep Singh Dhillon said the flying squad of the regional transport authority, Ferozepur, had found these five buses operating without paying tax during the checking of their documents. These are two buses of New Deep, one each of Nagpal Bus Service, Raj and Jujhar bus service. Reiterating commitment to ensure a transparent and efficacious system in the department, transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring said those not paying taxes would not be spared and strict action would be taken against all defaulters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-more-pvt-buses-impounded-in-punjab-for-non-payment-of-taxes-101633721185533.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC questions Punjab govt’s ban on outside paddy in 2020||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Punjab chief secretary to explain as to how instructions issued by the state government in October 2020 against bringing paddy from other states would be sustainable at a time when the three farm laws had not been stayed by the Supreme Court.“It is to be observed here that in terms of the law well settled, since 1972, ... instructions contrary to even statutory rules are wholly unsustainable and obviously therefore, instructions in the face of an enacted statute would be completely and wholly illegal in the opinion of this court,” the court said while posting the matter for November 11. The order was passed in a matter in which two people were booked by the Patiala police in October 2020 for allegedly bringing paddy illegally from outside the state.The petitioner’s counsel, Ferry Sofat, had submitted that the order staying the three farm laws was passed by the Supreme Court in January 2021, but the laws came into effect in June 2020. At the time when FIRs were registered against the duo on October 20, 2020, there was no stay on these laws. It was also submitted that instructions issued by the chief secretary were wholly illegal and unsustainable as they were against a statute enacted by the Parliament. Also, as the implementation of the laws had not been stayed at that stage, and the FIR against the petitioners was also illegal and unsustainable, the court was told.While asking the chief secretary for an explanation, the HC also told the Patiala police to file an affidavit, stating as to how the FIR is sustainable in view of the issue raised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-questions-punjab-govt-s-ban-on-outside-paddy-in-2020-101633721005623.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||More trouble in store for Dera Sacha Sauda head Ram Rahim||Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim has been convicted in three cases so far, but there could be more trouble in store for him. The trial in another the case by the CBI is pending before the special CBI court in Panchkula. The case relates to castration of dera followers in 2000. The CBI has claimed that 128 of 166 followers, whose names were mentioned in a complaint, were contacted and examined during the probe. Six of them became CBI’s main witness and deposed against the dera head saying they were castrated at the behest of Ram Rahim at dera headquarters in Sirsa in early 2000. In December 2014, the Punjab and Haryana high court had handed over the probe to the CBI on a plea of one Hans Raj Chauhan of Fatehabad district, who alleged that the followers were castrated after giving them the false hope that “males who would get castrated would be able to achieve God through Ram Rahim”. On February 1, 2018, the CBI had charged the dera head and two doctors in the case. According to the chargesheet, a large number of followers were castrated at the behest of Ram Rahim by Dr Pankaj Garg and Dr MP Singh. Though Ram Rahim has not been charged for the Panchkula violence of 2017, reported soon after his conviction in the cases of sexual exploitation, there has been demand from various quarters to probe his role. In fact, a person in January 2020, approached the CBI court demanding that he be roped in as an accused. His application was based on testimony of a witness who had claimed that the dera head in 2017 gave instructions to resort to violence if he is convicted in rape cases. As many as 36 persons died and 423 were injured in the violence following his conviction in Panchkula alone. Panchkula police had registered 177 FIRs against 2,318 accused and 2,167 were arrested. There were reports of widespread damage in Punjab and Haryana too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-trouble-in-store-for-dera-sacha-sauda-head-ram-rahim-101633720945713.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Indian-origin Singaporean Sikh couple to release docuseries on Guru Nanak||An Indian-origin Singaporean Sikh couple will be releasing online a 24-episode docuseries (a television series) that chronicles the vast expanse of sites that were visited by Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism, during his lifetime.Amardeep Singh and his wife Vininder Kaur will release the weekly episodes of the docuseries at no cost on the website TheGuruNanak.com, Singh said on Friday. It will also be available for download.In the next phase, the docuseries, produced by ‘Lost Heritage Productions’ and ‘SikhLens Productions’, will be translated into Punjabi and Hindi.Over 550 years ago, Guru Nanak travelled across the distant lands of Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Tibet, Bangladesh, India and Sri Lanka for over two decades on an altruistic pursuit to spread the message of the oneness of creation.To relate with people of diverse cultures and belief systems, Guru Nanak engaged in philosophical and social dialogue, and through the medium of words and music, he gracefully imparted experiential and spiritual insights, fearlessly challenged the binary constructs of society, and relentlessly opposed gender, religious, racial and class inequalities.In the 21st century, geopolitical restrictions and cultural mandates impose immense challenges to trace Guru Nanak’s extensive travels as approximately 70% of the places he travelled to fall in geographies where filming is difficult.However, in January 2019, the Singh and Kaur led team embarked on a journey to retrace Guru Nanak’s footsteps. “This herculean task, extending far beyond personal ambition, is aimed with a passion to preserve Guru Nanak’s teachings that perceives no borders or human divisions,” said Singh in a press release.Aided with the analytical study of the oldest ‘Janamsakhis’ (biographies of Guru Nanak) and supported by the allegorical messages in Guru Nanak’s verses, the team spent over three years filming all the geographies and multi-faith sites visited by Guru Nanak to present his life events in the form of a 24-episode docuseries.Undeterred by adversities, they travelled from the deserts of Mecca in Saudi Arabia to Mount Kailash in Tibet, explored remote regions of perilous Afghanistan, experienced the scorching heat in Iraq, scaled the arid Baluchi mountains in Pakistan, sailed across the waters of the Indian Ocean to disembark in Sri Lanka, blended with the Persian culture in Iran, crossed the delta region in Bangladesh and mapped all four directions in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indianorigin-singaporean-sikh-couple-to-release-docuseries-on-guru-nanak-101633720585309.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu’s expletive-laden video kicks up another row in Punjab||As the ruling Congress continues to grapple with internal differences, a viral video in which Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu can be seen using a swear word has left the party leaders red-faced. The video was apparently shot in Mohali on Thursday, minutes before Sidhu along with some cabinet ministers and party leaders left for Uttar Pradesh to meet families of those killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Sidhu and other leaders were waiting for chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who was a bit late, when the video was shot. Hindustan Times could not independently ascertain its veracity. In the purported conversation, while a cabinet minister and MLA were enthused by the success of the event, Sidhu said that had he been made the chief minister, he would have shown them success. It was followed by an expletive-laced reference to the Congress’ prospect in the 2022 assembly elections, which was picked up by microphones. Congress central leader Harish Chaudhary and Sidhu’s media adviser Surinder Dalla denied having any information about the viral video or use of foul language by the state unit president. “I will check and get back to you,” Dalla said. Though party leaders were taken aback by the latest controversy, they refused to comment. BJP, SAD take dig at CongThe Bharatiya Janata Party and Shiromani Akali Dal were quick to target the Congress after the video went viral. Punjab BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma said: “Finding himself isolated and left behind, Sidhu is on a rampage. In the video, he has also admitted in a huff that his party was rapidly diminishing and losing space.”SAD senior vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema said Sidhu’s utterances made it obvious that he had no respect for the CM and the SC community, and was engaged in one-upmanship to secure the top post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhus-expletive-laden-video-kicks-up-another-row-in-punjab-101633720465268.html
09-10-2021||Other||SSB cycle rally flagged off for Kevadia after Lucknow halt||A team of 20 cyclists of the Seema Suraksha Bal (SSB), a part of the cycle rally being organised to mark the National Unity Day (October 31), left for Kevadia, Gujarat, on Thursday.As a part of National Unity Day celebrations, the cycle rally was flagged off on September 17, from Jaigaon, Alipurduar (West Bengal) on the Indo-Bhutan border and is scheduled to reach Kevadia, Gujarat on October 26 after covering a distance of about 2,347 km via Madhya Pradesh. “Twenty cyclists who were a part of the cycle rally that was flagged off from Jaigaon, reached Lucknow on October 4. The cyclists left for their destination on October 7 after a rest,” said Major Ashok Kumar Singh, who flagged off the cyclists at around 7:30 am for Kevadia, from Frontier Headquarters, SSB Gomtinagar, Lucknow. Singh said the purpose of the rally is to make the public aware about National Unity Day and National Integration Day that is October 31, also the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, who united the princely states and made India one nation. While addressing the gathering, he said that the SSB is discharging its duties with full determination and brotherhood. He encouraged participants of the cycle rally by sharing his own experiences of the past. On the occasion, deputy inspector generals DK Sinha and Abhishek Pathak and other officers and personnel of the force were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ssb-cycle-rally-flagged-off-for-kevadia-after-lucknow-halt-101633720405576.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab invites industrialists to investors summit on Oct 26, 27||Ahead of the fourth edition of the Progressive Punjab Investors Summit, principal secretary, industries, commerce and investment promotion, Tejveer Singh on Friday held an interaction with industrialists.The summit will be held virtually with pan-India industry leaders on October 26 and 27, and will have a special state session in Ludhiana on October 27. Addressing a session of the Confederation of Indian Industrialists (CII) in Chandigarh, the principal secretary underlined the need to ensure sustainable industrial growth, which he said is key to achieving overall development. Extending an invite to the industrialists, he said the summit will offer a peek into Punjab’s robust ecosystem and the wide-ranging opportunities on offer for creating and nurturing businesses. “Punjab’s prosperity contributes significantly to our national growth,” he said, while exhorting industry bigwigs to tap the state’s immense growth potential. Chief executive officer, Invest Punjab, Rajat Agarwal said between March 16, 2017, and September 30, 2021, the state has received proposed investments of more than ₹99,000 crore, and 51% of these projects have been commissioned. He also informed the industrialists about various initiatives of the state government, including power subsidy to businesses, deemed approvals and central inspection system to make the business environment conducive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-invites-industrialists-to-investors-summit-on-oct-26-27-101633720105212.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Cab driver killed by two friends for refusing them free rides||In yet another case of murder over a trivial issue, a 30-year-old taxi driver was stabbed to death on Thursday evening allegedly by his friends after he refused their requests to give them a free ride to their homes in his cab. The incident was reported from north-west Delhi’s Sawan Park near Ashok Vihar, the police said, adding that both suspects have been arrested – one after he was caught by the public from the crime scene and the other following police searches the same night.The cab driver, identified as Vipin Kumar, was admitted to Deep Chand Bandhu hospital with stab injuries and he died during treatment on Thursday evening, deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said, adding that the crime was reported to them around 7pm from the hospital. A case of murder was registered at the Bharat Nagar police station and the two suspects, identified as Tajim,22, and Pawan,23, were arrested.During the inquiry, DCP Rangnani said it was learnt that Kumar, a resident of Jahangirpuri, was driving his cab back home, when his two friends from the neighbourhood met him near Sawan Park underpass. The duo asked him to give them a free ride to their home since he was going that way.“Kumar refused after which a scuffle broke out between them. One of the two took out a knife and stabbed Kumar in his thigh. The entire incident took place on the road. Kumar screamed for help and Tajim was caught by the public. A passerby rushed Kumar to the hospital,” she said, adding that Pawan was arrested later in the night.This is the fifth case of murder over trivial issues in the past one week. On Thursday, the Chhawla police arrested two persons, including a woman, for allegedly shooting dead 29-year-old Takesh, the son of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Delhi Police, for refusing to pay a high interest on ₹2,000 that he had borrowed from the arrested woman, Anita.On the night of October 4, a 25-year-old rickshaw puller was stabbed to death with an ice pick allegedly by another rickshaw puller after their vehicles “grazed past each other” in south Delhi’s Sarita Vihar. Just 24 hours before that, a 30-year-old woman, who ran a grocery shop in south-west Delhi’s Dabri, was stabbed to death allegedly by a plumber over the money he owed her for groceries. The woman was attacked on a busy lane in the market and the assault was captured by CCTV cameras, the footage of which was widely circulated on social media soon after. On October 2, a 19-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by a group of five persons, including two minor boys, over ₹300 that the man had borrowed from one of them and was not returning.In another case of murder, two men were arrested on Friday for allegedly killing the 45-year-old caretaker of a bedridden man, the father of one of them, in Rohini’s Sector 3 on September 21. Interrogation of the arrested men, identified as Lovely Verma,46, and Anubhav Sharma,32, revealed that the caretaker, Aslam, was murdered for making some “derogatory remarks” about Verma’s wife some days before the murder, police said.“Verma developed animosity against Aslam for his indecent remarks and he included Sharma in his plan to teach Aslam a lesson. The duo invited Aslam to a party, got him excessively drunk and then assaulted him to which injuries he succumbed later,” said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhicab-driver-killed-by-two-friends-for-refusing-them-free-rides-101633719625214.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||New DU V-C takes charge, says will focus on infra, recruitment||Continuous recruitment of teachers over the next five years, upgrading university infrastructure to tackle a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, implementation of the new National Education Policy, reopening of campuses in a phased manner, working on the teacher-student ratio, and understanding the DU merit-based admission process – these are some of the priority areas highlighted by Yogesh Singh, Delhi University’s 23rd vice-chancellor, after he took over charge on Friday.The day also saw multiple protests on the campus by several student groups against the high cutoff marks for undergraduate courses and also against the controversial remarks made by DU’s Kirori Mal College professor Rakesh Pandey, who had used a communally sensitive and derogatory term, “marks jihad”, to contend that students from Kerala were being given higher marks in Class 12 so that they could take over the country’s top higher education institutes.When asked about the protests, Singh said, “We will speak to students and listen to their concerns on the process and then consult all stakeholders in the university to see how these concerns can be addressed.”Several students’ outfits – All India Students Association (AISA), National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), and Students’ Federation of India (SFI) – held protests against Pandey’s remarks with NSUI demanding his termination from service and AISA his suspension.This year, colleges such as Hindu College, Ramjas College, and Shri Ram College of Commerce were among the eight colleges that set 100% cutoffs for several of their courses. Several members of the admissions committee in these colleges said most of the students admitted to these high cutoff courses are from the Kerala state board. Meanwhile, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party, has demanded that the admission process be stopped immediately to start a preliminary screening of students as students from state boards “where marks have been inflated are being able to take admissions”.Speaking on the cutoff process, V-C Singh said he wants to first understand the whole cutoff based admission process in DU. “While IP University admissions are based on entrance exams and DTU relies on Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), DU has been following a merit-based admission process involving cutoffs for many years. If reforms are required, the deans, heads of departments, and principals should advise and we will see if something needs to be done,” he said.Singh was the vice-chancellor of Delhi government-run Delhi Technological University (DTU), an institute he joined in 2015, till he took over the DU V-C.Before that, Singh served as the director of Netaji Subhas Institute of Technology (now known as Netaji Subhas University of Technology) between 2014 and 2017. Between 2015 and 2017, he handled the charges of both DTU and NSIT. Singh has also served in various administrative and academic roles at the Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University.On Friday, speaking to media persons during an informal interaction, Singh said he wants to strengthen the implementation of DU rules and statutes while working on maintaining the “soul of the university”. The 55-year-old vice-chancellor will be holding meetings with various stakeholders in the coming days to discuss their issues and take their opinions.Singh’s predecessor Yogesh Tyagi was suspended in October last year, over “dereliction of duty” particularly with regards to the slow recruitment of permanent teachers.“Recruitment should not and will not be a one-time activity. It will be done on a regular basis for the next five years. Around 252 positions have already been advertised and we will continue to work on recruitment and will be active on the matter,” Singh said, adding that the teacher-student ratio prescribed by University Grants Commission (UGC) will be maintained in the university.On reopening the university to all students, Singh said, “We will reopen the university but it will be done in a gradual manner for the safety of our students. We don’t know how the third wave of the pandemic will be and want to exercise caution, especially in the aftermath of the devastating second wave.”Currently, final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students of the varsity are allowed to return to colleges and departments for practical work or for academic consultations.Singh said he would also ensure that the medical infrastructure in the university is upgraded to deal with Covid-19 cases, if any. “We will upgrade the existing medical infrastructure to make both short- and long-term arrangements,” he said.Teachers’ group National Democratic Teachers’ Front issued statement welcoming Singh to the varsity. “NDTF is expecting him to carry out much awaited regularisation of existing ad hoc teachers in departments and colleges. The left out agenda of promotions needs to be taken up expeditiously,” said NDTF president AK Bhagi.There are over 4,100 ad hoc teachers in DU, who work on a contractual basis without benefits such as maternity leave. Various teacher bodies in the varsity have been pressing for the regularisation of these teachers. “We will try to understand the issue of ad hoc teachers, consult stakeholders, and see if there is some way out,” the new V-C promised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-du-v-c-takes-charge-says-will-focus-on-infra-recruitment-101633719567054.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi BJP MP Manoj Tiwari to take out rath yatra against Chhath Puja ban||Northeast Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari is going to start a rath yatra from Saturday seeking feedback from the Purvanchal community on the ban on Chhath Puja celebrations in the national capital. He criticised chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for banning the celebrations a month in advance and said the move has hurt the community.Tiwari, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s prominent Purvanchali face, said, “The ban on the Chhath Puja celebrations has hurt the community. When Dussehra and Ramlila celebrations are allowed, weekly markets are open, why is just Chhath Puja banned? I’ll go to residential neighbourhoods where Purvanchalis reside in large numbers and ask for their feedback on the government decision.”Responding to the BJP and Tiwari’s comments, CM Kejriwal said the decision to ban festivities was taken for the welfare and safety of the people and the opposition party was resorting to dirty politics. “I have said this earlier as well, we want people to celebrate all festivals. But for Chhath Puja, people will have to step into water. If even one Covid infected person enters the water, then the entire water will get infected. It can result in a fast spread of the disease. It is due to this reason, we have taken this step ( of banning festivities). I’m sure people will understand this. They will also understand that the opposition is doing dirty politics.” In a recent order, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority banned Chhath Puja celebrations while allowing Ramlila and Dussehra, Durga Puja celebrations, though with restrictions.Chhath Puja, a three-day festival, will be celebrated between November 8-10 this year. It is the most popular festival in Bihar, eastern Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and parts of Madhya Pradesh. There is a significant presence of the Purvanchal community in Delhi as well.In the past decade, the community has become politically significant as it plays a decisive role in elections.The former Delhi BJP chief said he will start the rath yatra from Sonia Vihar in Karawal Nagar, which has a large Purvanchali population. He also questioned the timing of the decision. “Why was the decision to ban Chhath celebrations taken over a month in advance?” he said while addressing a press conference. Abhay Verma, Delhi BJP chief spokesperson, said last year, too, the Chhath celebrations were banned in Delhi while they were allowed in Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh. “The government should explain the reason behind the decision. Unlike last year, this time around, people are vaccinated. All we ask is that the government allow the celebrations in accordance with Covid protocols,” he said.Verma said the rath yatra will be taken out in all seven parliamentary constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-mp-manoj-tiwari-to-take-out-rath-yatra-against-chhath-puja-ban-101633719445145.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Minor apprehended over murder of homeless woman in northeast Delhi||The city police on Friday said they apprehended a juvenile who, along with two friends, allegedly strangled to death a 19-year-old woman in a northeast Delhi park for resisting their attempts to rape her. The accomplices, both adults, are at large, the police said.According to police, the juvenile claimed that they consumed drugs before allegedly trying to rape the woman inside the park on the night of October 2.The body of the victim was found in a partially-dressed state on a concrete bench in a public park near Nand Nagri bus depot in northeast Delhi on the morning of October 3.During investigation, police learnt that the woman was a resident of a place near the Delhi-Ghaziabad border, but was living in and around the park recently. Some homeless persons, who were regulars at the park and were questioned by police, had said that the woman spent most of her time around the park, with other homeless persons.Deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Sanjay Kumar Sain said that around 6 am on October 3, Harsh Vihar police station was informed about an unidentified woman who was “partially disrobed and lying unconscious on a concrete bench in Hanuman Park”. She was taken to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead.Except an “Om” sign tattooed on her right hand, police found no other identification marks or documents to figure out the identity of the victim.Police said there were visible ligature marks around her neck and some cuts on her hands, suggesting that she was allegedly strangled during a scuffle with the attackers. Though the condition in which her body was found hinted at sexual assault, the preliminary medical examination did not confirm it, said an officer, adding that a murder case was registered and investigation was taken up.DCP Sain said the team undertook went door-to-door in nearby areas to identify the dead woman. Police also activated their human intelligence network to gather clues about the woman as well as the suspects and learnt that she was a resident of an area near Delhi-Ghaziabad border.“Our team members also got some clues about the suspects from the CCTV footage of cameras installed around the park. One of them, a minor boy, was apprehended on Friday from Mandoli Chungi in northeast Delhi,” said DCP Sain.According to Sain, the minor boy confessed to the crime. When questioned, the teenager told police that on the night of October 2, he consumed smack (heroin) with two of his two friends and around midnight, went to the park where they found the woman sleeping on the bench.“They tried to sexually assault the woman but she resisted strongly and threatened to raise an alarm. In a fit of rage, they strangled the woman using a belt and string of their trousers. They fled after the murder,” added DCP Sain.The national capital reports over 1,500 rape cases every year, making it one of the most unsafe places for women in the country. In 2020, there were 1,699 cases reported across the city. The number of rape cases in 2019 was 2,168.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/minor-apprehended-over-murder-of-homeless-woman-in-northeast-delhi-101633719325099.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Two held for smuggling over 421kg of crackers into Delhi||New Delhi: Two persons, including an autorickshaw driver, were arrested for allegedly smuggling over 421kg of firecrackers into the city from Haryana’s Palwal, said Delhi Police on Friday, marking its first major seizure of the banned goods ahead of Diwali.The seized crackers are just half of the nearly 900kg order placed by one of the arrested men, identified by his first name Udit, with a supplier in Palwal, the police said.However, it was not immediately clear whether the supplier of the firecrackers in Palwal holds a valid licence to sell such items and if the consignment was sold and supplied to Udit through legitimate ways. Police officers associated with the investigation said that the Palwal-based supplier may be asked to join the investigation if required.On September 15, the Delhi government first announced a “complete ban” on the sale, storage and use of firecrackers in the Capital this Diwali. The pre-emptive ban was imposed in view of the city’s deteriorating air quality over the past three years, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had explained said in a series of tweets. In a separate order days later, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) later extended the ban till January 1, 2022.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said that in the early hours of Wednesday, two personnel from the Sadar Bazar police station were on bike patrol duty when around 3 am, they noticed a loaded tempo going towards Jhandewalan from Motia Khan.“The tempo, which was stopped under our ‘roko and toko’ strategy, was found loaded with firecrackers. The driver, Nagmani (33), and Udit (26) were arrested. The firecrackers, weighing 421.5kg, and the vehicle were seized and a case was registered,” said DCP Kalsi.During the interrogation, the DCP said, Udit, who is an auto-rickshaw driver by profession and lives with his family in central Delhi’s Nabi Karim, revealed that he got the idea of making quick money by selling firecrackers during the festival season. According to police, he contacted a dealer in Palwal and paid ₹70,000 to procure the firecrackers three days ago. Though Udit did not have a licence to store or sell firecrackers, police said he had planned to sell it from his home.“Udit tasked Nagmani to bring the first consignment of crackers into Delhi from Pawal and were in touch over cellphones. When Nagmani entered Delhi and reached near Jhandewalan, Udit boarded the vehicle. They were moving towards Nabi Karim when the policemen caught them,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-for-smuggling-over-421kg-of-crackers-into-delhi-101633719266469.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s south civic body inspects 807 sites, finds 100 mosquito breeding spots||With dengue cases rising in the city, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) conducted a drive in schools and malls falling under its jurisdiction on Friday to check for mosquito breeding. The civic body said of the total 807 sites inspected, mosquito breeding was found in 100 spots, and 71 notices and 19 challans have been issued so far. A senior official from the public health department said action against the schools and malls was taken under the Delhi Municipal Corporations Act’s Malaria and vector borne disease bye-laws (1975). “During the drive, the department inspected 807 sites, of which 100 were found to be breeding mosquitoes,” said the official. The schools where mosquito breeding was found are in Manglapuri, Kakrola, Dwarka Sector 6, Gopal Nagar, Sainik Enclave Part-2, RK Puram Sector 8, Vikaspuri, Vasant Kunj and Greater Kailash while malls in Dwarka Sector-14, Dwarka Sector-7, Panchsheel Vihar and Chirag Dilli were found to be breeding mosquitoes, said an official statement from the civic body. Delhi has registered 341 dengue cases, 113 malaria cases and 56 chikungunya cases so far this year. Mosquito breeding has been found in more than 1.33 lakh houses and sites across the three civic bodies this year. The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) also held a special house meeting on vector-borne diseases on Friday. The municipal councilLors gave their suggestions for the prevention of vector-borne diseases and reviewed the measures being taken by the public health department of the corporation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-civic-body-inspects-807-sites-finds-100-mosquito-breeding-spots-101633719265530.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati to address rally on death anniversary of party founder||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) plans to mobilise Dalits, the core support base of the party, for the 2022 UP assembly elections with a show of strength rally at the Kanshi Ram Memorial in Lucknow on Saturday, to mark the death anniversary of the party founder.After paying tribute to the party founder Kanshi Ram, BSP chief Mayawati will address the supporters on the premises of the memorial. The party workers from across the state will participate in the programme.The BSP chief is likely to give a message to the supporters for preparation for the next year’s assembly election. She will also highlight the party stand and policies on various public issues.“Mayawati will motivate the workers to challenge the might of the BJP, SP and Congress in the assembly elections,” said a BSP leader.The BSP supremo will also enlighten the party cadre about the election strategy and campaign.The area on the premises of the memorial has been readied for the occasion, with BSP’s hoardings and banners put up on the roads leading up to the memorial.Addressing party leaders and office-bearers in the state unit office in a ‘Prabudh Varg Sammelan’ organised on Friday, Mayawati called upon supporters from across UP to visit Lucknow in strength to pay tribute to Kanshi Ram. “Earlier, the party used to organise the programme at divisional and district headquarters. But, this year, the programme will be organised on the premises of the grand memorial located in Lucknow,” she said.BSP office-bearers have been entrusted with the task of transportation of party workers from various districts to the state capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-to-address-rally-on-death-anniversary-of-party-founder-101633719146559.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal offers ₹1 crore aid to families of martyrs||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday provided financial assistance of ₹1 crore each to the families of two Air Force officials, two police officials and one civil defence volunteer, all of them residents of Delhi, who died in the line of duty in separate incidents in the last five years, his office said in a press statement issued on Friday.“The Kejriwal government extends Samman Rashi of ₹1 crore each to the families of the bravehearts who sacrificed their lives for the country. Samman Rashi was given to the families of martyrs ACP Sanket Kaushik and constable Vikas Kumar of Delhi Police; civil defence volunteer Parvesh Kumar; Air Force squadron leader Meet Kumar and NCE Rajesh Kumar today. We sincerely hope that the families get some strength with the help of the Samman Rashi we are providing...,” said the CM’s office in the press statement.Kaushik, a Delhi Police ACP, and constable Vikas Kumar died in separate accidents while on picket duty in 2020 and 2016 respectively. Kumar, the civil defence volunteer, died in a hit-and-run incident while on duty last year. The Air Force officials died in aircraft crashes at Himachal Pradesh and Arunachal Pradesh in 2018 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-offers-1-crore-aid-to-families-of-martyrs-101633719145283.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt disburses one-time aid of ₹50,000 to kin of 13k Covid victims||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Friday said the government has disbursed ₹50,000 as one-time financial assistance to families of 13,005 Covid-19 victims, out of 14,605 applicants, as part of a programme announced in June.A press statement said Kejriwal has issued directions to officials to disburse financial assistance to the remaining families by Wednesday.“The government has completed distribution of 89% of ex-gratia amount. The chief minister has directed that 100% distribution has to be completed by Wednesday,” said the statement issued by Kejriwal’s office, after he chaired a review meeting earlier in the day.Kejriwal during a meeting last week came down on bureaucrats for the “slow” distribution of the assistance, and issued directions that regulatory compliances be done away with.The statement added, “CM Arvind Kejriwal instructed officials to visit homes of bereaved families and transfer the financial assistance to them on the spot... He asked them [officials] to do whatever it takes but register all the victims and start their monthly pension of ₹2,500 in a week, and to ensure that no one is left behind.”The statement, however, did not elaborate on applications received for monthly assistance and absolute numbers of claims disbursed.In June, the Delhi government rolled out a scheme of one-time financial assistance of ₹50,000 to families of each Covid-19 victim and monthly assistance of ₹2,500 for families losing their breadwinners and children orphaned by the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-disburses-one-time-aid-of-50-000-to-kin-of-13k-covid-victims-101633718907688.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport Terminal 1 to reopen from Oct 31, nearly 19 months after closure||The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL) on Friday announced that the operations at Terminal 1 (T1) of the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) will resume from October 31, nearly 19 months after it suspended operations due to Covid concerns and later for renovations.DIAL officials said that they have taken several safety measures to contain the spread of Covid-19, as directed by the Government of India.Officials said the two flights operators functioning from the terminal before the pandemic, IndiGo and SpiceJet, will resume operations when it reopens. An IndiGo flight departing for Mumbai at 1.05am is the first flight scheduled from T1 after its reopening.“Delhi airport is all set to reopen for domestic flight operations at T1 after 18 months (nearly 19 months by October end) of shutdown. With the resumption of the third terminal, Delhi airport will be functional completely. We would like to assure passengers that at Delhi airport, they would be in a safe and healthy environment. We have implemented several measures at the airport to ensure passenger safety without compromising their comfort and experience,” said Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO of DIAL.He said DIAL teams have worked round-the-clock to sanitise the vast terminal. “DIAL will continue its awareness drive by educating and encouraging passengers to maintain social distancing at the airport,” he said.Commercial operations of domestic and international flights from IGI airport were suspended from March 24, 2020, in a bid to contain the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.The airport resumed operations in a phased manner, opening Terminal 3 on may 25, 2020, and subsequently opening up Terminal 2 on July 22, 2021.Speaking of the arrangements at Terminal 1, an official said that six CUSS (common-use self-service) kiosks will be available for passengers for web check-in before entering the Departure forecourt. Additionally, arrangements have also been made for thermal scanning of passengers as per government guidelines. Further, DIAL said it will also have facilities to isolate suspected Covid-19 passengers at the airport.At the check-in area, to avoid close contact and crowding at the counters, passengers will be encouraged to use the e-boarding scanners for entry to the security and frisking points.Meanwhile, at the security check area, queue managers will ensure social distancing between CISF personnel and passengers.The area will also have floor markings and installation of automatic hand sanitiser at various places.Standard operating procedures also include measures for tray disinfection to ensure the safety of passengers. Auto sanitiser dispensing machines have also been kept for passengers to use after security checks.Alternate seating arrangements are also in place at the boarding gates and queue managers will be deployed at boarding and bussing gates.DIAL said it will encourage passengers to wear masks and maintain social distancing at all times.“A team of housekeeping personnel have been deployed to ensure a clean and sanitised terminal for passengers round the clock. The staff will be thermally screened and checked for symptoms before going on with their duties. Regular sanitisation of high contact surfaces, such as desks, chairs, elevators, railings, CUSS, trolleys, handles, trays, baggage belts, etc. inside the terminals will be carried out. Apart from these, washrooms will be closed every hour to sanitise all surfaces,” said an official.Currently, Delhi airport sees around 1,000 aircraft, including chartered flights, carrying over 1 lakh passengers, at T3 and T2 terminals. DIAL estimates reopening of T1 will increase aircraft traffic by another 200 flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-terminal-1-to-reopen-from-oct-31-nearly-19-months-after-closure-101633718905075.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||32 senior Delhi cops transferred in rejig, Beniwal made new media cell chief||Thirty-two senior Delhi police officers were transferred or appointed in different new units within the force, according to an order issued on Friday.Special commissioner Sanjay Beniwal, who was director general of Chandigarh until August 19, has been appointed as the head of the perception management and media cell unit. This is a new unit within the force, which will majorly coordinate with the media.The traffic police’s joint commissioner (Joint CP), Meenu Choudhary has been sent to the police’s southern range. Joint CP SS Yadav, who was in the northern range, is now in-charge of operations unit.Only two days ago, 55 inspectors were appointed as station house officers(SHOs) in a massive reshuffle of police station heads. There are 184 police stations in Delhi.Of the 55 newly-appointed station house officers, there were 8 women inspectors. Delhi police officers said that after Wednesday’s order there will be nine women SHOs for the first time.Police spokesperson, Chinmoy Biswal said that 34 SHOs who had already served more than 5 years as the station heads were transferred and posted in different units. Among them, 18 inspectors were sent to security wing and 8 to the Police Training College(PTC).“It is to strengthen and raise a dedicated security battalion for the security of the national capital, including that of courts. Trainees at the PTC will benefit the posting of experienced SHOs with field experience,” said Biswal.Following the murder of a top gangster inside the Rohini court last month, police are strengthening security at all the seven district courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/32-senior-delhi-cops-transferred-in-rejig-beniwal-made-new-media-cell-chief-101633718545272.html
09-10-2021||Lucknow||With 46K plus Covid shots given in Lucknow, city crosses 40-lakh mark||The count of total doses administered till date crossed the 40-lakh mark with over 46,000 doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine administered in the state capital on Friday.However, the target of 89,300 for the day could not be met despite the health department making 226 vaccination sites including 25 at private hospitals. Of the 226 vaccination sites, at least 104 were workplace Covid-19 vaccination centres.In a press communique the district administration had said that the vaccination target given by the state is 70,000 against which 89,300 doses have been arranged. By 9 pm 46,498 doses had been administered.“Vaccination in urban areas was good but in rural areas the vaccination was not as per the expectation. We shall focus more in rural areas and run an awareness drive to ensure more people come forward to take the vaccine dose next time,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow.With a total over 40.64-lakh doses, Lucknow is leading in the total vaccine dose count among districts in the state since the start of the campaign on January 16. Over 28.48 lakh people in Lucknow have taken at least one shot, while over 12-lakh have been fully vaccinated with two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/with-46k-plus-covid-shots-given-in-lucknow-city-crosses-40-lakh-mark-101633718249391.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Covid gloom takes a back seat as Ramlila marks 65th anniversary in Delhi||Putting together a dance-drama, one that uniquely fuses several forms of classical music and dances, martial and acrobatic arts, masks and make-up styles, requires months of preparation. It is a formidable task in the best of times, more so when a pandemic has bound up the city. And yet, the immensely talented artistes of the Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra (SBKK), which organises the cultural extravaganza “Shri Ram” every year, remain unfazed. Even last year, when the fear of Covid was at its height and almost all Ramlilas were cancelled, SBKK managed to stage the “Shri Ram”, a ballet that manages to leave its audience spellbound and awed, year after year. And this year is no different.As the clock strikes six on Thursday evening, the long queue of restless people waiting outside the Shri Ram Kala Kendra trickles in to be greeted by the sound of soft hymns playing in the seating area. They quickly find their seats, placed at a distance from each other owing to Covid-19 concerns, and settle in. Slowly, silence reigns as all eyes turn to the stage for the curtains to go up on “Shri Ram”.In contrast, a flurry of activity is taking place backstage. Elaborate jewellery and costumes are laid out in the green room as artistes essaying the different roles allow assistants to give them last-minute touch-ups. Among them is Raj Kumar, a Chhau dancer, who has been playing the central character of Ram for the production for the past 25 years. Kumar said the team is excited to reconnect with the audience. “Since the pandemic situation is better this time, we are hoping to see a larger turnout -- last year, the fear was palpable and people wary of stepping out. We are excited and look forward to entertaining the audience,” he said. As he and the other artistes go about fixing their jewellery and costumes, Shobha Deepak Singh, the brain behind the “Shri Ram” walks in. Since the past five decades, the cultural doyen has been directing the fusion dance-drama that is attended without fail by the who’s who of Delhi. “Even when the world came to a standstill last year, we ensured that “Shri Ram” continued to interact with audiences. This time, we started preparations in the beginning of September with fully vaccinated artistes. To cut the risk of transmission, our artistes stayed at the hostel on the premises,” said Singh, as she fixes the jewellery of an artiste. “While the Ramlila is on stage for a fixed number of days, the preparations continue throughout the year. It’s an ongoing process. Every time I see the performance, I am able to spot areas where we can improve further,” said Singh, who has her eye on the minutest of details. First started in 1957, the “Shri Ram”marks its 65th anniversary this year. Over the years, it has seen a number of innovations as it kept pace with the changing trends. This year too, the Ramlila has incorporated a number of new elements. “This year, “Shri Ram” has a special background music, adopted from the older version of our own Ramlila. The choreography and jewellery have also been tweaked. The SBKK is perhaps the only institution that does not have to purchase anything from outside -- be it costumes, ornaments or jewellery. Both the jewellery and ornaments are specially designed by our in-house experts who have been associated with us for the past several decades,” said Singh. Staying true to its tradition of having artistes from across India, this year, too, the Ramlila has actors from the different states and also from countries such as Nepal and Bangladesh. A fusion of different dance forms and martial arts styles, ranging from Bharatanatyam and Kalaripayattu to Chhau, will enthral the audience during the nearly two-hour long production that will be staged daily till October 20. This time, a number of students of SBKK have been roped in to play crucial characters in the ballet. “We have around 20 students of our own who have been involved in the production. This is a great opportunity for them and will give them a lot of exposure,” said Singh. Sapan Majumdar, 41, who has been playing the character of Ravana for the past 25 years, said the production is a huge morale booster for artistes who faced financial hardships during the pandemic. The return of “Shri Ram” would herald the beginning of better times, he hoped. “At the end of the day, every artiste craves the stage and the audience. We perform for the audience and it’s a matter of pride for us to carry forward our legacy year after year. We hope that with this year’s production, we will be able to tide over the gloom of the pandemic,” said Majumdar, as he rushes to join the other artistes for the inaugural session of the ballet. And just like that, the cultural extravaganza came alive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-gloom-takes-a-back-seat-as-ramlila-marks-65th-anniversary-in-delhi-101633718245356.html
09-10-2021||Dehradun||Independent MLA from Bhimtal joins BJP, third legislator to join party in 2 months||Independent MLA from Nainital’s Bhimtal constituency, Ram Singh Kaira, joined the ruling BJP at the party headquarters in New Delhi on Friday in the presence of senior party leaders including Union minister Smriti Irani. Kaira had won the Bhimtal constituency during the 2017 state assembly elections amid the thumping mandate given to the BJP in the same elections. He had earlier held many senior party positions in the state Congress unit including the post of state general secretary. Kaira is the third MLA to join the BJP from the Opposition. Before him, independent MLA from Dhanaulti constituency- Pritam Singh Panwar and Congress MLA from Purola constituency- Rajkumar had joined the ruling party last month at the party headquarters in New Delhi. Welcoming him to the party fold, Uttarakhand BJP president Madan Kaushik called him a very popular leader in his constituency. “Having started his political career with student politics, Kaira also actively participated in the statehood movement before joining Congress which he left to contest independently in the 2017 elections. He is a very popular leader in his constituency and has always raised issues in the state assembly with determination to make the Congress uneasy at times,” said Kaushik. “His inclusion in the party will make it stronger in the Bhimtal area,” he added. Senior BJP leader and Union minister Smriti Irani said, “It is a matter of pride that a person like Kaira who has contributed immensely to the state of Uttarakhand, has joined BJP today.” “We wholeheartedly welcome him to the world’s biggest party and we are hopeful that working along the party lines, he will help in taking the state ahead on the path of development,” Irani said. Kaira while expressing his gratitude for the welcome meted out to him in the party said that he decided to join BJP as he thinks it is the “only party which works for the people”. “While working as an independent MLA, I contemplated and figured out that BJP is the only party which works for the society and country and not politics. I was greatly influenced by PM Modi’s thoughts and hence decided to join the party,” said Kaira. The Congress in turn has claimed that MLAs joining the BJP will not make any difference in the 2022 state assembly elections. “It does not matter how many MLAs BJP gets to join their party. It did nothing for the development of the state in the last four and half years. It will lose the upcoming 2022 state assembly elections,” said Congress state president Ganesh Godiyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/independent-mla-from-bhimtal-joins-bjp-third-legislator-to-join-party-in-2-months-101633718185180.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Phase 2 of Delhi’s Bharat Darshan Park to cover 17 monuments from across India||With the upcoming Bharat Darshan Park in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh nearing completion, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has already begun planning for phase 2 of the project, identifying 17 monuments from 17 states and union territories to recreate in the park using scrap material.The park currently features 21 replicas of prominent monuments, made using 350 tonnes of scrap material collected from various municipal yards, from 13 states and union territories. The park, which is spread over 8.5 acres, is likely to be inaugurated by October end.Mukesh Suryan, the mayor of the south corporation, said that the work on creating the replicas has finished and that they are currently involved in creating pathways, finishing electrical work and developing green areas. “We are working round the clock to throw open the park by month end and then we will try to cover the monuments from remaining states in the remaining space,” the mayor said. The corporation is also setting up a 1.5-km-long walking track, an amphitheatre for holding cultural events and a food court.Officials said with a plan to feature at least one monument or cultural icon from each state, the second phase of the park will focus on the northeastern states: the Unakoti caves from Tripura, Rang Ghar from Assam, a Naga house replica from Nagaland, Mizo dance form from Mizoram, wood masks from Sikkim, Behdienkhlam festival from Meghalya and figurines of Manipuri dancers. Twang Gate from Arunachal Pradesh, which was expected to be covered in phase 1, will also be taken up in the second phase, said officials.Among the other monuments selected for phase 2 include the Thiksey monastery from Ladakh union territory, Nishant Bagh from J&K and Masroor temple from Himachal Pradesh. The civic body has also selected Narnaul’s Chor Gumbad from Haryana, Basilica of Bom Jesus from Goa, Lepakshi temple from Andhra Pradesh, Sirpur temple from Chhattisgarh and race boats from Kerala. A senior official working on the park development said that they have a set a deadline of October 25 to complete the phase one work. “If both the phases are considered together, there will be 39 replicas of monuments or cultural icons with representation from each state and union territory. The park will also have food court featuring cuisines from various states so that visitors get a wholesome experience,” the official said.The project had run into controversy earlier after a replica of the Golden Temple in Amritsar had to be dismantled in June following objections by the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (DSGPC). The civic body replaced it with the Char Dham replicas from Badrinath in Uttarakhand, Jagannath temple in Odisha, Dwarkadhish in Gujarat, and Rameshwaramin Tamil Nadu, which have been placed in the four corners of the park, an official said. “To represent Punjab, a replica of the Sheesh Mahal may be set up in the second phase,” official said.After the Waste to Wonder park at Sarai Kale Khan, the Bharat Darshan Park will be the second such park featuring replicas of monuments prepared from salvaged junk material from municipal corporation yards. “Since the number of monuments and area of the park is much larger than Waste to Wonder park, the entry fee is expected to be at least ₹100 per person,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/phase-2-of-delhi-s-bharat-darshan-park-to-cover-17-monuments-from-across-india-101633718125167.html
09-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt tells staff to get vaccinated by October 15 or miss work||In the first major vaccine mandate in the national capital, it has been made compulsory for all state government employees to be at least partially inoculated against Covid-19 by October 15, failing which they will not be allowed to attend work, and their absence from duty will be counted as leave, said an official order from the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday.To be sure, Assam earlier this month put in place a mandate for its government staff, while Odisha made jabs compulsory for all its staff in Bhubaneswar.“All government employees working in departments, autonomous bodies, PSUs, local bodies, and education institutions under government of NCT [National Capital Territory] of Delhi, including frontline workers, health workers, as well as teachers and other staff working in schools and colleges, should get vaccinated (at least first dose) by 15.10.2021 as per prevailing guidelines and protocols prescribed for vaccination by the Union government,” said the order, a copy of which HT has reviewed.It added, “The aforementioned government employees, health workers, front line workers, teachers, and other staff in schools and colleges, who do not get vaccinated (at least first dose) by 15.10.2021 shall not be allowed to attend their respective offices, healthcare institutions and educational institutions with effect from 16.10.2021 till they have obtained the first dose vaccination. The said period of absence from duty shall be treated as ‘on leave’ till the administration of the first dose of vaccination.”To be sure, there is currently no provision for state government employees in Delhi to work remotely.According to the CoWin dashboard, nearly 12.5 million people in the Capital have got at least one jab of either Covishield, Covaxin, or Sputnik V — the three vaccines currently available across the country. Of these, 6,393,602 have taken both doses and completed their Covid-19 immunisation regimen.According to government estimates, the city has a total adult population of 15 million.Delhi has so far recorded around 1.44 million Covid-19 cases and 25,088 deaths. A bulk of these infections came between April and May this year, when the Capital was struck by its fourth and most brutal wave of the pandemic yet.With the festival season approaching, DDMA’s decision comes at an important juncture. Between Dussehra and Diwali last year, Delhi witnessed its third wave of the viral disease, peaking at 8,593 new cases a day in mid-November.The Delhi government has at least 200 departments, such as finance, revenue, health, education, home, water, power, transport, urban development, excise, social welfare, which employ around 500,000 workers.The heads of Delhi government departments concerned have been entrusted with monitoring the process and verifying each employee’s vaccination status.On September 29, the state government’s education department made it mandatory for teachers and staff in its schools to get at least one jab of a Covid-19 vaccine by October 15.A senior government official said a recent internal survey showed that more than 90% government employees have taken one dose of the vaccine so far.Health experts hailed the government’s move.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “It is a good move. Government offices are closed spaces. There is always a risk of transmission, especially in departments that involve public dealings.”“Many government employees are also parents of school-going children. This policy will ensure that not only are school staff vaccinated, but consequently a large number of parents are vaccinated too. This is an important decision ahead of the festive season,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the community medicines department at Safdarjung Hospital.“However, from a public health point of view, such orders can be problematic. The government should invest more on encouraging people, even its employees, to get vaccinated voluntarily.”Currently, there are hardly any restrictions in Delhi other than on political, social, religious, and other gatherings; a a cap on the number of guests in restaurants and bars; and on in-person lessons for students below Class 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-tells-staff-to-get-vaccinated-by-october-15-or-miss-work-101633717946676.html
09-10-2021||Gurugram||Locals protest against Friday prayers in Ggm Sec 47, Muslims move to new site||Around a 100 Muslims, who had gathered in Sector 47 to offer Friday prayers, were asked by the Gurugram police to shift their prayers to a site around 200 metres from the original spot after a group of residents protested against them offering namaz in a public place. The prayers, however, were conducted peacefully at the new site in the presence of police. At about 1pm Friday, around40 to 50 residents gathered at the prayer site, which is located on a vacant ground in Sector 47, and began shouting slogans. They also carried placards demanding a stop to Friday prayers in open spaces. The protesting residents said Friday prayers should be offered in mosques or on Waqf Board land, and not in public places. Sunil Yadav, president of the residents’ welfare association of Sector 47, said, “Every week, hundreds of people gather in this area to offer namaz on government land. Due to this, vehicular movement gets affected as the plot is next to a private school, and the namaz timings clash with the time when school ends and our children return home. They (Muslims) should offer prayers at mosques or in their religious institutions. We had raised the matter with the district administration earlier also and have submitted a letter on Friday as well. The administration assured us that they will look into the matter and find a solution,” he said. Residents also alleged that until a few months ago, around 20 people would gather at the spot for prayers on Friday; but now the number is close to 200. They also said a majority of the people who gathered there on Fridays were not from the area. Kuldeep Yadav, councillor of ward 29, who was present at the spot, said they submitted a written complaint to the administration. “We asked the administration to tell us which resident consented to the use of this site for offering prayers. Residents are protesting because they want this practice to end,” he said. In 2018, the district administration had designated 37 sites, including the Sector 47 site, as places where prayers could be offered on Friday. Yadav, however, said this arrangement was not permanent and the authorities must find a solution. Muslims, who had gathered for prayers on Friday, said they shifted the prayers to another site nearby as local police requested them to do so in view of the protests. Mufti Mohammad Salim Qasmi, president of the Gurugram unit of Jamiat Ulama, said they complied with the request as their purpose was to pray peacefully. He also said there were only 13 mosques in Gurugram-- hardly enough for the 500,000-strong Muslim community of the city. Some members of the community, however, are angry over the protesters’ allegations of them blocking traffic, which they said was blatantly false. They also said being asked to move was a violation of their right to worship. “A handful of people are overruling the Constitution of India that gives citizens the right to practise their faith without fear. Their allegations are completely false. This is being done to malign and suppress Muslims. I appeal to the administration and the state government of Haryana to allocate land in several sectors of Gurugram so that we can build mosques,” said Altaf Ahmad, co-founder, Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch, a civil society group. Aman Yadav, ACP, Sadar, said, “The matter has been brought to the notice of the SDM and district administration. The protesters submitted that this land is meant for a market and they had not given written consent for it to be used as a prayer site. They have been protesting for the past three weeks. Namaz was offered peacefully after Muslims moved slightly away from the site in view of the protests.” For the past three weeks, offering prayers on Friday at various open sites in Gurugram has become an issue after a Hindu group started appearing at these sites and opposing the prayers, leading to tension. The issue was also widely discussed on social media. In April this year, members of the right wing group had protested against the practice of Friday prayers in the open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/locals-protest-against-friday-prayers-in-gurugram-sec-47-muslims-move-to-new-site-101633717585514.html
09-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram student shot dead after an argument on varsity campus||A 24-year-old student of SGT University in Budhera, around 10km from Gurugram, was shot dead allegedly by a fellow student on campus over a personal dispute on Friday afternoon.Police said the suspect fled from the spot after the incident and was yet to be traced till Friday night even as investigators detained one of his accomplices for questioning.The deceased student was identified as Vineet Kumar from Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh, a fourth-year student of Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery at the university.Police said the incident took place around 12.30pm, when the victim, Vineet Kumar, a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Shamli and a fourth-year student of BAMS at the university, and his friends were returning to the hostel on the same campus. Police said that a law student, Pankhil, alias Lucky, and his accomplices confronted Kumar and after a heated argument, Pankhil allegedly shot him. Kumar was taken to SGT Hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.Police said a case of murder was registered at the Rajendra Park police station against Pankhil, a resident of Najafgarh.His accomplices, identified as Nitesh, Rahul and Himani (all known by their first names), were also booked in connection with the matter, police said. Police did not reveal which of them was detained on Friday but said that they were still looking for the others.“Kumar was shot in the abdomen and later succumbed to his injuries. A number of students are being questioned in this connection and CCTV camera footage is also being analysed. We will soon arrest the accused,” said deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Saharan, adding that all the suspects in the case studied at the same university.In his complaint to the police, Kumar’s friend Harsh (identified only by his first name) said that they were attending class, when Lucky and his brother Nitesh, both students of the same college, asked Kumar to step out, but the teacher did not allow Kumar to leave the class.When the session ended around 12pm, Kumar, sensing trouble, asked Harsh and a few other friends to escort him to the hostel as he fearedthat Lucky and his friends would try to pick a fight.When the group neared the hostel, Lucky and his accomplices stopped them and started fighting with Kumar. Harsh said their group tried to reason with them, but Nitesh allegedly caught hold of Kumar and Pankhil allegedly shot him.Subash Boken, spokesperson of Gurugram Police, said that police teams rushed to the spot as soon as they received the information. “CCTV camera footage of the incident is being analysed and the accused have been identified. Police teams are conducting raids,” he said.A representative of SGT University said in a statement, “As per preliminary information available with the university, today’s [Friday] incident is a result of a personal dispute among some students. The police are investigating the matter and the university authorities are fully cooperating with the investigation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-student-shot-dead-after-an-argument-on-varsity-campus-101633717409784.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||CBI charge sheets Rana Kapoor, his wife, Avantha Group promoter||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday filed a charge sheet in the special CBI court in Mumbai against YES Bank founder Rana Kapoor, his wife Bindu, Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar and two companies in connection with the alleged fraud involving a Delhi Lutyens property.Last March, CBI had registered a case against Kapoor and others alleging that he misused his official position as then managing director (MD) and chief executive officer (CEO) of Yes Bank and acquired a prime Delhi property, mortgaged with Yes Bank, at a price lesser than its market value. The agency claimed that the market value of the property, mortgaged as collateral for a ₹400-crore loan advanced to Avantha Group, was about ₹550 crore, but it was acquired by M/s Bliss Adobe Pvt Ltd, a firm in which Kapoor’s wife Bindu is a director and authorised signatory, for ₹378 crore. CBI also claimed that the sale proceeds were not used to clear the entire loan, and instead the loan was subsequently declared as a non-performing asset. “Against this favour, the then MD and CEO of Yes Bank extended an additional loan of ₹1,360 crore (approximately) to some other company of Avantha Group,” said a CBI officer.“It was also alleged that the said loans were never utilised for the purpose for which they were given and the borrowers were allowed to divert the funds for ever-greening of existing loans of the group companies” said the CBI officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-charge-sheets-rana-kapoor-his-wife-avantha-group-promoter-101633715185061.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Amitabh Bachchan leases property near Mumbai home to SBI for ₹18.9L/month for 15 years||Superstar Amitabh Bachchan has leased his property near his landmark house Jalsa at Juhu Vile Parle Development Scheme (JVPD) to State Bank of India (SBI) for ₹18.90 lakh per month for 15 years.This currently works at ₹600 per square feet (sq ft), which is marginally higher compared to the market rate in JVPD.The property on the ground floor of Vatsa and Ammu bungalow, adjacent to Jalsa, was previously leased to Citibank for years. Citibank had vacated the place in June 2019 after the expiry of their lease.According to the documents accessed by Zapkey.com, a real estate date analytics and research firm, the lease deed was registered on September 28. A stamp duty of ₹30.86 lakh was paid along with ₹30,000 as registration charges for the deal.The stamp duty document reveals that Bachchan and his actor son Abhishek have given the 3,150 sq ft ground floor for 15 years to the bank. There will be cost escalation of 25% every five years. In the first five years, a rent of ₹18.9 lakh will be paid monthly, which will increase to ₹23.62 lakh for the next five years and ₹29. 53 lakh for the last five years.SBI has paid ₹2.26 crore as deposit for the property, which is almost the rent for 12 months.According to Sangeet Hemant Kumar, founder and CEO (chief executive officer), SHK Ventures, which deals with high-end properties in JVPD, the premium levied on this property is justified. “This is a marquee property which belongs to Amitabh Bachchan, who is a superstar, and is just next door to his house. This is bound to attract a premium. In addition, this is a corner prominent spot in Juhu,” said Kumar.He added that the current lease rent in JVPD is ₹400- ₹500 per sq ft.JVPD scheme is one of the plush areas in Mumbai, housing several Bollywood personalities such as Dharmendra, Anil Kapoor, Rakesh Roshan, Sunny Deol, Shatrughan Sinha and Rohit Shetty. Last December, actor Ajay Devgn had bought a bungalow, spreading across 474.4 sq metres for ₹47.5 crore in this area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amitabh-bachchan-leases-property-near-mumbai-home-to-sbi-for-18-9l-month-for-15-years-101633714944887.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Drugs seized on cruise: BJP leader’s kin was detained but let off by NCB, says NCP||Nationalist Congress Party (NCB) leader and Maharashtra minority welfare minister Nawab Malik on Friday has alleged that the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) let off the brother-in-law of a key Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader after officers from the agency received calls from the party leadership. Malik has announced to produce a video footage to prove his claims on Saturday in a press conference. On Wednesday, Malik had alleged lapses in the raids on the cruise from where drugs were seized on October 2 and produced a video footage on the involvement of two private persons in the arrest of the accused in the rave party. The footage produced by Malik in a press conference showed that a BJP officer-bearer, Manish Bhanushali, and a person named Kiran Gosavi, who is facing criminal cases, were part of the NCB team which had arrested actor Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan and actor Arbaaz Merchant for their alleged involvement in the rave party. Malik had also raised questions over their presence during the raids and their handling of the accused. On Friday, Malik alleged that 10 people were detained by the NCB team during the raid, but two were let off after “intervention from higher level”. “One of them was the brother-in law of a key BJP leader. Both of them were brought to NCB office, but were later allowed to go. NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede had said after the raid that they had detained eight to 10 people. Why did he not give the specific number of the detainees? Was he vague on the number because he had to free two people? We will produce a video-recording to prove that two detainees were freed from NCB office and one of them was the relative of a high-profile BJP leader,” he said.NCB had raided on an off shore rave party on a cruise ship along the Mumbai coast on Saturday night. At least 10 people were either detained or arrested, including Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan and two of his friends.Malik said Wankhede should clarify how many phone calls he had received during the detention and on whose direction the “high-profile detainees” were allowed to go. He should also clarify what connection he has with BJP. Malik said a few government officials such as ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh were involved in ill practices under the guise of actions against criminals. “Bollywood artists were harassed for money by seizing 1-2 grams of drugs. We will expose it all in due process,” he said.Leader of opposition in legislative council Pravin Darekar said, “The allegations levelled by Malik are baseless as NCB will never allow any person arrested to let go. If Malik has any proofs related to it, he should submit them to the investigating agency, rather than wasting time in producing them before the media. If such proofs are handed over, the NCB will take action and ensure that the guilty are punished.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugs-seized-on-cruise-bjp-leader-s-kin-was-detained-but-let-off-by-ncb-says-ncp-101633714768428.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Greenfield alignment project: Mohali admn decides to hike compensation, NHAI to take final call||Conceding to landowners’ demand for enhanced compensation for the land being acquired for the 32-km greenfield alignment to decongest the Airport Road in Mohali, the Mohali revenue department has decided to increase the rates.NHAI’s ₹700-crore project has been on hold in the wake of landowners’ demand for more award against the property acquired. The authority had initially decided to pay between ₹24 lakh and ₹4.12 crore per acre, depending on the land’s location. The revenue department has decided that the relief for those being paid ₹24 lakh per acre should be increased to ₹1 crore. After the department forwards the recommendation to the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), the authority will take the final call on whether to enhance the rates. Mohali district revenue officer Gurjinder Singh Benipal said, “We had previously also advised an increase in the compensation and now, as decided, the final amount will be recommended to NHAI.” NHAI had earlier released ₹450 crore to acquire 450 acres in 66 villages to construct the 32-km road, but affected landowners in Nagiari, Devi Nagar and other villages objected to the low acquisition rates. A senior NHAI officer said, “We have already released the compensation as per the collector rates. Senior officials will take further decision on increasing the relief.” A greenfield road is built in an area that has never been developed. The planned road from IT Chowk near the Chandigarh International Airport to the Kurali-Chandigarh Road will provide an alternative route to traffic moving between the Delhi side and parts of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir. Ashoka Buildcon Limited has been finalised to execute the project. The NHAI had come up with this project after scrapping the project to widen the 40-km Kharar-Banur-Tepla road in July 2019, owing to its high cost. Even MP Manish Tewari had taken up the need for an alternative route with Union minister Nitin Gadkari in February 2020. More recently, on September 30, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, along with party leaders and workers, had held a protest in Mohali against the low compensation rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-enhances-relief-nhai-to-take-final-call-101633708703264.html
09-10-2021||Patna||Paswan death anniversary: Paras, Chirag hold parallel functions in Patna, Delhi||Four days after the Election Commission of India (EC) allotted new names and symbols to the two warring factions of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), both sides on Friday organised parallel functions in Patna and Delhi to mark the first death anniversary of former union minister Ram Vilas Paswan, who founded the party in 2000.The Rashtriya Lok Janshakti Party, led by union minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, held a function in Patna while LJP (Ram Vilas), led by Chirag Paswan, organised a similar function in New Delhi.Chief minister Nitish Kumar attended the function held in Patna. The function in New Delhi was attended by a number of top leaders, including defence minister Rajnath Singh, RJD president Lalu Prasad and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Former MP and JAP president Rajiv Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav was also present at the function, organized by Chirag Paswan.Kumar, who had skipped a similar functioned organised by Chirag Paswan in September in Patna, was the first to arrive at the event organised by Paras, making clear his support for the group. Governor Phagu Chauhan also attended the function.Several ministers of Nitish Kumar’s cabinet, both from JD (U and BJP, and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi also attended the event. Leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav did not turn up but his elder brother, Tej Pratap Yadav, came to pay his tributes. Recalling his long association with late Paswan, Kumar said, “His memories shall ever reside in our hearts. And we will do whatever is required by way of commemoration.” Paras has demanded that the Bihar government make a request to the Centre for conferring Bharat Ratna on the late leader and installation of his life-size statue in the state. Paras has extended his party’s support to JD(U) which is contesting both the assembly seats, Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur, where bypolls are to be held October 30.Chirag has also announced candidates for the two assembly seats. In 2020, the LJP, headed by Chirag, had contested assembly elections alone, damaging JD(U)’s prospects on many seats. Nitish Kumar’s party ended up with its worst ever electoral performance, though the NDA secured a majority and BJP backed Kumar for another term in office.The BJP has since distanced itself from Chirag leader and ended up recognising the breakaway faction headed by Paras, who also secured a berth in the union cabinet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/paswans-death-anniversary-paras-chirag-hold-parallel-functions-held-in-patna-delhi-101633707985236.html
09-10-2021||Chandigarh||Police file closure report in FIR against Warring’s brother-in-law||Eight months after a 37-year-old contractor allegedly shot his two children dead and left his wife critically injured before turning the gun on himself in Faridkot, the district police filed a closure report in an FIR filed against Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring’s brother-in-law Dimpy Vinayak for abetment to suicide. In the closure report filed in the court of chief judicial magistrate Sanjeev Kundi, the police have recommended the cancellation of an FIR registered against Amit Vinayak, alias Dimpy Vinayak, under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) on the complaint of Karan Kataria’s brother Ankit Kataria. On February 6, the contractor shot at his wife, his three-year-old daughter and seven-year-old son with his revolver before shooting himself around 4am. Both the children and the contractor died, while his wife survived the injuries. Initially, Karan’s brother had claimed in his statement that Dimpy refused to return money to his brother and also threatened him, after which his brother took the extreme step. In a statement in the court on Friday, Karan’s brother said he has no objection to the closure report filed by the district police for cancellation of the FIR. The police had also registered another case against the Karan under Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC and Arms Act for killing his two children and injuring wife. Meanwhile, a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) has been filed by Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Romana in the Punjab and Haryana high court against the closure report. The PIL also demanded CBI inquiry of the incident. The matter will be taken up by the high court on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faridkot-deaths-i-abetment-to-suicide-police-file-closure-report-in-fir-against-warring-s-brotherinlaw-101633698382097.html
09-10-2021||Mumbai||Part of Navi Mumbai Metro Line 1 between Central Park in Kharghar and Pendhar can start operations in Dec 2021||The Navi Mumbai residents can take a Metro from Central Park in Kharghar to Pendhar by the end of this year if all goes according to plan.This corridor is of 5km length and has five stations – Pendhar, Pethali Taloja, Amandoot, Pethapada and Central Park.The Navi Mumbai Metro project, which is delayed by more than a decade, is now expected to start operations on the remaining six stations from Belapur to Kharghar by December 2022. The Navi Mumbai integrated elevated metro rail corridor is expected to not just connect the city’s nodes and boost the transit system but also act as an economic booster.CIDCO is developing four elevated corridors under the Navi Mumbai Metro project that will connect to the proposed international airport. The entire first phase is a 11km-line from Belapur to Pendhar and is a ₹4,000-plus crore project. It has 11 stations, a depot for maintenance at Taloja and two traction sub-stations in Panchanand and Kharghar.Following constant delays, CIDCO, in February this year, appointed Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (Maha Metro) for completion of Line 1. Maha Metro will also run services on Line 1 for 10 years as per an agreement in July this year.CIDCO VC-MD, Sanjay Mukherjee, said, “The project was delayed due to several engineering and other issues. The car sheds were ready, rakes procured but the stations did not come up. Maha Metro has a good track record on Metro project and hence its expertise has been sought for completion of the project and also for running it.”The trial run of Line 1 was conducted successfully earlier this year. This was followed by Oscillation Trial under the guidance of Research Design and Structured Organisation (RDSO) in September. The ministry of telecommunications then inspected Stations 1 to 10 on the route and granted the Dynamic Clearance Certificate recently. The next step will be the ISA certification.Mukherjee added, “With several important permissions in, we are now aiming for safety certification from commissioner, Metro Rail Safety. We will then be able to start partial commercial operations of Line 1 from by year end. The full operations should begin from December 2022.”On Lines 2 and 3, the detailed project report of which has been approved by CIDCO, Mukherjee said that they were waiting for a cabinet resolution by the Government of Maharashtra and a Government of India notification authorising it as the agency for the project.Special emphasis has been given to make Metro accessible to people. This includes provision of feeder buses, shared auto rickshaws, e-rickshaws, bicycles and scooters. Similarly, for the convenience of passengers, lift and escalators have been provided at all stations. Provisions have also been made for disabled persons.A spokesperson of Maha Metro said, “Various civil, electrical and system works that include electrification, signalling, telecommunications, among others for the Kharghar to Pendhar line are in the advanced stage of completion. The track work has also been completed.” The responsibility of Maha Metro includes recruitment and training of train operators, controllers, security and safety personnel and station staff, safe and punctual running of train and to provide passenger amenities at stations.Dinkar Samant, Urban planner, said, ”Kharghar will benefit from this Metro project as around a 7km stretch of Kharghar is along the Sion-Panvel Highway. The Metro will reduce the traffic congestion here. The major housing projects in Kharghar too will benefit from the Metro. Places like Taloja and its surrounding areas including Ghot and Koyanaville villages will be connected to rail routes.”Bhupendra Shah, Chairman Trustee Board, Builders Association of Navi Mumbai, said, “A separate Metro line should be laid along with the under-construction Mumbai Trans Harbour Link connecting Mumbai to Navi Mumbai. It is a good move to connect Mumbai and Navi Mumbai airports through Metro as is seen in international cities like Singapore and Dubai. The Metro will boost the economy just as the railway did.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/part-of-navi-mumbai-metro-line-1-between-central-park-in-kharghar-and-pendhar-can-start-operations-in-dec-2021-101633696166856.html
09-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police propose 10-year imprisonment for mass conversions||The Uttarakhand Police have proposed making mass conversions punishable by up to 10-year imprisonment and ₹25,000 fine through an amendment to the state’s anti-conversion law passed in 2018, people aware of the matter said. The proposal has been made in a report submitted last week after chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami met top police officers and sought suggestions on how to make the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act stronger to check conversions.A police officer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said they suggested some new provisions on the lines of Uttar Pradesh’s anti-conversion enacted this year. “The existing Act in the state (Uttarakhand) is very weak as it has no provisions for punishment for those involved in mass conversions...” He added in the existing law, there is also no provision against mass conversions. “...family members of a victim of forced or wrongful religious conversions can file a complaint case against the accused in court which then directs the district magistrate concerned for registering an FIR (First Information Report). We have proposed a provision under which the police can register an FIR on the basis of a complaint of family members.”Dhami in September said information will be gathered about incidents of forced religious conversions and the so-called “love jihad”. He added police were working with more strictness against “love jihad” and the government will make the existing law more stringent.“Love jihad” is a term Hindu groups use to describe relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women. The courts and the Union government do not recognise the term. Also read: Uttarakhand’s Corbett tiger reserve likely to be renamed as Ramganga National Park, says park directorBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ruled states have enacted anti-conversion laws to discourage such relationships. Activists and legal experts have argued such laws could be used to target Muslims and infringe on fundamental rights.The police officer cited above said they have suggested specific punishment for those involved in the conversion of minors and women from Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities. “...we have also proposed hearings of the cases under the Act (anti-conversation law) in sessions courts instead of family courts under the existing law,” said the officer.A second police officer said the existing law provides limited powers to the police. “At the meeting with the chief minister in September, he asked why police were unable to stop the love jihad cases. We replied the law is like a toothless tiger with not many provisions in it for the police to take action unlike the one in Uttar Pradesh...Then he said the law will be made stronger on the lines of Uttar Pradesh,” said the second officer on the condition of anonymity.He said one or two cases have been filed under the anti-conversion law in the state over the last few years. He added this included one in Dehradun against a Muslim cleric and a man for allegedly forcing a Hindu woman to change her religion for marriage in December last year.Uttarakhand Police chief Ashok Kumar said they have given suggestions to the government, and it is up to it to make a decision. “During the meeting last month, we told the chief minister we have to make the law stronger like the one in Uttar Pradesh. We have proposed suggestions on imprisonment and penalty accordingly.”The Uttarakhand Freedom Of Religion Act was passed in April 2018 making “forced or fraudulent conversions done through force or allurement” non-bailable offences with a provision of imprisonment for up to five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-police-propose-10-year-imprisonment-for-mass-conversions-101633692429511.html
09-10-2021||Other||Ex-Chhattisgarh CM’s son booked for rioting||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Rajnandgaon Santosh Pandey and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh’s son, Abhishek Singh were on Friday booked for rioting and damage to property in connection with the communal violence in Kawardha town on Tuesday, a police officer said.“Based on initial investigation, we have booked both Pandey and Singh for rioting and damage of property along with other leaders of Hindu outfits,” police superintendent Mohit Garg said. He added further probe is underway and added the First Information Report in the case has not been made public in view of the sensitivity of the matter.Garg said both Pandey and Singh were present at a protest rally organised in the town which turned violent on Tuesday. He added the situation is under control now. Police said bikes were torched and some houses were also ransacked that prompted them to resort to a lathi charge and impose a curfew.At least 95 people have so far been arrested for rioting and violence, which broke out after a clash over the removal of religious flags from a thoroughfare. Around a dozen of people including three policemen sustained minor injuries in the violence. Pandey said he participated in the rally but was not in that mob which turned violent. “The charges against me are false... People in the rally got scattered and some miscreants entered the lanes where the violence took place,” said Pandey.Singh was unavailable for comments.Dharamlal Kaushik, the opposition leader in the state assembly, said the case against two BJP leaders reflects dictatorship and political vendetta. “The two leaders who were booked actually tried to contain the tension. The administration and police are responsible for Tuesday’s violence and now they are trying to put blame on the BJP leaders.”Ruling Congress leader Sushil Anand Shukla said Pandey and Singh led the mob and instigated violence in the peaceful town. “I believe that both should be arrested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-communal-violence-mp-among-2-bjp-leaders-booked-101633688288998.html
