10-10-2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi to officials: Keep a watch on edible oil price||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath onn Sunday directed officials to keep a watch on the prices of edible oil. Chairing a high-level review meeting, the chief minister said that rise in price of mustard oil was being noticed. He directed the agricultural production commissioner to hold a review with officials of the food and civil supplies and agriculture departments and also speak to all the divisional commissioners. Yogi said strict action should be taken against those involved in black marketing, said a spokesperson of the state government. The CM also directed officials to ensure adequate supply of electricity, said the spokesperson. Officials were also directed to ensure that the construction of UP state institute of forensic sciences started on October 15. The CM directed officials to ensure all festivals were celebrated peacefully, adding they should coordinate with religious heads and organisations for the purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cm-yogi-to-officials-keep-a-watch-on-edible-oil-price-101633890480632.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||South Delhi open-air dining plan stays indoors as fire law confusion hits policy||New Delhi: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) launched its open air dining policy for restaurants under the civic body’s jurisdiction in September last year. However, till date, the corporation has given out only 69 licences -- with only 12 establishments getting the licences in the past four months. Officials of the civic body aware of the matter said the policy failed to take off at the expected pace because of confusion over the fire safety certificate provision. A senior official from the public health department of the civic body explained that a fire safety certificate is a must for all establishments applying for open air dining spaces. Though most of them were able to get the no-objection certificate (NOC) from Delhi Fire Services (DFS) for eateries on the ground floor, space on open terrace remains a sticking point. Restaurant owners said that DFS doesn’t issue NOCs for open terrace, and the fire department has said that the SDMC should get third party safety rules audit for terrace areas since they do not have enough staff to get inspections done. “Fire NOC is a precondition for open-air dining licence and owners are not able to secure it which is leading to very few prospective licensees approaching us. The Delhi Fire Services has asked them to make provisions like water sprinklers, staircases, hosepipes, etc. So far, licenses have been mostly issued to establishments located on ground-floor,” the SDMC official said.The National Restaurant Association of India representatives say that the policy should be amended to resolve the confusion over fire NOC condition for terraces. Sandeep Anand Goyle, managing committee member of National Restaurant Association of India, said that several meetings have been held between DFS, industry representatives and SDMC officials to resolve the issue. “This is a technical flaw in the policy. DFS is telling us that there is no provision of issuing fire NOC for open spaces while SDMC has made it into a precondition. Either the policy should be revised or the civic body may adopt suggestion by fire officials that the existing fire NOCs can be extended to the adjacent open spaces under some conditions like 25% vacant space, two stair cases, etc,” he added. Goyle said it was not clear that who among the two departments would take this responsibility of issuing the clearance. The Delhi Fire Service, in a letter to the municipal health officer of SDMC, suggested that the enforcement of guidelines should be verified by the municipal corporation. “In a joint meeting held in March 2021, the representatives of DFS have stated that they have limited manpower, and they are not able to issue NOC to terraces for which third party inspections may be carried out,” an SDMC official said. In a response to the request from SDMC arguing that DFS should continue to issue fire NOC to terraces, the DFS director had stated in a letter dated March 11, 2021 that the safety guidelines should be verified by SDMC and no further NOC is required from the department.DFS director Atul Garg said the of open-air dining policy was sent for their consideration. “We have told the corporation that our inspection should not be made mandatory. The establishments which have taken NOC for the covered portion can extend the same safety conditions such as equipment and staircase regulations to the open space as well. Why should the fire officials visit them again,” Garg said.The zone wise distribution of open-air dining licenses shows that 29 have been granted in the Najafgarh zone, 27 in the South zone and 10 in the Central zone. The lowest number of such establishments in under the West zone where three such open air eateries are currently operational. SDMC official said that some of area and establishments where outdoor dining licenses have been issued are located in places such as Aerocity, India Habitat Center, Aurobindo Marg, outlets in Kapashera, Dwarka, Rajouri garden, Hauz Khas and Green Park.Goyle said, “The concept of open air dining policy is good and the industry has been pushing for it for the past 15 years.” According to the policy approved in September last year, open-air dining is allowed only in restaurants with a health trade licence, and where there is an open space such as a rooftop which is private property. Recently, the north and east corporation have also adopted a similar policy. The policy states that there should be no encroachments on public lands, footpaths or roadsides. No cooking is allowed in an open area and a liquor licence is mandatory to serve alcoholic beverages in open areas, officials stated. Structural safety certificates from a certified engineer and fire NOC from Delhi Fire Services is mandatory. The fee for this licence varies from Rs100-200 per sqm. Before the pandemic hit last year, south Delhi had 2,000 big and small eateries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/south-delhi-open-air-dining-plan-stays-indoors-as-fire-law-confusion-hits-policy-101633890120343.html
10-10-2021||Other||BJP sought votes in cows’ name but did not serve them well: Baghel||VARANASI: Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said here on Sunday that chief minister Yogi Adityanath was very scared of Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi. Therefore, he was not allowing her to visit the aggrieved families in Lakhimpur Kheir. Speaking at the Kisan Nyay Rally, Baghel said, “I believe that sadhus and saints are not afraid of anyone. But Yogi Adityanath is scared of our leader Priyanka Gandhi who fought for the rights of the farmers. Therefore, he deployed police to stop her from visiting Lakhimpur Kheri. Yogi is also scared of farmers and opposition leaders.” Baghel said that the BJP took votes in the name of cows. But the BJP-led government didn’t serve cows well. Rather, the Congress government in Chhattisgarh was serving the cows well. “We are purchasing cow dung at ₹2 per kg and making vermi-compost . Now we have started making electricity from that,” he said. Bhaghel hoped that when the assembly elections were held in UP, the government would definitely be formed under the leadership of Priyanka Gandhi. He said Kashi was the land of Baba Vishwanath. People visited this place to seek answers to their questions. UP elections would give answers to questions of people, including poor, farmers, downtrodden and youths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-sought-votes-in-cows-name-but-did-not-serve-them-well-baghel-101633889160294.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||UP BJP chief says politics is meant for serving people, not crushing them under Fortuner||Highlighting the qualities of a good leader, Uttar Pradesh (UP) Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Swatantra Dev Singh on Sunday said politics is “meant to serve the people, not to crush them under Fortuner.”He said this while addressing cadres of the BJP minority wing at the Scientific Convention Centre in Lucknow on Sunday. The UP BJP chief’s remarks came a day after Ashish Mishra, son of union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, was arrested on Saturday night. He was earlier named as an accused in the case of killing of four farmers who were allegedly run over by a car in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Farmer groups and Opposition leaders have claimed that the minister’s son was also there in the car that ran over people, triggering violence that left four more dead though Ashish has consistently denied the charge. Addressing the meeting of BJP’s minority cell, the UP BJP chief said: “Joining politics doesn’t mean engaging in corruption or to rob people. It doesn’t mean running people under Fortuner. Your behaviour will fetch votes. I would feel elated if people of the lane in which you live praise you. That’s why we work in the party. .. not to scare neighbours and make them hide on seeing you.” The UP BJP chief also highlighted how Prime Minister Narendra Modi has focused on clean politics, ensured the poor have a bank account and other basic amenities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-bjp-chief-says-politics-is-meant-for-serving-people-not-crushing-them-under-fortuner-101633888921723.html
10-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Under new scheme, 23 plots available for industrial purposes||The Greater Noida authority launched a scheme on Sunday as part of which it has thrown open 23 plots -- ranging from 450 square metres to 20 acres in size -- with the aim of providing an opportunity to those who want to set up a business in the industrial town. The authority has a target of creating 3,000 jobs with this scheme and earn ₹400 crore by selling the plots.The authority will allot plots via lucky draw for plots having a size of less than 4,000 square metres. Plots larger than 4,000 square metres will be allotted after conducting an interview with the interested eligible parties, verifying their credentials and scanning the documents submitted by the companies. The authority hopes the scheme will attract an investment of around ₹800 crore for all the industrial projects that will be set up on the plots. “We came up with this scheme as many people were demanding industrial plots to set up their businesses. Those who apply within October 31 will get the plots in the first week of November ,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Greater Noida authority.The plots that will be allotted to the interested parties are located in sector Ecotech 1, Ecotech 10, Ecotech 8, 6, 16, 11 and Udyog Vihar Extension. Those interested can apply by logging on to the Greater Noida authority’s portal or www.niveshmitra.up.nic.in.“We will carry out the entire plot allotment process online. The applicant will get both the allotment letter and the possession offer online so that he can set up the business without any delay and hassle. We are also developing 10 new industrial sectors, where businesses can be set up,” said Bhooshan.Of the 23 plots that will be allotted for setting up businesses, eight are in Sector Ecotech 1, two in Ecotech 10, six in Ecotech 8, two in Sector Ecotech 6, two in Ecotech 16, two in Ecotech 11 and one in Udyog Vihar Extension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-under-new-scheme-23-plots-available-for-industrial-purposes-101633888920370.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||‘Third phase of Mission Shakti proved fruitful in punishing criminals’||The Uttar Pradesh prosecution department has succeeded in getting the death sentence awarded to four accused with effective pleading of the case in the court.Additional chief secretary, home, UP, Awanish Kumar Awasthi in a press statement said, “On the instruction of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the third phase of the ‘Mission Shakti’ was launched in the state on August 21. The drive launched by the state government gave fruitful results in the terms of the punishment to criminals.”“Among the four accused awarded death sentence by the court, two cases are from Firozabad while one each is from Hathras and Lucknow. In 74 cases taken up in different district courts in the state, 134 accused have been sentenced to life imprisonment. Aligarh, Bareilly and Sitapur district courts are the top three in terms of sentencing life imprisonment to the accused,” Awasthi said.He said in 89 cases, the courts punished 98 accused to 10 years or more in prison. The top three districts in which the accused were sentenced to 10 years or more imprisonment included Sitapur, Bareilly and Shahjahanpur, he added.“Similarly, in 221 cases, 262 accused have been sentenced to less than 10 years in prison. The top three districts are Kanpur Nagar, Aligarh and Kasganj. The bails of 1,027 accused have been rejected in 977 cases by various courts in the state,” Awasthi said.He further said under the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act 1986, 2,470 gang charts had been submitted for approval in the state this year. The district magistrates had given approval in 2,429 of which 1,567 charge sheets had been filed in the court, Awasthi added.“The home department reviewed the action taken under the Gangster Act, Arms Permission and Section 107/116 of the CrPC. Effective control has been taken in the incidents of misuse of licensed arms, suspension/cancellation had been recommended against 3,269 arms licences this year while 3,088 cases have been registered and 2,293 arms licences have been suspended and 38,038 weapons have been deposited in various districts,” he said.To maintain peace as well as law and order in the state, a thorough review of the action taken this year under Section 107/116 of CrPC was also done. This year, 19,07,833 people had been arrested in 4,32,256 cases under section 116(3)/117. Action had been taken in the cases of disturbing peace against 850 people and recovery notices were issued to 133 people, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/third-phase-of-mission-shakti-proved-fruitful-in-punishing-criminals-101633888860159.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh State Carrom Tournament: Gopal, Vaidhavi claim junior titles||Gopal Kakkar and Vaidhavi Mamgain clinched the boys’ and girls’ junior singles titles during the 30th Chandigarh State Carrom Tournament held at St Stephen’s School in Sector 45 on Sunday.It was Vaidhavi’s second title after she had won the sub-juniors crown. In the boys’ final, Gopal Kakkar thrashed top-rank Mayank Gupta while Vaidhavi beat her sister Sangini Mamgain in an easy encounter by 24-07, 25-07 in the girls’ final.Meanwhile, Mohammed Hassan will take on Sanjay Negi in the men’s singles final and Tuba Sehar, Maryam Khan, Sanya Chadha and Nidhi Gupta have entered the women’s semi-finals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-state-carrom-tournament-gopal-vaidhavi-claim-junior-titles-101633888381602.html
10-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Drive against vehicles without HSRP begins, offenders to pay ₹5,000 fine||Days after the Uttar Pradesh government set a deadline on September 30 to ensure vehicles in the state have installed high security registration plates (HSRP), the transport department has planned to launch an enforcement drive against all such vehicles found without the device from Monday and fine them up to ₹5,000. The traffic police will also impound diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years in Noida in compliance with a Supreme Court order. The action comes after the district administration shot a letter to the police department on Wednesday asking it to work on an action plan to check pollution in winter. It also directed the police to ensure non-destined goods vehicles (those passing through Noida but having no business here) use bypasses and peripheral highways.High security registration plates (HSRPs) are a new type of number plates made of aluminium, which are tamper-proof and come with two non-reusable locks. One will have to remove the lock to remove the number plate and once broken, a new HSRP has to be purchased. The vehicle identification number is laser encoded, which is easy to scan and difficult to tamper with. HSRPs are mandatory because they primarily help in tracking stolen vehicles. Old number plates come with number stickers that can be easily removed and the vehicle identification number can be changed. Mostly, all stolen vehicles end up with replaced number plates, which makes it difficult to track them. HSRP prevents counterfeiting of number plates.  Prashant Tiwari, assistant regional transport officer (enforcement), Gautam Budh Nagar, said the transport department raised awareness programme for the HSRPs in the last few months. “We held awareness drives at our office and on the roads and also gave flowers to violators. But now the deadline has lapsed. We have planned to conduct an enforcement drive and fine violators up to ₹5,000 for not installing HSRP,” he said. There are around 7.87 lakh registered vehicles in the district, of which 4.50 lakh vehicles are running without HSRPs. The ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has mandated all vehicles sold in India before April 2019 to install HSRP. Those registered after the aforementioned date already come with HSRPs. Information like engine number, chassis number, and other relevant details are required to issue such number plates. Manish Shrivastava, general manager (sales) Ace Honda in Sector 11, said his agency gets 10-12 requests for installing HSRP per day. “Last year, the demand was relatively high; we got up to 150 bookings per day. It seems like most people have installed HSRP. There may be some who are yet to install it on their vehicles,” said Shrivastava. Sanjeev Kumar, general secretary of Sector 51 RWA and the owner of five cars, said all his vehicles are fitted with HSRPs. “We had come to know that HSRPs have been made mandatory. This May, we organised a camp in our sector and asked residents to install HSRPs on their vehicles. Most residents have got the HSRPs installed; we are urging others to get the devices fixed onto their vehicles to avoid penalty,” said Kumar. Meanwhile, there are some people from other states living in Noida who are facing problems in getting HSRPs. Vaibhav Balodhi, a native of Uttarakhand currently staying in Greater Noida west, said, “I have a registration number of Uttarakhand on my motorcycle. I tried to book the HSRP for my motorcycle but failed as the websites only show booking slots for Delhi and UP registered vehicles. I contacted the local transport department, who asked me to personally visit them to get it done. I work in Noida and it is difficult to go to Uttarakhand by vehicle. I have not got the HSRP yet,” he said. Alok Singh, a resident of Sector Alpha 1 in Greater Noida, said the government should extend the deadline for fitting HSRPs. “A number of people are financially and morally drained after the Covid-19 pandemic. Punishing them by slapping a fine of ₹5,000 is not logical. The HSRPs are meant to check theft and counterfeiting of vehicles. But there is no guarantee that the HSRP fitted vehicles will not be stolen,” he said.Talking about the drive against old vehicles that will also be launched on Monday, Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said old vehicles plying in Noida will be impounded. “Those non-destined vehicles using Noida roads will also be impounded if the drivers fail to provide a valid reason. “A person will be allowed to let go only if he can provide a valid reason,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-drive-against-vehicles-without-hsrp-begins-offenders-to-pay-5-000-fine-101633888380234.html
10-10-2021||Patna||Power crunch hits Bihar; govt pays ₹20 crore more a day to buy power||Bihar has been paying an additional ₹20 crore daily for the past couple of days to purchase power from open market during Dussehra but is still not getting as much to meet its peak load demand of 5,500 MW as the coal-fired utilities, supplying power to the state, are facing coal shortage, said power officials. Union power minister RK Singh, however, denied a scarcity in any state. “We have an average coal reserve (at power stations) that can last for more than four days. The stock is replenished every day. I am in touch with (Union minister for coal, mines and parliamentary affairs) Pralhad Joshi,” he said after chairing a meeting with discoms in New Delhi on Sunday, reported ANI. Bihar’s power crisis, however, has been accentuated because of multiple reasons. First, the Central sector, which supplies thermal power to the state through the NTPC, has been able to feed around 3,000-3,300 MW power against its scheduled allocation of 4,500 MW. The reduced power supply is attributed to the shutdown of the 660 MW unit 5 of the Barh Super Thermal Power Project due to maintenance and shortage of coal at the Farakka and the Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Projects, where coal was at a critical level to last for around four days, against an average buffer stock of 7-10 days at power stations. If government sources were to be believed, the average daily availability of coal was 0.7 to 0.8 lakh metric tonne (MT) against a demand of 1.2 lakh MT at NTPC power plants supplying power to Bihar. Secondly, private players are unable to meet the increased demand of thermal power across the country, primarily due to steep hike in coal prices in the international market due to its shortage. Sample this. The power buy quantum in open market at the national level was 10,000 MW against an availability of 2,700 MW and 4,500 MW on October 8 and 9, respectively. Given the high demand and low supply, the power purchase rate had shot up to ₹20 per unit against an average cost of ₹3- ₹5 earlier. In fact, the price was hovering between ₹12 and ₹16 per unit for the last 10 days, said officials quoted above. To meet its deficit, Bihar was still bidding at a high rate and spending an additional ₹20 crore per day to purchase power through private sources. This was in addition to its average monthly bill of ₹800 crore to the NTPC for supply of thermal power from central sector. Yet, it was unable to get the required quantity of power. The state was getting only around 347 MW to 397 MW over the last couple of days against 688 MW power purchase agreement through private players, said an officer in the know of the subject. Similarly, the state was also short of hydel and wind power. It was getting 453 MW hydel power against an allocation of 762 MW. Add to it the shortfall in wind energy. Against 580 MW, the state was getting between 50 MW and 175 MW wind power over the last few days. Put together, these have led to a power scarcity, leading to an average power outage of 4 to 8 hours a day, especially in rural areas of the state. “Bihar’s power firms do not generate electricity. Instead, they buy power from central power generation institutions and supply to consumers. Given the current coal crisis, we are getting expensive power, but are supplying electricity to consumers at a cheaper rate,” the Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited (BSPHCL) tweeted from its handle, quoting Sanjeev Hans, Bihar’s energy secretary, on Saturday. Another tweet on Sunday, quoting Hans said, “Power supply has been improving constantly. There has been a reduction in the open market price. We are now buying power at ₹14- ₹16 per unit. The situation is returning to normal. We will soon be able to ensure availability of power commensurate to its demand.” Bihar’s power demand goes up by 250-300 MW during the festival season of Dussehra and Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/power-crunch-hits-bihar-govt-pays-rs-20-crore-more-a-day-to-buy-power-101633888320261.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||End stir, seek solution via talks: UPPCL chairman to engineers||Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) chairman M Devraj on Sunday appealed to agitating engineers and other personnel to end their stir in public interest and seek solution to their issues through negotiation.In a written appeal, he said Covid-19 pandemic and many other factors had adversely impacted the financial state of the corporation even as the countrywide coal shortage had posed a fresh crisis amid the festival season.“The cumulative deficit of the corporation has reached ₹90,000 crore and in such an adverse situation it is not possible for the corporation to increase salaries of employees and come under additional financial burden,” Devraj said. The continuing agitation might worsen the financial situation of the corporation and also affect the power supply in the state which, he said, would not be in the public interest.He said the management always stood with employees’ reasonable demands and would do its best to resolve the same through a dialogue.Meanwhile, amid the prevailing power crisis triggered by the coal shortage, UP Rajya Vidyut Ubhokta Parishad chairman Avadhesh Kumar Verma called on energy minister Shrikant Sharma appealing him to find a solution to the coal crunch to rid consumers of load shedding.“The minister assured us that efforts were being made on a war footing to normalise coal supply to thermal plants. He also assured us that no plants will be allowed to shut because of coal crunch,” Verma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/end-stir-seek-solution-via-talks-uppcl-chairman-to-engineers-101633888263385.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||Adolescent girls breaking taboo around health and hygiene||Lucknow: Koushika is only 11-years-old. But when it comes to acting responsibly and motivating people in her village, she is a champion. Koushika has been motivating the girls of her village to go to school. She also tells them about personal hygiene and nutrition and ensures that the girls attend the Kishori Baithak (meetings held for adolescent girls in her village). Another girl Srishti, 18, is a menstrual hygiene champion. After attending numerous trainings on the subject, she now trains the girls of her village about personal hygiene and has also succeeded in breaking the taboos around periods within her family and in her village. Today, young girls contact her for all their problems and Srishti guides them about the right hygiene practices.Koushika and Srishti are SeVa Dal leaders! Natives of Sewapuri block of Varanasi, there are more than 260 similar leaders who are changing mind-set and motivating people of their villages.“Over 260 girls of Sewapuri block of Varanasi were selected by the district administration in 2020 to be SeVa Dal leaders. These girls were selected from among the 87 gram panchayats in the block. Three girls from every village are selected and trained for health, nutrition, education and hygiene. These girls are well-versed in all the government schemes and the right health, nutrition and hygiene practices,” said district magistrate of Varanasi Kaushal Raj Sharma. “A number of problems came up during the Covid times. Supply of sanitary pads remained affected and with all members of the family staying at home, girls really struggled to manage their periods and other related health issues. Education remained affected and health of adolescent girls’ too remained a concern. But these SeVa Dal leaders have really managed to ensure that adolescent girls and children do not face any such problems,” said Madhushree Pandey, director of Sarthak Foundation, a non-profit organisation working on health issues in and around Varanasi. The leaders support nutrition in a big way. They make sure that all adolescent girls get their iron supplements and also contribute to the poshan vatika. “Young girls really look up to us, even those who are prepared well in advance so that they do not panic when they get their periods. Similarly, when girls have some other health issue and hesitate to share it at home, we take them to Kishori Baithak where they get answers to all their queries,” said Arti, a SeVa Dal leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/adolescent-girls-breaking-taboo-around-health-and-hygiene-101633888261429.html
10-10-2021||Noida||G Noida: Mother of B.Tech student who died by suicide lodges FIR against his friend||The mother of a 22-year-old B.Tech student of an engineering college in Greater Noida, who died by suicide in his rented apartment on August 19 this year, has lodged an FIR in the matter at the Beta 2 police station, blaming the late son’s female friend -- also an engineering student -- for the incident, police said on Sunday.According to the FIR, the man -- who was a resident of Agra -- was “tricked by the woman into buying her expensive gifts on the pretext of marriage, but later, the man found that she was also involved with two other men, which affected him mentally”.In the complaint, the mother of the 22-year-old said that he was in a relationship with a woman since the beginning of this year, however, he was “cheated and abetted by the woman” to kill himself.“They were friends, and later got into a relationship. Lewd by the woman that she will marry him, my son also bought her some jewellery. However, my son later found that the woman was also involved with two others. When he confronted her in July, she said that the other men spent much more on her than my son. Being depressed, my son shared his ordeal with me, his brother, and uncle. He was pacified following counselling sessions. However, the woman met my son again in July and took away his new iPhone which he had bought online. On requesting to return the phone, she said that she would return it, but later, she told him that she had sold the phone... My son also told us that she encouraged him to kill himself,” the mother said in the FIR lodged under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 379 (theft).Anil (goes by first name), station house officer (SHO), Beta 2 police station, Greater Noida, said on Sunday, “We are looking into the phone call records and an investigation is underway.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/g-noida-mother-of-b-tech-student-who-died-by-suicide-lodges-fir-against-his-friend-101633888260207.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||Danish PM visits Taj Mahal, calls it beautiful||Denmark Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen and her husband Bo Tengberg visited the Taj Mahal on Sunday morning described it as a beautiful place. They were accompanied by a delegation and visited Agra Fort also before flying back to Delhi in the afternoon. The Danish PM, along with her husband Bo Tengberg and a film director, reached the Taj Mahal in eco-friendly vehicles at about 9.00 am and stayed there for about one-and-a-half hour. The official guide took the guests all along while detailing history and architectural importance of the seventeenth century monument. “On behalf of Danish delegation…Thank you so much,” wrote an impressed Danish PM in the visitors’ book placed by officials of Archaeological Survey of India at the Royal Gate of Taj Mahal. “This place is beautiful…. and symbol for the whole world,” she added. The VVIP cavalcade then reached Agra Fort and the guests spent about an hour there and had photographs clicked before moving back at 11.45 am on Sunday. The Taj Mahal and the Agra Fort remained closed for public till the VVIP visit got over. The visitors left Agra airport at about 2.15 pm. Traffic movement was diverted in city and no vehicle was allowed towards Agra Fort on Sunday morning. Three layered-security arrangements were made with the assistance of 4 IPS officers, 17 circle officers leading a team of around a thousand police personnel deployed in the VVIP security. Earlier, the Denmark PM and her spouse were welcomed at the Agra airport by UP energy minister Shrikant Sharma when they landed there at 8.30pm on Saturday night. Besides Shrikant Sharma, ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand; commissioner, Agra division, Amit Gupta and Agra DM Prabhu N Singh welcomed the couple accompanied by a 25-member delegation. Traditional “Mayur Nritya” was presented by group of artistes from Braj region of Agra once the plane landed. The Danish PM stayed for few minutes to view the presentation. The VVIP guests stayed at a city hotel.The Danish Prime Minister is on her first state visit to India. She arrived in the national capital on Saturday and met Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Aged 43 now, Frederiksen became the youngest woman prime minister in Danish history when she was elected to the post in 2019 -- and only second woman ever to hold the post. The then US President Donald Trump had visited the Taj in February 2020 before the pandemic hit. Subsequently, the Taj remained closed for most part of 2020 and 2021. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/danish-pm-visits-taj-mahal-calls-it-beautiful-101633887900663.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Cruise raid: NCB witness whose selfie with Aryan Khan went viral has cheating complaints against him in Palghar||Kiran Gosavi, who the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) claimed was its independent witness in the cruise drugs case after a selfie of him with Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan – an accused in the case – went viral after the latter’s detention by the agency on October 2, has allegedly duped two youths from Edwan village in Palghar in 2018 on the pretext of getting them jobs in the hotel industry in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Kelwa Police are yet to file a first information report (FIR) into the cheating plaints made by the youths. The victims were allegedly given fake tourist visas and flight tickets and were turned away by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) at Kochi airport in December 2018.NCB has named Gosavi as a witness in Aryan’s case. It has been revealed that Gosavi, who is also a private detective, has allegedly cheated many youths, made them work abroad and embezzled millions of rupees. Four FIRS have already been registered against him in various police stations in Maharashtra.Gosavi had allegedly accepted ₹1.65 lakh from the youth – Utkarsh Tare and Adarsh Kini – through online bank transfers, for employing them in a reputed hotel chain in Kuala Lumpur. “We paid the money online to Gosavi who runs a company from Navi Mumbai,” said Tare.“We came in contact with him through social media after he posted job avenues in Malaysia and fell into the trap,” said Kini. “My parents mortgaged their gold jewellery and paid the money to Gosavi for flight tickets and visa. When we reached Kochi airport in December 2018 we were turned away by CISF as the tickets and visas were fake. We returned to Palghar and since then, Gosavi has not been accepting our calls for the refund,” said Tare.“Many young people like me are more likely to be cheated. Gosavi should be caught by the police and legal action should be taken against him,” Tare added.Assistant inspector Bhimsen Gaikwad of Kelwe Coastal police station said he joined the police station last November 2020 and has no clue about the delay in filing the FIR. “But we are investigating the case and will register an FIR against Gosavi,” said Gaikwad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-raid-ncb-witness-whose-selfie-with-aryan-khan-went-viral-has-cheating-complaints-against-him-in-palghar-101633887719997.html
10-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: 25% cess on constructions around stations of RRTS project||Any construction, be it commercial, residential or other, will be a costly affair under the seven influence zones and special development areas (SDAs) which have been defined around the stations and the alignment of the Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) project. Officials of the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) said that anyone taking up constructions in the SDAs or the influence zones along the RRTS corridor will have to pay up special cess which will be 25% over and above the regular development charges. “The proposal for the special cess/charges has been discussed at the state government level and a notification will soon be issued. In Modinagar and Muradnagar, the authority charges ₹1,200 per square metres as development fee while it is ₹3,400 per square metres for the Ghaziabad city area. So, the special charges will be 25% over and above the development rate,” said Asheesh Shivpuri, authority’s chief architect and town planner. The Centre as well as the GDA has already notified the influence zones and SDAs. According to the officials, the influence zones will be 1.5km radius zones around the seven RRTS stations being developed at Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Guldhar, Duhai, Muradnagar, Modinagar (South) and Modinagar (North). Likewise, the two SDAs have also been defined at Guldhar and Duhai on the Delhi-Meerut Road along the RRTS alignment and will have an area of 250 hectares and 400 hectares, respectively. Under the two types of zones, the GDA will permit mixed land use constructions with commercial and residential set-ups. “Since the influence zones and SDAs have been notified, the map clearances will be done through the permission of the authority, and any such constructions taken up alongside the Delhi-Meerut Road will need prior approval of the NCR Transport Corporation (NCRTC) which is developing the RRTS project,” Shivpuri added. The NCRTC is using the median of the road for construction of the RRTS project. The NCRTC is developing the 82km RRTS corridor from Delhi to Meerut, and one of its parts, a 17km stretch called as priority section, is getting developed from Sahibabad to Duhai in Ghaziabad. This stretch will become operational in 2023 while the entire 82km route will be commissioned in March 2025. The entire 82km corridor of the project is pegged at ₹30,274 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-25-cess-on-constructions-around-stations-of-rrts-project-101633887663587.html
10-10-2021||Noida||Durga Puja celebration a low-key affair in Noida amid Covid pandemic||The five-day celebrations of Durga Puja in Noida will start on Monday without usual fanfare. Following the government’s guidelines in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, major puja committees in the city have decided to keep the celebration a low-key affair.Organisers said that they have restricted the number of visitors to 100 in a day and that they will be streaming puja rituals online. The muted Durga Puja festivities will start from Monday with shashthi puja and end on Friday with Vijayadashmi. In the pre-Covid times, major puja pandals in the city used to attract hundreds of visitors in a day. The Noida Kalibari Durga Puja will be held at the community hall in Sector 26. This year will mark the 38th ‘Durgotsava’ to be organised by the Noida Durga Puja Samiti. “There will be no theme for the pandal nor any food stalls this year. We have also cut down on our usual budget of ₹60-70 lakh during pre-Covid times. This year the celebrations are being organised within a budget of ₹15 lakh,” said Anupam Bannerjee, a member of the Noida Durga Puja Samiti.Sector 61’s Balaka Bengali Cultural Association is celebrating its 13th year of ‘Durgotsav’ but without any pomp and show as was the norm in pre-Covid times. “We used to get huge sponsorships and hold cultural events, but this time association members are themselves arranging the funds required to hold a simple puja. All the rituals will be streamed online and we have discouraged residents from coming to the pandal,” said a member of the association who did not wish to be named.In order to restrict entry of visitors, the Sarbojanin Durga Puja Committee in Sector 34 will be issuing passes to only 100 visitors. “The Durga Puja celebrations this year will be restricted for just 100 people and in order to ensure this, we have issued passes for entry to the pandal that has been set up at the community hall of the area. The prasad will be distributed among the guests in small boxes,” said Tarun Bagchi, a member of the Sector 34 puja committee.The big Durga idols will also not be an attraction at the pandals this year as idols have been restricted to a height of five feet, as per the government guidelines. The Jalvayu Vihar Sanskritik Kalyan Samiti will be celebrating its 29th year of Durga Puja at the puja ground in Sector 25. “This time there will not be any theme associated with the puja. Besides, the idol of the goddess would be smaller in size. To make the idol, eco-friendly materials like clay, bamboo, and rice husk have been used,” said Jaya De, one of the organisers at the Sector 25 samiti.However, there is a silver lining too. According to 52-year-old Vipul Sarkar, who has been in the business of making Durga idols in Noida for the past 20 years, he is doing better business this year compared to last year.“Last year we only got about 10 orders for Durga idols. However, this time we have got around 50 orders from different organisers not only in Noida but nearby areas like Ghaziabad, Faridabad and Mayur Vihar. All the idols’ height has been restricted to five feet. We hope by next year the pandemic will be over and celebrations will be back to its pre-Covid times,” said Sarkar, whose workshop is in Nithari village of Noida.Police said that proper implementation of Covid protocols will be ensured at the pandals. “Police patrolling will take place around the puja pandals in the city to ensure Covid protocols are followed. Police force will be on alert throughout the five days of the puja, especially on the day of the idol immersion,” said Rannvijay Singh, additional DCP, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/durga-puja-celebration-a-low-key-affair-in-noida-amid-covid-pandemic-101633887660413.html
10-10-2021||Noida||City bus service to restart in Noida by year-end||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC), along with the Noida authority, has decided to restart the city bus service with an aim to provide last mile connectivity to thousands of commuters in Noida and Greater Noida. The authority is carrying out a survey to identify more routes for the bus service, officials said, adding that the service is likely to resume by the end of this year. The NMRC, which operates the 29.7km Aqua Line connecting Noida to Greater Noida, had last year stopped the city bus service terminating the contract with a private agency after the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown was announced. Earlier the city bus service was available on 11 routes covering key roads such as Master Plan 1, Master Plan 2, Master Plan 3, Noida expressway, Dadri road, Greater Noida West, Knowledge Park that is a hub to educational institutes and Delhi-Noida Link road, among others.“We have decided to add more routes so that we can cover all crucial destinations. A survey to identify more key places is underway and likely to be completed by the end of this month. If all goes well, the city bus service will restart by December in the two cities,” said Praveen Mishra, additional chief executive officer of the Noida authority and executive director of the NMRC.The authority has already taken feedback from the general public about the routes of the city bus service.“We have taken suggestions from the general public about existing routes and additional roads that need to be covered under the new route plan. Our motive is that when a commuter steps down from a Metro station, he or she should get the bus service to reach his final destination in the two cities,” said Mishra.The officials said that the Urban Mass Transit Company Limited, an urban transport consultancy firm under the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, has been roped in for the survey in Noida and Greater Noida. “We will finalise the routes soon after the survey, and then we will hire an agency that will provide the city bus service,” said Mishra.In December 2016, the city bus service was started with 50 air-conditioned low floor CNG buses to address the transport woes in Noida and Greater Noida. Till March last year, the service was available from 5am to 10pm with fares ranging between ₹11 and ₹53.Residents said that many important areas were not covered in the earlier routes. “Most of the buses used to run without passengers because the routes were faulty. We hope the new route plan will not have that issue again,” said PS Jain, member of Noida Citizen Forum, a residents’ group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/city-bus-service-to-restart-in-noida-by-yearend-101633887600069.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cricket: Punjab’s swashbuckling batter Jasia moves to Rajasthan||Two seasons ago when Punjab women won their maiden T20 national title, opener Jaisa Akhtar played a pivotal role with an impressive run throughout the tournament and hit a match-winning knock of 56 runs off 54 balls beating Karnataka in the final. Originally from Shopian, Jammu and Kashmir, Jasia, who moved to Punjab in 2013 for better cricket opportunities, had been state senior team’s mainstay in the recent years. However, in the upcoming domestic season, the strokeful opener won’t be turning out for Punjab but for Rajasthan.The 33-year-old has been roped in by Rajasthan Cricket Association (RCA) for senior women’s team that would be competing in the one-day tournament from September 28 onwards and in the T20 competition in February 2022. “Back in my village there were no cricket facilities, so I had to move to a nearby state to pursue cricket. It was great to represent Amritsar in the inter-district tournament and then Punjab in the inter-state competitions. I can’t forget how I did well at the domestic level and got to play in the Challengers Trophy as well as Women’s T20 Challenge. I could not resist an offer from RCA as it is a very professional body with a great set up for the cricketers. I am looking forward to playing for Rajasthan and scoring big runs,” said Jasia, who was selected in the India camp back in 2017. First female cricketer from the Valley to make it to the India team camp, Jasia idolises Sachin Tendulkar and Harmanpreet Kaur. Her father Gul Mohammed Wani, a small-time farmer, feeds his family on the apples and walnuts he grows on a tiny field at village Braripora in Shopian. “Life has not been easy living in my village and dreaming big. Due to the pandemic a lot of time went wasted and I could not train as much as I wanted to. However, things got better in recent months and I started training here in the nearby ground. Then I was helping out my father with plucking apples from the trees. It is so inspiring to see veterans Mithali Raj and Jhulan Goswami do well for India. I want to play for India and this upcoming season will be like make or break for me. I am pinning hopes on performances playing for Rajasthan,” added Jasia. Jasia’s growth and progress has been hindered due to injuries. Leaving behind the injuries, Jasia is feeling fitter and positive about the new innings. “In the coming months, a lot of cricket is going to take place in India. With a fresh mind, I am taking my new stint at RCA very seriously. I want to do well in the one day tournament and score big knocks. There is a lot of competition now when it comes to fetching a berth in the Indian team. But at 33, I don’t want to give up and aim for a spot in the Indian team. I am raring to make the most of the upcoming season,” said Jasia, who thinks shifting to RCA will provide the much required push.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cricket-punjab-s-swashbuckling-batter-jasia-moves-to-rajasthan-101633887480203.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||BJP govt’s days in UP are numbered: Akhilesh||Attacking the BJP government in UP, Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday claimed that the days of the government were numbered. Addressing his first public rally ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls at Titron in Saharanpur district in western UP, he alleged that the BJP government at the Centre had sold out airports, ports, trains and other government properties. He further alleged that the Yogi government believed in changing names only and accused it of doing no development work in the state.Raising the issues of farmers and referring to the Kheri incident, he said, “The Samajwadi Party believes in taking farmers together with them while in the BJPs government they get run over by vehicles.” “Farmers are being crushed in the rule of BJP. Attempts are also being made to crush the law and a day will come when they ( BJP) will crush the Constitution too,” he alleged.In a bid to forge an emotional bond with people there, he also remembered former PM and farmer leader Ch Charan Singh, and also Mahendra Singh Tikait.A huge crowd had gathered to listen to former chief minister and gave him a rousing welcome when he appeared on the dais. SP leaders and supporters from Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Bijnor and Noida districts participated in the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-govt-s-days-in-up-are-numbered-akhilesh-101633887360001.html
10-10-2021||Kolkata||BJP remembers workers killed in post-poll violence more during Puja: Dilip Ghosh||Senior BJP leader Dilip Ghosh on Sunday said that the party remembers its activists who were killed in post-poll violence in West Bengal even more during Durga Puja and will always remain by the side of their family members.Claiming that at least 53 BJP workers were brutally killed by ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) activists since results of the assembly elections were declared on May 2, the saffron party's national vice president said that many of its slain members had actively participated in Durga Puja celebrations in their respective areas.Ghosh visited a Durga Puja in the locality of Abhijit Sarkar, a BJP worker who was killed in Beleghata area of Kolkata on May 2, and said that even last year, the murdered party member had taken part in the festivities."I have visited his parar pujo (neighbourhood Durga Puja) to be with his family and friends. I have assured them that Abhijit will get justice" he said.Leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari had visited the marquee on Saturday and later tweeted, "Overwhelmed by the grief at this Durga Puja in Beleghata, Kolkata. The organisers, in remembrance of the slain local lad Abhijit Sarkar; post poll violence victim, has refrained from playing any joyous sound, to honour his memory. Drumbeats of the 'dhaak' has also fallen silent."BJP leader Priyanka Tibrewal, who lost to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the recent Bhabanipur by-election, also visited the puja and said that the party will continue to support Sarkar's family.A TMC leader said that the ruling party in the state does not want to do politics over Durga Puja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-remembers-workers-killed-in-post-poll-violence-more-during-puja-dilip-ghosh-101633886286923.html
10-10-2021||Gurugram||Inderjit Singh calls for preference to locals in municipal bodies, factories||The union minister of state and Gurugram member of Parliament, Rao Inderjit Singh, on Sunday said that preference must be given to locals while hiring employees for the newly constituted Municipal Corporation of Manesar during a public rally.He said that the interests of the local youth should be kept in mind at an event organised by village residents to felicitate him for helping landowners in Kasan, Aliar, Dhana and Bas Kusla villages get enhanced compensation during acquisition.He said that youth from local villages in the jurisdiction of the municipality, whose land was acquired for setting up the industrial township in Manesar, should be given preference for employment. Singh said that due to the acquisition of land, villagers lose out on farming and due to this, they must get a chance to work in municipal bodies as well as local industries. The Gurugram MP also assured locals that the residential areas in Kasan would not be acquired to set up the third phase of IMT, Manesar. “It has come to our notice that local youth are not getting jobs in private sector as well, and this has to be changed. I will take up this matter with departments concerned in the state,” he said. Singh also said that despite large-scale farmers’ protests, people in south Haryana have refrained from participating in protests and that it is important for the state government to recognise the same, and resolve their problems. “I have taken up the issue of non-availability of fertilisers with the union ministry concerned and this matter would be resolved in the coming days. The procurement of bajra has also been a concern for the farmers in this region but it is likely to start from Monday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/inderjit-singh-calls-for-preference-to-locals-in-municipal-bodies-factories-101633886701289.html
10-10-2021||Gurugram||Ambience Mall U-turn underpass to open on October 15||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Sunday said that the Sirhaul underpass near the Ambience Mall will open on October 15 as it is in the process of applying the finishing touches to the project.Nirman Jambulkar, project director, NHAI, said that work on laying the road is going on and will be completed soon. “Finishing touches are being given and we will open the underpass to traffic on October 15,” he said. The deadline was set by union minister Nitin Gadkari during his visit to Sohna last month. The Sirhaul underpass will help city residents to avoid going to Rajokri in Delhi for taking a U-turn to reach Ambience Mall and DLF Phase-3.The NHAI, which is constructing the underpass, has missed several deadlines in the past. Work on the underpass commenced on March 5, 2019, and it was to be completed by September 2020. However, due to delays in shifting MCD (Delhi municipality) toll booths and lockdown imposed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the project was delayed, said officials.The length of the underpass, including the roads, is 1.5 kilometres, while the underground stretch is 377 metres long and seven metres wide across.During his visit to Sohna last month, Gadkari had directed officials to complete the work and open the underpass for traffic on October 15 as it would help in reducing congestion on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ambience-mall-u-turn-underpass-to-open-on-october-15-101633886700146.html
10-10-2021||Gurugram||Key 800-m link from Pataudi Road to Dwarka Expressway, KMP to be reconstructed||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram will reconstruct an 800-metre stretch of the Pataudi Road that connects to the Dwarka Expressway near Sector 88, officials said. A ₹1.45-crore estimate was approved for the project during the MCG’s finance and contract committee (F&CC) meeting held last Friday.Besides linking newer sectors 36, 88, and 89, among others, with the Dwarka Expressway, the stretch also connects residents to the Western Peripheral Expressway at the other end.According to MCG officials, the 800-metre portion of the Pataudi Road, from near the Oriental Bank of Commence (OBC) in Sector 88 till Saint Paul’s School, adjacent to the Dwarka Expressway, will be reconstructed.“The stretch has a high number of heavy commercial vehicles plying due to which the base of it has to be of high quality to support the weight of vehicles. The road had been constructed as a normal sector road and was not designed for heavy vehicles due to which it is susceptible to the formation of potholes,” a senior MCG official, requesting anonymity, said.A second MCG official, of the engineering wing, not wishing to be named, said, “We will be using construction materials such as dense-bituminous macadam (DBM), medium-curing (MC) asphalt cement, and ready-mix concrete (RMC), which are primarily items used in the construction of highways so that road is of high-quality. With the estimates approved, we will now start the process of hiring a contractor and we are aiming to start construction work from next month onwards.”The degradation of road, especially on the two-lane carriageway carrying traffic from Dwarka Expressway through Pataudi Road towards Western Peripheral Expressway, has been a major concern for residents.“The stretch helps a lot of commuters access the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway to head towards Panipat and beyond. It completely negates the city traffic in Gurugram and Delhi, and ends up being a much faster route,” Vijay Singh, a resident of Sector 88, said. The KMP Expressway is also referred to as the Western Peripheral Expressway.“Besides providing connectivity between Dwarka Expressway and Western Peripheral Expressway, the stretch also has several religious spots due to which it is highly accessed. Reconstruction of the stretch was, hence, highly needed,” Satbir Singh, a resident of Sector 102, said.Besides the road reconstruction, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is also revamping a key 5.6-kilometre road that links Rampura Chowk on the National Highway 48 (NH-48) and Pataudi Road.MCG officials said that besides the road construction, 14 other development projects were approved in the F&CC meeting and that tenders for 13 projects have been allotted.The other approved works include a ₹2.49-crore project for construction of roads in Sector 9, ₹1 crore for road construction in Sector 9A, ₹1.14 crore for renovation of green belts along the railway tracks in Palam Vihar, and constructing citizen facilitation centres (CFCs) in various wards of the MCG.In addition, 13 tenders were also allotted in the meeting, including ₹2-crore work for the construction of stormwater drains along internal roads in Sector 10A, ₹1.27-crore renovation and beautification of parks and central verges in Ward 16, ₹2-crore stormwater drain works in Sector 47, and ₹1-crore drinking water facility in Sai Kunj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/key-800-m-link-from-pataudi-road-to-dwarka-expressway-kmp-to-be-reconstructed-101633886643021.html
10-10-2021||Gurugram||Air quality starts falling, pollution board cites temperature dip||With the withdrawal of the monsoon season, air quality deteriorated to the ‘poor’ category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI) over the weekend. Officials cited lower temperatures in the morning and evening hours as the main cause and dismissed concerns that stubble burning was causing pollution.According to the CPCB’s daily bulletin, the city recorded poor AQI on Saturday, following which it improved to the moderate category on Sunday, after weeks of satisfactory air quality.In the past week, the air quality in the city has dropped from the satisfactory category, with an AQI of 92 recorded on October 3, to the poor category, with an AQI of 201 recorded on Saturday. On Sunday, an AQI of 170 was recorded.The air quality is likely to deteriorate further over the next five days but remain in the moderate category, according to a weather bulletin issued for Delhi-NCR by Air Quality Early Warning System. The bulletin also mentioned that crop residue burning fire points have been observed over Haryana and Punjab, which is blamed for poor air quality in the National Capital Region (NCR). However, officials said that the drop in air quality was mainly due to falling temperatures.Kuldeep Singh, the regional officer of Haryana State Pollution Control Board for Gurugram (north), said, “The dip in air quality is primarily due to drop in temperature during the morning and evening hours, as pollutants accumulate in lower temperatures. We are taking all measures to ensure that air quality does not deteriorate this winter season.”When asked if crop residue burning in other districts of Haryana could be a reason, Singh said, “Stubble burning is quite controlled in Haryana, this (dip in air quality) is mainly due to drop in temperature.” Every winter, the air quality in the NCR plummets due to incoming pollutants from stubble or crop residue burning in neighbouring districts of Haryana. This year, Haryana has put in place a robust strategy, including incentives and punitive steps to stop the practice, ahead of the paddy stubble burning season. Most of the fires are usually reported from Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Ambala districts. “It is too early to say what the causes are behind poor air quality in the city as monsoon has just started withdrawing. All agencies are also working on implementation of measures to control air pollution. We will see for a few more days and take action accordingly if any external factors are found,” S Narayanan, member secretary of HSPCB, said. A week ago, the state pollution control board released guidelines for different agencies in the city to start working to manage air quality in the city. However, HT found that sufficient measures were not being taken to control dust pollution during a visit to the Sohna Road construction site in the city on Sunday.Officials also said that discussions are underway for implementing a Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), an emergency set of measures implemented between October 15 and March 15 every year to control air pollution in Delhi-NCR. Under Grap, a ban on diesel generator sets is announced for the entire period and depending on the air quality, measures such as stopping construction work, levying heavy fines for garbage burning and shutting brick kilns, among other measures, are taken.Abhishek Srivastava, a city-based environmental engineer said, “There are three primary reasons for the dip in air quality: stubble burning has started, wind direction has changed from northwest directions and also surface winds have slowed down. The wind direction changed around October 6 and the city also witnessed light rain in the early days of this month, so the air quality was normal then. But now, the wind speed has slowed down which has brought over dip in temperature in the morning and evening hours, so they are all connected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-starts-falling-pollution-board-cites-temperature-dip-101633886641668.html
10-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG: Outsourced engineers barred from accessing project details||Amid complaints and ongoing investigations into discrepancies in various civic projects, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Sunday disallowed outsourced junior engineers from accessing measurement books, based on which payments are made to contractors.A measurement book contains the records of the construction materials used, type of work, the daily or weekly expenditure for road projects, sewerage, stormwater, streetlights and parks, among other such civic amenities. Details are filled regularly and updated in the book, which is MCG’s primary source of project details.MCG officials said that the digital IDs of all 29 outsourced junior engineers (JEs) have been deleted and they no longer have access to the measurement book.The development comes just a week after the MCG initiated a vigilance wing investigation against 15 MCG officials and a contractor based on a complaint filed by the senior deputy mayor. A contractor was allegedly paid twice for laying a new drainage line, setting up manholes, and building roads in Palam Vihar.“There have been discrepancies recently found in the details of several measurement books due to which higher payments have been made to contractors. As there is a possibility that the outsourced JEs may have colluded with the contractors, it was decided to remove the former from the process so that there is less scope for alterations in measurements books,” a senior MCG official of the engineering wing said, requesting anonymity.Various discrepancies have surfaced over the past two years, wherein the MCG contractors were paid a part, or the full project amount despite work not starting on the ground or when it was at a nascent stage. As per the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, the MCG can pay the final project sum to a contractor only after the work is completed.In December last year, the charge of an MCG’s executive engineer (XEN) was withdrawn with immediate effect after it was found that he had sanctioned payment of the entire project cost to a contractor for re-carperting roads in Ward 34 even before the work was started.Similarly, a contractor was allegedly paid a quarter of the total project cost in September last year for laying pavement tiles in Ward 25, despite only 10% of work being completed on-ground.In February last year, a contractor received full payment for constructing a two-kilometre road in Ward 1 even before construction work had started.“Due to discovery of a high number of discrepancies in engineering projects, it was decided that outsourced JEs can no longer have access to measurement books. Only permanent JEs and subdivision officers (SDOs) can access it from henceforth,” a second senior MCG official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-outsourced-engineers-barred-from-accessing-project-details-101633886640338.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||BKU leader Raju Ahlawat joins BJP amid standoff over farm laws||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Raju Ahlawat joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the presence of UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev and the party’s national vice president Radha Mohan Singh here amid the ongoing standoff with BKU and other farmers’ bodies over the Centre’s three new agri reform laws and the latest flashpoint in Lakhimpur Kheri. BKU is among 32 farmer unions protesting against the new laws.Raju Ahlawat was currently in-charge of Saharanpur. The BKU state executive body was also announced on Sunday and he didn’t find a place in the farmers’ body. After joining the BJP, Raju Ahlawat advised BKU leadership to hold talks with the government over the three farm laws.“Protests, stage-ins and road blockades are resorted to attract the attention of the government but now that the government is willing to hold discussions (on farm laws), BKU leadership should consider changing their stance,” Raju Ahlawat said. He also said: “These farm laws offer an option to the farmers and it is up to them to accept them or continue to sell their produce as before.” Several Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leaders also joined the BJP on Sunday.They included Congress state vice president Virendra Pasi, Dr Bhawna Patel who had contested elections on Congress ticket from Varanasi, ex-BSP MLAs from Sahjanwa and Paniyara in Gorakhpur GM Singh and Dev Narayan Singh, two-time former MLA from Duddhi (Sonbhadra) Rubi Prasad of BSP, BSP’s former candidate from Rohaniya (Varanasi) Pramod Kumar Singh, former BSP lawmaker from Fatehpur Sikri (Agra) Suraj Pal, former BSP MLC and divisional coordinator (Bijnor) Subodh Parashar, former BSP candidate Mukesh Dixit, Gayatri Parashar (BSP), Varanasi-based social worker Shashikant Rai ‘Chunna’, Lok Dal’s Virendra Singh, Chaudhary Pratap Singh of Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia, Virendra Singh Sainthwar (BSP), RK Chaudhary (Congress) and Samajwadi Yuvjan Sabha (Varanasi) district treasurer Shubham Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bku-leader-raju-ahlawat-joins-bjp-amid-standoff-over-farm-laws-101633886340118.html
10-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Two held for robbing people after befriending them on dating app||Two men, wanted in several cases of robbery and other street crimes, were arrested on Sunday after a shootout in Noida’s Sector 62, police said.The suspects have been identified as Deepanshu and Amit, both natives of Badalpur in Greater Noida. The Sector 58 police have also recovered several mobile phones, a motorcycle and a countrymade pistol from their possession. Explaining their modus operandi, police said that the suspects would befriend people through a dating app, and call them to meet where they would rob the victims.“Acting on a tip-off, a trap was laid near an educational institute in Sector 62 and the suspects travelling on a motorcycle without number plate were spotted. When police signalled them to stop, the duo opened fire at them and tried to flee. In retaliatory firing, Deepanshu sustained bullet injury in leg while his accomplice, Amit, managed to flee. But he was also arrested later in a combing operation,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida.The officer stated that the suspects used to trick people through a mobile application to rob them. “Further investigations revealed that the duo used to befriend people through a dating app and fix a meeting. The suspects would call the victims to a secluded place and snatch away their valuables and other belongings. They are also involved in several street crimes like snatching,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-two-held-for-robbing-people-after-befriending-them-on-dating-app-101633886280085.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bandh: MVA allies keen on making it a success||To up its ante against their common political enemy, Bharatiya Janata Party, in the wake of the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, the three ruling parties in Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) – Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress – have given a call for Maharashtra bandh on Monday and have decided to pull out all stops to make it successful. The three parties are looking at it as an opportunity to take on the BJP, especially when the ruling party at the Centre has initiated action against many of their leaders. The Shiv Sena has reportedly taken the responsibility of Mumbai, which apparently decides the success of any statewide bandh. The party is expected to compel owners of shops, establishments and public transport to stay shut. “This is not a bandh called by government, but by the ruling parties under MVA. Whether to operate railway or BEST buses has to be decided, by their administrations. We expect the people to participate in this on their own as it is in support of farmers and against the rule of the BJP at the Centre,” said NCP leader and state minister Nawab Malik on Sunday. Malik said essential services have been exempted from the bandh. “The bandh would come into force from Sunday midnight. We appeal to all workers to not create any issues for essential services such as hospitals, ambulance, medical stories and milk supply during the bandh.” The bandh is expected to be observed till 4pm. “It more or less depends on the scenario in Mumbai, the financial capital of the country. Its success or failure depends on its success in the city. The Sena has taken it very seriously. Party workers have reportedly been asked to ensure public transport was disrupted to make the bandh successful. At the same time, the ruling parties have also decided to ensure no violence,” said a senior Sena leader. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said his party will participate in the bandh with full strength. According to ruling party leaders, all three parties are aggressive against the BJP and there is anger among party workers at local levels too. “They have realised the ruling parties and their leaders are being targeted by the BJP by using central agencies out of political vendetta. NCP workers showed the anger in Pune on Friday after the I-T raids on relatives of Ajit Pawar. An appeal by Sharad Pawar in Solapur the same day means a lot for party workers across the state. The impact of these developments will be seen during the bandh on Monday,” said a NCP leader. Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap said, “We have urged people to participate in the bandh spontaneously and we are sure that in the backdrop of the anger among the people against the killing of the farmers, it will be successful.” The Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association, which had earlier announced to not support the bandh, announced its support late in the night, by keeping shops shut till 4pm. “After request from Sena and leaders from other parties, FRTWA has decided to support the bandh by keeping the shops shut till 4pm in protest of the killing of farmers. Kindly follow the order in all areas,” the message of its president Viren Shah read. “The operation of offices depends on the availability of the public transport,” said a high-ranking officer from Mantralaya. GD Kulthe, chief advisor, Maharashtra State Gazetted Officers Federation, said, “Employees never participate in the bandh call given by any political parties. Government offices will work as usual.” Maharashtra Congress has organised a maun vrat agitation outside Raj Bhavan in the morning on Monday. State unit chief of the party Nana Patole, who is heading the agitation, has also appealed to party workers to make the bandh successful. “Traders, farmers, labourer and daily wagers are already under tremendous stress because of the Covid-19 lockdown. We will oppose the bandh which will lead to more hardship to these people,” said BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-mva-allies-keen-on-making-it-a-success-101633885924516.html
10-10-2021||Other||VTR to reopen for tourists from Oct 15||The forest safari in Bihar’s Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR), which was suspended this April during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, is set to reopen for tourists from October 15 with new and revised packages, officials said on Sunday. HK Rai, wildlife conservator and field director of VTR, said,“As part of the new packages, separate buses for Valmikinagar and Manguraha would leave Patna every Friday for sightseeing and return on Sunday. Tourists are required to pay ₹4,500 for the same.” On the other hand, the charges for the existing 25-km-long jungle safari package has been hiked to ₹2,000 from ₹1,500, Rai said, clarifying that the same was necessitated due to hike in fuel prices.Located at a distance of about 230 km from state capital Patna, the forests of VTR are home to tigers, boars and a number of reptiles, besides monkeys.The Bihar government has been trying to promote ecotourism in VTR since 2012-13. However, the number of tourists has declined sharply owing to the pandemic, said an official, refusing to be identified. “VTR has registered a footfall of mere 35,000 tourists after unlock,” said the official. The tourist season at VTR starts from October and continues till mid-June.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vtr-to-reopen-for-tourists-from-oct-15-101633884239816.html
10-10-2021||Patna||Man caught with gold worth ₹28L concealed in rectum at Patna airport||A Bengaluru-bound passenger was caught with gold biscuits worth ₹28.18 lakh concealed in his rectum during security check at Patna’s Jayprakash Narayan International Airport late on Saturday evening, said officials on Sunday.The passenger, identified as Ahamed Abdul Hug, was subsequently arrested.“The CISF authorities recovered foreign-marked gold biscuits, weighing 583.60g and valued at ₹2,818,784, from a person at Patna Airport during security check. The gold was concealed in his rectum. Thereafter, the preventive wing of Patna Customs nabbed the suspect and brought him to Customs headquarters office for interrogation,” said Kapil Deo Prasad, superintendent (media) at Customs (Preventive) Headquarters. Fake identity cards were also recovered from the possession of the arrested accused, said officials.According to officials, in this case, an Indigo Airlines flight, which had come from Dubai to Delhi and subsequently used for domestic run from Delhi to Patna, was used for smuggling. “The first carrier person concealed the gold biscuits below the seat while getting off at Delhi from Dubai, while the second carrier person boarded the same plane to collect the hidden gold and landed at Patna. He was further planning to proceed for Chennai via Bengaluru to deliver the smuggled gold, but he was caught by CISF as metal detector door at departure side buzzed,” said an official at the customs department. Legal proceedings against the arrested accused are under process, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-caught-with-gold-worth-28l-concealed-in-rectum-at-patna-airport-101633883999814.html
10-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Police nabs prime accused in REET 2021 cheating case||Special Operations Group (SOG) team of Rajsthan Police on Sunday apprehended two people including the prime accused Batti Lal from Uttarakhand's Kedarnath in connection with the REET 2021 cheating case. According to Rajasthan Police, the apprehended persons were being tracked for the last three days.Last month, the Rajasthan government had suspended an RAS and two RPS officers, along with 13 teachers, education department employees and three police personnel suspecting their involvement in cheating in REET 2021.Notably, for the first time in the history of Rajasthan, administrative and police officers and teachers have been suspended in such numbers due to illegal and suspicious activities in the state work.Earlier, Rajasthan Police had arrested five persons for allegedly selling Bluetooth device fitted 'chappals' worth ₹6 lakh to candidates appearing in the exam held to select government school teachers in the state, officials said.The gang of five people, including a woman, was arrested and a cheating racket busted by Rajasthan police who acted after sensing foul play by a candidate who appeared at an Ajmer centre in the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET) that was held on September 26.The incident came to light when aspirant, Ganesh Ram Dhaka (28), who had arrived at the Acharya Shri Dharam Sagar Digambar Jain Secondary Medium School Centre in Ajmer for the REET was found wearing a Bluetooth-equipped chappal.According to police, officials deployed at the centre found a wireless earphone in Dhaka's ear. When questioned, he had confessed about the mobile phone and Bluetooth device hidden inside his footwear. Dhaka confessed that he had purchased the pair of footwear from one Tuljaram Jat in Bikaner for ₹2.50 lakh.Bikaner Police identified the gang members - Madanlal, Trilokchand, Omprakash, Gopal Krishna, and Kiran. Dhaka was arrested by the Ajmer police, and Tuljaram Jat is absconding.Ahead of the highly competitive REET, the Rajasthan government had suspended internet and mobile services in Ajmer, Alwar, Dausa, Jhunjhunu and Jaipur rural districts from 6 am to 6 pm on September 26 in a bid to prevent cheating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-police-nabs-prime-accused-in-reet-2021-cheating-case-101633883331885.html
10-10-2021||Other||Temples treat for pandal hoppers during Durga Puja in Patna||PATNAArtisans and sculptors are racing against time to complete idols and pandals, which will be thrown open on Saptmi, falling on Tuesday.Unlike last year, the state capital is getting ready to give some visual treat to pandal hoppers who missed visiting puja pandals last year.Several puja committees are erecting pandals that are replicas of famous temples while some has resorted to Covid-19 theme for paying tribute to corona warriors.Kadamkuan-based Shri Shri Navyuvak Sangh Durga Puja Samiti is creating a replica of Kathmandu’s Boudha Stupa.The committee’s chairperson, Arjun Yadav, said, “We are erecting a 40-foot-high pandal replicating Boudha Stupa using bamboo and cardboard. Vibrant paint and a statue of Lord Buddha at the entrance gate will give feel like of the original stupa.”Similarly, Anandpuri-based Shri Vijay Vahini Durga Puja Samiti is replicating Kedarnath temple.Santosh Kumar, convener of the committee, said, “We are imitating Kedarnath temple this year with rainbow theme to give the message of ‘ray of hope’ after pandemic. We have already decorated approach road with colourful fringes matching with our rainbow theme.”“Our idols are also inspired by Covid-19 frontline workers. We have arranged for masks, sanitisation and visitors entry will be allowed in staggered manner. We have also set up Covid-19 vaccination camp which will stay functional till October 14”, he added.Rajendra Nagar’s Yuva Ekta Manch Durga Puja Saimiti is replicating Mountain Kailash with waterfall to attract visitors. “We have created 20 feet high pandal looking like Kailash Mountain along with waterfall structure. Eco friendly materials are being used to create pandal and idols. Earlier, we used to erect more than 27 idols but this year we are erecting only nine idols as the size on pandal has been reduced. We have deployed volunteers for crowd management in evening hours“, said a committee member.Likewise, Mithapur-based Gorimath Puja Committee is replicating Thai Temple.Dr Dharmendra Kumar, “We have erected pandal which is 35 feet high while the size of idols has scaled down to 10 feet. We will pay tribute to Corona warriors through creative illumination using LED lights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/temples-treat-for-pandal-hoppers-during-durga-puja-in-patna-101633883819775.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Shortage of coal supply likely to force Maharashtra to go for load shedding||Amid the crisis of coal supply for power generation, 13 units of state-owned and private power generation thermal plants have stalled, leading to a shortfall of 3,330MW. The shortfall in power generation may affect supply and compel authorities to go for load shedding during peak hours in the next couple of days until the coal supply regularises. The shortage of coal has hampered six thermal power generation plants, supplying power to Maharashtra, forcing the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) to cut short the supply to agricultural pumps. The state has also appealed to consumers to use electricity judiciously, during peak hours (from 6am to 10am and 6pm to 10pm). Mahagenecos’s three units at Chandrapur, Bhuswawa, and Nashik, with the capacity of 210MW each, Paras (250MW) and one unit with the capacity of 500MW at Bhusawal and Chandrapur are shut. Besides them, Postal Gujarat Power Limited’s four units of 640MW and Ratan India Power Limited’s three units of 810 MW are shut for want of coal. Dinesh Waghmare, principal secretary, energy department, said the state-owned power plants have the stock of coal to last only for a day or one-and-a-half days. “We have been coping with the demand by purchasing power from open market, but the demand goes up, we will have to go for the load shedding. We expect the coal supply to improve in next couple of days. Our own thermal power generation plants are generating 60% of the power of 6,000MW they generate. The power demand during the peak hours in October goes up to 22,000 and in such cases, we may have to go for shedding.”The current power generation in the state ranges around 19,000 MW and was 18,200 MW on Sunday at 11.30am, and 17,289MW on Saturday. The demand is expected to go up during working days from Monday, because of the rise in the temperature, festive season and ramped up agricultural activities during rabi season. The peak hour demand in last October had gone up to 22,000MW and expected to be the same in the next few days. To cope with the reduction in the production, the power supply to the agricultural pumps has been reduced during night time by few hours. The Mahadiscom purchased 700MW at ₹13.60 a unit from the open market, while real time purchase of 900MW was at ₹6.23 a unit. The cost for the purchase of the power from the open market costs rages between ₹2.50 and ₹20 a unit. The state authorities have also pressed on the generation from the hydro and non-conventional generation sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shortage-of-coal-supply-likely-to-force-maharashtra-to-go-for-load-shedding-101633883703114.html
10-10-2021||Patna||Patna deputy Mayor’s son, 3 others held for consuming liquor||The police have arrested Patna deputy Mayor Rajni Devi’s 23-year-old son and his three friends for allegedly consuming alcohol at his home under Digha police station in the district, officials said on Sunday, adding that an FIR was lodged in this connection. The police action came late on Saturday night following a tip-off that some people were having a liquor party at Atish Kumar alias Golu’s house, which is on the name of his father Gorakh Rai, at Kurzi gate number-64. “The four arrested persons were drinking alcohol in one of the rooms after locking it from inside. Three bottles of liquor were also recovered from the spot. The other three arrested persons were identified as Dhanjay Kumar (36), Mohammad Vakil (31) and Ishwar Singh (26),” said station house officer (SHO) of Digha police station, Rajesh Singh. Atish identified himself as the son of the deputy Mayor after being arrested, the SHO added.Breathalyser test confirmed that all of the arrested persons had consumed alcohol, said the police.The deputy Mayor did not make any official comment about her son’s arrest till Sunday evening.Three days ago, the general manager of the Bihar Cricket Association, Neeraj Singh, was arrested on charges of consuming liquor at his guest house club under Patliputra police station.Sale, purchase and consumption of liquor is banned in the state under the Bihar Prohibition and Excise Act, 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-deputy-mayor-s-son-3-others-held-for-consuming-liquor-101633883640025.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||UGC tells institutes to create cyber security ecosystem, Mumbai colleges ask how||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked all higher educational institutions to create a cyber security ecosystem on campuses but colleges in Mumbai say they are ill-prepared to do so. On August 28, UGC—the apex body governing all higher education institutes in the country—followed up on its instructions to strengthen the cyber security systems of the colleges. The first communication on the matter was made by UGC on November 25, 2020, and was later followed by a notice with guidelines on February 19 this year.The regulatory body instructed all higher educational institutes to prepare a calendar of events and organise awareness campaigns, hackathons, competitions, and workshops on cyber security on campuses to help students deal with new-age crimes. “Most colleges are not aware of what constitutes cybercrime. Especially, now that classes and assessments are being held online, the line between what is official and unofficial communication is blurring,” said the principal of a suburban college on the condition of anonymity.While most colleges still consider email as an official mode of communication aside from physical notices and circulars, teachers and principals agreed that many share questions, important links and assessment via social media such as chat services. Most colleges record their online classes to monitor any wrongdoings.Last year, when colleges were forced to switch to online education following the Covid-19 pandemic, St Xavier’s College in Dhobi Talao, put up ‘netiquettes’ for online education.Rajendra Shinde, principal, St Xavier’s said the netiquettes also included information on what constitutes misdemeanour, how to handle cyberattacks and the consequences of an attack or misdemeanour. “The netiquettes have been uploaded on to the homepage of our website so students can have easy access. It mentions what is acceptable, what’s not and how to report any issues,” Shinde added. In the netiquettes section, the college mentions a ‘zero-tolerance policy’ and strict disciplinary action to a host of incidents such as unauthorised attendance, online abuse and threats. “All the online lectures/virtual classes will be video recorded and so will be the activities on the chat box. Any misdemeanour on video or in chat boxes will be recorded and will be used as evidence whilst reporting to the cyber cell/police,” the post says.The UGC, in its communication last year, said, “Cybercrime is a complex environment consisting of interactions between people, software and services, supported by Information Communication Technology devices and networks. It is vulnerable to a wide variety of incidents, whether intentional or accidental, manmade or natural… it has been decided that cyber security awareness should start at school level… all higher educational institutes are requested to take appropriate action on the implementation of the cyber security awareness.”UGC’s instructions come in the wake of a spate of cyberattacks on the websites of educational institutes. Check Point Research, an organisation that publishes reports on cyberattacks, released a report in August stating that India topped the number of cyberattacks in the education sector. Organisations in the education sector in South Asia recorded the highest number of attacks and India was the most targeted country in the sector, followed by Italy, Israel, Australia and Turkey.Last October, the distance education wing of the University of Mumbai (MU) had to postpone its exams following a cyberattack on its website. Many students logged in to appear for the exam online but could not access the question paper. The problem went on for at least two days. Around 9,000 students of IDOL (Institute of Distance and Open Learning) had their third-year Bachelor of Commerce and Arts exams scheduled. However, more than 90% could not access the exam link. Colleges, however, said that the university administration had not yet asked them to conduct awareness programmes or competitions. “If UGC says we need to have an ecosystem in place, what does it mean? What kind of infrastructure is required? Do we need to have resource persons in place?” asked the principal of another college. Ravindra Kulkarni, pro vice chancellor, MU, did not respond to calls or messages despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ugc-tells-institutes-to-create-cyber-security-ecosystem-mumbai-colleges-ask-how-101633883579886.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Supreme Court to Mumbai shopkeepers: Pay ₹4.01L each for not evicting NTC premises||The Supreme Court (SC) has asked the three shopkeepers who were evicted from Jam Mills in Lalbaug, Mumbai, this year to shell out ₹4.01 lakh each as compensation to the National Textiles Corporation (NTC) for using the premises. The occupants have, however, decided to file review petition, stating that they are not in a position to pay such a huge amount. The occupants of the three shops at Jam Mills were evicted by officials of NTC – the owner of the land – on January 22, after an SC order allowed the Central government-owned entity to “take forcible possession with the help of police force”.The latest SC order stated, “The respondents/alleged contemnors, despite giving sufficient opportunity, have failed to deposit the outstanding dues as ordered finally on 09/03/2021. No further indulgence can be shown to the said respondents. If they fail to deposit the amount of ₹4,01,200 on or before 21/10/2021, the registry shall take steps to issue non-bailable warrants against the said respondents and for being produced before this court immediately after being taken into custody (sic).” The occupants are now filing a review petition saying that they are not in a position to pay such a huge amount. “We are not in the position to pay at all. Our shops have been taken over by NTC in January and we have no income at all. Where we will get this money from?” questioned Santosh Patange, who ran his readymade garments’ store at Jam Mills. The family had been running the store since 1927.Similar is the contention made by Meghraj Tendolkar, who is the fourth generation businessman of Tendolkar readymade garment shop. “We could not open our shop during the Covid-19 lockdown and all our savings have been exhausted. The shop was our only source of income,” he said.Advocate Nimesh Mehta, who represented the shopkeepers, said he will file a review petition in SC on the matter. He added that he is also challenging the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971, in the Bombay high court (HC).There are 23 shops at Jam Mill, which were issued eviction notices by NTC under the provisions of the Act on the grounds that they were illegal occupants of the premises. While four shopkeepers approached SC, the case pertaining to the other 19 shops is pending in Bombay HC. After SC ruled in favour of NTC, the four shopkeepers were evicted.NTC officials were unavailable for comment despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/supreme-court-to-mumbai-shopkeepers-pay-4-01l-each-for-not-evicting-ntc-premises-101633883519770.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Royal weavers’ of Karvat Kati sarees in Maoist areas of Maharashtra get help||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, 33-year-old Mumbai resident Prachi Saraf decided to help out a weaver community, etched in the history of ancient India as ‘royal weavers’ but who have been in troubled waters in modern-day India, as they battle poverty and are forced to work out of areas largely affected by the Maoist movement. Saraf, who returned to India after completing her accountancy course from Cardiff University and had a family background of garment manufacturing and export business since 1980, set up a trust – Vyusti – through which she is helping 80 families from the Koshti community by giving them orders to weave Tussar or Kosa Silk sarees. The trust is providing raw materials and returning 90% of the profit made back to the weavers. “I couldn’t bear the fact that the talented weavers were going hungry and decided to help them against all odds,” said Saraf. She said 10 families at Yeola in Nashik district work with the trust to make Paithani sarees. The Himroo sarees’ weaving also faces threat of extinction and the art would have ended had it not been for the 25 weavers from three families of Aurangabad’s Qureshis looms. According to legends, the Koshti community consider themselves to be the descendants of Markandeya Rishi or Rajhans, the king of Devagiri who was given the title ‘Koshti’, which means man of virtues, in 1111AD. The Koshtis were known as the royal weavers, but later took jobs as soldiers in the armies of the Peshwas, Bundelkhand, Rani Laxmi Bai and Tipu Sultan. Today, the Koshti tribe that has settled in some areas of Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Gujarat, are largely weaving the famous Karvat Kati sarees made from Tussar Silk or Kosa Silk. A pure Karvat Kati saree costs a minimum of ₹19,500, while those with zari work can cost ₹11,000.But for families of this tribe, who have settled in the fringes of the Maoist-affected regions of Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, earning their livelihood through weaving silk has not been easy. They live on the edge as cocoons of the silkworm, Antheraea Mylitta, are found only on Arjun, Saja and Sal trees in the forests that has considerable Maoist presence. Many of the families are not comfortable to describe their lives as they operate out of the ‘Red Corridor.’ Umashankar, who does not know his age, travels five hours to reach Gadchiroli to weave a Karvat Kati gala. “I found about Kosa Silk when I traded a few cocoons and got money. This made me go through the jungles of Gadchiroli and Chhattisgarh to find cocoons and trade. After 11-12 years, I got a cycle which made it slightly easier to travel,” he said. Umashankar refrained from talking about Maoists or their presence in the forests of Gadchiroli and Chhattisgarh. To weave one saree, the family of these weavers have to find at least 1,500 cocoons. “Each cocoon gives anywhere between 350 grams and 500 grams of silk. We take an average of 400 grams of silk per cocoon, and to weave one saree, we need 1,500 cocoons,” said Umashankar. He stated that each family member has a specific role to play, from extracting the thread to weaving and dyeing the fabric. Similar is the story of Bhalchandra, who rarely speaks to anyone from outside the village. His 39-year-old son Prakash said, “My father often talks to my mother about the troubled times during his young age when he had to traverse with Maoists around. And I would not want to talk about it. We should not utter that word Maoist here.” “Life isn’t easy for us,” said Prakash, when asked about the harvest season of cocoons. “Cocoons are harvested twice a year, once during a period closer to Diwali and then in February. But it all depends on many factors surrounding the place we live in,” said Prakash, who is happy that his father could at least build a makeshift house out of loose bricks. The signature trait of the silk is its dull golden brownish texture which makes it an extremely precious commodity, said Prakash. “It is also found in natural shades of dark honey, fawn, orange, pale golden and cream. The actual colour of Kosa Silk is dull gold, but the finished product is dyed with natural dyes to give it other colour,” added Prakash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/royal-weavers-of-karvat-kati-sarees-in-maoist-areas-of-maharashtra-get-help-101633883461307.html
10-10-2021||Other||Power crunch: Bihar pays ₹20 crore more a day to buy from open market||PATNABihar has been paying an additional ₹20 crore daily for the past couple of days to purchase power from open market during Dussehra but is still not getting as much to meet its peak load demand of 5,500 MW as the coal-fired utilities, supplying power to the state, are facing coal shortage, said power officials. Union power minister RK Singh, however, denied of a scarcity in any state. “We have an average coal reserve (at power stations) that can last for more than four days. The stock is replenished every day. I am in touch with (Union minister for coal, mines and parliamentary affairs) Pralhad Joshi,” he said after chairing a meeting with discoms in New Delhi on Sunday, reported ANI. Bihar’s power crisis, however, has deepened because of multiple reasons. First, the Central sector, which supplies thermal power to the state through the NTPC (National Thermal Power Station), has been able to feed around 3,000-3,300 MW power against its scheduled allocation of 4,500 MW. The reduced power supply is attributed to the shutdown of 660 MW unit 5 of the Barh Super Thermal Power Project due to maintenance and shortage of coal at the Farakka and the Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Projects, where coal was at a critical level to last for around four days, against an average buffer stock of 7-10 days at power stations. If government sources were to be believed, the average daily availability of coal was 0.7 to 0.8 lakh metric tonnes (MT) against a demand of 1.2 lakh MT at NTPC power plants supplying power to Bihar. Secondly, private players are unable to meet the increased demand of thermal power across the country, primarily due to steep hike in coal prices in the international market due to its shortage. Sample this. The power buy quantum in open market at the national level was 10,000 MW against an availability of 2,700 MW and 4,500 MW on October 8 and 9, respectively. Given the high demand and low supply, the power purchase rate had shot up to ₹20 per unit against an average cost of ₹3- ₹5 earlier. In fact, the price was hovering between ₹12 and ₹16 per unit for the last 10 days, said officials quoted above. To meet its deficit, Bihar was still bidding at a higher rate and spending an additional ₹20 crore per day to purchase power through private sources. This was in addition to its average monthly bill of ₹800 crore to the NTPC for supply of thermal power from central sector. Yet, it was unable to get the required quantity of power. The state was getting only around 347 MW to 397 MW over the last couple of days against 688 MW power purchase agreement through private players, said an officer in the know of the subject. Similarly, the state was also short of hydel and wind power. It was getting 453 MW hydel power against an allocation of 762 MW. Add to it the shortfall in wind energy. Against 580 MW, the state was getting between 50 MW and 175 MW wind power over the last few days. Put together, these have led to a power scarcity, leading to an average power outage of 4 to 8 hours a day, especially in rural areas of the state. “Bihar’s power firms do not generate electricity. Instead, they buy power from central power generation institutions and supply to consumers. Given the current coal crisis, we are getting expensive power, but are supplying electricity to consumers at a cheaper rate,” the Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited (BSPHCL) tweeted from its handle, quoting Sanjeev Hans, Bihar’s energy secretary, on Saturday. Another tweet on Sunday, quoting Hans, said, “Power supply has been improving constantly. There has been a reduction in open market price. We are now buying power at ₹14- ₹16 per unit. The situation is returning to normal. We will soon be able to ensure availability of power commensurate to its demand.” Bihar’s power demand goes up by 250-300 MW during the festival season of Dussehra and Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/power-crunch-bihar-pays-20-crore-more-a-day-to-buy-from-open-market-101633883459937.html
10-10-2021||Other||Four killed, 4 injured in Mathura road accident||Agra: Four persons, including three women, were killed while four others injured in a road accident on NH-2, connecting Agra to Delhi, in Mathura district on Sunday morning. The accident took place when a car rammed into a stationary truck near KD Medical College in Mathura, police said. “Four members of a family were killed when a car rammed into a stationary truck while four others were injured and they have been admitted to a hospital for treatment. The family members were moving from Gurugram in Haryana to Raibareilly in Uttar Pradesh. They were crossing Mathura when the mishap happened,” stated Ajay Kaushal, in-charge of Chhaata police station in Mathura district. The deceased were identified as Dharmendra Kumar (35), his wife Lakshmi (31), Mohini (19) and Kusumlata while those undergoing treatment were Pooja (22), Aniruddh (6), Aneesh and Mohit, he said. The bodies were sent for the post mortem, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-killed-4-injured-in-mathura-road-accident-101633883399580.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs second death due to Covid this month; last fatality reported on Oct 2||Delhi on Sunday reported the second coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related death in October, with the sole fatality reported this month on October 2, according to the health bulletin data. With the new addition, the death toll of the national capital climbed up to 25,089.The frequency of fatalities due to Covid-19 has witnessed a significant drop since last month, with only five persons succumbing to the infection in September. As many as 29 fresh cases were recorded on Sunday, taking the overall tally of the city to 14,39,195, the bulletin data showed. A total of 58 new recoveries were logged on Sunday, following which the total number of recovered patients reached 14,13,759.On Saturday, Delhi recorded 30 new cases and the number of fresh recoveries was 52. Both Sunday and Saturday’s figures have shown marginal improvements from Friday when as many as 39 persons were found to have contracted Covid-19 and only 23 recovered from it, according to the bulletin data.Following Sunday’s numbers, Delhi’s case positivity rate remains at 0.05 per cent, while its fatality rate stays at 1.74 per cent.As far as vaccination coverage against coronavirus is concerned, the national capital has administered the first dose to 1,25,12,426 eligible beneficiaries, of which, 54,573 account for the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, 64,99,651 people have been jabbed with the second Covid-19 vaccine shot so far, of which, a total of 99,747 received the dose in the preceding 24 hours. Delhi has vaccinated 1,90,12,077 beneficiaries so far, according to the health bulletin data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-second-death-due-to-covid-this-month-last-fatality-reported-on-oct-2-101633882655925.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid caseload dips, Mumbai sees slight rise||While Maharashtra has been witnessing a steady drop in the daily Covid-19 caseload, infections in Mumbai are seeing a slight rise. Mumbai on Sunday recorded 445 new cases, thus bringing this month’s tally to 4,733. This effectively means an average of 473 infections per day. Similarly, there were six deaths in the city on Sunday, resulting in 48 fatalities in the past 10 daysExperts attribute the rise in Mumbai due to the reopening of activities, including local trains, schools, commercial establishments and also because of more commuters travelling in trains. This was also seen in the number of active cases as Mumbai displaced Thane from the second slot, after Pune, from last week.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said although cases have gone up slightly in Mumbai, deaths are under control. “Covid-19 cases have risen slightly in Mumbai, but their intensity has been very less due to vaccination,” said Dr Awate.“We have also been able to bring down the number of Covid deaths significantly,” he added.Dr Ameet Mandot, director, Gut Clinic, said this is normal phenomenon in any pandemic. “Any pandemic will have a plateau phase and there will be minor fluctuations in numbers for some weeks before it settles down completely. This is still the second wave going on and citizens need to take precautions,” said Dr Mandot.Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 2,294 new cases, which brought the total of the past 10 days up to 25,877. The total Covid-19 patients, right from the outbreak last year, has now reached 6,577,872. There were 140,847 tests done on Sunday, while the number of recoveries clocked 1,823.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 33,449, while the total number of deaths right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 139,542. Pune tops with 8,573 patients, followed by Mumbai with 5,931 and Thane with 4,346. The death toll has now reached 139,542, with Pune leading with 19,507 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 16,158 and Thane with 11,388.So far, Mumbai has a total caseload of 748,649 cases, and the toll has reached 16,158, with a case fatality rate of 2.1%. There are a total of 5,931 active cases in the city at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-caseload-dips-mumbai-sees-slight-rise-101633883226064.html
10-10-2021||Other||Congress dares RJD to form govt in Bihar without its support||PATNAThe crisis in the Opposition alliance in Bihar escalated on Sunday when All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of the state, Bhakta Charan Das, dared the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) to form the government without the Congress’s support in the state. Talking to media persons at the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) office on the sidelines of a crucial meeting of party seniors for by-elections in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats, Das said, “RJD would need the support of 19 Congress legislators if it wants to form the government.” The AICC leader said he was compelled to make this statement as RJD did not have any regard for its legislators in the state. Both Congress and RJD have fielded candidates for the two seats in the bypolls.“We are still in the alliance. But the split would have a bearing on the by-elections’ result,” Das said, adding that RJD had the responsibility to stick to the coalition dharma as it is the largest constituent of the Opposition’s Grand Alliance. “A lot of energetic and promising youth leaders have joined the Congress in the past few months and they have already joined the campaigning for the by-polls,” said the AICC leader. A section of party leaders, who attended the meeting chaired by Das at Sadaquat Ashram, the BPCC headquarter, said they had been given a clear message from the party high command to rejuvenate the organisational network at the grassroots level, as the by-elections could be a turning point for the GA in Bihar. Congress has fielded Atirek Kumar, the son of the party’s stalwart Ashok Kumar, from Kusheshwar Asthan (reserved for the scheduled caste) in Darbhanga district and Rajesh Kumar Mishra from Tarapur seat in Munger.They are pitted against the JDU’s Aman Bhushan Hazari and Rajiv Singh and RJD’s Ganesh Bharti and Arun Kumar Sah, respectively. “We (Congress men) are in no mood to compromise anymore. Das has categorically asked us to prepare for 2024 elections alone. Congress has been weakened over the years in Bihar, as it relied heavily on the coalition politics and let its support base, comprising Brahmins, Dalits and Muslims, wither away,” said an MLA who attended the crucial meeting. Former union minister Akhilesh Prasad Singh, who is the chairman of election campaign committee of the BPCC, claimed the party was sure to wrest both the seats as both NDA and RJD were grappling with internal crises. “We are working with renewed vigour in the wake of break-up in the coalition,” said Singh. Senior AICC member Kishore Kumar Jha said RJD’s strength in the Lok Sabha dipped to four in 2014 from 22 in 2009 out of the total 40 seats in the state after it parted ways with the Congress and teamed up with Ram Vilas Paswan-led LJP in the parliamentary polls. “Likewise, RJD’s tally in the 243-member assembly dipped to 22 in 2010 against 54 in 2005, when it rejected the Congress’s tie-up proposal and continued its alliance with the LJP,” Jha said. RJD spokesman Shakti Singh Yadav said his party had to go alone as its repeated pleas to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to strengthen the alternative at regional levels failed to yield any result.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-dares-rjd-to-form-govt-in-bihar-without-its-support-101633883102185.html
10-10-2021||Patna||Rift widens in RJD’s first family with Tej Pratap’s fresh dig||The sibling rivalry in Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad’s family seemed headed for worse when his elder son Tej Pratap Yadav on Sunday took an apparent swipe at his younger brother and the party’s heir apparent Tejashwi Prasad Yadav for “scripting false narratives”. Tej Pratap was referring to suggestions that he was backing an independent candidate for the bypoll in Tarapur assembly seat, who has now decided to withdraw his nomination.In a tweet by his official handle, Tej Pratap said he had never spoken or written about claims being made by the independent candidate Sanjay Kumar Yadav a few days back that he would campaign for him. “ Did I speak or write anything about such claims. So where is my role in it?” Tej Pratap, MLA and former health minister of Bihar, said. “Some Harayanvi script writer should stop writing such C grade stories as people of Bihar know the truth,” he said, in an apparent reference to one of Tejashwi’s close aides, Sanjay Yadav, who belongs to Haryana. Tej Pratap’s bid to distance himself from the Tarapur bypoll came after the independent candidate, Sanjay Kumar Yadav, visited Tejashwi’s residence on Saturday late evening and joined RJD. RJD has already announced the name of Arun Kumar Sah as its candidate for Tarapur. Tej Pratap’s name didn’t figure in RJD’s list of star campaigners for the upcoming bypolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rift-widens-in-rjd-s-first-family-with-tej-pratap-s-fresh-dig-101633883100962.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Constable, wife arrested for killing man, dumping headless body at Antop Hill in Mumbai||The Mumbai crime branch’s unit 4 arrested a 45-year-old police constable, posted as a driver of an assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Sion division, and his wife for allegedly killing a person whose headless body was found on September 30, in the Antop Hill area. As per the investigation, police said the constable’s wife and victim, Dada Jagdale, 38, were allegedly having an illicit relation, due to which, the constable decided to kill him.The accused Shivshankar Gaikwad and his wife Monali, 35, resided at the Worli police quarters. Gaikwad joined the police service around 20 years ago in the motor transport department and was posted as a driver of ACP Dr Ashwaini Patil (Sion division). Police are yet to recover the sharp objects which were used to cut the victim’s body into five pieces. Police said the head is still missing and they are trying to trace it, said a police officer. Jagdale is a native of Solapur. His wife Monali was also from the same village and knew the victim from her school days, said a police officer. The incident came to light on September 30, around 7:30am when a local resident noticed a body with burn and cut marks, wrapped in a plastic bag in sector 7 of the Antop Hill area. A police team rushed on the spot. The body was without a head. The hands and legs were severed, and the accused made an attempt to burn the body. The spot was a few metres away from the office of ACP, said deputy commissioner of police Prakash Jadhav of the crime branch. The murder case was registered against unknown persons.“The crime branch’s unit 4 and 5 started conducting a parallel investigation. Several teams were made, and they were working on the different leads. We scrutinised the CCTV footage of the vicinity and several vehicles were verified. We found one suspicious Wagon R captured in the footage, which entered in the building where the body was found and it was owned by Gaikwad,” added Jadhav.Another lead was an aluminium plate that had been implanted in the left ankle of the victim (Gaikwad). Based on the serial number on the plate several officers scoured several cities across the country to identify the persons on whom the plates were implanted. We verified and found that 40 same aluminium plates were issued by a company that were implanted to the patient across the country. During the search, a police team reached a Solapur based hospital and managed to identify the person on whom the plate was implanted, said Jadhav.“On checking Gaikwad’s call records, we learnt that he had made two to three calls to the victim in Solapur from Mumbai. And the victim’s mobile number was found with maximum calls on Monali’s number. When the police team visited Jagdale’s residence the family informed us that Jagdale had gone to Mumbai to meet his friend” said a crime branch officer.During interrogation, Gaikwad confessed that he killed the person and used his own car to dump the body, said police inspector Indrajeet More of unit 4.Both have been arrested under the charge of murder and several other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced in court and remanded in police custody till October 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/constable-wife-arrested-for-killing-man-dumping-headless-body-at-antop-hill-in-mumb-101633883099750.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Go to homes of freedom fighters to disburse pension, Bombay high court tells Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC), while deprecating the state government’s refusal to grant pension of a deceased freedom fighter to his 90-year-old widow for want of a jail certificate, has directed the secretary of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) to assist the widow in collecting documents to prove that the deceased husband was a freedom fighter. The woman’s husband had died in 1965 and as per her claims, he had been jailed for a period of six months in 1944 for participating in the 1942 Quit India Movement.The court further directed the state to start paying pension to the widow as an interim arrangement from October 2021 as she had been pursuing the same since 1993 till her petition was decided. The state government had implemented the pension scheme in 1980.The division bench of justice Ujjal Bhuyan and justice Madhav Jamdar which was hearing the petition of Shalini Chavan, was informed by advocate Jitendra Pathade that the nonagenarian had been seeking pension of her deceased husband since 1993 but the authorities had refused to include the name of her husband as a freedom fighter.Chavan’s petition further stated that her husband had participated in the Quit India Movement in 1942 and had been convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for 18 months with a fine of ₹50 on February 12, 1943, for such participation. Initially, he was lodged in Thane District Prison, after which, he was transferred to Byculla prison on April 17, 1944. However, he was released on June 29, 1944. Thereafter, Chavan died on March 12, 1965. The petition further states that the son of Laxman and Shalini Chavan also passed away, as a result of which Shalini was hoping that her deceased husband’s pension would help her take care of her expenses.The state government had implemented the Freedom Fighters Pension Scheme in 1980 and freedom fighters had to submit the original imprisonment certificate to get the pension. In the previous hearing on September 24, Pathade had informed the court that as it was not possible to get the document from the prison after the passage of time, Shalini was unable to furnish the same. The court had asked the state to respond.While responding to the court query, the government pleader Poornima Kantharia informed the bench that without the original imprisonment certificate, freedom fighters could not benefit from the pension scheme.After hearing the submissions, the bench referred to a Supreme Court (SC) judgement which held that ‘the prescription of a rigid time-limit for the proof of entitlement in the very nature of things is demeaning. The Apex court had further held that benefit should flow from the date of the application and not from any other date.The bench also referred to the SC observation which stated, ‘If the Scheme has been introduced with the genuine desire to assist and honour those who had given the best part of their life for the country, it ill-behoves the government to raise pleas of limitation against such claims. In fact, the government should find out the freedom fighters or their dependents and approach them with the pension instead of requiring them to make applications for pension. That would be the true spirit of working out the Scheme.’Thereafter the bench directed the secretary of DLSA to go to the house of the widow and help her put together the documents or verify her claim by speaking to the resident and known personalities and submit the same to the concerned authority who would decide on the widow’s application within two months. The court also directed the state to start paying pension to the widow from October 2021 onwards and posted hearing of the petition to January 6, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/go-to-homes-of-freedom-fighters-to-disburse-pension-bombay-high-court-tells-maharashtra-govt-101633883040268.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur realtor case: Two accused policemen arrested from Gorakhpur||Two of the six policemen, who were booked for murder after the death of a Kanpur realtor, were arrested from Gorakhpur’s Ramgarh Tal area on Sunday evening when they were planning to surrender in court, the police said.The arrested men were identified as JN Singh, the then station house officer of Ramgarh Tal police station and Akshay Mishra, the then incharge of Phal Mandi post.Kanpur commissioner of police Asim Arun confirmed the arrest of the two policemen. “Two of the six accused policemen JN Singh and Akshay Mishra, who were on the run, have been arrested today (Sunday) by crime branch. The Kanpur SIT is also quizzing them in Gorakhpur,” he said.The policemen were on the run since the death of Kanpur realtor Manish Gupta after a police raid on a Gorakhpur hotel on September 27 night.There was a reward of ₹25,000 on all the accused policemen which was later raised to ₹1 lakh by the Kanpur police who circulated their pictures on social media with an appeal for information leading to their arrest. A named FIR against JN Singh, Akshay Mishra and sub-inspector Vijay Yadav under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was filed at the Ramgarh Tal police station in Gorakhpur last month. The FIR mentions three other accused as unidentified cops.SI Vijay Yadav, who has reportedly filed a surrender plea in court, and the others are still on the run.Six police teams were conducting raids to nab the remaining accused policemen in the Kanpur realtor case.The Uttar Pradesh government on October 1 recommended a CBI probe into the death of Manish Gupta. The recommendation to this effect was made to the central government on the directives of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish K Awasthi, had said in a press statement.Till the time the CBI takes over the inquiry, the special investigating team set up for the purpose will probe the matter, transferring the case to Kanpur from Gorakhpur, the statement had said.The government had also ordered appointment of the businessman’s wife Meenakshi Gupta as an officer on special duty (OSD) in the Kanpur Development Authority.The chief minister had issued an order for economic assistance to Manish Gupta’s family. Six policemen led by JN Singh and Akshay Mishra, had visited the Gorakhpur hotel on September 27 late night and checked room 512 where Manish Gupta was staying with his two friends Hardeep Singh Chauhan and Pradeep Singh Chauhan, brothers from Gurgaon.The police team asked them to show their IDs as part of a ongoing checking drive against criminals and suspects.While the Chauhan brothers were quick to show their IDs, Manish Gupta, who was in deep sleep, reportedly objected to the midnight checking , leading to arguments which eventually made Singh and Mishra angry, who then allegedly started beating him.The Chauhan brothers had told media that Manish was beaten in a closed room after they were pushed out by cops and when the door opened, they saw policemen dragging Manish on the floor in an unconscious state and bleeding profusely. They had also alleged policemen then took Manish to a private hospital nearby from where he was referred to BRD Medical College where he was declared brought dead due to excessive bleeding.The post-mortem report revealed that Manish Gupta’s body bore grave injury marks including big 5×4 cm deep and swollen wound in the middle of the forehead, clotting in the right eyelid and deep wound in the forearm.The police had initially claimed that the Kanpur realtor died due to injuries caused to him when he slipped on the floor due to the chaos caused by the sudden police checking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-realtor-case-two-accused-policemen-arrested-from-gorakhpur-101633882919848.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Covid: Has Mumbai reached the endemicity stage?||The Covid-19 cases in Mumbai have been hovering between 400 and 500 for the past several weeks now. The number of deaths has been under 10, even as the city’s lockdown restrictions have been eased completely. Barring train travel, public movement in the city is almost back to normal. Has Mumbai achieved a state of endemicity then? The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) defines the term endemic as “the constant presence and/or usual prevalence of a disease or infectious agent in a population within a geographic area”. Hindustan Times spoke to experts on Mumbai’s current status: A complex subjectDr Murad Banaji from the Department of Design Engineering and Mathematics, Middlesex University, London said that endemicity is a complex subject that requires consideration of multiple factors. “It is not unusual for numbers to be steady for some time,” Banaji said in an email. “We’ve seen this before, both in Mumbai and elsewhere. We also see it in models and it can occur for several reasons. For example, we see it as the infection spreads from one area to the next. We can also see it as restrictions gradually ease up and mobility increases,” he said. The city’s ‘R’ or reproduction number has been hovering around 1 suggesting that infections are neither surging nor dying away. R refers to the average number of people a Covid positive person infects. The serosurveys carried out in Mumbai have pointed to a high level of exposure to the virus. The city’s vaccination numbers have also gathered momentum with half of the adult population fully vaccinated and nearly 93% given at least one dose. According to Banaji, apart from the multiple factors like exposure to the infection and vaccination, the steady Covid-19 numbers in the city could be because of “endemicity” or an “endemic steady state”. “In this situation, put roughly, you have a balance of effects: (i) people becoming immune to the disease either through vaccination or after being infected, and (ii) the population losing immunity - e.g. migration of people who are susceptible to the disease, or people gradually losing immunity over time,” he said adding that the “endemic steady-state” can be stable over a longer period of time. “If so, we shouldn’t see major uncontrolled surges. We also won’t see disease dying away. So, in a sense, endemicity is both good news and bad news,” said Banaji. So, is Mumbai in an endemic steady state? “Probably not quite - we can’t be sure,” said Banaji. “The reasons why numbers are stable could be a mixture of the factors above. But, given the very high prior infection, and decent levels of vaccination, it is possible that the city is seeing something roughly like an endemic steady state,” he said. Past disaster situationEpidemiologist Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil said that it is best to not label the situation with terms like endemicity. “What we know is that the city has crossed the ‘disaster situation’ and now it is in a ‘health situation’ wherein people go about their lives and are well aware of precautionary measures like masking and vaccinations,” said Muliyil. “We have also learnt that the virus and its variants respect the previous infection to a large extent. Except for the difference in infectivity, we have not seen a major difference in mortality,” he said. According to Muliyil, even as there is no emergency situation, the government should be vigilant, and constantly tracking variants. “Surveillance is crucial,” he said. While it is believed that the number of reinfections and breakthrough infections may not be high, there is no data available on this. “We don’t know very accurately how long immune responses last after infection/ vaccination - although there is more and more data coming out on this. If immunity is more short-lived than we think, then the population becomes vulnerable to new surges quickly,” said Banaji. He said that the most worrying scenario would be if a new variant starts to circulate, which spreads more easily from person to person, or causes more severe disease, or is more easily able to infect people who have been infected before or vaccinated. “If this happens, then the dynamics could change rapidly and there could be a major surge,” he said. Thick tailA member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, Dr Shashank Joshi said that the World Health Organization will have to first declare the pandemic as over, in order to talk about endemicity. “There may be some degree of baseline endemicity-like stage in Mumbai, but it is still too soon to say,” said Joshi adding that the steady numbers seen in Mumbai are the thick tail of the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-has-mumbai-reached-the-endemicity-stage-101633882859765.html
10-10-2021||Other||Former Akhada Parishad chief’s death probe: Persons owing money to Narendra Giri under CBI’s scanner||PRAYAGRAJ: The persons, owing money to former head of the Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad, Mahant Narendra Giri, whose names were mentioned in his purported suicide note, were under scanner of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) team, probing the death case of the top seer, said officials aware of the investigation. In the suicide note, which was found at Mahant Narendra Giri’s room in the evening on September 20 in Prayagraj, he has mentioned name of two persons Aditya Mishra and Shailendra Singh Sengar, a realtor, who owed ₹25 lakh to the seer. However, it is still not clear that for what, when and how the payments were made. It is believed that the money was related to the sold property of Baghambari Gaddi Math and it was to be taken from the two persons. Meanwhile, the CBI investigations are still focused on cracking the case through scientific evidence and questioning those close to Mahant Narendra Giri and his disciple Anand Giri. The CBI is joining the dots to establish the reasons which may have led to the Mahant to commit suicide. Anand Giri, former priest of Bade Hanuman temple, Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep are at present lodged in Naini Central Jail. CBI officials are keeping an eye on the persons who come to meet them. Jail administration has also made arrangements that proper details of persons who come to meet the trio were maintained. The officials, privy to the investigation, said that the activities of Anand Giri, Aadya Tiwari and his son Sandeep were being monitored. “Anand Giri has been kept at a special cell due to security reasons and is under CCTV surveillance while Aadya Tiwari who is ill is lodged in a separate cell with his son Sandeep,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-akhada-parishad-chief-s-death-probe-persons-owing-money-to-narendra-giri-under-cbi-s-scanner-101633882562764.html
10-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj: STF arrests fake IPS officer for duping school teachers||PRAYAGRAJ: Prayagraj unit of the Special Task Force (STF) arrested a man posing as an IPS officer. The con man was nabbed in Civil Lines area where he had called some teachers for allegedly recording their statement in a fake investigation against them, said STF officials. “Teachers had made a complaint to the police in this connection. An FIR has been lodged against the accused under fraud and other sections of the IPC,” an STF official said. According to reports, a resident of Kaushambi district, Sushil Kumar is a teacher at a primary school in Dhata area of Fatehpur district. On Saturday, a man posing as IPS officer reached the school and introduced himself as IPS Ravindra Kumar Patel. He told another teacher Rajesh Kumar that he was posted in Lucknow STF as superintendent of police. Patel then checked the registers at the school and said that he had received several complaints about the school and teachers. Patel further called Sushil and questioned him regarding his selection as teacher. Patel asked him to reach a guest house near police headquarters in Prayagraj for recording his statement. Circle officer, STF, DSP Navendu Kumar said that after receiving the complaint from teachers Sushil Kumar and Rajesh, an FIR was lodged at Civil Lines police station. Sushil reached Prayagraj on Sunday and called Patel, who asked him to reach near high court. Patel was arrested as soon as he reached near the court. During questioning, Patel revealed that his real name was Vipin Kumar Chaudhary and he hailed from Mahewaghat in Kaushambi district. His mother is a teacher and lives separately from his father. “Vipin is preparing for competitive examinations but he planned to pose as IPS to dupe people. He arranged for a uniform with badges worn by IPS officials and also booked a cab. The accused was being questioned further in this connection,” the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-stf-arrests-fake-ips-officer-for-duping-school-teachers-101633881900654.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to see up to 3 hours of daily power cuts till Oct 13 amid coal crisis||Punjab will witness up to three hour of daily power cuts till October 13 due to a severe shortage of coal which has forced the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to reduce its power generation and impose load shedding in places across the state.Chairman and managing director of the state-owned utility A Venuprasad said on Sunday thermal power plants in Punjab were operating at less than 50 per cent of their generation capacity as the state had only received 11 rakes of coal against its requirement of 22.Private thermal plants have stocks to last just one and a half days while state-owned ones have stocks to last the next four days, he added."Yesterday, 11 coal rakes were received against the total requirement of 22 rakes. Because of depleted coal stock, these plants are operating at less than 50 per cent of their generation capacity," he said in a statement.However, cities across the state are experiencing power cuts of up to six hours and on Saturday morning, Patiala, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Barnala, Sangrur and Bathinda experienced load sheddings that lasted for up to four hours.The state has been witnessing power issues for quite some months now as the power plants were unable to meet the rising demand for electricity amid a paddy sowing season and soaring temperatures.Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu had earlier blamed power purchase agreements (PPAs) with three private thermal plants signed by the previous Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) government for the outages.“Power purchase agreements (PPAs) - Badal Govt signed PPAs with 3 private thermal power plants in Punjab. Till 2020, Punjab has already paid 5400 crore due to faulty clauses in these agreements and is expected to pay 65,000 Crore of Punjab People’s Money just as fixed charges,” he saidPunjab continues to pay an exorbitant rate to buy electricity from the power exchange in order to meet demands of both the general public and the agriculture sector.PSPCL procured 1,800 MW of power on Sunday at a rate of ₹11.60 per unit from the power exchange but still could not do away with load shedding, Venuprasad said.Neighbouring states of Delhi and Haryana also are experiencing similar shortages and the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government held a press conference on Sunday urging the Centre to take note of the acute shortage of coal in thermal power plants, comparing the scenario with the oxygen crisis the national capital had witnessed at the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic earlier this year.PSPCL also said that after the intervention of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi the situation had improved and the shortage was expected to ease from October 15 an expected fall in demand and proper stockpiling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-see-up-to-3-hours-of-daily-power-cuts-till-oct-13-amid-coal-crisis-101633881486406.html
10-10-2021||Bangalore||‘Requested Centre to increase coal supply to Karnataka’: CM Basavaraj Bommai on concerns about power disruption||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that he has requested the Union government to increase the coal supplies to the state amid concerns about coal shortage and its impact on the power supply.“I have already stated that we have requested the Centre to increase the supply of coal by four racks,” news agency PTI quoted CM Bommai as saying. The CM also said that he has asked the Centre for increased supply in view of the possible power crisis in the state due to the shortage of coal supplies.Further, Bommai said that the state needs clearances for two projects for the allotment of coal from mines in Chandrapur, Maharashtra and Mahanadi Coalfields Limited in Odisha. "I have met the minister of environment, forest and climate change Bhupendra Yadav, who, too, has assured me that once the letter from Maharashtra reaches him, he will expedite the process," PTI quoted Bommai as saying. While some clearances have already been obtained for the Mahanadi Coalfield, a few more were still needed, he added.Also read | ‘No threat of power supply disruption, Coal India has stock to meet 24 days of demand’ says coal minister Pralhad JoshiHe also said that the production cost would reduce once the coal from the two mines were allotted to the state. Alongside Yadav, the CM has also requested Union coal minister Pralhad Joshi to expedite the allotment process and to increase the coal supply.Earlier in the day, Joshi said that there was no threat of power supply disruption due to coal shortage and assured that there were enough supplies with Coal India Limited to meet 24 days of demand following a review meeting.“Assuring everyone that there is absolutely no threat of disruption in power supply. There is sufficient coal stock of 43 million tonnes with @CoalIndiaHQ (Coal India) equivalent to 24 days of coal demand,” Joshi tweeted.The minister also assured that the coal despatches were expected to increase after the withdrawal of the monsoon. “Thermal power plants have rolling stock being replenished with daily supply. Moreover, with the withdrawal of monsoons, coal despatches are set to rise in the coming days thereby increasing coal stocks. Reiterating, there is sufficient coal stock, do not fall for fear mongering,” Joshi said in a subsequent tweet. Also, the Union coal ministry also issued a statement saying that fear about power supply disruption was “entirely misplaced” and the coal stock at power plants was at 72 lakh tonnes which was sufficient to meet four days of requirement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/requested-centre-to-increase-coal-supply-to-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-on-concerns-about-power-disruption-101633880659850.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Five districts of Maharashtra have 75% active Covid-19 cases||Five districts of Maharashtra — Pune, Mumbai, Ahmednagar, Thane, and Satara account for almost 74% of the cumulative active Covid-19 patients who are currently on treatment. The latest report from the public health department shows that no sudden spike in the pandemic curve has been witnessed in any districts of Maharashtra. The seven-day positivity rate of the state stands at 2.1%.As per the data, there are a total of 33,006 active Covid-19 patients in the state, of which 24,277 are undergoing treatment at Pune, Mumbai, Ahmednagar, Thane, and Satara. The highest number of active Covid-19 patients are in Pune (8,422), followed by Mumbai (5,949), Thane (4,220), Ahmednagar (3,803) and Satara (1,883).Other than this, another five districts — Raigad, Solapur, Sangli, Nashik and Sindhudurg collectively have 15% of the state’s active Covid-19 patients.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said that in the past 20 days, the number of active cases has fallen by 21%. “At present, out of the 36 districts, 10 have 90% of the active Covid-19 cases. Cities like Mumbai, Thane and Pune with higher populations have most of the active cases, which have been the scenario since the start of the pandemic last year,” he said.Also, the seven-day positivity rate has dropped from 2.5% to 2.1% in the same period in the state. Between September 13 and 20, Ahmednagar had recorded a 5.3% seven-day positivity rate — the highest in the state — has now dropped to 3.1%. However, in the last week, the district has been recording a daily 5% positivity rate. Restrictions have been imposed in 61 villages in Akole, Karjat, Kopargaon, Newasa, Parner, Pathardi, Rahata, Sangamner, Shevgaon, Shrigonda, and Srirampur tehsils, said Bhosale.District collector of Ahmednagar Rajendra Bhosale said, “The district is witnessing 500-800 cases daily and the positivity rate has climbed to over 5%. We have witnessed that people are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. Hence, we have been forced to impose restrictions.”Along with this, Sindhudurg is also becoming a cause of concern as the seven-day positivity rate of the district stands at 4.7%.Recently, Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, Maharashtra (health) held a meeting with the public health officers from these 10 districts and asked them to pay special attention. He has also been instructed to increase the daily testing in these districts.“During the Ganesh Chaturthi, almost two lakh people turned up in Konkan Region. So, this is one of the contributing factors for the rise in positivity rate in these districts, including Sindhudurg. If caseload increases further, we may impose local lockdown,” said a senior health officer who was part of the team.However, the cumulative seven-day positivity rate in the state has dropped from 2.5% to 2.1% between September 20 and October 9. Dr Awate said that from May to the first week of October, over 10,000 samples have been sent for genome sequencing from Maharashtra. But no new variant of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, has been identified. “Almost 80-90% of the samples had the Delta variant and its sub-lineages variants,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-districts-of-maharashtra-have-75-active-covid-19-cases-101633877519419.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||High tide sweeps car at Uttan, locals pull it out||A multi-utility vehicle (MUV), on Saturday, got stuck in the sand at Uttan coast after the occupants parked the car to purchase fish from the nearby market. The car swept away with the high tide. However, the locals managed to pull it out with the help of a JCB excavator and thick ropes.“On Saturday the grey coloured Mahindra Xylo was parked near the Uttan coast. Locals had warned the Andheri-based owner against it, but he said he will return shortly as he was going to the nearby market to buy fish,” said Bernard D’Mello a local social activist.“Soon, the high tide and the gushing water swept away the MUV and the owner had still not returned. The locals called a JCB and with ropes pulled the car out, even as the water levels began to rise,” said D’Mello. The car was centrally locked and pulling it out was an issue, he said.“When the owner arrived, he spoke rudely to the locals. However, when he was told about the incident, he mellowed down and appreciated the efforts,” D’Mello said.Uttan police are questioning the driver as the MUV had an unclear license plate and was used as a tourist vehicle. The driver did not provide any documents to support the same, said D’mello.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-tide-sweeps-car-at-uttan-locals-pull-it-out-101633877399375.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||88.7% of 16,034 Covid beds in Mumbai hospitals vacant||While the number of Covid-19 cases reported in Mumbai daily has increased slightly this week, 88.7% or 14,237 of total 16,034 beds in Mumbai’s hospitals for Covid patients are presently vacant, and 11.2% or 1,797 are occupied. Total beds are bifurcated into beds with oxygen support, intensive care unit (ICU) beds, ventilator beds, and normal beds. Of 8,087 oxygen beds, 91.7% or 7,417 beds are vacant, while 670 beds are occupied; out of 2,221 ICU beds, 74% or 1,664 beds are vacant, while 550 are occupied; and out of 1,297 ventilator beds, 70% or 908 beds are vacant and 387 are occupied. Of the total Covid-19 beds, 11,318 are in public hospitals, of which 10,278 are vacant, and 4,716 are in private hospitals, of which 3,959 are vacant. Of the total oxygen beds, 4,932 are in public hospitals of which 4,682 are vacant, and 3,155 are in private hospitals of which 2,735 are vacant. Of the total ICU beds, 1,179 are in public hospitals with a vacancy of 902, and 1,042 are in private hospitals with a vacancy of 762. Of the total ventilator beds, 797 are in public hospitals with a vacancy of 571, and 500 are in private hospitals with a vacancy of 337. All 39 paediatric ICU beds and 32 neo-natal ICU beds are vacant. Mumbai has seen a rise in Covid-19 cases, reporting over 600 cases on October 6 (624 cases) for the first time in over two months; and over 500 cases for the past few days — on October 7 Mumbai reported 453 cases, on October 8 it reported 529 cases, and on October 9 it reported 510 new Covid-19 cases. On Saturday, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) conducted 39,840 Covid-19 tests and has so far conducted 10,729,035 tests with an overall positivity rate of 6.9%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/887-of-16-034-covid-beds-in-mumbai-hospitals-vacant-101633877339592.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Green nod for CZMP may spur redevelopment activity near Mumbai coastline||The residents of Yuwan Apartments Cooperative Housing Society, Bandra will now get double the area than which they are currently residing as the Union environment ministry last week gave a green signal to the much-awaited Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) for Mumbai city and suburbs.“All of 136 residents of our complex will get double the area than which they are residing, and we will generate a corpus of ₹100 crore,” said Akbar Jiwani, a resident and legal advisor of revamp scheme. “Those in one BHK (bedroom hall and kitchen) will get a free two BHK, while those currently residing in two BHK will shift to four BHK in the plush Bandra area,” he added.The revamp was earlier impossible due to the Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) restrictions, as any project within 500 metres of the high tide line and 150 metres from the bay were allowed a base floor space index (FSI) of 1.33 in the island city and 1 in the Mumbai suburbs.However, now with the easing of this norm, the city will witness multiple skyscrapers facing the sea as builders will get almost two and half times the developmental rights on such plots. The builders will get a minimum FSI of 2.50.The move is expected to lead to a spurt in vertical growth along Mumbai’s coastline, virtually changing its skyline.Liases Foras, a real estate research firm estimates that around 10,000 such old buildings, as well as 0.2 million slums, will benefit from this largesse.Niranjan Hiranandani, founder of the Hiranandani Group, who has constructed large townships in Powai and Thane, said this has been a long-standing demand. “This will open up land parcels for redevelopment and spur up the revamp of old buildings and slums. These new rules will make the projects viable,” said Hiranandani.Kumar Padyar, 42, who has spent his entire life in the sprawling Madraswadi slum that houses 2,100 families, opposite Worli sea face, now hopes this move will facilitate the redevelopment of the slum. The residents live in tiny shanties of 64-180 square feet and comprise poor class labourers doing menial jobs.“Our condition is so bad that we have to line up for more than one hour outside the toilets in the morning,” Padyar said. The slum has just six toilets for 350 families. “We have suffered enough in such conditions and want our children to live a decent life. The house should be well contained with personal toilets for the families. We hope that at least now the builders will take interest in our slum,” said Padyar,, who is also the managing committee member in this slum.The CRZ regulation first came into force in 1991 to monitor the activities along the coastal stretch. This created a lot of hurdles in the revamp. In December 2018, the Central government separated FSI from CRZ rules through a CRZ notification, 2019. However, not much activity was undertaken after that as the Central government linked this notification with the finalisation of CZMP maps. This was finally approved last week.Various places like Cuffe Parade, Bandra, Khar, Malad, Gorai, Worli have multiple slum pockets which will be benefitted from the easing of norms. Similarly, the Queen’s Necklace housing the area of Marine Drive-Malabar Hill area is dotted with hundreds of such old buildings. Similar is the stretch in the Western suburbs from Bandra to Dahisar.CY Corp, a leading architectural firm, which is handling 15 projects in the CRZ area said, “These are areas which are already developed and we have people living there. These people are living in dangerous buildings and should get the benefit of the redevelopment as others. We have seen such bay being developed in advanced countries like America and Australia where construction rules are very stringent,” said Milind Changani of CY Corp who is also the sub-committee member, Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI) redevelopment committee. “The new rules have made it mandatory that disaster management and environmental assessment be done in such projects which is the best move,” he added.Another major beneficiary of this move will be the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) which has been appointed as the special planning authority (SPA) for beautifying 966.30 hectares along the city’s 28-km eastern waterfront. The plan has also proposed public parks, plazas, promenades, walking trails and marinas apart from restaurants and cafes. “We are still to study the new order,” said Rajiv Jalota, chairman, MbPT. The MbPT area extends from Sassoon Docks to Wadala.Pankaj Kapoor, managing director, Liases Foras, said that this move will facilitate large scale construction activity. “We will see a large supply of housing stock coming up in the market. This will soften the prices too,” said Kapoor. “However we will also see the sea-facing apartments being sold at a premium, since citizens have a fascination for such apartments,” he added.However, the environmentalists are unhappy with the decision. “Our municipal commissioner says by 2050 major parts of south Mumbai will go underwater due to rising sea levels and here we are allowing unrestricted development near the seafront. The 1989 CRZ draft is very clear that areas vulnerable to flooding because of sea-level rise should be kept free from all developmental activities and today we are doing exactly the opposite,” said environmentalist Debi Goenka. “This is nothing but a goldmine for the builders,” he added. Goenka called this disaster management and environmental assessment an eyewash. “Such studies and assessments are made to suit the needs of the builders,” he added.Maharashtra housing minister Jitendra Awhad said the government will maintain a balance between housing and the environment. “All environmental concerns will be addressed while undertaking the redevelopment near the CRZ areas,” said Awhad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/green-light-for-czmp-may-spur-redevelopment-activity-near-mumbai-coastline-101633877219713.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow set for Durga Puja amid Covid norms for second successive year||Lucknow will renew its bond of piety with the Goddess as the five-day Durga Puja celebrations begin on Monday amid observance of social distancing and other Covid protocols for the second successive year.Some of the prominent venues for the Durga Puja celebrations in Lucknow this year are: Ramakrishna Math in Nirala Nagar, Mitro Sangho at Model House, Bengali Club & Youngmen’s Association on Shivaji Marg (Hewett Road), Trans-Gomti Dussehra and Durga Puja Committee in Aliganj and Rabinidra Palli among others.While most of the Durga Puja committees had installed idols in Lucknow last year, some performed the worship symbolically with a kalash (urn) due to the pandemic. This year, the Covid situation is under control. For instance, no fresh Covid case was reported in Lucknow on Saturday. According to the state health department data, there are 33 active Covid cases under treatment in Lucknow and a majority are in home isolation.Kumari Puja to be the highlight at Ramakrishna MathAs in the previous years, Ramakrishna Math, Nirala Nagar, would be a prominent venue of the celebrations in Lucknow and the highlight would be Kumari Puja on October 13.During Kumari Puja, Goddess Durga would be invoked in a six-year-old girl and worshipped by sanyasis of the Ramakrishna order.“The special attention of the festival will be (on) Kumari Puja i.e, worship of Devi Durga in the form of a six-year-old girl at 9.30am on Wednesday (October 13). It symbolises the special presence of the Divine Mother within every woman,” said Swami Muktinathananda, adhyaksha (head of the Math). “Shortlisting a little girl for the occasion is a difficult task as several devotees aspire to see their daughter being worshipped as the deity. We do a small session with a few girls to see how long they can sit quietly. On Ashtami day, the girl will be draped in a saree, to be decked with flower ornaments and a lot more,” he said.Another special attraction will be Sandhi puja, the climax of the five-day celebration. It will comprise the concluding 24 minutes of Ashtami and the first 24 minutes of Navami tithi from 7.44pm to 8.32pm on Wednesday (October 13). “Durga Puja will be celebrated by the Ramakrishna Math on its spacious campus at Nirala Nagar, Lucknow, from Monday, October 11 till Friday, October 15, while maintaining the social distancing and other protocols in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. All the programmes will be live streamed on the official YouTube channel: Ramakrishna Math, Lucknow,” he added.Mitro Sangho pandal depicts temple on shipEstablished in 1975, the Mitro Sangho Durga Puja committee of Model House has set up a big pandal this year that depicts a temple on the deck of a ship, said Nitesh Tewari, general secretary of this puja committee. He also said UP technical education minister Jitin Prasada would visit the pandal at 6.30pm on October 12 while law minister Brajesh Pathak will be there on October 13 around the same time.Anando Mela starts festivities at Bengali Club To celebrate the homecoming of the Goddess, the more than century old Bengali Club organised Anando Mela on Sunday. Bengali Club president Arun Banerjee said, “It was our pleasure to see hundreds of people throng the club premises to enjoy the get-together where several food stalls were set up by women members and their families.” “Durga Puja is our most awaited celebration of the year and we really wish to multiply this enjoyment with your (devotees’) presence during this Sharodiya Utsav,” he said.Portraying rural Bengal at Trans-Gomti pujaLike the previous year, this time, too, Trans-Gomti Dussehra and Durga Puja will not hold the rituals at the usual venue Chandra Shekhar Azad Park in the Aliganj area. Rather, the worship will be done indoors opposite the park. Durga Puja committee president Dr Kar Choudhary said, “Our theme is simple. We are replicating Gram Bangla (rural Bengal) on the puja premises. Owing to Covid-19, bhog prasad will not be distributed to the masses.”Rabindra Palli: Idol to be backOwing to the Covid situation, the Rabindra Palli Durga Puja committee did not place an order for a Durga idol last year. Instead, they did Kalash puja and it was only open for members and their family. This year, the 38-year-old puja committee will have a Durga idol in place as the Covid-19 situation has eased, said Pankaj Bose, general secretary of this puja committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-set-for-durga-puja-amid-covid-norms-for-second-successive-year-101633875479346.html
10-10-2021||Noida||Noida's winter plan to check air pollution||In a measure to prevent air pollution, the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration has asked the district police to impound diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years in compliance with a Supreme Court order.Police have also been asked to ensure that vehicles not destined for Noida or Greater Noida use bypasses or peripheral expressways, according to the 'winter action plan' issued by the Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration.It stated that police have been asked to keep a strict vigil and show no tolerance for visible emissions by stopping "visibly polluting vehicles" from plying by impounding or issuing fines to offenders.The administration on October 6 released the 'winter action plan' to check pollution to various government agencies and authorities ahead of winters, during which air pollution in the National Capital Region (NCR), including Noida and Greater Noida, spikes to severe levels affecting human health.The administration asked the police to list traffic hot-spots in the district and release it and an advisory accordingly."Deploy additional man power and civil defence volunteers to ensure smooth traffic flow at identified traffic hot-spots and impound diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years in compliance of the Supreme Court's order," the plan stated."Ensure that non-destined vehicles use bypasses or peripheral expressways, keep strict vigilance and no tolerance for visible emissions - stop plying of visibly polluting vehicles by impounding/fine," it said.The police have also been asked to keep strict vigilance and enforcement of pollution under control (PUC) norms besides ensuring stoppage of encroachment on footpaths."Check and resolve issues such as congestion and unusual dust emission due to traffic or parking, and ensure compliance of action plans on the identified pollution hotspots in the city," according to the plan.The police have also been asked to ensure implementation of orders of the Supreme Court regarding prohibition or restriction in the sale and use of fire crackers in NCR."Ensure immediate redressal of complaints received on Sameer, Swachh Vayu, Twitter etc," it added.Earlier the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board identified eight key air pollution hot spots in Noida and Greater Noida, according to the Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration, which has directed local authorities to ensure implementation of the action plan to check pollution during winters.The hot spots identified are Sector 7X (a collective of group housing societies in sector 73 to 78 of Noida), Sector 150, the Yamuna Pusta area, the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, the Dadri road, the underpass and building construction along Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, Greater Noida West and UPSIDC industrial areas, it said.The major air pollution sources have been identified as road dust, construction and demolition (C&D) waste, industrial dust emissions, unpaved roads and traffic congestion, the administration said in a communication on Wednesday to all three local industrial development authorities and other departments concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-winter-plan-to-check-air-pollution-101633874391503.html
10-10-2021||Dehradun||Portals of Sikh shrine Hemkund Sahib closes for winter months||The portals of the holy Sikh shrine Hemkund Sahib in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand were closed on Sunday. Sewa Singh, manager of the Shri Hemkund Sahib Management Trust said this year the portals of the shrine were opened on September 18. He said generally every year the portals of the shrine are opened on March 25 and shut on October 10. “However, last year and this year too, there was a delay in the opening of the portals due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. This year over 10,000 pilgrims visited the shrine compared to around 8,500 last year. In 2019, 1.65 lakh pilgrims had visited the shrine. Situated at a height of over 15,000 feet above sea level, Hemkund Sahib has emerged as a popular centre of Sikh pilgrimage which is visited by lakhs of devotees from all over the world every summer. Hemkund is inaccessible because of snow from October to April. A 1,100-metre climb on a 6-kilometre of stone-paved path leads to Hemkund Sahib. According to the website of the shrine, it was during the thirties of the twentieth century that the place was discovered by Sant Sohan Singh and Bhai Modam Singh. Bhai Vir Singh, a Sikh savant and a leading figure of the Singh Sabha movement played an important role in helping these two people by verifying for them the location of the place and later by providing financial support for building a gurudwara at Hemkund Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/portals-of-sikh-shrine-hemkund-sahib-closes-for-winter-months-101633870318680.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Wasteful spray on paddy leads to increase in pest population: Experts||A survey carried out by two Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) experts in paddy growing areas of the state has found wasteful use of pesticides, fungicides and insecticides on the mature paddy crop. The experts opined that the wasteful use of substandard pesticides was increasing the population of insects.They observed that the injudicious spray of insecticides was also prevalent in the area where basmati crops were grown. During the survey, it was found that in a majority of the cases, substandard and needless pesticides were sold by insecticide dealers from whom farmers purchase insecticide on credit or borrow money.The experts said farmers were incurring an extra cost of ₹900 per acre for spray on the crop which was both harmful for the soil and the environment. Besides, it is also leading to an increase in the population of unwanted insects.Dr Amarjit Singh, plant pathologist, and Dr Kamaljit Singh Suri, entomologists from the PAU, said during the survey it was found that a few pesticide dealers were also spreading fear among farmers that their standing crop would suffer pest attack due to the late monsoon season.“Due to pest attack on cotton crop, paddy farmers are already jittery and they are falling in the trap of pesticide dealers,” said Dr Amarjit Singh. He said so far they had covered 15 districts and the problem of wasteful use of pesticides was most prevalent in Sangrur district, followed by Patiala and Mansa. Dr Suri said farmers should not be scared of leaf folder moths. “As the crop is already mature by now, it is not required to spray any pesticides. Instead of falling into the trap of a pesticide dealer, farmers should approach experts of the agriculture department, Krishi Vigyan Kendra and plant clinic in the PAU,” he said.“Brown planthopper (BPH – Kala Tela) — The use of synthetic pyrethroids (an insecticide group) like deltamethrin, cypermethrin, etc, leads to the resurgence of rice planthoppers. Farmers on the advice of pesticide dealers use these synthetic pyrethroids in a mixture with other insecticides for control of rice leaf folders. But their use results in increased population and hence damage by planthoppers. The PAU does not recommend the use of synthetic pyrethroids on rice/basmati,” said Dr Suri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wasteful-spray-on-paddy-leads-to-increase-in-pest-population-experts-101633868998466.html
10-10-2021||Bangalore||Modern Indian women want to stay single & unwilling to give birth: Karnataka minister||Calling it a paradigm shift which is "not good", Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Sunday said modern Indian women want to stay single and are unwilling to give birth even after marriage and desire children by surrogacy, news agency PTI reported. He went on to lament the “western influence” on Indian society, asserting people don't want their parents to live with them anymore."Today, I am sorry to say this, lots of modern women in India want to stay single. Even if they get married, they don't want to give birth. They want surrogacy. So there is a paradigm shift in our thinking, which is not good," he said during the World Mental Health Day at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurological Sciences (NIMHANS)."Unfortunately, today we are going in a western way. We don't want our parents to live with us, forget about grandparents being with us," the minister added.Speaking about mental health in India, Sudhakar said every seventh Indian has some kind of mental issue, adding, stress management is an art and Indians can fall back on tools of yoga and meditation taught by our ancestors."Stress management is an art. This art we need not learn as Indians. We need to preach to the world how to handle stress, because yoga, meditation and Pranayama are the wonderful tools which our ancestors had taught the world thousands of years back," he said.Sudhakar later thanked Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya for providing Karnataka 1.5 crore Covid-19 vaccines every month since September, leading to increased inoculation coverage in the state.The minister also applauded the Centre for administering 94 crore vaccines ever since the country undertook the Herculean task of vaccinating the entire population free of cost."We are the only country which is offering vaccines free of cost. Elsewhere, people are made to pay between ₹1,500 to ₹4,000 per vaccine," Sudhakar said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/indian-women-want-to-stay-single-unwilling-to-give-birth-karnataka-minister-101633864514438.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi may be in for power cuts if coal shortage not resolved: Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said that the national capital may have to plan power cuts if the shortage of coal continued in power plants, even as he criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government for allegedly being dismissive about the crisis, citing the example of the oxygen crisis during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in April.“We shall have to consider planning power cuts in Delhi if stocks are not replenished in 24 hours. There is a major crisis of coal in several power plants. The Union minister has dismissed the shortage and criticised chief minister Arvind Kejriwal writing to Prime Minister Modi regarding the matter,” Sisodia said in a press conference on Sunday.“The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is failing to govern the country and they are running away from responsibilities. In a similar fashion, states had warned the Union government against an oxygen crisis and the Central government dodged its responsibilities. Now the coal shortage issue can lead to a power crisis situation,” he said.“A power crisis is equivalent to pushing the country into a dark pit. Governments in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi are seeking help from the Union government but it has so far failed in resolving the matter. The Union government is stressing more on proving that states are wrong in their assessment of power shortage. Governments operate through cooperation. We urge the Union government to be more cooperative,” said Sisodia.Delhi could face power outages if the Central government does not quickly resolve the coal shortage at power plants, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on Saturday. His remarks followed reports that over half of 135 coal-fired utilities, which supply more than half of India’s electricity, have fuel stocks to last just under three days.Kejriwal sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resolve the crisis in a letter. A supply disruption could impact strategic institutions such as hospitals, cold chains for Covid-19 vaccines and Covid Care Centres, he wrote.Of the five coal-fired thermal power plants that supply Delhi about 1,971MW electricity every day, at least one has completely run out of stock, Kejriwal wrote in the letter. He was referring to the Mejia thermal power station in West Bengal, which provides 100MW of electricity to Delhi.The plant has no coal reserve to generate electricity for even one extra day, the letter indicated. Of the remaining four, three had only a day of coal stocks, while the fourth had a reserve of four days, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-may-be-in-for-power-cuts-if-coal-shortage-not-resolved-sisodia-101633865938052.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests second Nigerian national in cruise drugs case for possession of cocaine||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested the second foreign national in the Mumbai cruise drug bust case, the agency said on Sunday. “A team of NCB Mumbai intercepted one Nigerian national namely Okaro Ouzama along with an intermediate quantity of Cocaine, yesterday,” NCB zonal chief Sameer Wankhede told news agency ANI.Ouzama was arrested from Goregaon and will be produced in court soon, NCB said, adding that he is considered to be a “key person” in the ongoing investigation in the cruise drugs bust case. The agency has so far arrested 20 people in connection with the case.The agency had raided a Cordelia Cruise ship which was on its way to Goa from Mumbai at mid-sea on the night of October 2. Eight people, including Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, Arbaz Merchant, and Munmun Dhameccha, were first detained for questioning and later arrested on October 3. The three accused have been sent to 14-day judicial custody rejecting NCB’s appeal for remand.Also Read: Cruise rave party raid: Nawab Malik names BJP leader's kin 'let off' by NCB, says it must reveal factsThe agency claims to have recovered 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 22 pills of ecstasy -- in “intermediate quantities”, and 21 grams of charas, in “small quantity”, and cash to the tune of ₹1.33 lakh during their raid on the cruise ship.NCB has also arrested another Nigerian national, Chinedu Igwe, from suburban Andheri on October 7, and claimed that 40 tablets of Ecstasy were found from his possession. On the same day the agency arrested one Achit Kumar from suburban Powai and claimed he was in possession of a small quantity of "hydroponic weed alias multi-strain cannabis".NCB has also raided Bollywood producer Imtiaz Khatri’s residence in Bandra and questioned one of Shah Rukh Khan’s driver’s in this case on Saturday. Khatri has been asked to appear before the agency on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-second-nigerian-national-in-cruise-drugs-case-for-possession-of-cocaine-101633862659536.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab must prevent, rather than repent: Navjot Singh Sidhu on looming power crisis||Punjab Pradesh Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said that Punjab should prepare for the looming power crisis due to shortage of coal in power plants and prevent it.He also demanded that private thermal plants flouting guidelines by not keeping coal stock for the stipulated time should be penalised."Punjab must prevent and prepare, rather than repent and repair... Private thermal plants flouting guidelines, punishing domestic consumers by not keeping coal stock for 30 days should be penalised," Sidhu tweeted.Talking about the alternative to coal for power generation, he said it is time to aggressively work on the solar electricity models."It is time to aggressively work on solar PPAs, and roof-top solar connected to the Grid," said Sidhu in his tweet.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday asked the central government to immediately enhance State's coal supply as per quota to tide over the power crisis with the impending shutdown of its thermal plants due to fast depleting coal reserves which are likely to be exhausted within the next couple of days.Other states like Chhattisgarh and Delhi have also raised the issue of coal shortage in the last couple of days.In Delhi, amid the possibility of a power blackout in the national capital, the officials of Delhi's Power Ministry, BSES and Tata power reached the residence of Union Power Minister RK Singh on Sunday for a meeting over coal shortage at power plants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-should-prepare-for-looming-power-crisis-prevent-it-navjot-singh-sidhu-101633861502955.html
10-10-2021||Bhopal||More than 140 cows pushed into ditch, rescue operation is going on||Administration in Madhya Pradesh’s Rewa district has been running an operation since October 1 to rescue at least 140 cows that were pushed into a ditch by some villagers who allegedly wanted to protect their crop, said officials aware of the development. A few residents of Lalgaon and Sarai Rachoi village reportedly pushed the cows one by one into Rewah Ghati (a local ditch) to deal with the problem of cows destroying standing crops in their fields . Many cows received grave injuries and several others have died, alleged Sanjay Sharma, a resident of Lalgaon village who lodged the complaint on October 1. The matter received wide publicity on Friday after a video clip of the rescue operation went viral on social media. The MP Police have registered a case under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act at Garh police station against five named and more than a dozen unnamed villagers for pushing stray and other cows that were past their milking period into the Rewah Ghati. “The case has been registered against Kailsah Yadav, Dheerendra Singh, Mahendra Singh, Baccha Saket and Brijvasi Yadav, all residents of Lalgaon,” said Rewa, superintendent of police Navneet Bhasin. “They are absconding and we are trying to nab them. We are also identifying the other accused as villagers claim that this has been going on for the past few months to get rid of stray cows,” said Bhasin. The district collector also formed a committee to probe the matter. “We are also trying to find out how such a huge number of cows reached the village,” district collector Iliyaraj T said. We are also shifting the stray and the rescued cows to nearby shelters, he added. However, a villager claimed that the administration has been very late to react and urged that they be punished too. “Despite informing the administration about this brutal treatment with cows, nobody paid attention initially,” he said. Madhya Pradesh is the first state to have a Cow Cabinet comprising six different departments for coordinated action for welfare and protection of cows. The opposition Congress party has attacked the state government alleging the condition of cows was poor in MP.“The cows are dying without food and shelter and the state government is indulging in drama of cow protection. The miserable condition of cows is exposing the fake concern of the state government,” said JP Dhanopia, spokesperson of the Congress party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/more-than-140-cows-pushed-into-ditch-rescue-operation-is-going-on-101633860537582.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||Court stays order directing police to lodge FIR on forced abortion complaint||New Delhi, Oct 10 (PTI) A Delhi court has stayed an order directing police to lodge an FIR on a complaint of an alleged forced abortion filed by a woman against her husband and family, noting that no documents regarding the incident were provided by her.Additional Sessions Judge Kiran Gupta passed the directions on a revision petition filed by the woman's mother-in-law, who approached the sessions court against an order passed by a magisterial court on October 7.The magistrate had directed the SHO of Delhi's Mangolpuri police station to file an FIR against the husband and his family on the complaint of an alleged forced abortion in 2017, saying the allegations made by the woman were serious in nature.In the revision petition moved by the mother-in-law against the October 7 order, she submitted that her daughter-in-law filed a false complaint two days after she lodged a complaint of alleged poisoning.Advocate Amit Sahni, who represented the mother-in-law, told the court that the daughter-in-law attempted to poison his client on September 25, 2021. The counsel said her complaint was received at the police station with “great difficulty” on September 26.He added that as a "counterblast" to the complaint, her daughter-in-law also filed a complaint on September 28, alleging forced abortion by her husband and family members in 2017, and then approached the court the next day.Advocate Sahni called the complaint of forced abortion "motivated which was made to pressurise the mother-in-law to settle the matter."He requested the court to stay the order of the magisterial court.In an order dated October 9, ASJ Kiran Gupta noted that the action-taken report (ATR) filed by the police stated that no documents regarding the alleged incident were provided by the woman and or doctors concerned."In the conspectus of the facts, the impugned order is stayed till next date of hearing," the judge ordered.The matter will now be heard on November 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-stays-order-directing-police-to-lodge-fir-on-forced-abortion-complaint-101633856371142.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bandh over Lakhimpur Kheri violence tomorrow. What you need to know||The Maharashtra ruling alliance has called for a statewide bandh on October 11 to protest against the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA)—the ruling coalition of the NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena—on Saturday said that bandh has been called to show that the state is with the farmers of the country.On Saturday, Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha lawmaker Sanjay Raut said his party will participate with full force in the Maharashtra bandh. Raut said it was necessary to wake people up against the Centre’s anti-farmer policies, adding that farmers are not alone in their fight and the process of showing solidarity with them must begin from Maharashtra. “All the three parties will actively participate in the bandh. What happened in Lakhimpur Kheri was a murder of the country’s Constitution, a violation of the law and a conspiracy to kill the food-provider farmers of the country,” Raut said while addressing a press conference along with NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik and state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant.Also read | Maharashtra bandh: Pune’s Market Yard to remain shut on October 11, essential services won’t be affected“We appeal to people that they must come together. We must keep our work shut for one day. Shopkeepers on their own must keep shops shut. Workers of the three parties will request shops, establishments and people to show support for the farmers,” Malik, who is also a minister in the Uddhav Thackeray-led government, said. Malik added that the bandh would come into force from Sunday midnight. “We appeal to all the workers to not create any issues for the essential services, such as hospitals, ambulance, medical stories, milk supply, during the bandh,” he also said.Also read | MVA leaders prepare to make bandh successful in PuneTraders associations have decided to keep Pune Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) closed on Monday by participating in a Maharashtra bandh. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard traders’ association has announced that all the fruit, vegetable, onion, potato markets will remain closed on Monday. The traders’ union has also appealed to all the members to keep their trade closed on Monday. They have appealed to the farmers not to bring their agricultural produce to the market on Monday.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has condemned the Maharashtra bandh decision and the leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that the ruling parties are politicising the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.The four farmers were mowed down by an SUV while they were returning from the protest against the Centre’s three farm laws in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The farmers alleged that Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of home Ajay Mishra Teni, was in the vehicle and later fled. Ashish Mishra has been arrested and sent to 14-day judicial custody. Four other people, including a local journalist, also died in the violence that day, after which an angry mob allegedly lynched some people in these vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-tomorrow-what-you-need-to-know-101633853162290.html
10-10-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 9 fresh Covid-19 cases, zero death in last 24 hrs||Jharkhand reported nine fresh Covid-19 infections and zero deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the state health department on Saturday.Ranchi added 4 fresh cases, followed by Khunti with 2 cases while East Singhbhum, Bokaro and Ramgarh each reported one case.Following this, the total active cases in the state jumped to 3,48,334 including 112 active cases.The death toll stood at 5,135 with a fatality rate of 1.47 per cent.Meanwhile, the total recoveries reached 3,43,087 wherein 13 recoveries were logged in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate is at 98.50 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-9-fresh-covid-19-cases-zero-death-in-last-24-hrs-101633851669976.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||Multiple challenges, no resolve, rue food delivery agents||Recently, a post was doing rounds on the internet about a restaurant named Corner House Ice Creams, situated in some undisclosed location, banning the food delivery executives from using their washrooms. Previously, a mall in Udaipur had come under the scanner for not allowing the riders to use the lift in its premises. And these cases are not exceptions as a Twitter account named Delivery Bhoy, keeps posting about the miserable working conditions being faced by food delivery agents. The issues these executives face range from low pay structures, abysmal bonuses and no job security to being ill-treated by restaurant managers and their staff. Even the riders who work as long as 12 hours in a day to ensure delivery of hot and fresh food at people’s doorsteps, have to often face heat from the customers. “Washroom kya, kai log toh paani tak offer nahi karte,” says Keemat, 29, a food delivery executive from Delhi. He recently shifted from Noida to the Kirti Nagar. He says, “Yaha restaurant wale bilkul acche tarike se baat nahi karte. Noida mein lagta tha ke restaurants ko humari zaroorat hai. Yaha shift hoke aisa feel hua jaise humein inki zaroorat. Bohot gande manner se baat karte hai kai log.” Some delivery agents talk of not being paid any extra amount by the food aggregator for travelling additional distances. Vijay Kumar, who hails from Uttar Pradesh and is currently living in Hauz Khas, rues, “I usually starts my shift at 2.30pm and work till midnight. Koi extra paisa nahi milta thoda extra kilometer pe jaane ka kyunki kabhi-kabhi customer exact location nahi daalta.”Riders feel that they’re stuck in a catch 22 situation. “Duty toh kabhi kabhi 12 ghante ki kar lete hai kyunki incentive milta hai. Par humein toh dono taraf se sunna padta hai. Jab restaurant order late karta hai toh bhi humari complaint hoti hai. Dono taraf se humari koi khaas sunwai nahi hoti,” says Manoj Sharma, 27, who recently joined a food aggregator platform after losing his job in Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/multiple-challenges-no-resolve-rue-food-delivery-agents-101633851001630.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||A Buddy for all times: Dog who made our lives whole||Thirteen years ago, we brought home a beautiful golden-maned puppy despite mother’s resistance. Father’s heavy solitary vote weighed in, and we welcomed our pet, Buddy, and embraced with him all of his antics. Be it shredding toilet paper, or chewing furniture legs, or boldly strutting into mother’s room with muddied paws, we all learnt to love him in our own ways. He shared a companionable silence with father during his morning newspaper reading routine. He listened to the evening ‘ardas (prayer)’, almost with reverence, at mother’s feet. He furtively assisted my sister finish many a meal from under the dining table. He was a permanent fixture by my side, whether it was burning the midnight oil, or an evening with friends, or even while getting married. After my sister and I moved out of our parental home, we never felt that our parents would go through the empty-nest syndrome. They filled their time with purposeful work, and get-togethers at home adorned with lovely confabulations with friends and family. Later, the chatter of their grandchildren also added to the vibrancy of their evenings. They finally found time for their own interests, like golfing and gardening. And after the end of the day, there was always Buddy. Although a much more sober version of his former youthful self, Buddy would climb stairs despite his excruciating arthritis and give them company. His diminishing energy levels would forbid him from running around, but he would wag his tail in participation from where he was sitting. Buddy, after having lived a wholesome life, left us in August. When he passed away, my children accompanied us to bury him. They too joined us in bidding him farewell with flowers and cards. They had a slew of questions for me later. “Mama, will Buddy become a star?” “Will he be reborn as a puppy and come back to us?” “Will he be happy going to God?” I didn’t have any answers for them at that moment. We opened our treasure on the phone instead, and revisited fond memories of him. Buddy’s first night at home, his insatiable appetite, his rather overly enthusiastic way of greeting guests, the way he tiptoed around my babies when they arrived… the memories were countless. His loss sensed similar to what I felt when I moved from my parents’ home. The time was right, the shift was synchronous with the natural flow of life. However, it felt like the end of a chapter. The average life span of a golden retriever is 10-12 years, Buddy had outlived it. In terms of theories on age and longevity, the time was certainly ‘right’. This was, indeed, the natural course of life. However, no matter how wholesome a life one has led, no matter how many good things await in the future, one can never be quite prepared for leaving. Although, leaving, despite all the hurt that accompanies, is positive. It denotes movement from one milestone to the next, from one chapter to the next. Still, there remains a tinge of longing, because life cannot be lived backwards. When Buddy left, it too felt like the end of a chapter. However, leaving, though uneasy, signals a new start. He came into our lives and changed us. We bonded in so many ways because of him. He filled our lives with so much love and laughter, that we’ll always have ample space in our hearts for pets, even though, there’s a corner in our hearts which will always remain with Buddy alone. As Rodger A Caras says, “Dogs are not our whole life, but they make our lives whole.” seeratsandhu25@yahoo.com The writer is a Chandigarh-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-buddy-for-all-times-dog-who-made-our-lives-whole-101633850276058.html
10-10-2021||Pune||Many stuck at Pune airport due to water logging, traffic jam||Around 300 flyers got stuck at the Pune airport late on Saturday as heavy rains caused major water logging in parts of city’s Lohegaon, Dhanori, Shivajinagar and other areas, resulting in massive traffic jams on roads leading to the airport and non availability of public transport, following heavy rainfall in Lohegaon (75.8mm), Shivajinagar (49.2mm) and Chinchwad (70mm).Sonali Rajore’s family, including a 90-year-old wheelchair bound senior citizen, was stuck at the airport for two and a half hours. “...No cab or prepaid taxi, no rickshaw available. Please can someone help. ... Can someone arrange a mode of transport,” Rajore wrote on social media. Her ordeal, which started at 8:30 pm, finally ended four hours later at around 12:30 am when she managed to reach home after roads began clearing post 10 pm.Officials also blamed incomplete road work for the chaotic evening. “The situation occurred due to heavy rains and ongoing road repair works in an area near the airport. Our officials with the help of traffic police were working to clear traffic jams,” said a police officer from Vimantal police station.Also Read: Helicopter corridor plan in Pune gets thumbs upOne user tweeted, “If you visit the Lohegaon/Dhanori area, you will never call Pune a ‘smart city’. Criminal negligence by all political parties towards this area. No proper roads, no drainage, no water supply, no traffic management and yet charge property taxes at par with Viman Nagar.”Another resident Satheesh PK said that all approach roads to Pune Airport were blocked and he was stranded on the road for 2 hours while covering a distance of 4km.Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar was also stuck in the traffic jam caused due to heavy rains, his supporters said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/many-stuck-at-pune-airport-due-to-water-logging-traffic-jam-101633844994742.html
10-10-2021||Kolkata||Game mode on with ‘Khela Hobe’ themed Durga Puja pandal in Kolkata||The Trinamool Congress' (TMC) famous slogan ‘Khela Hobe’ has made its way this year to a Durga Puja pandal in Kolkata as its theme. "Khela Hobe slogan is famous all over India. We chose this theme to motivate children and the youth to play outdoor games instead of mobile games," artist Soumen Ghosh told news agency ANI."To promote sports we have chosen the theme of Khela Hobe and in Bhawanipore this time it was Khela Hobe. We have recreated icons like PV Sindhu, Neeraj Chopra, Mohan Bagan and football 'khela hobey' in our Durga Puja pandal this time to woo the visitors even though there are restrictions in entering Puja Pandal," Subhankar Roychowdhury, general secretary of Bhawanipore Durgotsav Samiti told news agency ANI.
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mega block: Local train services on these lines to be affected. Details here||Local train services in Mumbai will be hit on Sunday as the Central Railway (CR) will operate a mega block on its suburban train routes to carry out maintenance work of tracks, signalling and overhead equipment for five hours. A jumbo block has been taken up on the up and down slow lines between Borivali and Bhayandar stations from 12:45am to 4:45am. However, the Railways informed that there would be no mega block on the Western Railway (WR) suburban section today.Here’s the full list of train routes affected due to the mega block in Mumbai today:On Central Line:Thane-Diva Up and Dn Slow Lines from 11am to 4pm• Down Slow/Semi fast services leaving Mulund between 10.43am and 3.46pm will be diverted on Down fast line between Mulund and Diva stations, halting at Thane and Diva stations. The train will arrive at its destination 10 minutes behind schedule.• Up Slow/ Semi fast services leaving Kalyan between 10:37am and 3:41pm will be diverted on the Up fast line between Diva and Mulund stations, halting at Diva and Thane stations and further will be re-diverted on the Up Slow line at Mulund station. It will arrive at its destination 10 minutes behind schedule.• All Up and Dn slow services leaving/arriving at CSMT Mumbai between 11am and 5pm will arrive/depart 10 minutes behind schedule.On Harbour Line/Trans Harbour Line/Uran Line:Panvel- Vashi Up and Dn Harbour Lines from 11:05am to 4:05pm(Belapur-Kharkopar services not affected; Nerul-Kharkopar services remain cancelled)• Up Harbour line services towards Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) Mumbai leaving Panvel between 10:49am and 4:01pm and Down Harbour line services to Panvel/Belapur leaving CSMT Mumbai between 10:03am and 3:16pm will remain suspended.• Up Trans-harbour line services towards Thane leaving Panvel between 9:01am and 3:53pm and Down Trans-harbour line services towards Panvel leaving Thane from 10:01am to 3:20pm will remain suspended.• Down line services for Kharkopar leaving Nerul between 10:15am and 2:45pm and Up line services for Nerul leaving Kharkopar between 10:45am and 3:15pm will remain cancelled.At the same time, local train services between Belapur and Kharkopar stations will run as per schedule during the block period. Special local trains will run on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) Mumbai-Vashi section during the block period.Trans-harbour line services will also be available between Thane-Vashi/Nerul stations during this duration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mega-block-local-train-services-on-these-lines-to-be-affected-details-here-101633835499502.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Why was Aryan Khan denied bail? Magistrate's court cites this act||Aryan Khan and two others, who were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in a drug raid on a luxury cruise ship last week, were denied bail by a local court in Mumbai on Friday. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM) RM Nerlikar sent Aryan Khan to jail for two weeks pending an investigation of the case. Aryan Khan, the eldest son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were arrested on October 3 after the NCB claimed it seized banned drugs aboard the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. They have been booked under various provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.In his 15-page order released on Saturday, Nerlikar said that a magistrate's court does not have the jurisdiction to entertain a bail application for an offence with prescribed punishment of more than three years under the NDPS act as it has to be tried by a special court. He said "this court ceases its jurisdiction to entertain the applications for bail" considering section 36A and the fact that all three were held for one crime under various provisions of the NDPS Act for which the prescribed punishment was more than three years.Also read | Byju’s stops Shah Rukh Khan ad amid Aryan Khan drugs probeThe magistrate noted that NCB’s investigation has shown that allegations levelled against all the accused are in respect of consumption, sale and purchase, with intermediate quantity as well as commercial quantity of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances allegedly being seized, for which the punishment prescribed is more than three years.Also read | Agency let off BJP leader’s kin after raid: NCP’s Nawab MalikAdditional solicitor general Anil Singh on Friday challenged the bail pleas claiming the magistrate court had no jurisdiction to hear such applications in this matter. As lawyers of those accused argued for bail citing previous orders, the magistrate said such decisions were not useful as facts and circumstances of the present case were at hand. He also that the decisions cited by the lawyers differed from each other. "The same are related to the powers of the Sessions Court and the High Court. Considering all these aspects, the bail applications filed by the accused are not maintainable before this court. The same are required to be rejected," he added.Also read | NCB records statement of Shah Rukh Khan’s driver in drugs bust caseA lawyer said Aryan Khan, lodged at Arthur Road prison, has approached the sessions court for bail and the hearing is likely to be held on Monday. Meanwhile, the magistrate court on Saturday sent Achit Kumar, who the NCB has claimed used to supply drugs to Aryan Khan and Merchant. Kumar was held on the basis of the statement given by Khan and Merchant. The agency has so far arrested 19 people in connection with the drugs bust case.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/why-was-aryan-khan-denied-bail-magistrate-s-court-cites-this-act-101633835248281.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Cops send Param Bir Singh fresh summons||Mumbai Police on Saturday pasted a notice outside the residence of former police commissioner Param Bir Singh, asking him to appear before it in connection with an extortion case on October 12, an official said here.Recently, Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil said there were reports that Singh, who is facing at least five criminal cases in the state, had left the country. This, however, could not be verified .The Mumbai Police’s crime branch is probing an extortion case registered against Singh in suburban Goregaon and wanted to question him, the official said.A police team went to Singh’s flat in Nilima building in Malabar Hill and pasted the notice outside since he was not at his residence, the official said.The case was filed in Goregaon on the complaint of Bimal Agrawal, a builder and hotelier. Besides Singh, dismissed police officer Sachin Vaze, Sumit Singh, Alpesh Patel, Vinay Singh, and Riyaz Bhati are named as accused in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-send-param-bir-singh-fresh-summons-101633827357404.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Agency let off BJP leader’s kin after raid: NCP’s Nawab Malik||The Nationalist Congress Party on Saturday again attacked the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) over the drugs case involving actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, alleging that the agency initially detained 11 people from the cruise ship but eventually let off three of them, including the brother-in-law of a BJP leader.An NCB team led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede had raided a Goa-bound cruise last Saturday and arrested 8 persons, including Aryan Khan, for allegedly possessing drugs.“The day the raid was conducted, Wankhede said 8 to 10 people were detained. But according to the information with the Mumbai police, 11 people were detained by the NCB that night. They were brought to NCB office but later three of them were released. They are Rishabh Sachdeva, Pratik Gaba and Amir Furniturewala. Sachdeva is brother in law of Mohit Bhartiya alias Mohit Kamboj (a former chief of Mumbai BJP’s youth wing). He was allowed to go after his father and uncle reached NCB office,” NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said.Malik had earlier in the week also attacked NCB over the “involvement” of individuals from outside the agency during the raid, which he termed as “fake”.The NCB termed Malik’s allegations as baseless. “NCB reiterates that its procedure has been and will continue to be professionally and legally transparent and unbiased”, Gyaneshwar Singh, deputy director general of NCB, said in a statement released on Saturday.Kamboj, who threatened to file a ₹100-crore defemation case against Malik, rejected the allegations.“Nawab Malik ji claimed that the mobile phone of my father-in-law was used to contact BJP leaders in Delhi and Mumbai. So which agency do we have to submit the mobile phone? take his contact number, get a forensic examination done... Do not make vague allegations, come up with evidence,”he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/agency-let-off-bjp-leader-s-kin-after-raid-ncp-s-nawab-malik-101633814525385.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | The viper and the squirrel||The lure of hard-earned food is such that serpents are loath to discard prey even if humans are present as an unwelcome audience. A series of definitive photos in dazzling, rich colours captured a Russell’s viper ingesting a squirrel in broad daylight in the parking of the Teachers’ Flats at Panjab University.The viper was in full view of panicky residents and the rescue team, but it did not budge till it had fully taken in the squirrel. Neither did the rescue team indulge in the sentimental stupidity of attempting to “rescue” the squirrel from the viper!The photographs were clicked by Dikshant Kanojia, a budding naturalist and wildlife rescue personnel. Kanojia hails from a humble background, but works part time to fund his passion, while pursuing an undergraduate degree in the arts.Vipers resort to varied hunting techniques. They can ambush and bite its prey and wait for it to perish before ingesting it. Or, a viper may grab prey without biting it, and then ingest it head-first to reduce flailing resistance. It could bite the prey while swallowing it as venom aids digestion.When it comes to a squirrel, a viper may quickly swallow it as venom takes time to kill. The viper senses that a bitten squirrel may yet have time to scurry up a tree and find its last refuge in a hole out of the viper’s reach. Flower gloom, blood bloomThe role that chance or luck play in human-wildlife interaction was underscored in an emphatic manner, laced with a touch of merciless irony. A luckless wildlife photographer could spend years hard tracking mighty eagles and yet not frame a noteworthy predation moment that could set a new benchmark for action photography. On the other hand, a disappointed photographer out to capture something else could be bestowed a spectacle so unsurpassable that it could regale viewers for a century.Rajkumar Dongare was scouting the outskirts of Mayureshwar wildlife sanctuary, Maharashtra, to photograph the Caralluma fimbriata flower, an iconic plant whose extract is eaten by tribal hunters to suppress hunger and thirst before embarking on long shikars. Specialising in flower photography and not birds, Donagare was dejected as cattle had grazed over the flowering grasslands. By chance, his companion, Amit Kuwal, noticed an agitated Bonelli’s eagle 15 feet away. For 45 minutes, they closely witnessed the eagle killing and eating a sturdy monitor lizard (Goh) in full view.The eagle jumped repeatedly to gather momentum for impact. The eagle would land hard on the lizard and the talons would embed deep. The lizard’s left foreleg was mangled as the eagle lifted the heavy reptile. Suffering unimaginable pain, the lizard battled to get free of the golden rakes. Its blood fountained to smatter the grasses bereft of seasonal flowers. As life ebbed from the flailing lizard, the eagle calmed down. The flattened battlefield grasses cautiously curved erect, and they were finally ‘petalled’, with dainty crimson spots of blood. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-the-viper-and-the-squirrel-101633817679489.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | Health is the crowning jewel of life||“I never fall ill,” I would retort as soon as somebody started bombarding me with unsolicited health advice. After all, removing my tonsils four decades ago had so far been the only time I had required hospitalisation. As they say one should not brag about Divine benedictions, and I was soon eating my words after a two-pronged attack of dengue and typhoid brought me down.The twin diseases were like a stone dropped in placid pool whose ripples would take days to subside. When my platelet count nosedived, I was taken to the nearest private hospital. However, dissatisfied with the medical care provided, we decided to shift to the Military Hospital.A patient recovered is a customer lost and sarcasm was all I could use before paying a bill of almost half a lakh for the few hours spent in therapeutic captivity and by the time I was in the hands of the combat healers, a lot of time had been wasted and weakness and rising temperatures had taken a toll on my body.It was a collapse at an ungodly hour in the dark of night that raised panic and sent me to the intensive care unit. The last time I lost consciousness was during flying training days when my instructor subjected me to a high level of anti-gravity acceleration. However, this time the experience came at a rather embarrassing place : the washroom.Wired with instruments monitoring different parameters, never had I known hours like these. Infusion of platelets, medicines and fluids through my veins was another maiden experience. With five of my co-patients on ventilator and one with terminal cancer, my heart went out seeing their plight as I wondered if they would ever lead a normal life hereafter. Even though placed in a much better league in comparison, I struggled to maintain high spirits in that gloomy odour of sorrow. The praiseworthy doctors worked round the clock like a shadow of God on earth in their struggle of pulling patients from the jaws of death.As I waited for time to heal me, I felt a conviction grow on me. If life was the greatest gift, then a healthy life was a jewel in the crown. There was so much life had to offer and yet one succumbed to ego, jealousy and anger, which disturb the harmony of the body, mind and spirit. Wasn’t it better to count your blessing rather than nurture the pain of regrets, deficiencies and failures? We climb sublime heights on wings of fancy, little realising that life was stranger than fiction and an invisible microbe was enough to lay bare the fickleness of fortune.While I have no clue where I fit in the great scheme of things, nor do I seem to have any role in the cosmic drama, thankfully the veil of illusion that had clouded my vision has lifted. I walked out of the hospital, emaciated, but wiser with a heart full of gratitude leaving little room for negativity.Thank God for adversity, it has finally dawned upon me that happiness is the highest form of health and the only constant in life.harrypal71@yahoo.co.in(The writer is a Mohali-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-health-is-the-crowning-jewel-of-life-101633817378476.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Random Forays | Creative thinking a must for students||Creative learning is a rarity in our country as most schools and colleges emphasise on memorising bookish details over the years.Rote learning had become so much a part of our existence that I still recall some of the rattas that I had rattled off in middle school! There were endless facts to be ingrained and all sorts of details to be inculcated in our growing years. Exactly how many of those came in handy during the exams or more importantly in life’s journey ahead is a debatable point. Indians have traditionally been brilliant at mental maths and multiplication as well as all forms of calculation. These skills have diminished in significance, ever since the all conquering technological gadgets have intruded into our existence. Basic knowledge and factual information are also available at the click of a button these days, with not much need for us to memorise dates et al. Mr Google and his extended family have ganged up to obviate the need for human beings to tax their brains beyond a point. Google maps make it unnecessary for us to ask anyone the route any more. The ubiquitous computer voice keeps us company more often than not. Be that as it may, the left segment of the brain, which is the logical arena, need not be burdened too much any more. It is the right portion of the human brain, which is the creative realm, which needs to be put to use in order to enhance our lives on the whole. “Creativity is intelligence having fun,” Albert Einstein had said. Anyone who has had brain waves, or inspirational ideas, while showering or while swaying to some music, would agree entirely with the great scientist. What is life, after all, without zing, oomph and pizzazz?The newness of an unchartered course, the thrill of a hitherto unexperienced situation, the sheer fun that comes from heading into the unknown, is what enthrals those with a bit of heart.Which is why we need to fine tune our educational paradigms in order to make our children really think in schools. Problem solving and project building are activities which can propel youngsters to potential greatness if they are a part and parcel of their school years.Creative writing, art, music and even sports also require thinking patterns that are distinct from the norm. What is the point of scoring 99% marks in the board exams if the student knows nothing else?Edward de Bono was on target when he said, “There is no doubt that creativity is the most important human resource of all. Without creativity there would be no progress and we would forever be repeating the same patterns.”Our educators need to be injected with some enthusiasm and fervour in order for them to alter their mores to impart creative learning to their wards. No amount of policy making will do the trick unless teachers are well looked after and motivated to bring some more imagination and verve to their roles in the classroom.Some pockets of excellence, have already been enabling students to delve into the world of creativity, across the land, but far more needs to be done. There is no incentive, no push, no reason, for a majority of educational institutions to deviate from the tried and tested dusty pathways.The future of the world will depend on how well the youth will be able to combat crises of varied kinds which will doubtlessly spring up again and again. It will depend on their ability to stay innovative and ahead of the game. The success of individuals will also depend on their ability to break away from the hordes and blaze a trail of excellence in unheard of or rare fields of endeavour.The world of tomorrow will belong to men and women with initiative and enterprise. It is time to start preparing our boys and girls for that tomorrow by tweaking our pedagogical norms and breaking the mould, if we can. Let us also have some fun in the process. vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-creative-thinking-a-must-for-students-101633816958614.html
10-10-2021||Bhopal||Body of teacher found near PAU Gate 3 in Ludhiana||Panic gripped the area after the body of a schoolteacher was found in a car parked near Punjab Agricultural University, Gate 3, on Saturday.The victim, Inderjeet Singh, 36, of Bank Colony in Mullanpur, had been working as a computer teacher at a government school in Kila Raipur village.Assistant sub-inspector Talwinder Singh said that the cause behind the death had not been ascertained. The body has been sent to the civil hospital for postmortem and the viscera will be sent to the forensic laboratory for examination. His relatives said Inderjeet had dropped his wife, also a teacher, at a school in Halwara on Friday morning and had stopped picking up calls after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/body-of-teacher-found-near-pau-gate-3-in-ludhiana-101633815578253.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||138 infected, three dead of virus in HP||Himachal logged 138 fresh Covid cases on Saturday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,20,392 while death toll mounted to 3,683 after three patients died of the infection. Among the fresh cases, 56 were reported in Kangra, 27 in Hamirpur, 24 in Mandi,12 in Una, 11 in Bilaspur, six in Shimla, and one each in Kullu and Solan. The active case count remain static at 1,371 while recoveries reached 2,15,321 after 166 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 49,353 cases reported till date, followed by 31,166 in Mandi and 27,316 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/138-infected-three-dead-of-virus-in-hp-101633815517754.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Centre failed to protect minorities in Kashmir: KP body||The reconciliation, return and rehabilitation of migrants, an organisation of the internally displaced Kashmiri Pandits (KP), on Saturday said the recent killings of the minorities in Kashmir were a part of well-planned terror plot to drive out remaining minorities from the valley. In a statement issued here, the chairman of the organisation, Satish Mahaldar, said, “On October 5, Makhan Lal Bindroo was shot dead by terrorists as he sat in his shop in Srinagar’s Iqbal Park, an area dotted with the police and paramilitary installations, He was in love with Kashmir.” He also referred to the latest killings of a principal and teacher in a Srinagar school and that of a migrant street vendor, Virendra Paswan, besides a local. “These attacks have proved that counter-insurgency strategies have failed and the intelligence is an utter failure in the valley. The premature claims about normalcy in Kashmir got exposed two months ago when it was informed to the LG office in writing by Kashmiri Pandits that there are rumours that the minorities in Kashmir will be targeted. Unfortunately, the LG office and security agencies ignored our inputs,” said Mahaldar. Despite the inputs to security agencies, the state government and the Centre failed to protect the minorities in Kashmir, he said. He asked the LG administration to bring its act together before it was too little, too late.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-failed-to-protect-minorities-in-kashmir-kp-body-101633815459473.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram hits campaign trail in Kinnaur||Himachal chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur hit the campaign trail on Saturday and addressed election rallies at Reckong Peo and Sangla of the tribal Kinnaur district which falls in the Mandi parliamentary segment.Addressing the rally, Thakur said, “Brigadier Kushal Thakur’s victory means the victory of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the security of India.”“We have fielded an honest candidate. After nomination yesterday, some people were saying the person is good but what would a soldier understand about politics. They should know that those who sacrifice their lives to protect the country are needed in the politics,” said Thakur, adding, “The soldier who won the Kargil battle will also win the poll from Mandi.” In his address, BJP candidate Khushal Thakur said he understands the problems of the Kinnaur region very well and if elected, his priority will be to fulfill the aspirations of the local people.He said the country has become stronger than ever under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Kinnaur shares its border with China. As a soldier, I know very well how important it is for the country to be strategically strong. And I am proud that India has become so strong under PM Modi and no enemy can dare challenge India.” he said.“I am a soldier and am ready to stand for you on every front,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-hits-campaign-trail-in-kinnaur-101633815458975.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress, Akalis trying to hijack farmers’ stir: Chugh||BJP national general secretary and in-charge, J&K, Tarun Chugh on Saturday criticised the Congress, Akali Dal and the AAP for allegedly trying to “covertly hijack” the farmers’ agitation by making cheap political capital out of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. In a statement issued here, Chugh said the UP government had registered criminal cases and the investigation was on in addition to the judicial inquiry that had been instituted under a retired high court judge. “So, in this situation, it was only but cheap politics that the political parties were making a beeline to Lakhimpur Kheri to pay lip service to farmers and try to win their sympathy in view of the forthcoming assembly elections,” he added. He said it was a law-and-order problem in Lakhimpur Kheri and the UP government had been dealing with it firmly. Chugh said while the UP government had stood firmly by the affected families and assured them all help following which they withdrew their agitation, political parties like the Congress and the Akalis, after having failed to do anything for the welfare of farmers all these years when they have been in power, were now “faking sympathy” with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-akalis-trying-to-hijack-farmers-stir-chugh-101633815457704.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP steps up efforts to placate rebel Chetan Bragta||With just a day left for withdrawal of nominations, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday stepped up its efforts to persuade its information and technology chief Chetan Bragta, who had revolted against the party and filed his nomination as an independent candidate from Jubbal Kotkhai after the party chose Neelam Saraik over him.“I will not budge. The party has meted out injustice on me and other BJP workers. I was asked by the party to start campaigning soon after my father’s demise. Why did it do so when it had no plan to field me as a candidate,” said Chetan when contacted. State party chief Suresh Kashyap also spoke to Chetan and urged him to withdraw his nomination in favour of party candidate Saraik. A large number of office-bearers of the block unit are currently siding with Chetan and also gave a miss to chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur’s public meeting on Friday. The CM had also reached out to Chetan and his supporters earlier.Union minister for information and broadcasting, Anurag Thakur also spoke to Chetan over the phone, asking him to reconsider his decision of contesting elections. Former horticulture minister Narendra Bragta was an ardent supporter of Anurag’s father and former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal. Bragta’s death necessitated elections in Jubbal and Kotkhai. Bragta is largely credited with strengthening the horticulture economy. Besides, he was known for his political acumen. Bragta’s supporters had staged a show of strength in Kaharapathar in Jubbal on Friday and raised slogans against urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj. Chetan’s supporters are out rightly blaming the urban development minister for the change of choice for ticket at the last moment. Neelam Saraik is considered to be close to Bhardwaj. Saraik is yet to start campaigning and is expected to do so after Chetan withdraws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-steps-up-efforts-to-placate-rebel-chetan-bragta-101633815278213.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Coal crisis: Ludhiana witnesses power cuts||With the country staring at a coal crisis, power cuts have become the order of the day in the state, with Ludhiana district witnessing hour-long power cuts thrice on Saturday.Meanwhile, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), has appealed consumers to use power wisely, warning that three to four-hour power cuts may be in the offing. The first power cut, which lasted an hour, was imposed around 9.30am in some areas. It was followed by another one-hour cut around noon and then another one-hour cut was imposed in different subdivisions between 4 to 6pm.PSPCL chief engineer Bhupinder Khosla said a similar pattern can be expected on October 10, and there was a chance that the situation may improve next week. “Two of our units at the Talwindi Sabu power plant and Ropar plant are shut. We are hopeful that the situation will improve after that,” said Khosla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coal-crisis-ludhiana-witnesses-power-cuts-101633814858358.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana jeweller kidnaps ex-fiancee’s nephew, held||Police have arrested a 34-year-old jeweller and his accomplice for kidnapping a 19-year-old boy after his plans to marry the teenager’s aunt for a Canadian spouse visa fell through.According to police, the jeweller, Gaurav Goyal, wished to move to abroad and had promised to pay ₹30 lakh to the victim’s aunt, Jaspreet Kaur, who lives in Canada, if she would help him secure a spouse visa after marrying him.Jaspreet’s sister and the victim’s mother, Manpreet Kaur, a resident of New Punjabi Bagh Colony, Jagraon, told the police that Goyal had already paid ₹5 lakh, but the wedding was cancelled.When she could not return the ₹5 lakh to Goyal immediately, he kidnapped her son from his coaching centre and called her to pay up to secure his release.Instead, Manpreet approached the police, who managed to arrest Goyal and rescue the teenager.Goyal’s accomplice Sanjiv Kumar, alias Soni, of Agwad Gujra village, Jagraon, was also arrested, but three others – Lali Dhillon of Jagraon, and Soni and Chhebi of Hansa Kalan village, Jagraon, are at large.Assistant sub-inspector Balvir Chand, who is investigating the case, said the accused had been booked under Sections 365 (kidnapping) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code at the City Jagraon police station. A hunt is on for the arrest of the rest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-jeweller-kidnaps-ex-fiancee-s-nephew-held-101633814378161.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||82 new Covid infections, 81 recoveries in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 82 fresh Covid-19 infections on Saturday, of which 69 were reported in Kashmir valley while 13 were in the Jammu division. In good news, however, there were no new Covid deaths and as many as 81 patients also recovered from the disease. The active case count now stands at 1,100.Currently, Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 471 followed by Poonch and Budgam districts with 102 and 95 active cases respectively.Officials said with 34 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 12 in Budgam while as many as 18 other districts had no or single-digit cases.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,24,908, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.32%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,30,434 while the death toll stands at 4,426. Officials said that 50,680 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in UT. Jammu district has the highest number of 1,144 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 842 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/82-new-covid-infections-81-recoveries-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101633814198247.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||UT cricket association’s operations manager resigns||Under fire for not registering three mainstay cricketers of the boys’ U-19 team for the Vinoo Mankad Trophy well in time and costing Chandigarh a loss against Madhya Pradesh in the opening tie, Union Territory Cricket Association’s (UTCA’s) cricket operations manager Manjit Singh has resigned from his position. The Chandigarh U-19 team led by Raj Angad Bawa did win three matches in the tournament, but that loss against Madhya Pradesh cost them a place in the upcoming quarter-finals. Singh, a former NIS-qualified cricket coach, had been working as the operations manager since the 2019 season. In his resignation letter to the UTCA president and secretary, Singh, 68, writes that for the past one month, he had not been keeping well and unable to concentrate on the work. Cites ‘increasing workload’, ‘inability to take stress’ as reasonHe further said that due to the “increasing workload, he is not able to take stress at his age”. He stated that he needs to have a peaceful and relaxed life. Singh, who has vast coaching experience, had never worked in cricket operations before and UTCA hired him for the post in their opening domestic season in 2019. All-rounders Arbab Iqbal, Pratham Sodhi and Paras Amarjit Kumar were the players who had to miss out the opening game against Madhya Pradesh in the Elite Group B. The trio was registered ahead of the second game against Himachal Pradesh that Chandigarh won.Speaking on Singh’s ouster, Rakesh Jolly, who is a former first-class cricketer and also chairperson of the three-member UTCA Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC), said, “It is such a pity that a strong team like U-19 Chandigarh had to bow out due to his glitch. That loss against Madhya Pradesh hurt Chandigarh’s chances of qualifying in the quarterfinals. UTCA needs to be very careful and professional in future.” The players should have been registered by September 10, the deadline set by the BCCI. And, the first match of the Vinoo Mankad Trophy was slated to take place on September 28 in New Delhi.When UTCA joint secretary was asked the reason for Singh’s resignation, Yuvraj Mahajan said, “He has very clearly written in his resignation that due to his ill health he is giving up the post. He has not been keeping well since last two months.” Chandigarh beat Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra in the league stage. Teams like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Kerala, Vidarbha, Karnataka and Nagaland are in the quarterfinals.“If UTCA is short of staff, why do they not hire more staffers and that too qualified ones. They might be an associate state and BCCI not giving them annual funds. But the BCCI can always pay for the hired staff. Chandigarh U-19 cricketers could have made an impact in the Vinoo Mankad Trophy. Players were eyeing the U-19 World Cup scheduled for next year. CAC is supposed to look after cricket and the hired coaches and selectors, but UTCA has not given any powers to the panel. It is very disappointing and accountability should be held,” added Jolly, 63, who has played 40 first-class matches for Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ut-cricket-association-s-operations-manager-resigns-101633814078503.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hug and loot: 65-year-old loses bangle in Ludhiana||Striking for the third time in eight days, a notorious gang of women robbers stole a gold bangle from an elderly woman on Saturday.  The women, who were out on a prowl in a Maruti Suzuki Swift, targeted the 65-year-old victim, Usha Rani of New Vishnupuri, who was out on a morning walk along the Buddha Nullah near Shivpuri, posing as an old acquaintance. The accused stopped the car near Usha and complained that she had not come to see her for a long time. She then alighted from the vehicle and gave the victim a quick hug, before driving off saying she will come and see Usha soon. “Later, I noticed my gold bangle was missing and alerted the police,” said the complainant, adding that there were three women and a male driver in the car. The gang uses the modus operandi of chatting up gullible victims, or offering the elderly a lift. Assistant sub-inspector Savinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been registered under Sections 379 (theft), 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC)against the accused at the Daresi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hug-and-loot-65-year-old-loses-bangle-in-ludhiana-101633813598207.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||93% of J&K’s adult population vaccinated with first dose of Covid||Ninety-eight percent of the adult population in Jammu and Kashmir has been vaccinated with the first dose while 42% have got the second dose as well, officials said during a Covid review meeting chaired by chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta on Saturday. The chief secretary appreciated four districts of Samba, Poonch, Ramban and Anantnag for achieving 100% first dose vaccination in the 18-plus category. He reiterated that the remaining districts also need to double their efforts to ensure 100% coverage of all eligible population with the first dose of the vaccine within a week.Officials also informed the chief secretary that the UT’s daily positivity rate now stands at 0.21% against the national average of 1.49%. Mehta also stressed on the need for strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour and standard operating procedures, especially in view of the upcoming festivities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/93-of-j-k-s-adult-population-vaccinated-with-first-dose-of-covid-101633813478002.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man booked for abducting 15-year-old girl||A man has been booked for abducting a 15-year-old girl from Sector 44 in Chandigarh on the complaint of her father, police said on Saturday. A resident of Burail in Sector 45, the complainant said his daughter is missing since October 8. A case under sections 363 and 366 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector-34 police station. In another case, three siblings, including a girl, who had left home to play went missing from Baltana in Zirakpur. A complaint in this regard was lodged by the aunt of the children. The police have alerted their counterparts in different cities. The complainant said she takes care of the three children aged 8, 6 and 5. She said they had left at noon after lunch, but did not return. Meanwhile, a 17-year-old girl has reportedly gone missing from Chandigarh. Her sister, a resident of Maloya, lodged a complaint with police, stating that she had gone missing from Sector 18 on October 7. A case under Section 363 of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-booked-for-abducting-15-year-old-girl-101633813298122.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sarabha Nagar scuffle: Man held for causing death due to negligence||A day after the protest staged by relatives of the man who had died during a scuffle in Sarabha Nagar main market, the Division Number 5 police on Saturday registered an FIR against two siblings for causing death due to negligence and arrested one of them.The arrested accused has been identified as Anupam Sharma, while his brother Anand Sharma is absconding. The complaint has been lodged by Dinesh Kumar, son of the victim.He told the police that he and his brother Gaurav have battery operated toy cars in which they used to give rides to children visiting Sarabha Nagar main market.Dinesh said on Monday, his brother Gaurav did not come to work, following which his father turned up there for his help. He added that they indulged in a spat with Anupam and his brother Anand, who also run the same business, over a minor issue. Dinesh told the police that locals intervened and resolved the matter, but later in the night, the accused turned up there again and started thrashing him. “When my father tried to intervene, the accused thrashed him also. He fell on the road and died,” he added. He immediately informed the police and rushed my father to a hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead. Earlier, the police had initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC in the matter.On Friday, kin of the victim had staged a protest at Bharat Nagar Chowk and blocked the traffic following which the police registered an FIR against the accused and arrested one of them.ASI Hardev Singh, who is investigating the case, said that a case under sections 304-A (causing death by negligence) and 34 (Act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC has been registered against the accused. A hunt is on to nab the absconding accused, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sarabha-nagar-scuffle-man-held-for-causing-death-due-to-negligence-101633812038982.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Online paper leak: Mastermind arrested from Delhi airport by Sonepat cops||A team of the special task force (STF) of Sonepat police on Saturday arrested the mastermind of a gang allegedly involved in helping the aspirants of competitive exams by running a computer hacking racket, from Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi.The accused identified as Vikasdeep Dahiya, of Sonepat’s Sector 23, was planning to flee to Dubai. He will be produced before the court on Sunday.Sonepat STF chief Satish Deswal said they have arrested eight persons so far.“Three of the gang members were arrested from Sonepat and produced in court in Panipat on Thursday and sent to eight-day police remand, while three accused were arrested from Nagpur in Maharashtra. Today, we have arrested the mastermind from near IGI airport who was planning to flee the country,” he added.Deswal said three accused are still at large and teams are conducting raids at Rohtak, Bahadurgarh, Delhi and nearby areas to nab them.A senior police official, who is part of the investigation team, said the accused were active for the last couple of years and have helped many aspirants in clearing competitive exams of bank PO, SSC –CGL, UGC-NET, SSC-CHSL, IIT-JEE and many other exams.“We have recovered 1,200 computers, six laptops, 130 pendrives, hard-discs, 10 mobile phones, and blank checks. We will send all the recovered items to a lab in Panchkula for further investigation and interrogate the accused to ascertain the role of other accused. The accused performed the crime using softwares to hack computers and help the aspirants,” he added.The official said the gang was busted after they helped a few youths in cracking the IIT-JEE written exam at a Sonepat centre, by hacking their computers with the help of softwares.Police said the accused were active for the past couple of years and allegedly helped some aspirants in previous exams by leaking question papers or providing answer keys.The STF was working on a case to arrest the hackers allegedly involved in the leak of an exam. Accused Ashok and Monu were wanted and had carried a reward of Rs1 lakh and ₹50,000, respectively.There were reports that the gang was active in Haryana, Punjab, Delhi and Rajasthan and had also established links in these states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/online-paper-leak-mastermind-arrested-from-delhi-airport-by-sonepat-cops-101633812037885.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Registration timings at PGIMER OPDs to change from Oct 11||With the aim to enhance the non-Covid medical facilities and to streamline the flow of patients, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) on Saturday decided to increase the registration timings at its New OPD building.From October 11 (Monday), registration counters will be open from 8am to 10am, instead of the earlier 9.15am to 11am.Also, the tele-consultation registration timings will be changed to 10.30am to 11.15am, from the previous 8am to 9am.The decisions came in a meeting held by PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram with senior faculty members and administrative officials, to review the OPDs’ functioning.The hospital had resumed its walk-in OPDs on September 27, for the first time since the facility was suspended in March 2020 amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Since then, 5,500 patients are visiting the OPDs on an average daily. Besides, the hospital is providing tele-consultation to over 1,500 people daily.“PGIMER is scaling up its elective surgery and OPD services to help non-Covid patients, who have been struggling to get treatment due to the pandemic. Keeping in view the decreasing Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh and neighbouring states, and the increasing number of patients at the OPDs, we have decided to increase the timings for physical consultation registrations and limit the duration for tele-consultation registrations,” said Dr Ram.No change in online registrationsThe online registrations for physical as well as tele-consultation will continue as before.For physical consultation through the institute’s official website, PGIMER has allowed 50 patients per department and 100 for three major departments — opthalmology (eye), hepatology (liver) and internal medicine. Before the contagion started, over 10,000 patients visited PGIMER’s OPDs daily. But now, apart from the 5,500 walk-in patients, only 2,000 to 2,500 are being called in per day through tele-consultation and online appointments. Since the suspension of walk-in consultation and online appointments in March last year, the institute had been providing OPD services only through tele-consultation. The physical consultations had resumed on June 21 this year, but only after prior appointment through tele-consultation, until walk-in OPDs started on September 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/registration-timings-at-pgimer-opds-to-change-from-oct-11-101633811921828.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||WhatsApp chat proves deficiency in services, Chandigarh make-up studio penalised||Taking a WhatsApp chat, wherein a Chandigarh-based make-up studio denied a refund to a bride-to-be, into consideration, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Panchkula, has held the former guilty of deficiency in services.Parul Duggal Make-up Studio, Sector 10, Chandigarh, has been directed to refund the ₹25,000 payment with 9% interest, and also pay the complainant ₹5,000 as compensation for mental agony and harassment. Romil Gupta of Sector 12, Panchkula, had submitted before the commission that she had hired the studio’s make-up services for her wedding on April 16, 2020, against an advance payment of ₹25,000. But due to the lockdown amid the Covid-19 pandemic, all salons and beauty parlours were shut down in line with a Union ministry of home affairs order. Therefore, she decided to hold a simple wedding ceremony and sought a refund from the make-up studio via a WhatsApp message. In response, the studio asked her to utilise the payment for future services, while declining to refund the amount.Seeking directions for a refund, Gupta approached the consumer court that sent notices to the studio in September 2020. As the notices were not accepted, it was proceeded against ex parte. While disposing of the complaint, the commission said, “Pertinently, a complete lockdown was imposed at the national level on March 25, 2020, due to the Covid-19 situation and thus, neither the complainant was in a position to avail of the said services from the make-up studio nor they were in a position to provide these to the complainant. Therefore, no lapse can be attributed to that extent.” “However, the make-up studio denied a refund of the booking amount, claiming it to be non-refundable as per its policy. It is pertinent to mention here that no such policy entitling them to forfeit the booking amount is available on record,” the commission held. It further said as per the WhatsApp chat, the make-up studio asked the complainant to avail of the services within 2020, only to the extent of 50% of the amount deposited, which was totally unfair, unjust and unreasonable. Therefore, the commission ordered the studio to refund the full amount, along with compensation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/whatsapp-chat-proves-deficiency-in-services-chandigarh-make-up-studio-penalised-101633811920747.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Car driver who ran over sleeping labourer in Chandigarh nabbed||Police have arrested the car driver who ran over an asleep labourer while reversing his vehicle in a parking lot in Manimajra on Thursday night.The accused, Saurav Gupta, 36, is a resident of Manimajra and owns a utensils shop in Manimajra. According to police, the deceased, Ram Swaroop, 23, was sleeping in the parking lot, where Gupta had parked his car to buy some products from the market. After his purchase, while reversing his vehicle, he ran over Swaroop and sped away. A seriously injured Swaroop was rushed to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he was declared brought dead.During investigation, police found CCTV footage that had captured the offending vehicle and its registration number, which helped them nab Gupta. He was booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code, and later released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/car-driver-who-ran-over-sleeping-labourer-in-chandigarh-nabbed-101633811919192.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid death in Chandigarh tricity for fourth straight day, six test positive||The tricity reported no new Covid-19 death for the fourth day in a row on Saturday, even as six people were found positive.Panchkula recorded zero case once again, the fifth time this month, while four infections surfaced in Chandigarh and two in Mohali.Those found infected in Chandigarh are residents of Sector 40, Maloya and Manimajra, and those in Mohali of Boothgarh and Mohali city.Meanwhile, tricity’s active cases dropped below 70 on Saturday, the first time since the second wave. Of the 65 people still infected, 42 are in Chandigarh, 15 in Mohali and eight in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,277 positive cases, of which 64,415 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded till date are 68,753. Among these, 67,670 patients have recovered and 1,068 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,744 includes 30,358 recoveries and 378 casualties.Area sealed in ManimajraThe UT administration declared a micro-containment zone in Manimajra on Saturday. It includes part of the locality near Samadhi Gate. UT’s district magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and monitoring will be done and frequent sanitisation of the area will be carried out. “Residents are advised to follow social distancing norms, wear masks and take care of hand hygiene,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-covid-death-in-chandigarh-tricity-for-fourth-straight-day-six-test-positive-101633811917989.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue cases spiral in Chandigarh tricity, 210 found infected in a day||The spurt in dengue cases continues in the tricity, as reflected in the 210 new cases cropping up on Saturday.Mohali also reported two suspected deaths due to the viral infection, taking the district’s toll this year to eight.The two patients, residents of Sector 70 and Baltana, were admitted at Fortis Hospital, Phase 8.Chandigarh and Panchkula have not reported any fatality owing to the disease so far.Mohali continues to be the worst-hit by the disease. Among the 210 latest infections, 176 were reported in Mohali, followed by 20 in Chandigarh and 14 in Panchkula.The cases of dengue, a mosquito-borne viral disease, started spiralling in September, as monsoon rains revived.So far in 2021, Mohali has reported a total of 824 confirmed dengue cases, crossing last year’s figure of 471 cases.Chandigarh’s tally stands at 143, against 265 in 2020. Panchkula has recorded 133 cases this year.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “Dengue is a seasonal disease and this year, most of the cases in Mohali are being reported from urban areas. The situation is alarming, but the health department is making every possible arrangement to provide treatment to the infected. The inspection, fogging and awareness campaigns by the district health department have been going on continuously since March.”“We are conducting fogging of areas and teams from health authorities are holding regular checks. Fogging machines and breeder checkers are being used,” said Kuldeep Bawa, sub-divisional magistrate, Dera Bassi.11 cops down with infection at Zirakpur police stationBawa shared that 11 policemen posted at the Zirakpur police station had been found infected with dengue. Even the station house officer, Omkar Singh Brar, recently joined duty after 10 days, as he, too, was suffering from the infection.“Densely populated areas like Tasambli village and rural areas in Dera Bassi are a matter of concern, as if a mosquito bites an infected person, it can act as a carrier and infect others as well,” he said.Facilities being ramped up in hospitalsPanchkula civil surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar urged residents to ensure vector-control measures at their houses and locality. “We have already held a meeting and measures are being taken to curb the spread of dengue and fogging is also being increased,” she said.Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said, “Since September, the institute is admitting more dengue patients as compared to Covid-19. We are arranging platelets, as many as we can, and have also increased dengue testing.” Meanwhile, Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, said, “As dengue cases are soaring in Chandigarh and tricity, the patient’s admissions in emergency and paediatric wards have significantly increased. We are making sure that patients get beds in the hospital’s emergency department. We are also ensuring enough platelets in the blood bank.” Special awareness drives every Sunday in UTIn view of the rising dengue cases, Yashpal Garg, health secretary, Chandigarh, on Saturday directed health teams to conduct special drives in Chandigarh every Sunday to spread awareness among residents. “Specials drives will be carried out every Sunday in hotspots for vector-borne diseases. On October 10, a special drive has been planned in Mauli Jagran. Activities, such as intensive house-to-house survey, source reduction, destruction of breeding, spray and fogging, issuing of notices and challans, distribution of pamphlets, megaphone announcement and many more, are to be carried out,” Garg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-cases-spiral-in-chandigarh-tricity-210-found-infected-in-a-day-101633811861777.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mining contractor robbed of ₹90,000 in Panchkula||At least 18 men allegedly robbed a mining contractor of ₹90,000 after thrashing him and one of his relatives at their crusher plant in Panchkula’s Raipur Rani, police said on Saturday. As per the FIR registered on the complaint of Jasbir Singh, a resident of Alipur village, the men had on Friday come on bikes with rods and sticks with an intention of robbery. “They assaulted me and my maternal uncle Gurmeet. They also took away ₹90,000 from my uncle before fleeing. We managed to catch hold of one of them and handed him over to the police. Two bikes were also found parked outside our office,” Jasbir said. The FIR has been registered under Sections 395 (dacoity) and 397 (robbery with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the IPC at the Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mining-contractor-robbed-of-90-000-in-panchkula-101633811860468.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali man booked for repeatedly raping step-daughter after sedating her||A Sohana resident is at large after repeatedly raping his 13-year-old step-daughter after sedating her in the absence of her mother.The matter came to fore after the woman coaxed her teenaged daughter about why she was stressed.In her complaint to the police, the woman said she married the accused five years ago after her first marriage ended in divorce.She had three daughters and the 13-year-old, her eldest, was from her first marriage. Lately, the teenager was appearing stressed and on being persuaded to share what’s on her mind, she confided in her mother that her step-father had been raping her after giving her intoxicants. The woman confronted her husband, who apologised to her and left the house. His mobile phone has been switched off since. Police have booked the accused under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. A manhunt has been launched to nab him.Bihar man held for raping 16-year-old In another case, a Bihar native was arrested for raping and threatening a 16-year-old girl in Kharar. The accused, Mohd Nushad, was nabbed on the complaint of the girl’s mother.She told the police that their family had been at their native village for the past three months. There, her minor daughter told her that Nushad had raped her in Kharar after luring her with marriage. The woman said after they returned to Kharar last month, Nushad started threatening her daughter. On her complaint, the accused was arrested on Saturday. He is facing a case under Section 376 of the IPC and the POCSO Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-man-booked-for-repeatedly-raping-step-daughter-after-sedating-her-101633811859343.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Scrap late fee on updating property transfer records: Chandigarh MC panel||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) house tax assessment committee has recommended that civic body does away with late fee charges on updating records of property transfer. The panel presided over by Charanjiv Singh, a nominated councillor, said the MC charges composition fee of ₹500 and a late fee of ₹10 per day for change of ownership in the property tax records. The late fee should be waived and the composition fee of ₹500 be charged after three months of registration of property as per the Rule 105 of the Punjab Municipal Act, it said. As per the MC rules, in case the person to whom the title of the property is transferred fails to give notice regarding transfer of title within three months after the execution of the instrument of transfer, or after registration, if it is registered, is liable to pay composition fee fixed by the commissioner from time to time. Currently, it is ₹500. The proposal would be sent to the General House for taking final decision on the issue, the panel added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scrap-late-fee-on-updating-property-transfer-records-chandigarh-mc-panel-101633811858160.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Speaking for farmers does not mean I am against BJP, says former Union minister Birender Singh||Former Union minister and BJP leader Birender Singh was recently dropped from the party’s central decision-making body --- the national executive. This came in the backdrop of his consistent support to the farmers’ agitation over three contentious farm laws, a move that ran contrary to the BJP’s stand. Speaking to Hindustan Times, the veteran leader, who had quit the Congress in 2014 to join the saffron fold, on Saturday said his support to the farmers’ cause and voicing their concerns should not be construed as an act against his own party. He also said the BJP-JJP government in Haryana needs to accelerate the pace of implementation of its programs and policies to the satisfaction of the common man. Excerpts: How do you view the ongoing farmers’ agitation? From the very beginning, I am of the view that there is a scope to sort out this issue through dialogue. So, let’s sit down and talk with the farmers. Otherwise, the deadlock will prove harmful and damaging for the agriculture sector, the country and even the government. What’s your stance on the three Central agri-marketing laws? I am very vocal about the farmers’ concerns. But supporting the cause of farmers should not be construed as speaking against the party (the BJP). But there has been a hardening of stance on both the sides? So how does one reinitiate negotiations? I think both the farmers and the government are now willing to let go their hard stance. Both the sides, I think, now realise they need to break this deadlock. The government should reinitiate discussions. I’m sure once the talks start again, the issue will get resolved. You didn’t find a place in the BJP national executive. How do you react to this? I do not attach much political significance to this development. There is nothing to be read between the lines here. The BJP, before 2014, did not have a pan- India presence which it has now. It has spread its footprint across the country after successively forming the central government twice. The latest national executive list has a good representation. Even states such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala have been well represented. So, it is natural that representation from the Hindi-speaking states will come down. You surprised everyone by attending the INLD function at Jind. What prompted you to take such a step?See, INLD leader Om Prakash Chautala accepted my invitation for attending the release of writings and speeches of Sir Chhotu Ram by the Vice-President,M Venkaiah Naidu. In fact, I had invited a lot of leaders cutting across party lines for that event. These included Congress leader Bhupinder Singh Hooda, leaders from Akali Dal, CPI, CPM and Socialist Party. Chautala then extended me an invitation to come for the birth anniversary celebrations of Chaudhary Devi Lal. So that’s why I went for that function. It was a reciprocal gesture. Do you think BJP has not given leaders like you and Rao Inderjit their due since you are not originally from the BJP? Well, the BJP has given me a lot. I had left Congress to join the BJP and was given a berth in the Union cabinet. But there is a hell of a difference between the functioning of the Congress and the BJP. The latter is a cadre-based party. They have their own way of selecting representatives from different fields, walks of life, communities. If you see the fresh BJP national executive list, the party has not picked prominent leaders such as Capt Abhimanyu, Rao Inderjit Singh, Ratan Lal Kataria and me. It does not mean anything but it can also mean something. Someone can question why these prominent people have not been picked. Frankly, for me it does not carry any importance. The BJP’s national executive is a huge body having about 350 members. How do you evaluate the performance of the BJP-JJP government in Haryana? The coalition governments have their own compulsions. There is an inherent stress in a coalition set-up. Often the interests of the allies’ also clash. This government will surely survive. But I find things moving at a slow pace in Haryana. The state government needs to pick up pace. Can you be a little more specific? The government’s performance should be to the satisfaction of the people at large. If the level of people’s satisfaction is poor, then it will cause more damage to the BJP than the JJP. The JJP, someday, may decide to even walk out of the alliance to become heroes on some issue. But the BJP should be on its toes. We should ensure that whatever is being implemented at least evokes positive response from the common man. Where do you see yourself one year from now? I’m quite contented. I have survived 50 years in electoral politics. Irrespective of whether or not I remain in politics, I will continue to speak on farmers’ issues. My stand is very clear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/speaking-for-farmers-does-not-mean-i-am-against-bharatiya-janata-party-birender-101633811737675.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Students suffer due to strike by employees at Rohtak varsity||Students continue to suffer after Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) Rohtak’s non-teaching staff boycotted the official work for the last two days demanding the transfer of joint director audit (JDA) Vinod Bishnoi.The employees have been demanding JDA’s transfer for last many months but for the last two days, they have suspended all official work, causing problems to students visiting the varsity to get their marksheets, migration certificates and other documents.Randhir Kataria, president of the non-teaching employees association, said they have been protesting against JDA for not clearing files of their promotion and pay hike.“Since Friday, we have suspended students’ works as well. They might get continued on Monday. The JDA has deliberately not cleared our files of hike and promotion being passed by varsity’s top body executive council. We are aware that students are suffering but we too are suffering,” he said.“The JDA has been making excuses that he has sent files to the state government but the university is an autonomous body,” he added.Sahil Kumar, of Bhiwani, said he had visited the university on Friday to get his marksheet and migration certificate but he returned empty-handed as the employees were on strike.Pulkit Sharma, of Gurugram, said he had visited MDU to get his provisional degree so that he can submit the same before a multi-national company where he was employed, recently.“The authorities asked me to visit next week to get the certificate. Hundreds of students are struggling everyday due to the strike,” he added.BS Sindhu, exam controller of MDU, said due to employees’ strike, results of some distance courses could not be declared.“We have urged them to end the deadlock and resume work. Ultimately, everyone is suffering,” he added.Joint director of audit (JDA) Vinod Bishnoi said he has appraised the entire issue to the state government and the ball is in their court.A senior official of the finance department in MDU said the JDA in his report submitted to the department of finance stated that the promotion policy of the university is not approved by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/students-suffer-due-to-strike-by-employees-at-rohtak-varsity-101633811441932.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amid threat of farmers’ protest, Khattar skips Kaithal visit||Amid threats of protests by farm leaders, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar cancelled his visit to Kaithal on Saturday.The CM was to attend a programme organised by the Agarwal Sabha on Maharaja Agrasen Jayanti. In the absence of the CM, Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta attended the programme. Kaithal deputy commissioner Pradeep Dahiya said the programme was conducted peacefully.Soon after farm leaders announced to oppose the chief minister’s visit, the district administration held meetings with farmers and programme organisers. As the farmers had agreed that they did not have any objection if the leaders and MLAs of the Aggarwal community attend the programme, the organisers had decided to invite the speaker as the chief guest for the programme.“We had already announced to hold protests if the CM will come to Kaithal for any programme and we held a meeting with the deputy commissioner and the organisers of the programme not to invite the CM but they can invite all leaders of Aggarwal community,” said BKU (Charuni) Kaithal district president Hoshiar Singh Gill.He said earlier some members of the Aggarwal Yuva Sabha were in favour of inviting the chief minister but following farmers’ protest call, they agreed that Gian Chand Gupta will be the chief guest.“We made it clear that we will oppose the CM’s visit but later, the administration and organisers had assured that the CM will not come and we told them that we will not oppose the programme,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-threat-of-farmers-protest-khattar-skips-kaithal-visit-101633811438515.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress, Akali Dal, AAP trying to ‘covertly hijack’ farmers’ stir: BJP’s Tarun Chugh on Lakhimpur protests||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Tarun Chugh on Saturday lambasted the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for trying to “covertly hijack” the farmers’ agitation by making cheap political stunts in the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.In a press release, Chugh said the Uttar Pradesh government has already registered criminal cases and the investigation is on.“Besides, a judicial inquiry by a retired high court judge has been ordered. It is only cheap politics by the parties that are making a beeline to Lakhimpur Kheri to pay lip service to the farmers and try to win their sympathy in view of forthcoming assembly elections in Punjab,” he said.It was a law and order problem in Lakhimpur Kheri and the UP government has been dealing with it firmly, he added. While the UP government has stood firmly with the affected families and has assured them all help, political parties like the Congress and the Akali Dal are now “faking sympathy” with them as they failed to do anything for the welfare of farmers when they were in power, Chugh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-akali-dal-aap-trying-to-covertly-hijack-farmers-stir-bjp-s-tarun-chugh-on-lakhimpur-protests-101633811017867.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two women arrested for stealing batteries of CCTV cameras||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police on Saturday arrested two women for stealing batteries of CCTV cameras installed in different part of Chandigarh under the Smart City Project. The accused have been identified as Seema, 45, and Hasina, 36, both residents of Bhaskar Colony in Sector 25, Chandigarh, from whom 16 stolen batteries have been recovered. As per the police, a case was on October 8 registered on the complaint of Vishal, a resident of Sector 21. He had reported theft of batteries from the junction boxes of CCTV cameras installed near Bhaskar Chowk on the road dividing sectors 37 and 38, and near Batra Chowk on the road dividing sectors 36 and 37. A case under Section 379 of the IPC was registered on the basis of his complaint. The accused were arrested following a tip-off that they were coming to Sector 25 to sell the batteries on Saturday. Around 2.30pm, the accused were spotted with batteries, who on seeing a police team tried to escape, but were caught. On interrogation, they admitted that they had stolen the batteries from different parts of Chandigarh. The police said that Seema and Hasina have tainted past and were previously arrested in a burglary case registered at the Sector-19 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-women-arrested-for-stealing-batteries-of-cctv-cameras-101633810777891.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ representatives meet Khattar over highway blockade||Farmers’ representatives from Sonepat district under the leadership of the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh on Saturday gave a memorandum to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar regarding reopening of blocked national highways at Singhu border due to the ongoing farmers’ protest.An official spokesperson said the CM assured them that constant efforts are being made in this regard, talks are on and he “hoped” that the blocked national highways in state will be reopened soon.The delegation of 25 farmers was headed by patron, Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, Haryana, Tahar Singh Chauhan; and included state vice-president, Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, Savita Mor; sarpanch Jakholi, Gaurav; sarpanch Khurampur, Naresh; district president, Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, Mukesh Dahiya; district general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Sangh, Sanjeev Antil; Tikaram Chauhan, Kuldeep Chauhan, and Deepak Aterana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-representatives-meet-khattar-over-highway-blockade-101633810417770.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue tightens its grip on Ludhiana||Just as the coronavirus pandemic had somewhat abated, the city started reporting a spike in dengue cases, which coincided with the onset of the monsoon season. With 27 fresh cases reported on Saturday, a total of 109 cases dengue have reported in the district so far in nine days, taking the total to 308. At the beginning of the month, the district had 195 confirmed cases of the vector-borne viral disease, which is transmitted by the Aedes aegypti mosquito that breeds in the rainy season. As many as 57 cases were reported in the last two days alone. Of 308 cases, 244 have been reported from the city alone.As per official data, the city had reported 251 confirmed cases till October 6, of which 128 are men and 124 women. Of the cases diagnosed in the city, 197 were locals, while 14 cases were reported in Jagraon, nine in Sudhar, seven in Sahnewal, four each in Sidhwan Bet and Khanna and one each in Samrala and Pakhowal. Dr Ramesh Kumar, former Ludhiana epidemiologist , says around 88 dengue patients are between 15 to 34 years of age and that children as young as six years had been diagnosed with the viral disease. Suspected patients has been shifted to Sentinel Surveillance Hospitals (SSH) at the civil hospitals in Ludhiana, Khanna and Jagraon, where the patient can get free confirmation tests done. Sportive treatment of positive dengue cases is provided free of cost by the health department.Health experts recommend not taking an aspirin or ibuprofen, but going for a paracetamol instead. They also prescribe drinking lots of fluids and taking rest. It is also recommended that water not be allowed to stagnate anywhere inside or outside the house and the body be covered completely to avoid being bitten, and mosquito repellents and nets be used at night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-tightens-its-grip-on-ludhiana-101633810178999.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ram Darbar man loses mobile phone to snatchers||A resident of Phase 2 in Ram Darbar, Kailash Singh, reported that two unidentified men on a motorcycle sped away after snatching his mobile phone, police said on Saturday. Kailash said that he was near the bus stop in Sector 47 when the snatching took place. A case was registered.Sec-25 man held for possessing knifeChandigarh The police arrested one Tarkesh Singh, alias Kaka alias Sarkari, of Sector 25 for possessing a knife. He was arrested by the police near Mori Gate in Sector 25. A case under the Arms Act was registered.40 cops donate blood at Mansa Devi templeChandigarh At least 40 cops from Panchkula donated blood at the Mata Mansa Devi temple on Saturday. In a statement, Panchkula police said that the personnel were deployed on duty at the temple and donated blood at a camp organised by the Red Cross Society. Parents of persons with mental disabilities meet guvChandigarh Three parents and members of ‘Citizens for Inclusive Living’ — DR Paul, Bhupinder Sidhu and Nirmaljit Bains — met Chandigarh administrator Banwarilal Purohit. They talked about their campaign to provide assisted living facilities for persons with mental disabilities and senior citizens in Indira Holiday Home, Sector 24. Paul said that the governor said he will take suitable action at the earliest.CGC Landran sets up a memorial for alumnusMohali Chandigarh Group of Colleges, Landran, unveiled the memorial in remembrance of their BTech alumnus late Major Dixant Thapa, who was deployed in Ladakh and sacrificed his life while on duty in August 2020. Varsity chairperson Satnam Singh Sandhu said, “He will forever stay in our hearts and his memorial on the campus will be an epitome of his dedication and sacrifice for the country.”Hindi poetry book ‘Zindagi Kavita Ho Gai’ releasedChandigarh The Chandigarh Literary Society (CLS) released a book ‘Zindagi Kavita Ho Gai’ by Alka Kansra at the Press Club in Sector 27 on Saturday. The book was released by the chairperson of CLS, Sumita Misra, who was the chief guest while General VP Malik (retd) was the guest of honour. Kansra superannuated from MCM DAV College in Sector 36 as HOD (chemistry) and started writing Hindi poetry after this. Her first Hindi poetry book was published in 2019 and this is her second such book.International conference concludes at PUChandigarh The two-day international conference at Panjab University’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) concluded on Saturday. The second day of IC-MAME 2021 started with research presentations by students on various topics of material sciences. Chief guest, professor Rajeev Ahuja, director of IIT Ropar, talked about building a culture where academic institutions worked closely with industry.Indian philosopher’s day at PGGC-46Chandigarh The departments of philosophy and Sanskrit of Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, organised “Indian Philosopher’s Day” on Indian ethics, which was sponsored by the Indian Council of Philosophical Research (ICPR), New Delhi. Professor Abha Sudarshan, college principal, said that such deliberations helped understand the meaning of philosophical concepts like values, integrity, principles, honesty, responsibility, honour, morality and nature of existence.Punjab, HP eves log winChandigarh Punjab recorded a fine nine-wicket win over Jammu and Kashmir in a match during the ongoing 4th Rama Atray Memorial cricket tournament for women on Saturday. In another match, Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association beat UT Cricket Association by 109 runs.Saksham, Vaidhavi win carrom tourneyChandigarh Saksham Misri and Vaidhavi Mamgain emerged champions in the boys’ and girls’ sub-junior category in the 30th Chandigarh State Carrom Tournament held at St Stephen’s School, Sector 45, Chandigarh, on Saturday.BJP to celebrate Valmiki Jayanti weekChandigarh The Chandigarh unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will celebrate Valmiki Jayanti week from October 14 to 20. State unit chief Arun Sood said that celebrations will end on Valmiki’s birth anniversary on October 20. He said as part of the weeklong activities, a medical camp, vaccination camp, event to honour achievers in the field of education and sports, etc., will be held.SBI Mohali organises 3-km freedom runMohali SBI AO Mohali organised a Fit India Freedom 3-km run/walkathon to celebrate Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav. More than 70 participants participated. After zumba for 20 minutes, the 3-km run was flagged off from their office in Sector 68. Dr Anchal Sharma, counselling psychologist, mental health and behavioral sciences, Fortis Mohali, also spoke about keeping fit physically and mentally.Memorial webinar heldChandigarh The second webinar in the memory of justice Madan Mohan Punchhi, former Chief Justice of India, was hosted by Sanjay Tandon, the late lawmaker’s son-in-law. The orators reminisced about the justice’s unique takes on morality and law and how during the entirety of his professional career, he upheld the principle of fairness and integrity without fear or favour. Law minister Kiren Rijiju said that the government was taking suggestions from various specialists in the field of arbitration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ram-darbar-man-loses-mobile-phone-to-snatchers-101633810177699.html
10-10-2021||Patna||Bihar crosses 6 crore vaccine doses, 9 states adopt Patna’s successful vaccination model||Nine Indian states have replicated Patna’s successful Covid-19 vaccination model of administering jabs to people at their convenience through 24x7 or 12 hours-a-day vaccination camps, as Bihar crossed the 6-crore dose vaccination mark out of its target population of 7.22 crore on Saturday. “We achieved administering 6-crore Covid-19 vaccination doses to beneficiaries in the state today with people’s cooperation, support from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and guidance of chief minister Nitish Kumar. We had set up 15,000 vaccination sites and pressed into service over 50,000 personnel on the job,” said Bihar’s health minister Mangal Pandey. “If we continue to get the same cooperation of our people, we will achieve administering 8 crore doses in the state by December,” added Pandey. The Bihar chief minister had on June 11 set a target to administer 6 crore jabs to 6 crore people by December. The state had then achieved around 1.16 crore jabs. Three other states, meanwhile, are lined up to roll out 24x7 or 12-hour mega camps on the pattern of Patna soon, said a resource person of Care India, which provides technical support to Bihar government’s health, nutrition, education and livelihoods programme. Jharkhand, Assam, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Delhi (NCR) have commenced Covid-19 vaccination mega camps in collaboration with the Care India, after its successful implementation in Patna, said Mansoon Mohanty, team lead for Patna district resource unit of Care India. The initiative will be rolled out soon in Andhra Pradesh, Manipur and Himachal Pradesh, he added. “The Inter State Bus Terminus (ISBT) and the airport at Guwahati (Assam’s capital) operate 24x7 mega camps in our collaboration. Likewise, Malleshwaram, in Bengaluru, has also initiated a 24x7 vaccination mega camp, after its success in Patna,” said Mohanty. “Other places like Jharkhand’s Ranchi, Hazaribagh, Bokaro and Jamshedpur; Udaipur in Rajasthan; Bhopal, Panna, Balaghat and Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh, Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Lucknow and Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh and Delhi (NCR) have mega camps, which operate 12 to 15 hours a day,” he added. All mega camps, hosted in our collaboration in other states, have been initiated in August and September, after their success in Patna, where we launched them in June,” said Mohanty. The 24x7 vaccination mega camps at the government polytechnic in Patliputra Colony, Hotel Patliputra Ashok on Beer Chand Patel Path and the Patliputra stadium at Kankerbagh, managed by the Care India in Patna, have catered to the administration of over 50% doses to the nearly 12 lakh urban population of Patna, said Chandrashekhar Singh, Patna’s district magistrate (DM). Patna, which has an estimated target population of 44,24,678 to vaccinate, is a success story as far as Covid-19 vaccination in Bihar is concerned. It has done better than the state and national average and tops among 38 districts in the state in terms of administering Covid-19 doses to beneficiaries. With a total of 51,93,789 doses administered till 6.30pm on Thursday, Patna has a first dose coverage of around 76% and 58% second dose achievement against the first shot. The state’s vaccination coverage is 64% and 28%, respectively, as on Thursday (6.40pm). Around 26.3% had been fully vaccinated with both doses in India, while the country’s first dose coverage was 70.1%, as of 7am on October 3. Having inoculated 1,36,560 doses on August 7, Patna became the fifth district in India to cross the 1 lakh vaccination mark in a single day. It achieved another milestone by becoming the second district in the state after East Champaran to vaccinate over 2 lakh people in a day, having administered 2,01,142 doses during a mega camp on October 2. East Champaran administered 2,40,054 doses on September 17, during a special vaccination drive on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday, when Bihar logged 33,39,879 Covid jabs, the day’s highest in India when it administered 2.5 crore doses. “Patna ranks ninth among Indian districts in terms of administering Covid vaccine doses. We have vaccinated over 114% of our urban population and 57% of district’s rural population. Many people from rural areas and adjoining districts have come to take shots at our 24x7 vaccination centres,” said Singh. “We understood the people’s need and convenience and launched the special vaccination centres in June so that we can tap the people interested in taking jabs early in the morning, before going to office or on their return from work in the evening. We opened three 24x7 centres and a couple for 12 hours-a-day. Their response was very encouraging, prompting other districts to adopt it,” the DM said. Danapur, Sheikhpura and Kankerbagh branches of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Sri Krishna Memorial Hall, ITI-Digha, Anugrah Narayan College, the Ram Dev Mahto Samudayik Bhawan (community hall) and the Patna Women’s College were venues of special centres in Patna, most of which were operational from 9am to 5pm, while a couple functioned for 12 hours a day. “We reduced the waiting time at the special camps by deploying our best workforce, increasing the number of vaccinating teams, segregating people based on their choice of vaccine, age and gender, having separate queues for them. We also ensured cleanliness and hygiene, providing basic facilities like drinking water and washroom, having proper waiting areas with arrangement for sitting and opened up to 1,000 slots a day at each such camp, before introducing on-spot registrations,” said Singh. “Many other districts (Katihar, Darbhanga, Rohtas, Gaya and Bhagalpur) in Bihar, and some other Indian states are also learnt to have recently adopted our model,” added Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-crosses-6-crore-vaccine-doses-9-states-adopt-patna-s-successful-vaccination-model-101633810057772.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer who claimed to have been hit by BJP MP Saini’s convoy booked in three cases||Two days after a farmer from Yamunanagar, Bhawan Preet claimed of getting hit by the Innova of BJP MP Nayab Saini’s convoy, he has been booked in three separate FIRs along with district BKU (Charuni) chief Malkit Singh and others at Naraingarh police station, while there has been no action on his complaint yet. As per the first case lodged on complaint of the station in-charge of Naraingarh police station, SI Dhoom Singh, it was alleged that the farm unions had protested outside the Saini Samaj Dharamshala at a social event attended by MP Saini and state transport minister Moolchand Sharma.Singh said, “Despite our efforts of asking them to remain calm, the union members broke barricades twice and gathered outside the venue. The farmers continued to create a ruckus when the dignitaries were leaving the event.”Farm leaders Malkit Singh and Jaswinder along with Bhawan Preet have been named in the FIR on charges of rioting, unlawful assembly and others.In the second case, Malkit, Bhawan and Parmeshwar alias Pappi have been booked on complaint of a local Rajiv Saini for rioting, wrongful confinement and others.Saini said the suspects had levelled false allegations against him that he was driving the MP’s car and had hit Bhawan Preet.“I was inside the venue from 9am. Many of us were captivated for at least four hours inside the venue as the protestors had surrounded us. They’ve said that I was driving the car and tried to crush Bhawan but I’ve never been the MP. I’m an industrialist,” he told the police.The third case has been registered by Saini’s driver Anil Kumar, of Babain, against Malkit, Bhawan and Jaswinder Bhookhri on charges of wrongful restraint, attempting to commit offences and others.The driver said he was driving the Innova with PRO Joginder Singh, behind the vehicles of Saini in the convoy, when the farmers followed him, attacked his car with weapons and tried to drag him out of the vehicle.Sub-inspector Dhoom Singh said, “Three cases were lodged against the farmers on Friday. No arrest has been made and investigations are underway. We’ve already registered a DDR on complaint of Bhawan Preet but no FIR has been lodged.”Meanwhile, protesting against the fresh cases and no FIR on their complaint, farmers have decided to gather at the Naraingarh grain market at 11am on Sunday.At 9am, Bhog ceremony will be held in memory of the slain farmers of Lakhimpur Kheri at the Panjokhara Sahib Gurdwara.Malkit Singh said, “Police have made a record by lodging three cases in a single day against us, in favour of Saini. We’ll gather at the grain mandi and decide on further course of action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-who-claimed-to-have-been-hit-by-bjp-mp-saini-s-convoy-booked-in-three-cases-101633809997703.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Successive govts failed to formulate policy to secure jobs for Punjab youth: Bhagwant Mann||Punjab Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) president Bhagwant Mann on Saturday alleged that the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) governments failed to come up with a policy to secure jobs in public and private sectors for the youth of the state.In a press statement, the Sangrur MP claimed that this often leads to candidates from other states occupying public and private sector jobs in Punjab. Mann said the latest example of this is the inclusion of 51-71 percent candidates from other states in the merit list of various posts in the Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL). “According to the list released by PSTCL, 64 of a total of 95 posts of assistant linemen (general category) have been filled by candidates from other states. Similarly, 28 of the 39 posts of assistant sub-station attendants have been taken by candidates from other states. Besides, 28 of the 54 posts of junior engineer (sub-station), four of the 11 posts of assistant engineer were given to candidates from other states,” he said. The Congress in the run-up to the assembly polls had promised ‘ghar-ghar rozgar (jobs in every household) to the people of Punjab but failed miserably, the AAP leader said. “While the people of Punjab cannot even buy land in Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and Rajasthan, but residents of other states can buy agricultural land here and get jobs. This clearly means that the Congress and the Badals-led governments have been asleep,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/successive-govts-failed-to-formulate-policy-to-secure-jobs-for-punjab-youth-bhagwant-mann-101633809877529.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Akali Dal-BSP alliance reaches out to OBCs, promises 27% reservation in government sector||The Shiromani Akali Dal-Bahujan Samaj Party (SAD-BSP) alliance on Saturday said it would provide 27% reservation in government sector to members of the community in Punjab as per the Mandal Commission recommendations if voted to power in the 2022 state assembly elections. During a rally near DAV University in Jalandhar to mark the 15th death anniversary of BSP founder Kanshi Ram, party’s state president Jasvir Singh Garhi made the announcement in the presence of SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal. “Nearly 35% population of Punjab belongs to OBC category but they get only 10% reservation in government sector. Dr BR Ambedkar struggled for the reservation of OBCs who were economically and educationally backward. Babu Kanshi Ram carried forward the fight for their rights and got the Mandal Commission,” Garhi added. Sukhbir said the coalition would implement the Kanshi Ram Pendu Vikas Scheme once voted to power in 2022 under which all villages with 50 per cent scheduled caste population would be given a special grant of ₹50 lakh for development works. He also announced that the alliance was committed to setting up of district-level medical colleges and multi-specialty hospitals in the memory of Kanshi Ram besides a university in the Doaba region after Dr Ambedkar. BSP state affairs in-charge Randhir Singh too endorsed the demand for implementation of the Mandal Commission recommendations for OBCs. “We will give 25% government contracts each to SC and BC contractors and 50% government contracts to contractors from general category, as was done in UP,” added Beniwal. Sukhbir termed Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s hunger strike a “sham”, saying he also insulted slain journalist Raman Kashyap by indulging in the drama at the latter’s residence. He also condemned delay in arresting Union minister’s son Ashish Mishra over the Lakhimpura Kheri incident.Shoe hurled at Sukhbir Badal’s car Sukhbir faced farmers’ protest on the Jalandhar-Pathankot road during his visit to address the SAD-BSP rally. When Sukhbir’s convoy was on the way to the rally, a shoe was thrown at his car even as there were tight security arrangements. Earlier, the SAD president paid obeisance at Devi Talab Mandir on occasion of Navratris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-bsp-alliance-reaches-out-to-obcs-promises-27-reservation-in-government-sector-101633809637839.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||It’s fishy business at Ludhiana meat shops||Raw chicken and meat businesses have come under the health department’s scanner after veterinary teams on Saturday found that rotten broilers and meats of ailing animals were being stored in unhygienic conditions and being supplied to wedding feasts. A total 296kg of rotten meat was destroyed in the city during the raids and 19 challans were issued. Municipal corporation senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla said in several cases the meat had turned black and the same was to be served at weddings. “At colonies near the Jalandhar Bypass, the veterinary team found that meat shop owners had created illegal slaughter houses in their shops. The animals were kept in unhygienic condition and their waste, including their coat and intestines, were being flushed directly into the discharge, which was contributing to frequent choking of sewerage in the area,” said Dhalla.While Dhalla’s team raided shops in Zone C and Dr SM Yaseen’s team combed through Zones A and B . Yaseen’s team issued four challans and seized 116-kg chicken and mutton, while Dhalla’s team issued 15 challan in both zones and seized 180-kg raw meat, including chicken.Raw chicken can be stored for 24 to 32 hours, and 48 hours in a refrigerator. Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu asked meat shop owners to avail meat from the Modern Slaughter House, which is equipped with modern facilities. “Meat shop owners were not procuring meat in a legal manner, due to which a drive has been initiated. Strict action will be taken against those found selling illegal, unhygienic and diseased meat,” Sandhu said.Preparing frozen meat a skilled job “The process of preparing frozen meat is a skilled job as moisture has to be removed, permitted preservatives added and the product maintained in a cold chain. However, it was seen that migrant workers with no expertise are slaughtering animals and packaging them in polythene bags without a care for technique or hygiene,” Dhalla said, adding that at one shop a pig that had died due to a disease was about to be cut, which was alarming.  Meanwhile, Non-vegetarian Shopkeepers’ Association president Sanjeev Kumar said, “I have no knowledge of the raids as I was out of town. However, we are following all guidelines laid down by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/its-fishy-business-at-ludhiana-meat-shops-101633809517613.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||No big-fat wedding, Punjab CM Channi’s son to tie the knot in a low-key ceremony today||Even as Punjab is known for its famed big-fat marriages, the wedding ceremony of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s elder son Navjit Singh on Sunday will be a low-key affair. Navjit will tie the knot with Simrandheer Kaur, an engineering graduate from Amlala village near Dera Bassi in Mohali district. The marriage will take place as per Sikh rituals at Gurdwara Sacha Dhan at Phase 3, Mohali. “Only Close relatives have been invited for the marriage which was fixed much before he (Channi) was elevated as chief minister. After taking charge as CM, he didn’t change anything regarding his son’s marriage,” said a family member.Earlier, the marriage rituals were to be performed at a gurdwara in Phase 8, Mohali, but it was changed to the Phase 3 gurdwara, which has space to accommodate a larger gathering. There will be no special decoration in the shrine. He personally visited the gurdwara on Tuesday to request the management for permission for the ceremony.Since Channi had printed wedding invitation cards before his elevation, his designation is mentioned as that of a Punjab cabinet minister. But with the change of venue, another leaf was added to the card, highlighting the new venue and describing Channi as CM.Though Channi has invited some central leaders and his Haryana counterpart Manohar Lal Khattar, Punjab Police officials said there was no confirmation of anyone visiting the marriage venue. Punjab cabinet ministers and other politicians are invited for post-marriage lunch and reception on Monday at a marriage palace in Sunny Enclave, Kharar.A sangeet party was held on Saturday evening for which some cabinet ministers and family members were invited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-big-fat-wedding-punjab-cm-channi-s-son-to-tie-the-knot-in-a-low-key-ceremony-today-101633809339398.html
10-10-2021||Other||Rumblings continue in Karnataka govt over district in-charge ministers’ appointment||BengaluruKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said that he will discuss the issue of naming the district in-charge ministers and come to a decision after resolving all issues.“Who should be given which district incharge is something I will have to discuss with everybody and then take a decision. Will talk to everyone and in a way that there are no problems,” Bommai said on Saturday, soon after returning from Delhi where he met several cabinet ministers.The rumblings in the Karnataka government continue as the new chief minister has not yet named district in-charge ministers. The biggest bone of contention is Bengaluru for which there are several contenders.Some of the leading contenders for the post include revenue minister R Ashok, higher education minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan and housing minister V Somanna. There are several others who aspire to get the responsibility of Bengaluru.But Bommai, like his predecessor, BS Yediyurappa, has retained this portfolio with him to avoid a full-blown crisis within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state that is already facing several challenges.“I have the confidence that we will come to a decision after discussing it with everyone, Bengaluru is very important,” Bommai said, refusing to divulge further details.People aware of the developments said that there were several bouts between leading contenders to be named as in-charge of Bengaluru. Bommai had made an interim list of district in-charge ministers only for Covid-19 and the recent floods. Ashok was named for Bengaluru and Narayan was named district in-charge of neighbouring Ramanagara.As one of India’s biggest cities, Bengaluru is a cash-cow that has been one of the main reasons for it being so lucrative for legislators to take charge.There has been no elected body in the corporation for over one year now that gives more power to the district in-charge minister to take decisions over some of the state’s biggest infrastructure and other projects.“We have asked that he (CM) keep it. If you are giving it, then I have no problem. But when giving it, I am the senior most in Bengaluru,” Somanna said on Saturday.He added that so far there has been no district in-charge minister named and that the issue will be resolved in the next 3-4 days.He indirectly targeted Ashok who has become the de facto in charge of the city, conducting meetings of the corporation and other affairs.Ashok had also held a few meetings with the BBMP, which other ministers had objected to, as the former had no powers to do so.“I have never said anywhere that I want it (Bengaluru district in-charge). It is the chief minister’s prerogative and whatever he decides, I have no problem,” Ashok said on Saturday.The BJP has been in control of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) for over a decade. But in both BJP governments (under Yediyurappa and Bommai) since 2018, the chief minister has retained Bengaluru under them to avoid the boiling over of simmering dissent.Control over the BBMP would also help the BJP in its perception battle of who controls the administration in Bengaluru, a globally renowned city for being one of the biggest software exporters in the country and houses one of the biggest start-up and e-commerce ecosystems globally.The living quality in Bengaluru has denigrated over the years due to unplanned growth, mass migration, crumbling infrastructure and inability by civic authorities to provide basic amenities to its residents.The apathy by civic agencies has been forcing citizens to mobilise resources and help themselves and not wait for any help from the authorities.Though the government has said that it will hold the BBMP elections early next year, former corporators have expressed their apprehensions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rumblings-continue-in-karnataka-govt-over-district-in-charge-ministers-appointment-101633809224647.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Harsimrat for SC-monitored probe into Lakhimpuri deaths||Chandigarh Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri farmer killings, even as she called for the immediate dismissal of Union minister for state of Home Affairs Ajay Mishra. Harsimrat was interacting with the media following the visit of a high-level delegation of party leaders to Lakhimpur Kheri on Friday. She was accompanied by the committee members, including Balwinder Singh Bhundur and Bikram Singh Majithia. The former Union minister said the victim families of farmers, who had been crushed to death by the union minister’s son Ashish Mishra, did not have any hope for justice from the Uttar Pradesh government. “It is clear that justice cannot be done in the case till the Union minister of state is not dismissed. I fail to understand why he has not been dismissed till now. In fact, a case should have been registered against Ajay Mishra on September 25 when he incited people to commit violence against peacefully protesting farmers” she said. She said Ajay Mishra had compounded his crime after his son crushed four farmers and a journalist under his vehicle by stating that the vehicle was being stone pelted and that the driver lost control. “This version has also been discredited now following live videos of the entire incident. Ajay Mishra should be booked under Section 120 (b) for inciting the violence and trying to divert the investigation. The central government must follow the edict of winning the ‘vishwas’ of everyone, particularly the victim families,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harsimrat-for-sc-monitored-probe-into-lakhimpuri-deaths-101633809157618.html
10-10-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu govt forms panels to prevent pollution of Cauvery, tributaries||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday said five committees have been constituted to look into the issue of letting out noxious waste into the Cauvery river and its tributaries and assured that sustained efforts are on to protect the water resources in the state.Samples of the water have been obtained from several areas to ascertain the level of contamination and to initiate appropriate action, state environment and climate change minister Siva V Meyyanathan said. The state government has been taking steps to prevent the pollution of rivers, including Cauvery, in Tamil Nadu under the guidance of chief minister M K Stalin. “The latest initiative is to constitute five panels comprising the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) on October 6 to monitor if untreated effluents from the dyeing units in Erode, Kumarapalayam, Pallipalayam, Karur and Tirupur were discharged into the Cauvery and its tributaries,” the minister said.The committees are inspecting the units in the areas, he said in a statement here. In addition, engineers from the TNPCB and IIT (M) team have collected samples at various places from Mettur to Mayiladuthurai on October 9 and sent them for analysis in the wake of the IIT Madras findings that the Cauvery river is polluted by pharmaceutically active compounds, plastics, heavy metals and pesticides, among others.This study, carried out with joint funding from Water Technology Initiatives of the Union department of science and technology and the UK Natural Environment Research Council, found a range of emerging contaminants, including personal care products, flame retardants, among others.“Efforts are on to obtain the advice of experts including those from IIT (M) to prevent the pollution of Cauvery river,” Meyyanathan said, adding that based on their reports and guidance of the chief minister, steps will be taken to protect the water sources in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-govt-forms-panels-to-prevent-pollution-of-cauvery-tributaries-101633809099330.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hooda to launch Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh programme from Karnal||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda to launch his Vipaksh Apke Samaksh programme from Karnal on Sunday.As per the available information, Hooda, who is also leader of Opposition in the state assembly, along with sitting and former Congress MLAs, will hold an open session in which Congress leaders will interact with people and hear their grievances.The Congress leaders will also tell people about the “wrong policies of the BJP-JJP coalition government” in state.Hooda’s initiative is being seen as an attempt to garner support for the Congress amid ongoing protests by farmers as the leaders of the ruling BJP-JJP parties were facing protests from the farmers and were unable to hold their political events.People close to Hooda said the initiative will help leaders of the principal Opposition party to understand the problems being faced by them due to the “wrong policies of the BJP-led central and state governments” and increasing prices of fuel and LPG.After Karnal, similar programmes will be organised in other districts.Choosing Karnal, the constituency of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, for launch of the Vipaksh Aapke Smaksh programme, Hooda wants to send a message that even the people of the CM’s constituency are suffering under the BJP rule.They have to come to the Opposition parties to raise their issues, said a political observer and retired professor of political science, Dr Ramji Lal.Since Karnal witnessed protests by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders last month following lathi-charge on farmers, Hooda might try to encash on the farmers’ unrest, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hooda-to-launch-vipaksh-aapke-samaksh-programme-from-karnal-101633809097993.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri: Farmer groups announce ‘antim ardas’ in Tikunia on October 12||Farmer groups have announced that “antim ardas” (last prayers as per Sikh rituals) will be held on October 12 for the deceased Sikh farmers at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri district, where eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed on October 3. The announcement made by farmers groups on Friday night has alerted the local administration.A poster under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha of Lakhimpur inviting people to pay their last respects to the farmers killed in the violence was circulated in Lakhimpur and the nearby districts on Saturday. The poster states that the “antim ardas” for the farmers will be held at the Maharaja Agrasen Inter College ground in Tikunia.Satwant Singh, an office-bearer of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha in the district, said: “The antim ardas will be held peacefully in Tikunia. We will seek permission from the administration for the same.” Mandeep Singh, the son farmer Nachhatar Singh, who died in violence, said the family is yet to decide the place where the “antim ardas” of his father will be held. The deadline given by farmer leaders to the Uttar Pradesh government for meeting their demands in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident ends on the day the “antim ardas” is scheduled. The farmer leaders are demanding the resignation of junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni, and his arrest along with his son Ashish Mishra, who is the main accused in the incident. “The union minister (Teni) should be arrested . We have given till 12th. There is a meeting on October 12th after that we will take the next decision,” farmer leader Rakesh Tikait told the press in New Delhi on Saturday. In a press conference held in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday, Tikait had made a similar announcement.Ashish Mishra reached the office of crime branch in Lakhimpur for questioning on Saturday.According to government sources, the local administration has started making preparations for the event. Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate Arvind Kumar Chaurasiya said, “The family members of the deceased farmers have not approached us regarding any such programme. The administration will think it over in the light of the recent incident and prohibitory orders, which are in place before giving permission for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lakhimpur-kheri-farmer-groups-announce-antim-ardas-in-tikunia-on-october-12-101633809037794.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Carjackers shoot 30-year-old Tarn Taran man dead in Amritsar||A 30-year-old man was shot dead allegedly by two motorcycle-borne robbers under a flyover near Khilchian village in Amritsar district on Saturday when he tried to stop them from snatching his car at gunpoint. The deceased was identified as Arshdeep Singh of Allowal village in Tarn Taran district. The victim, who suffered a bullet injury on his left shoulder, was rushed to a private hospital but doctors declared him brought dead. Inspector Sukhdev Singh said a case was registered against two unidentified persons on the statement of Amritpal Singh, the deceased’s cousin. “We have started investigation and are trying to identify the accused,” he added. The complainant said he along with Arshdeep and Germandeep Singh was traveling in a car and they stopped under the flyover near Khilchian. “In the meantime, two bike-borne men came towards us from the road leading to Khilchian and opened fire. We stepped back and the robbers got into the car. But Arshdeep rushed towards the car and tried to get hold of one of the robbers from the window of co-passenger seat. The man fired at him and fled from the spot along with his aide in the car,” he added. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder), 397 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act at the Khilchian police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/carjackers-shoot-30-year-old-tarn-taran-man-dead-in-amritsar-101633808977419.html
10-10-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin distributes welfare aid, maintenance grant to differently abled||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Saturday distributed welfare aids and maintenance grant to the differently abled.He also handed over the keys of petrol scooters fitted with connecting wheels to five beneficiaries at the Secretariat. Apart from giving away a monthly maintenance allowance of ₹1,500 to five severely handicapped persons on the occasion, the chief minister issued appointment orders on compassionate grounds to the heirs of four employees who died in the line of duty.The monthly grant is deposited directly into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries, according to an official release. Chief secretary V Irai Anbu, secretary of welfare of the differently abled persons department R Lalvena and other officials participated.Later, the chief minister inaugurated the newly established Sankalp – the Learning Centre & Special Needs School -- at Kollapancheri in Tiruvallur district, at a virtual event.The Sankalp school has been striving for the betterment of the lives of special children for about 20 years. About 200 children are studying in this school, which has launched a specialised training for children with learning disabilities and those with autism. In addition, children with disabilities will be offered special treatment such as physiotherapy and speech therapy, said a release. Vocational training on jewellery making, gift making, weaving, data entry, soap making, and spice and mask making are imparted to the children in order to equip them to face life, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-distributes-welfare-aid-maintenance-grant-to-differently-abled-101633808917592.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Bahraich admin reaches out to Sikhs, writes to them in Gurmukhi||The Bahraich district administration reached out to Sikhs through a letter in Gurmukhi script, thanking them for maintaining restraint after the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, which claimed eight lives, including four members from the community.Two Sikh farmers from the district and two from Lakhimpur Kheri were killed in the violence and the initiative by the administration is being seen as an attempt to placate members of the community.District magistrate Dinesh Chandra Singh claimed that the initiative may not have reduced the sorrow of the victims’ families but they felt affinity towards the administration.Apart from the community members living in Bahraich, the letter is also being sent digitally to Sikhs residing in other districts. The letter reads: “The October 3 incident, which took place in Lakhimpur Kheri, has been condemned by all--the government and the citizens. The government, police and administration are making efforts to give justice.” “Public representatives and common people of the district and those coming from outside, should exercise restraint while offering condolences,” it read. “Thanks to all Sikh brothers and sisters for maintaining restraint and co-operating with the government and administration due to which an atmosphere of peace and amity prevailed,” the administration said in the letter. Meanwhile, the chief “granthi” of the Bahraich gurdwara, Giani Vikram Singh, said the district administration associating with the language is a good messaging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-bahraich-admin-reaches-out-to-sikhs-writes-to-them-in-gurmukhi-101633808797561.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Charges framed against Navjot Sidhu aide, 6 others in Amritsar Dussehra train tragedy case||A local court in Amritsar has framed charges of “causing death by negligence” against seven organisers of the Dussehra event, including a close associate of Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu, during which at least 60 people were mowed down by a speeding train near the city’s Jora Phatak locality on October 19, 2018. The event was organised by Saurabh, alias Mithu Madan, a close aide of the then local bodies minister Sidhu whose wife Navjot Kaur Sidhu was chief guest on the occasion. Judicial magistrate (first class) Vishav Gupta in his September 5 order noted, “From the perusal of the final report and accompanying documents, it prima facie makes a case under sections 304-A (causing death by negligence), 338 (grievous hurt) and 337 (causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code. The chargesheet for the offence is served on the accused who pleaded guilty.”The next date of hearing has been fixed on December 2.The government railway police (GRP) had filled a chargesheet against seven organisers of the event in June last year. The accused are Dussehra committee president Mithu Madan whose mother Vijay Madan is a Congress councillor, and other office-bearers Rahul Kalyan, Deepak Kumar, Karan Bhandari, Kabal Singh, Deepak Gupta, and Bhupinder Singh. Soon after the incident, the GRP had registered an FIR under sections 304 (culpable homicide), 304 (A), 337 and 338 of the IPC against unidentified persons. But section 304 (that provides imprisonment of for a term which up to 10 years) of the IPC was removed when the chargesheet was filed in the court. The victims’ families have been alleging that police deliberately removed Section 304 under “political pressure”. Deepak Kumar, whose father died in the tragedy, said, “At last, we got a ray of hope of justice after three years. We have faith in the court. But we will also file an appeal in the court against the removal of section 304 against the accused. A strict punishment should be handed over to them,” said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/charges-framed-against-navjot-sidhu-aide-6-others-in-amritsar-dussehra-train-tragedy-case-101633808681374.html
10-10-2021||Other||Karnataka: Cong-JD(S) tussle heats up contest for Sindagi and Hanagal bypolls||Bengaluru: With Sindagi and Hanagal assembly constituencies heading to by-elections on October 30, the three major political parties in Karnataka — BJP, Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) — have been making all efforts to win the seats.The parties are bracing up for the contest as the bypolls are being held ahead of the yet-to-be announced zilla and taluka panchayat elections as well as the 2023 assembly polls. The bypolls have particularly reignited the bitter rivalry between the Congress and JD(S) as the two parties slug it out away from their strongholds.The by-elections have been necessitated as the seats fell vacant following the death of Sindagi JD(S) legislator M C Managuli and BJP’s C M Udasi from Hangal.While Ramesh Bhusanur, who came second behind Managuli in 2018 polls, is the BJP candidate from Sindagi, Shivaraj Sajjanar is its candidate from Hangal.The Congress has named Managuli’s son Ashok Managuli, who has joined the party, as its candidate from Sindagi, and MLC Srinivas Mane from Hangal. The JD(S) has fielded Naziya Shakeel Ahmed Angadi from Sindagi and Niyaz Shaikh from Hangal.Congress leaders, including Siddaramaiah, have alleged that the JD(S) deliberately fielded minority candidates to help the BJP, resulting in war of words between the parties.The Congress has for long accused the JD(S) of being the “B-team” of the BJP as both believe that the former is the common enemy.“Their (JD(S)’s) intention is not good. Their intent is not to help minority candidates win. If this was the case, why give them (Muslims) tickets in these bypolls and not in Ramanagara, Mandya and Hassan,” Siddaramaiah said on Saturday.JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda on Friday said that the Congress cannot act as if it has taken a “contract” of Muslim population and their votes.The Congress and JD(S) have also traded poaching charges as the former has fielded Ashok Managuli.“The people of Sindagi need not be misled. The leaders of the Congress are now disoriented after they did not even have a candidate. It is not right to smear the name of (MC) Managuli who had great loyalty to our party (JD(S)) and HD Deve Gowda,” HD Kumaraswamy said on Saturday in a post on Twitter.“When did Managuli go to Shivakumar’s house? When did he ask that his son be accommodated? Their lies are disgusting. A person who was supposed to be our candidate was hijacked and now they are trying to con the people under these lies,” he added.His statements come after senior Congress leaders claimed that the late MC Managuli had approached Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar to accommodate his son, Ashok, in the party.The Congress and JD(S) share a tempestuous past but this battle has been mainly fought in the old Mysuru region where the BJP has been scouting to make new ground to help it return to power with a full majority in the 2023 assembly elections.The bypolls are the first electoral challenge for chief minister Basavaraj Bommai after taking charge. Hangal is the neighbouring constituency to his Shiggaon assembly segment.The bypolls have also presented Bommai with an opportunity to prove his mettle and step out of the shadow of his mentor and predecessor, BS Yediyurappa.The recent income tax raids on Yediyurappa’s close associates have raised the question if the BJP is trying to contain the influence of the 78-year-old leader who has been planning a state-wide tour.Though the BJP has been unsuccessful in moving away from dominant-caste politics, the party’s central leadership has tried to project Hindutva as the main platform that goes against Yediyurappa’s style of politics, Hindustan Times reported on September 1.The BJP is leaving nothing to chance to secure victories in both bypoll constituencies.BJP legislator and former minister Laxman Savadi said the party wants to win both constituencies by a big margin.“Around seven teams have been formed for all seven zilla panchayats to help us win with a very big margin,” Savadi said.The BJP has named a 26-member team of ministers, legislators and other leaders to help the party win the bypolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-cong-jd-s-tussle-heats-up-contest-for-sindagi-and-hanagal-bypolls-101633808677510.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 29 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Saturday reported 29 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 6,01,849, according to a medical bulletin. With no fatality reported, the death toll stood at 16,529, the bulletin said. The state reported the positivity rate of 0.11 % as the number of active cases in the state dipped to 231, it said. Among fresh cases, Gurdaspur reported six, Jalandhar five and Pathankot four, the bulletin said. With 33 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,85,089 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-29-fresh-covid-cases-101633808559481.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC launches drive to counter Christian missionaries in Punjab||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has recently launched a special drive to counter alleged mass conversions of Sikhs to Christianity in Punjab. Amid videos showing proselytising activities of Christian missionaries in the state being shared widely on social media, the apex Sikh body has come under criticism from within the community for not doing enough to “protect” the faith. Named “Ghar Ghar Andar Dharamsaal (sacred shrine within every home)”, the SGPC campaign is adopting means used by Christian preachers and other traditional methods to spread Sikh literature and teachings across villages in the state. “The campaign will not only bring firmness among Sikhs toward their faith, but also make the young generation take pride in their history and culture,” said SGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur.150 teams of preachers dispatched to villagesUnder the campaign, 150 teams comprising seven preachers each have been dispatched to villages. They stay in the village for a week, and go from door to door to distribute Sikh literature. In the evening, they gather children at the local gurdwara to teach them the correct recitation of gurbani (hymn) and create awareness about the Sikh history, culture and philosophy. Thereafter, diwan (religious congregation) is staged by the preachers, dhadis (ballad singers) and kavishars (folk singers) to sensitise the community members about their faith and values. A grand congregation is organised on the last day and an amrit sanchar (initiation rite) ceremony is held as well. The preachers also have an informal dialogue with villagers at saths (small gatherings at a common place in the village). In the coming days, the SGPC plans to double the number of teams with the help of Sikh missionary colleges.“The drive is aimed at countering the impact of the mission being run by Christian preachers. We also approach families that have converted to have a dialogue with them and make them take pride in Sikh beliefs,” said Sarabjit Singh Dhotian, SGPC’s head preacher.Foreign funds, alleges Akal Takht jathedarNot just Sikh bodies, even Hindu outfits, including Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and its affiliates, have been raising concern over activities of Christian missionaries among weaker sections, including scheduled castes, in the state. Many videos shared on social media show the preachers using various means to lure people. Hindustan Times has not independently verified the veracity of any of these videos.The issue of alleged mass conversions was the key agenda during the Panthic gathering called by the Akal Takht on July 26.Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh alleged that the religious conversion drive is being run in Punjab with funds from foreign countries. “Converting Sikhs to another religion is worrisome. When we don’t force anyone to join our religion by greed, then no one has the right to ask the followers of our religion to convert by greed or pressure,” he said.Bishop denies mass coversion allegationsHowever, Emmanual Masih, Bishop of Punjab region, outrightly rejected all these allegations. “The Constitution of India gives its citizens right to preach their religion. Second, the allegations that Sikhs are being lured or they are being forced to become Christians are totally baseless,” he said. Masih said Christians are a very small minority in Punjab while Sikhs are a majority. “How can we make any Sikh convert forcibly? Majority of Christians are poor in Punjab. How can we give money to anyone? Actually, some forces want to divide various communities in the state,” he said. According to the 2001 census, Sikhs comprised 59.9% of Punjab’s population while Christians accounted for a mere 1.2%. By 2011, there had been a significant drop in Sikh population to 57.69% while the ratio of those following Christianity saw just a marginal increase to 1.26%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-launches-drive-to-counter-christian-missionaries-in-punjab-101633808437608.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||EOW books directors of 2 Assam firms for duping Mumbai-based NBFC of ₹114 crore||The economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police have booked five directors of two Assam-based vehicle loan finance firms for allegedly duping a city based non-banking finance company (NBFC) of ₹114 crore. The two accused firms, which are revenue sharing partners (RSPs) of the complainant company, allegedly fraudulently processed loans for commercial vehicles and caused a huge loss to the NBFC. On the complaint of Elphinstone-based company Fortune Integrated Assets Finance Limited’s operation deputy manager Jignesh Patel a few days ago, EOW’s general cheating unit has filed a case under the relevant Indian Penal Code sections. The first information report (FIR), of which HT has a copy, is lodged against Kumar Gaurav and his wife Sharmishta Baruah – the directors of Echo Motors and Automobiles Pvt Ltd and Amarshakti Commerce and Industries, Guwahati, Assam – and three other directors. The complainant NBFC provides loans for purchasing commercial vehicles (goods carriers and passenger vehicles). The loans are sanctioned to the applicant only through RSP. A firm is authorised as RSP by the company only after a thorough procedure of scrutinising agency’s antecedents. The RSPs send applications of people, who are looking for commercial vehicle loans, to the company and the company sanctions loan through RSPs. “The RSP’s role is very important as it is the agency responsibility to check the antecedents of the loan seekers, their KYC (know your customer) details and financial potential for repayment,” said an officer. In 2014, the complainant company signed an RSP agreement with Gaurav and Sharmishta’s Echo Motors and Automobiles Pvt Ltd, Guwahati. In 2017, Gaurav closed this company and started Amarshakti Commerce and Industries. Besides the husband-wife duo, there were three more directors in the company till May 2017. Between November 21, 2014, and August 21, 2019, the complainant company distributed loans for 7,128 vehicles. But in 2018, NBFC allegedly detected discrepancies in the documents submitted by the two accused firms. “Later, an internal scrutiny revealed that there was gross misappropriation and illegalities involved and many rules and laws were violated in the entire procedure of the loan-sanctioning system. Details of same vehicles and persons were misused by accused RSP agencies for multiple loans. The inquiry also revealed that in many cases, physical verification of the vehicle was not done. And most importantly, forged and bogus documents were used to fraudulently procure the loan,” said an EOW source. The two accused firms have allegedly submitted forged and bogus documents in loans matters of 668 vehicles. In this, 361 vehicles existed only on paper. Many loan applicants have also been defaulted in paying for the equated monthly instalment (EMI), despite exhausting time limit. The RSP agencies, which also had responsibility of collecting EMIs from the loan recipients and send it to the finance company, allegedly misused the funds for personal gains, the FIR stated. Thus, the two firms allegedly caused wrongful loss to the complainant NBFC to the tune of ₹114.19 crore in loan matters of 5,241 vehicles, the complaint added. EOW has sought details from the banks and is analysing loan documents and collecting further evidence, an officer said. Gaurav said that the allegations levelled against him and his company are false. “We were summoned by EOW in this matter last year and our representatives had submitted all the required documents and evidence to the officers explaining our side of the entire dispute. EOW was then convinced from our replies. We don’t know how have they registered an FIR now. It’s a civil dispute and we have already filed a case against the complainant company in a court in Assam. There is possibility that EOW officers or the local police were kept in dark about the criminal case registered in Assam. We have not been contacted by EOW in connection with the said FIR. If they do so, we would certainly cooperate with the authority and furnish all the details of the deal and explain that we are not involved in any illegal practice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eow-books-directors-of-2-assam-firms-for-duping-mumbai-based-nbfc-of-114-crore-101633808378710.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Heroin haul: ED seizes ₹79 lakh during searches in Amritsar||The enforcement directorate (ED), Jalandhar, has seized around ₹79 lakh in Indian and foreign currency during searches at nine locations in Amritsar, including properties of former Akali Dal leader Anwar Masih, an accused in the 194-kg heroin haul dating back to January 2020. The financial investigation agency has been probing the money trail in an international drug nexus under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The searches began on Friday and coincided with the National Investigation Agency’s raid at Masih’s house in Amritsar in connection with the seizure of 3,000-kg heroin by the directorate of revenue intelligence at the Mundra port in Gujarat last month. The ED on Friday also raided the office of a money changer in Amritsar, who was suspected of transferring the drug money through Hawala to abroad. ED officials revealed that a few of the accused are in judicial custody. “We have been making efforts to crack down on the drug cartel established in India with its strong roots in Punjab,” said an ED official privy to the development.In January 2020, the special task force (STF), Punjab, had recovered nearly 188-kg heroin from the house of Masih, a former member of the Punjab subordinate service selection board in Amritsar. Around 6-kg heroin had been recovered already in the same case from another man in Mohali.The ED has also raided properties owned by Ankush Kapoor, who has been identified as the kingpin of drug racket along with Tanvir Bedi, who is in Australia, and Simranjit Singh Sandhu, who is in Italy. According to the ED, Kapoor and his aides Sukhwinder Singh, Major Singh, Tamanna Gupta and Afghanistan national Arman Bashar Mall had established their base at a house owned by Masih in Amritsar. A senior intelligence officer of Punjab Police, requesting anonymity, said Tanvir Bedi is running an international drug network with links in Dubai, Pakistan and Afghanistan and they were receiving payments through Hawala or shell companies. Bedi’s name had also surfaced in the multicrore ex-sarpanch Gurdeep Singh Rano drug case busted by the STF in November 2020. The officer said both NIA and ED have been probing Bedi and Sandhu’s role in the Mundra drug haul case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heroin-haul-ed-seizes-79-lakh-in-searches-at-amritsar-101633808257568.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||PAU alumnus Harpeet Kochhar to head Canada’s Public Health Agency||A senior Indo-Canadian scientist has been appointed president of the Public Health Agency of Canada or PHAC, replacing an incumbent who has had a controversial tenure which included being censured by the speaker of the House of Commons.Dr Harpreet S Kochhar, currently a senior bureaucrat with Health Canada, the country’s health ministry, with the designation of associate deputy minister of health, will assume charge later this month, replacing Iain Stewart.Making the announcement on Friday, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau thanked Stewart for his service to the PHAC and “recognised his leadership in successfully implementing the Covid-19 vaccine rollout.”Kochhar, who formed part of the senior management of Health Canada, will now take over at a time when Covid-19 cases in the country are declining but the country remains in the midst of a fourth wave.Kochhar received his bachelor’s and master’s degree in veterinary science from Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, before moving to Canada and completing his doctorate in animal biotechnology at the University of Guelph in the province of Ontario.Before joining Health Canada in April 2020, just as the Covid-19 pandemic started causing a crisis in the country, Kochhar was with Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada since 2017, and prior to that, between 2015 and 2017, he served as the chief veterinary officer for Canada, Canadian Food Inspection Agency, and Canada’s Delegate to the World Organization for animal health.However, he may have an onerous task before him. Stewart was reprimanded by the speaker of the House of Commons Anthony Rota in June this year for refusing to hand over documents relating to the reasons behind the firing of two Chinese-origin scientists from the National Microbiology Laboratory in Winnipeg in January last year.Xiangguo Qiu, and her husband, Keding Cheng, were earlier escorted out of the laboratory in the spring of 2019, with reports swirling she supervised shipment of Ebola and Henipah viruses to the Wuhan Institute of Virology, which is now synonymous with the Covid-19 pandemic.As that matter is still being investigated and is even before Canadian courts, it will continue to pose a significant challenge to Kochhar as will the possibility of a winter wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-alumnus-harpeet-kochhar-to-head-canada-s-public-health-agency-101633808018591.html
10-10-2021||Pune||Heavy rains lead to waterlogging in Pune||Pune: Heavy rainfall within short span of time crippled normal life in many areas of the city on Saturday, resulting in waterlogging, water entering into housing societies and inundation. Between 5pm and 8:30 pm - when rain was pouring heavily in some parts of the city - Lohegaon received 75.8mm rainfall while Shivajinagar 49.2mm and Chinchwad 70mm. By evening, the city was gripped with thunderstorms and lightning which later resulted in intense rainfall. Fire brigade officials reported several instances of waterlogging and tree felling in the city after rainfall started. Officials from the fire brigade said that waterlogging was reported in Tingrenagar and Agarkarnagar near Pune railway station. “Tree felling incidents were reported in Yerawada, Tadiwala road and at Wadia College near the bridge. Waterlogging was also reported in some parts of the city,” said fire brigade officials. KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbai, said that Pune witnessed moderate to intense rainfall on Saturday. “Along with rainfall, thunder and lightning was also associated with gusty winds and intense spells of rain since 4pm. Till 6:30 pm, many places recorded good rains with Daund reporting 63.5mm rainfall and many stations reported rainfall close to moderate rainfall,” said Hosalikar. As per IMD, similar weather is expected on October 10. “Thundery activity and lightning along with light to moderate rainfall is likely on October 10. Ghat areas are also likely to witness isolated heavy rainfall. Day in Pune is likely to be partly cloudy,” said IMD officials. Slow traffic on expressway Slow traffic was seen on Pune-Mumbai expressway, however, as rainfall was comparatively less, traffic congestion was not seen, said officials. Sanjay Jadhav, superintendent of police, highways state police (HSP), said that the expressway did not see any congestion. “Rainfall was reported in Lonavla, however, it was very less. So, traffic congestion was not seen. No incident was reported due to rainfall on Saturday,” said Jadhav. Indapur near Pune reported 93 mm rainfall till 8:30 pm on Saturday. Downpour count Rainfall (4:30 pm-8:30 pm) on Saturday (in mm) Shivajinagar--49.2 Lohegaon-- 75.8 Chinchwad--70.0 Lavale--7.5 Magarpatta-- 23.5 Source: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/heavy-rains-lead-to-waterlogging-in-pune-101633808017523.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Parents, six others held for selling infant for ₹2.5 lakh in Punjab’s Bathinda||The Bathinda police have arrested a couple for allegedly selling their newborn child for ₹2.5 lakh.Deputy superintendent of police GS Romana said eight persons, including parents Pooja and Sonu, were found involved in trafficking.He said the male child was rescued from Gurdaspur and handed over to his mother Pooja, who was held on Saturday.Romana said a gang, comprising of three women was found involved in the crime and all eight accused were arrested under Sections 373 (buying minor) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.Pooja gave birth to her sixth child at a Bathinda hospital on October 1. Two days later, the police learned from a source about the sudden disappearance of the infant.A case was registered at the Canal Colony police station by its station house officer Balwinder Singh.The DSP said during investigation, it was revealed that the child was sold to a Gurdaspur-based couple Satwinder Singh and Gurpreet Kaur.“Police recovered ₹1.7 lakh that was part of the illegal deal. Two of the six children of Pooja are not living with the family and we are checking safe custody of the kids. Our team is also probing the past role of touts Peter and his wife Guddo, Gurmeet Kaur and Rashpal Kaur,” said the DSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parents-six-others-held-for-selling-infant-for-rs-2-5-lakh-in-punjab-s-bathinda-101633807837459.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra fisherworkers’ group seeks new land revenue category for koliwadas||The Akhil Maharashtra Machhimaar Kruti Samiti (AMMKS), a state-wide fisherworker’s society, has written to the chief minister, revenue minister and urban development minister, seeking creation of a new land revenue category called ‘aadhya gaothan’ for koliwadas in Mumbai. Their demands also include giving fisherfolk freehold property rights over commons and providing home owners with additional floor space index (FSI) rights based on future needs.“Presently, koliwadas are shown in the DP (development plan) 2034, but there are no additional benefits for residents because the final demarcation of koliwadas has not been completed. Common land is owned by the government and there is a constant threat of redevelopment and land grab, which will become worse with the new Coastal Zone Management Plan (CZMP) that was approved by the environment ministry. We want our traditional rights over land to be acknowledged by giving us ‘aadhya gaothan’ status,” said Devendra Tandel, president, AMMKS.While placing koliwadas under ‘gaothan’ status would give fisherfolk ownership and redevelopment rights to their land, ‘aadhya gaothan’ lands have been envisioned by fisherfolk to come with several other safeguards in the interest of the artisanal fishing business. For example, Tandel’s letter to authorities also asks for collective ownership of areas used to dry and mend fish nets, and areas used for drying of fish. AMMKS has also sought collective ownership of boat parking, playgrounds and areas used to receive tourists.“Koliwadas which are registered as per the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code (1966) are given village status, so all laws concerning property, development rights and land ownership which are applicable to the village become applicable to any koliwada within the village boundary. In order to rectify this historic mistake, Section 122 of the Revenue Code should be amended to give the status of “aadhya gaothan” to all koliwadas, kolivastya, kolipade, and other koli villages registered in the state, including Mumbai,” Tandel wrote in his letter, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.Speaking to HT on Saturday, Tandel explained that the state government is vested with the power to amend ownership rights in gaothan areas, and should do so in the interest of protecting the koliwadas, which have been in existence for years before the Land Revenue Code was formulated in 1966. “There are basically three kinds of ownership. One is ownership by encroachment, ownership of village land, and then ownership of koliwada. Koliwadas are neither encroachments and have been around since before village planning was taken up, so our customary rights should precede those of encroachers and village land owners,” Tandel said.Another notable demand is that home owners in koliwadas be given additional FSI to construct homes based on current and future requirements. AMMKS has proposed an ‘XYZ’ approach for the same. “Let us assume that I am living with my family in an area of 1,000 square feet with a current FSI limit of 2. A survey would be carried out to determine my family’s space requirement over the next 20 years and the FSI needed for the same. That FSI – called Y – would be added to X to arrive at a number, Z, which is the new FSI available for a fisherman to build his home,” Tandel explained.Independent experts, however, viewed these demands with scepticism. “For any indigenous community, it is important to distinguish between environmental rights, land rights, livelihood rights, infrastructure rights and development rights. Each of these rights is governed by a different set of rules. CRZ, for example, governs environmental rights, while the Land Revenue Code deals with land rights, and DP2034 deals with development rights,” said Pankaj Joshi of Urban Design Research Institute.“If the demand here deals with ownership rights, then it’s important to note that the Land Revenue Code is community neutral and does not distinguish between Kolis, Agris or Bhandaris, for example. As for development rights, there is a provision under Section 33.16 of DCPR (Development Control and Promotion Regulations), which states that development plans for koliwadas will be framed as and when the demarcation is finalised. The DP also sets aside land used for fishing-allied activities. There are issues with these rules, of course, but such an overarching demand tends to muddle the situation and comes off more as political posturing,” Joshi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fisherworkers-group-seeks-new-land-revenue-category-for-koliwadas-101633807664612.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pvt operators in Punjab eating into revenue of state-run buses||With state-run transport undertakings, including the Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways, are reeling under financial crisis, the Punjab government has failed to take action against erring private operators for running their buses on illegally extended routes and permits.Despite the Supreme Court order in 2016 to cancel 73 permits issued illegally, the transport companies, mainly owned by high-profile politicians, continue to ply buses on key routes.These permits, issued during the previous SAD-BJP tenure, allowed integral coaches and luxury buses to run on highly lucrative routes, primarily to Chandigarh from different parts of the state.In 2012, the Punjab and Haryana high court also directed the government to cancel these permits. The order was upheld by the Supreme Court in 2016. “There is no stay and appeal pending in the court, but no action has been taken in past four-and-a-half years by Congress led government,” said Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, convener of the PRTC-linked trade unions.He added that the delay in taking action is incurring huge financial losses to the state-run transport undertakings as the key routes for running luxury and other buses are with private playersPunjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring said directions have been issued to scrutinise permits and extension of routes given to transporters in the past. “We have already initiated campaign against those running buses without paying road taxes. The whole process of issuing permits and extensions will be streamlined,” he saidState transport commissioner Amarpal Singh said the department has initiated the process to look into illegal permits.Despite multiple notices, private operators continue to run buses on illegal extensions in the original bus route permits.“In 2011, the state government amended the transport policy allowing unlimited extensions in existing permits. The rules have been floated during 2007-2017 as the influential transporters were allowed to have 3-4 extensions in the original bus route permits,” said an official.In its 2018 transport policy, the state government stated to cancel these extensions but nothing has been done to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pvt-operators-in-punjab-eating-into-revenue-of-state-run-buses-101633807597811.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Drugs case: Friend of Sushant Singh Rajput and Mumbai hotelier Kunal Jani gets bail||A Special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) Court on Friday granted bail to Bandra-based hotelier Kunal Jani, who was a friend of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had alleged that he had discussed about procuring drugs with actor Rhea Chakraborty on a group chat.Additional sessions judge, VV Patil granted Jani bail on cash bond of ₹15,000.Advocate Swapnil Ambure, who argued for Jani, had told the court that the agency had found chats about him asking for 1-mg cocaine. The chats were old and the cocaine was for personal consumption, argued Ambure.Section 27 (punishment for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance) of NDPS Act has a maximum punishment of one year. The Act provides that lenient view be taken when charges are of personal consumption. He was not ordering the drugs for any profits and cannot be compared with peddlers and suppliers, argued Ambure. He also said that no material was found from Jani.Special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande, who had appeared for the agency, had told the court that the charges against Jani were serious and drugs have become a menace in the society. Serious sections of the Act have been applied against Jani, as he was in touch with several suspicious people.The agency had alleged that though no drugs were found from Jani’s possession, he acted as a mediator for drug peddlers and clients and his name had cropped during questioning of those arrested following the death of Rajput.Jani was arrested by NCB on October 1 in the same case in which Agisilaos Demetriades, the brother of an actor’s girlfriend, was arrested.Jani, along with Shilpa Shetty’s husband Raj Kundra, is the director of Bandra’s Bastian Restaurant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drugs-case-friend-of-sushant-singh-rajput-and-mumbai-hotelier-kunal-jani-gets-bail-101633807537464.html
10-10-2021||Pune||Helicopter corridor plan in Pune gets thumbs up||Pune: Industrialists and aviation experts who have welcomed the official announcement of Pune city getting a helicopter corridor said that it will play a key role in developing the trade and commerce sector. Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia said, “The ministry has identified 10 cities and 82 routes to develop helicopter corridors across the country, starting with six between Juhu and Pune; Mahalakshmi Race Course and Pune; Gandhinagar and Ahmedabad.” Scindia was speaking during the Helicopter Summit organised by industry body Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI), in association with the Union civil aviation ministry and Pawan Hans Ltd on Friday Sudhir Mehta, president, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture, tweeted, “This is excellent news. Shared shuttle chopper services between Pune and Mumbai will bring great relief. Competition will bring lower costs and better service.” Prashant Girbane, director general (MCCIA) said, “The helicopter service is certainly a positive development as connectivity helps commerce and hence communities. We request progress on cargo and international flights at the existing airport with the same alacrity. Also, there is a long-standing issue of the new airport that is still up in the air. We look forward to working with the Government and authorities to support them towards these goals in every possible way that we can. Aviation analyst Dhairyasheel Vandekar, a former Air India Pune station in-charge said, “It is a global trend currently and India is emerging as one of the top aviation markets in the world and the way trade and commerce industry are expanding. It is an important requirement. With Pune attracting many business sectors, it is important to have such service. It will play an important role in urban mobility and when we are talking about a new airport coming in Purnadar, then it will need to have helicopter hub service in different parts of Pune region. If a new airport comes in five years, then we need to have helicopter service (two or three seater) for easy access before that so it can be useful for going to a new airport.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/helicopter-corridor-plan-in-pune-gets-thumbs-up-101633807357456.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray, Narayan Rane share dais, trade barbs in Maharashtra||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Union minister Narayan Rane on Saturday shared the dais at the inauguration of an airport at Chipi in the Sindhudurg district, and took swipes at each other.This was first time the two came face to face after Rane threatened to slap Uddhav. He was arrested for his statement and later released on bail.Rane, who hails from Sindhudurg and was earlier a Shiv Sena leader, in his speech listed the work done by him since he was elected as MLA from this picturesque region of coastal Maharashtra for the first time in 1990.He was given the charge of the district on the instructions of Shiv Sena founder (and Uddhav Thackeray’s father) late Bal Thackeray, and there were no proper roads, water or education facilities in the region then, he said. After the Shiv Sena-BJP combine came to power in the state in 1995, he requested then chief minister Manohar Joshi to declare Sindhudurg as a “tourism district”, Rane claimed. “After that the work for basic amenities like roads, power, education, water, and healthcare was carried out. The existing infrastructure is because of Narayan Rane. Nobody can match it,” he said. “People know who works. Uddhav-ji, I learnt everything from Saheb (Bal Thackeray),” Rane added.In a veiled attack on the chief minister, Rane said the late Bal Thackeray disliked lying, and did not care for those who lie.Thackeray hit back, saying, “Balasaheb did not like lying. Hence, many times such people (who lied) were kicked out of the Shiv Sena. (Bal Thackeray would say) Even if the truth is bitter, please speak it.”In another dig at Rane, he said, “As per my knowledge, the Sindhudurg fort was built by (Shivaji) Maharaj...otherwise someone might say ‘I built it’.” He also said it must be pondered why it took so long for this airport to be built. “Some people said Konkan will be transformed into California, but why has it not happened yet,” Thackeray added.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-narayan-rane-share-dais-trade-barbs-in-maharashtra-101633806385220.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Additional protection camps, camera traps to be set up to capture leopard in Aarey||The Maharashtra forest department will be setting up four additional protection camps in Aarey Colony, in addition to installing 19 more camera traps in the area, in a bid to capture a two-year old, sub-adult female leopard responsible for attacks on eight people in the past 45 days. The forest department on Friday night also installed a fifth cage trap near dairy unit number 13, where a 14-year-old boy was attacked by the leopard earlier in the day.“We require a total of 30 camera traps, including the 11 we have already installed. And we have one protection camp in the area, but another four are being set up to lessen our response time to any other attack which may happen. We are also making announcements in the evening, warning people to not go into densely-wooded areas, and to travel in groups. We suspect that the leopard is attacking people because she is a sub-adult and is learning to hunt,” said Gajendra Hire, deputy conservator of forests (Thane), who is coordinating the response between experts, the forest department, citizens and volunteer organisations.Since August 31, eight people in Aarey Colony, including a 68-year-old woman and a four-year-old child, have sustained injuries after the leopard charged at them. A sub-adult leopard aged between one-and-a-half to two years was captured in the early hours of October 1, but was later identified to be a different individual than the female behind the recent attacks, in what are the first signs of human-leopard conflict in the region since 2017.“You can’t tranquilise a free-ranging leopard because its instinct will be to run away. In the 15 minutes it takes to become sedated, it could enter a house, for example, and wake up hours later around humans. It’s not feasible. The forest department is doing the right thing by involving citizens and volunteer organisations, and is doing their best to trap the animal in a cage. As compared to similar spates of attacks in say 2010-11 or 2016-17, the current situation does not have any signs of panic or alarmism, and Aarey residents seem to have developed a trust in the administration,” said Vidya Athreya, an ecologist with close to two decades’ experience in studying human-wildlife conflict.Once the leopard is trapped, the forest department, along with experts, will conduct an examination, after which a committee will decide on how and where to release the animal. “Until the creature has been captured, we cannot comment on future steps,” said Hire, adding that their response will be scaled up further if the animal continues to remain elusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/additional-protection-camps-camera-traps-to-be-set-up-to-capture-leopard-in-aarey-101633806697311.html
10-10-2021||Pune||MVA leaders prepare to make bandh successful in Pune||PUNE: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders are working overtime to ensure Monday’s Maharashtra bandh is successful in order to corner the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over Lakhimpur Kheri violence against the farmers. Earlier on Friday, Maha Vikas Aghadi leaders appealed to traders and working professionals to participate in the bandh on Monday. Pune district Congress president MLA Sanjay Patil, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) district president Pradip Garatkar and Shiv Sena president Balasaheb Chandere jointly addressed the press in Pune on Saturday and appealed to party workers to ensure that the bandh is successful and without any untoward incident. “We are ensuring that the bandh would get successful in Pune city and district. Many other organisations and farmers unions have extended their support to the bandh called by us,” said the three leaders in a joint statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mva-leaders-prepare-to-make-bandh-successful-in-pune-101633806577278.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||₹125 crore heroin consignment seized at Navi Mumbai port came from Afghanistan: DRI||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), which had recently seized about 25.45 kilograms of heroin worth ₹125 crore at the Nhava Sheva port in Navi Mumbai, on Saturday said that the consignment originated from Kandahar, Afghanistan. The central agency has also arrested two more persons who were involved in financial transactions including hawala for smooth import of the consignment. Earlier the DRI had arrested a businessman in the case.The apex anti-smuggling agency suspects that the consignment was part of a larger international narcotics trafficking.The drug consignment was concealed in the boxes of sesame seed oil and mustard oil and was being smuggled via Iran to India in a container. The drugs were concealed at the bottom of oil cans.This is a new modus operandi. It is for the first time that heroin has been seized by any Indian Agency, which was found to have been concealed in oil cans, in order to make it nearly impossible to detect it during the course of usual examination of import cargo, said DRI.The agency officials found out that the shipment was imported by a small-time businessman named Sandeep Thakkar from Masjid Bunder area. When interrogated, Thakkar told DRI sleuths that he has given his firm’s Import Export Code to another businessman, Jayesh Sanghvi, from Navi Mumbai who offered him a commission on every import order from Iran.Sanghvi has lived in Iran for a long time. The consignment was imported by him from Afghanistan by using his old connections in Iran. In his statement, he accepted that the imported consignment from which the narcotics were recovered, belonged to him, and divulged details about his Afghan connections. He was subsequently arrested under the NDPS Act for smuggling narcotic drugs.Later DRI arrested two more persons from Delhi on Friday and brought them to Mumbai under transit remand. Both of them were involved in financial transactions including hawala for smooth import of this consignment.All three accused have been remanded in DRI custody by courts for further investigation. Earlier in July this year DRI Mumbai had seized 294 Kgs Heroin atNhava Sheva port from a consignment which too had originated from Afghanistan. Before that, in August 2020, DRI Mumbai had seized 191.6 Kgs Heroin at Nhava Sheva port from yet another consignment of Afghanistan origin. All these Drugs consignments originating from Afghanistan are shipped though Iranian ports of Chabahar/Bandar Abbas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/125-crore-heroin-consignment-seized-at-navi-mumbai-port-came-from-afghanistan-dri-101633806517209.html
10-10-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu rural elections: 73.27% voting recorded in second phase||Chennai The second phase of rural local body elections held in nine districts in Tamil Nadu on Saturday registered a 73.27% voting, the state election commission said.The polling, to elect about 10,000 posts, was by and large peaceful barring a minor incident of stabbing in Vellore. The state had polled 74.37% in the first phase of elections on October 6.According to the poll body, Villupuram witnessed a maximum voter turnout of 83.6% and Tirunelveli the lowest of 65%. While Kallakurichi saw 82%, Ranipet 75.3%, Thirupathur 73.5%, Kancheepuram 72%, Chengalpattu and Tenkasi 70% and Vellore registered 68%.Voting which started on a dull note in the morning picked up pace later in the day, registering 9.27% by 9 am and 60.34% at about 3 pm.Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Tenkasi, Vellore, Ranipet, Tiruppatur, Tirunelveli, Villupuram and Kallakurichi were the nine districts that went to two-phase polls. Counting of votes will be taken up on October 12.In Vellore, a DMK member, said to be in an inebriated condition, allegedly stabbed an AIADMK cadre over a wordy duel at a polling booth in Anaikatu, officials said. In Gerugambakkam, DMK and AMMK supporters faced off, with some of them sustaining injuries.The ruling DMK and AIADMK are the major contenders. AIADMK’s ally the PMK chose to contest on its own from all the nine districts, while another ally, the BJP, is contesting alone in Kallakurichi district.Meanwhile, the opposition AIADMK has sought the poll body to webcast \ telecast the process of counting of votes on October 12 in the districts where the elections were held. In a memorandum to the State Election Commissioner, the party’s legal wing joint secretary R M Babu Murugavel urged the authorities to restrict access inside the polling booths/counting centres for MLAs, MPs and their nominees, agents and also to ensure the ballot votes were counted at a static place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-rural-elections-73-27-voting-recorded-in-second-phase-101633806456563.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra fails to achieve target of 1.5 million doses for 2nd day of special Covid vaccination drive||The Maharashtra government failed to achieve the target of vaccinating 1.5 million doses for the second day in a row of ‘Mission Kavach Kundal’, a special drive, which was launched from October 8. As many as 828,817 doses were inoculated on Saturday, while on Friday, 739,100 doses were administered to the beneficiaries as per the data available on the Co-Win portal.On Thursday, state health minister Rajesh Tope announced the launch of ‘Mission Kavach Kundal’, a seven-day special campaign to boost its vaccination drive starting from October 8. It had set a target of vaccinating a minimum 1.5 million doses in a day. It is also looking to prioritise covering the first dose of all the citizens at the earliest. This will help in reducing the severity of the Covid infections even if the potential third wave hits the state, Tope had said.The maximum number of beneficiaries covered in a day in the state is 1.4 million. As many as 1,439,809 doses were vaccinated on September 8.Both the health minister and additional chief secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas did not reply to the calls and text messages.Meanwhile, Maharashtra recorded 2,486 fresh infections pushing the count to 6,575,578 on Saturday. The tally of active cases was further reduced to 33,006 as 2,446 recoveries were reported in the last 24 hours.The state recorded 44 deaths and the toll stood at 139,514. Satara reported the highest toll with 11 deaths as its tally stood at 6,344.Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is under control as the average daily cases are on the decline for the last few months. The drop in active cases has also been constant for the past two weeks. It has reached its lowest tally since February 5 when 33,936 cases were reported.However, Ahmednagar continued to record the second-highest cases in the entire state after Mumbai. On Saturday it clocked 364 cases, of them, 340 cases were recorded in the district and 24 in the city.As many as 61 villages in Ahmednagar district are under a 10-day lockdown that was imposed on October 4. According to the order issued by the district collector Rajendra Bhosale, all shops, except essential ones will remain shut till October 13, while the assembly of more than five people has also been prohibited in these villages. Even though the state has allowed physical classes in schools for limited classes, they will not open in the 61 villages of the district until October 13 at least. It is also likely to be extended if the situation is not improved, said the district collector.Ahmednagar has reported a total of 334,723 cases to date and has 3,803 active cases at present.There are predictions that a potential third wave may hit the state by December or January next year. Officials are still worried about the upcoming festive season as there are chances of a spike in cases post-Navratri, Dussehra and Diwali festivals that are falling in October and November.With 510 cases, Mumbai reported the highest number of cases in the entire state and its tally reached a total 748,095 cases to date. It also recorded three fatalities taking the toll to 16,152.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 142,647 samples and had a positivity rate of 1.74%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 10.95%, according to the data issued by the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fails-to-achieve-target-of-1-5-million-doses-for-2nd-day-of-special-covid-vaccination-drive-101633806158787.html
10-10-2021||Other||Four detained for minor’s gang rape in Karnataka||Bengaluru Four people have been taken into custody in a case of alleged gang rape of a minor girl in Bantwal taluk in Dakshina Kannada, police said on Saturday said.The incident happened on Friday when the survivor was going to school.“Total four accused have been taken into custody till now. Two of them are accused of rape. Further investigation is going on,” said Rishikesh Sonawane, Dakshina Kannada superintendent of police.Sonawane said the investigation is on to trace the others. The girl is receiving treatment at a hospital in Mangaluru.According to the complaint filed by the girl on Friday, there was one known person among those who abducted her, the SP said.The person known to the girl had come in a car along with some friends on Friday morning near an auto rickshaw stand, abducted the girl, took her to a scheduled place and then all five of them sexually assaulted her, he said.She was then left at Brahmarakutlu that has been captured by a CCTV camera.The police have registered a case under sections 366 (a) or abduction and 376(d) or rape of IPC and sections the Pocso Act.The incident happened barely two months after a woman was sexually assaulted by inebriated men in Chamundi Hills, a popular tourist place, in Mysuru, about 125 kms from Bengaluru on August 24.According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report, 504 cases of rape were filed in Karnataka in 2020 as against 2,061 cases in Maharashtra, 1128 in West Bengal, 997 in Delhi.Karnataka had registered 2,253 cases of kidnapping as against 9,309 in West Bengal, 8,103 in Maharashtra, 4,063 in Delhi and 2,056 in Telangana. The state registered 1,331 cases of murder and 2,568 attempts to murder in 2020, according to the NCRB report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-detained-for-minor-s-gang-rape-in-karnataka-101633806157334.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj police initiative: ‘Pahal’ reunites missing people with kin, aids poor||Under the initiative ‘Pahal’ launched by SSP Prayagraj, cops are not only helping the poor and marginalised sections of the society but have launched additional efforts to trace missing or lost persons and children. Policemen are receiving applauds from citizens on the new initiative besides appreciation from their senior officials. During the last two days alone policemen have reunited four lost persons including two twin sisters and a six-year-old boy with their kin. In one of the cases, Sarai Inayat police traced a missing woman and brought her back from Haryana. SSP-Prayagraj Sarvshrestha Tripathi said under the initiative ‘Pahal’ policemen are approaching underprivileged and weaker sections of the society and are helping them in their daily struggle. Moreover, additional efforts are being made to reunite lost persons with their kin. Cops have been asked to take immediate action soon after receiving a complaint regarding missing girls or children and rope in all resources to trace them and reunite them with their families, he added. On Thursday, two minor twin girls Radha and Meena (name changed) aged 14 years of Kareli area went missing. Their parents approached the police when the girls did not return home from school. SHO of Kareli police station Anurag Sharma and his team immediately constituted teams comprising women cops and launched a search for the missing something besides alerting other police stations. By evening, the girls were traced to a Durga Puja pandal at Ashok Nagar. They informed the police that they went to watch Durga Puja after school without informing their parents. Reunited with their daughters, their parents appreciated the efforts of cops. On Friday, Lalapur police received information about a six-year-old boy found at Masuriandeen Temple at Amilia village. Police teams brought the boy to the police station and traced his kin who were also searching for him. Sarai Inayat police on Friday reunited a 19-year-old woman with her family who has gone missing on September 5 while she had gone to a computer institute. The police team traced the woman’s location to Panipat in Haryana and brought her to Prayagraj where she was reunited with her kin. The woman left home after a scuffle with her kin. Her father lauded the cops for their massive efforts in tracing her daughter. Earlier on Thursday, SHO of Meja police station Arun Chaturvedi and his team reached Sirsa Ghat at Ganga River where they distributed umbrellas to small vendors and persons who reside at the ghat. Fruits and other eatables were also distributed among people of marginalised sections. PHOTO CAPTION: A policeman handing over a bunch of bananas to a needy man. (HT)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-police-initiative-pahal-reunites-missing-people-with-kin-aids-poor-101633806097206.html
10-10-2021||Other||UP has only 138 active Covid-19 cases, CM told in review meeting||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath chaired a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the state. At the meeting, officials said that in the past 24 hours, 1,72,447 Covid-19 samples were tested, and that there were 138 active Covid-19 cases in the state, a state government release read.Among the districts that do not have any active Covid-19 case are Aligarh, Amroha, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Badaun, Bagpat, Balia, Balrampur, Basti, Bahraich, Bhadohi, Deoria, Etah, Fatehpur, Gazipur, Gonda, Hamirpur, Hapur, Hardoi, Hathras, Jalaun, Kanpur Dehat, Kasganj, Kushinagar, Lakhimpur-Khiri, Lalitpur, Maharajganj, Mahoba, Mau, Mirzapur, Mujaffarnagar, Pilibhit, Rae Bareli, Rampur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Shrawasti, Sitapur, Sonebhadra, Sultanpur, Unnao and Varanasi. At present the recovery rate in the state is 98.7%The chief minister directed officials to focus on timely vaccination of beneficiaries who have their second dose due, a government release read.The chief minister said that the state government is committed to starting a medical college in each district and asked officials to focus on speedy execution of process for starting medical colleges in 16 districts under PPP model.Meanwhile, of the 548 oxygen plants proposed in the state, 497 are functional, including 126 under the PM Cares fund.No fresh case in LucknowAlso on Saturday, no fresh Covid-19 case was reported in Lucknow. According to the state health department data, there are 33 active Covid-19 cases under treatment in Lucknow and a majority are in home isolation.Lucknow reports 22 fresh dengue casesThe state capital reported 22 fresh dengue cases on Saturday, taking the total number of dengue cases reported till now to over 500. During the day, notices were served to 53 houses where health teams spotted conditions favourable for mosquito breeding such as stagnant water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-has-only-138-active-covid-19-cases-cm-told-in-review-meeting-101633806037754.html
10-10-2021||Other||Raids on Hyderabad-based pharma major reveal unaccounted income of ₹550 crore: I-T dept||HyderabadThe income tax department on Saturday claimed to have unearthed unaccounted income to the extent of ₹550 crore and seized unexplained cash amounting to ₹142.87 crore from a Hyderabad-based major pharmaceutical group during a series of raids conducted on Wednesday.An official release from the income tax department said the pharmaceutical group is engaged in the manufacture of intermediates, Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) and formulations. Most of the products are exported to the USA, Europe, Dubai and African countries, the release said.Though the department did not mention the name of the pharmaceutical group, an official familiar with the development disclosed it as Hetero Drugs, which is the first pharmaceutical company in India to launch the generic version of Remdesivir injection, Covifor, used in the treatment of Covid-19.The Hetero Group is promoted by B Parthasarathy Reddy, a member of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams trust board. He was also one of the accused in the quid pro quo case being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation against YSR Congress party president and Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy.The CBI, in one its charge sheets filed in the court in 2012, charged Parthasarathy Reddy with investing in Jagan’s companies in return for certain favours granted by the AP government during Y S Rajasekhar Reddy regime.According to the I-T department release, during the search operation, which was carried out at about 50 locations in six states, several bank lockers have been found, out of which 16 lockers have been operated.“The searches have resulted in seizure of unexplained cash amounting to ₹142.87 crore so far. The unaccounted income unearthed is estimated to be in the range of about ₹550 crore till now,” it said.During the searches, hideouts were identified where second set of books of accounts and cash were found. Incriminating evidence in the form of digital media, pen drives and documents have been found and seized. Incriminating digital evidences were gathered from the software maintained by the company.The department said the searches also detected issues relating to discrepancies in purchases made from bogus and non-existent entities and artificial inflation of certain heads of expenditure.“Further, evidence of on-money payment for purchase of lands was also found. Various other legal issues were also identified such as personal expenses being booked in the company’s books and land purchased by related parties below government registration value,” it said.Further investigations and quantification of undisclosed income detected is in progress, the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/raids-on-hyderabad-based-pharma-major-reveal-unaccounted-income-of-550-crore-i-t-dept-101633806036523.html
10-10-2021||Pune||Administrator urges RBI for merger of Rupee Bank instead of liquidation||Administrator of the Rupee Co-op Bank CA Sudhir Pandit has urged the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for allowing the bank to be merged with another strong financial lender. Union minister for state for finance and banking Bhagwat Karad, who navigated the meeting, asked authorities for satisfactory resolution of the bank. Pandit requested RBI deputy governor Rajeshwar Rao that liquidation of the bank is not the solution. “Instead, we request for merger of the Rupee Bank with other strong bank and protection of depositors who have more than ₹five lakh of deposits,” he said. He brought to the notice of higher authorities of RBI that it is very necessary to protect the interests of high value depositors who are not insured at par with insured depositors. “If the bank goes into liquidation, then holders having more than ₹five lakh deposits and majority of whom are senior citizens may lose almost 65 per cent of their deposits,” he said. Karad also advised the authorities for satisfactory resolution of the bank. Pandit was hopeful about the outcome of the meeting. He also stated that Karad has assured to pursue the matter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/administrator-urges-rbi-for-merger-of-rupee-bank-instead-of-liquidation-101633805857136.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray, Rane trade barbs at inauguration of Chipi airport||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Union minister Narayan Rane traded barbs at the inauguration of the Chipi greenfield airport in Sindhudurg, where the two leaders shared the dais on Saturday. Civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia participated in the function through video conferencing. Thackeray and Rane came face to face for the first time since the Union minister was arrested for his remarks that he would have slapped the former for forgetting the years of India’s Independence in August, this year. The two leaders who shared the dais after several years did not greet each other while inaugurating the plaque of the airport and later while being seated next to each other. Without naming any Sena leader, Rane, in his speech, accused party leaders of corruption and stalling work on the airport, road project, and tourism-related projects in Konkan. Thackeray, meanwhile, indirectly took potshots at Rane stating that he was expelled from the party by Sena supremo Bal Thackeray for speaking “lies”. He further said this is not the place or time to criticise each other, adding that he would not let politics come in way of development.Thackeray flagged off the first flight from Chipi airport to Mumbai, while Scindia parallelly flagged off the flight virtually from Delhi. The airport was stuck for over three decades due to various reasons. The Sena and BJP are claiming credit for the project. The project is particularly important for tourism and the overall development of the Konkan region, which is the stronghold of Sena, and where BJP is trying to gain a foothold.Scindia who made it a point to speak in Marathi in his address said that the distance of 530km will be covered in just 50 minutes with the airport getting operational. He added, “We should have 20 to 25 aircraft (direct/connecting) for Sindhudurg, in the next five years.” The Chipi airport is built on 271 hectares of land in Chipi-Parule village in Sindhudurg district with an estimated cost of ₹520 crore. The construction commenced on February 19, 2013, by IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited, under Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation.Apart from Thackeray and Rane, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, Industries Minister Subhash Desai, tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray, other ministers and senior officials were present for the event in Sindhudurg.Rane accused the Sena leader of opposing the airport in the past and indulging in corruption by stalling the development projects. “In 2009, while carrying out bhoomi pujan of the airport, there was a protest opposing the airport. Those opposing the project are present on the stage today,” said Rane. He further alleged that the work on Mumbai-Goa national highway was also opposed by Sena leaders at several places in the district and they sought money to allow the work to continue.Rane, in his speech, took credit for the progress on the airport and overall development of the Sindhudurg district. “When Balasaheb asked me to go to Konkan in the late 90s, there was nothing here. When I became the minister [in Congress-NCP government] I gave ₹120 crore for roads, ₹118 crore for water supply. The reason for infrastructure development in Sindhudurg is Narayan Rane. No other name can be there,” he said.Thackeray too sought to take credit for the airport during his speech. “What someone did or should do is his lookout. I can talk a lot on that subject, but today is an important day. Why did it take so many years for the airport? Why did you have to wash the utensils for so many years? The project was sorted out when this government came to power,” said Thackeray, in an apparent response to Rane.Referring to Rane’s statement that the Sena patriarch never liked the people who lie, Thackeray said, “It is true. Therefore, Balasaheb had expelled such people from Shiv Sena at that time. This is also history.” In 2005, Bal Thackeray had expelled Rane from the Sena over anti-party activities.Thackeray, meanwhile, said that leaders from five political parties had come together on the stage for development. He quipped that the airline that started services in Sindhudurg was named Alliance Air for the same reason. He said that he does not create political hurdles for development. Explaining his point, Thackeray said, “You might not remember, but when you called me for [approval for] your college, I signed the file [approving it] immediately. I don’t want to bring politics and narrow mindedness in the development work.”Exchanges between Uddhav Thackeray and Narayan RaneUddhav Thackeray said:“When I was doing aerial photography of the forts in Maharashtra, I saw Sindhudurg fort. As far as I know, the fort was built by Shivaji Maharaj. Otherwise, somebody would say that he built it.” “Only the soil knows the pain because many time there are mango trees as well as are plants that have thorns. When such plants grow, what can the soil do besides cultivating it.”“Balasaheb had expelled such people [who lie] from Shiv Sena at that time. This is also history.”Narayan Rane said:“When Balasaheb asked me to go to Konkan in the late 90s, there was nothing here. I took inspiration from [Bala] Saheb.”“When I became the minister [in Congress-NCP government] I gave ₹120 crore for roads, ₹118 crore for water supply... No development has happened on the dam. What progress are you (Shiv Sena) talking about.” “Narayan Rane is the reason for infrastructure development in Sindhudurg. No other name can be there,” he said.“Merely invoking Shivaji Maharaj is not enough. Develop this district and show the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-rane-trade-barbs-at-inauguration-of-chipi-airport-101633805797307.html
10-10-2021||Mumbai||BJP proud of Hindutva but failed to save Hindus in Kashmir: Sena||After Sikhs and Kashmiri Pandits were targeted by terrorists in Kashmir, the Shiv Sena launched an attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying it speaks of Hindutva but failed to save Hindus in the Union Territory. The Sena, through an editorial in Saamana, said that the demonetisation has not ended the terror network in the valley as promised. It also said that claims made while abrogating Article 370 too have failed.Over the past few days, a militant group has killed civilians including a well-known Kashmiri Pandit ML Bindroo, a schoolteacher and principal of a government school. A group called The Resistance Force has claimed responsibility for the killings. So far seven people have died in six days, spreading panic among the minorities there.“The BJP workers, spokesperson and bhakts are everywhere. But they are not seen in Kashmir valley... BJP had spoken a lot about the ghar-wapasi of Kashmiri Pandit. Let alone going back, the remaining Pandits are fleeing the valley. You roam around being proud about Hindutva, but you have failed to save the Hindus in Kashmir,” an editorial said in Saamana, the Sena mouthpiece.The editorial further said that Pakistan is eyeing to enter Kashmir on the backs of the Taliban government in Afghanistan and added that Kashmir cannot be saved by “empty speeches, assurances and surgical strikes ahead of elections”. It added that the separatists in Kashmir have gained strength after the Taliban took over Afghanistan.“The government in Afghanistan is the sin of the Pakistanis, and Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan dreams to scale Kashmir valley with their (Taliban) support. Tell us how will you crush this dream? Empty speeches and assurances and surgical strikes ahead of elections will not save Kashmir and the Hindus. The surgical strike of note ban (demonetisation) did not work here,” the editorial said. As a policy, the Maharashtra unit of BJP does not comment on Saamana editorials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-proud-of-hindutva-but-failed-to-save-hindus-in-kashmir-sena-101633805503819.html
10-10-2021||Other||Law needed to honour Ram, Krishna: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad High Court has said that there is a need for Parliament to enact a law to honour Ram, Krishna, Ramayan, Gita and their authors, Maharishi Valmiki and Maharishi Ved Vyas, as they are the culture and heritage of the country.The court also said that there is a need to educate children on this issue by making it compulsory in all schools of the country to educate the children about Indian culture.Justice SK Yadav made these observations while allowing a bail application of one Akash Jatav of Hathras, accused of sharing objectionable images of Hindu deities on social media.The court allowed the bail application considering the plea of the applicant that he was in jail for the last 10 months and trial in his case was yet to commence and there was no chance that trial will conclude in the near future.The court further said that recently, the Supreme Court has given its decision in the Ram Janmabhoomi case in favour of the people who believe in Ram. Ram is the soul and culture of India and India is incomplete without Ram. The court also condemned the practice of caste discrimination.On the allegations against the applicant, the court said that there are many countries in the world where there is a provision of harsh punishment for such conduct but in India there is provision of lesser punishment in comparison to other countries.The court said that one should respect the deities and culture of the country in which he or she lives instead of making obscene remarks on such issues.“The Constitution of India allows one to be an atheist but it doesn’t mean that one can pass obscene remarks against gods and goddesses,” justice Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/law-needed-to-honour-ram-krishna-allahabad-hc-101633805257091.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police arrest five men for hatching conspiracy to robbery||The Sahnewal police arrested five men from a vacant plot in Kanganwal on Saturday while they were hatching a conspiracy to rob an ATM. Sharp-edged weapons, two stolen motorcycles and four mobile phones were recovered from their possession.The accused have been identified as Rajinder Kumar of Ram Nagar, Vikas alias Kekda of Prem Nagar, Ranbir Singh alias Bunty of Jaspal Bangar village, Shiv Kumar alias Shiva of Dhillon Chowk and Ashish Kumar of Mahadev Nagar.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the accused are involved in vehicle lifting and snatching and also robbed labourers returning from factories of their mobile phones and cash.He added that Shiva is the kingpin of the gang and is already facing trial in two cases of snatchings and burglaries. Rajinder and Ranbir have also been booked in four cases of snatchings and burglaries.A case under Sections 399 and 402 of Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at Sahnewal police station.Sub-inspector Balwinder Singh, station house officer at Sahnewal police station, said the accused are drug addicts and committed crimes to fund their addiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-arrest-five-men-for-hatching-conspiracy-to-robbery-101633805201798.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||Minister’s son arrested after 12 hours of questioning||Lucknow/Lakhimpur Kheri After nearly 12 hours of marathon questioning, the Lakhimpur police on Saturday arrested union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra at the crime branch office, said police officials privy to the investigation. Investigation committee head deputy inspector general Upendra Agarwal confirmed the arrest of Ashish Mishra at 10.40 pm, after 12 hours of interrogation. Agarwal came out of the Crime Branch office briefly and announced the arrest, saying: “He was arrested after he failed to cooperate in the interrogation. He could not inform or validate on various points regarding his whereabouts at the time of the incident. We will try to get information after getting him on police remand.” Post arrest, a preliminary medical examination of Ashish Mishra ‘Monu’ was done at the Crime Branch office itself by calling emergency medical officer Dr Akhilesh Kumar. The officials said Ashish was questioned about his location and involvement in the incident that resulted in the death of eight people, including four farmers, on October 3. A police official said the nine-member investigation committee headed by deputy inspector general (DIG), state police headquarters, Upendra Agarwal, along with senior committee member Sunil Kumar Singh, commandant of 10th battalion PAC, questioned Ashish Mishra. He said the committee had prepared 40 questions to be asked. Ashish presented multiple affidavits through his lawyer Awadhesh Singh, who accompanied him, he said, adding Ashish had not clarified about his location at the time of the incident. He said Ashish Mishra’s mobile phone was seized and video recording of the entire process was done by the investigation committee, which started questioning Ashish soon after he appeared before it at around 10.40 am. Lakhimpur Sadar MLA Yogesh Verma of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) also accompanied Ashish to the crime branch office. However, he stayed out of the interrogation room. Ashish Mishra appeared before the investigators after the second notice was pasted at his Lakhimpur residence on Friday, asking him to appear in connection with the violence in which eight people were kllled, including four farmers. He had failed to show up in response to the first notice and missed his 10 am deadline on Friday. The notice to Ashish Mishra was issued under Section 160 of the Criminal Procedure Code and he was asked to appear and present evidence that he was aware of the incident. Earlier on Thursday, UP police’s additional director general, law and order, Prashant Kumar had said the police identified six people as accused, three of them dead in the violence, the two accused who have been arrested and Ashish Mishra. Another accused was unidentified. To note, two accused Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey were arrested and sent to jail on Thursday. Meanwhile, the police raided several places in search of former union minister Akhilesh Das’s nephew Ankit Das in Lucknow and Lakhimpur Kheri after he was said to be accompanying Ashish Mishra in his SUV at the time of the incident. In videos of the incident shared on social media, Das’s black SUV was seen following the minister’s car that allegedly mowed down four farmers after which violence broke out. Ankit Das was not found but his driver has been taken into custody. Mobile use not allowed A source said DIG Upendra Agarwal was particular about his questions and did not allow use of mobile phone by anyone. He even sent three policemen out of the interrogation room after their mobile phone started ringing during the questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ministers-son-arrested-after-12-hours-of-questioning-101633805017065.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Minor among 3 held while recording movie at theatre||A minor was among three held on Saturday while recording a newly-released Punjabi movie, “Moosa Jatt”, on their mobile phone at a theatre in a multiplex. Police said the accused used to sell the recorded videos online, claiming it was the original print.The minor’s name been withheld while the other two have been identified as Ravi Kumar and Ranbir Singh of Dhuri Lines. The FIR was lodged based on the statement of Vikas Birdi, manager at the multiplex which is near Bhai Bala Chowk. Sub-inspector Rajinderpal Singh, station house office at Division Number 8 police station, said that a case under Copyright Act, Cinematography Act and Section 420 of Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-minor-among-3-held-while-recording-movie-at-theatre-101633804898446.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: NGOs demand pollution free air and water in Punjab||The Public Action Committee (PAC), Sutlej and Mattewara forest, organised a silent protest in front of the Dr BR Ambedkar statue near Jalandhar Bypass on Saturday. The protest was led by Colonel CM Lakhanpal. The activists demanded pollution free environment, especially clean air and water, from the state government as guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of IndiaAdvocate Inderjit Kaur, who specialises in human rights and was present at the protest said, “ The Supreme Court stated in its 1991 judgment in the Subhash Kumar vs state of Bihar case that the right to life guaranteed by Article 21 includes pollution-free water and air. Through this case, the court recognised the right to a wholesome environment as part of the fundamental right to life. The Punjab government has been shirking its duty of protecting citizens from polluted air and water. Our rivers have been mercilessly polluted and industries and municipal authorities have been dumping toxic sewage and effluents right under the nose of PPCB.”Puja Sen Gupta of Earthcare Welfare Society said , “Punjab needs eco-friendly industries, which do not damage its surface and underground water. The government should stop promoting industries which damage the natural resources of the state.”Jaskirat Singh of Naroa Punjab Manch said, “Government hides data which should be available in the public domain. No design documents of sewage or effluent treatment plants are available on the PPCB website. Be it the CETPs of the dyeing industry or STPs of the municipal corporation, not much information is available that a common citizen can download and see.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ngos-demand-pollution-free-air-and-water-in-punjab-101633804718140.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||Centre denies nod to Delhi govt’s doorstep ration delivery scheme||The central government has refused to approve the Delhi government’s ambitious doorstep delivery of ration scheme, arguing that it deviates from the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013. In a letter sent to Delhi’s food commissioner, the Centre said it cannot permit the proposal “in its current form”.“It is reiterated that the Delhi government should follow the norms and provisions of NFSA, 2013 in rightful spirit and manner while distributing food grains to the eligible NFSA beneficiaries under TPDS [Targeted Public Distribution System] and it is also conveyed that this department will have no objection if a separate scheme is made by the state government without mixing the elements of the NFSA food grains. It is, therefore, informed that all the statutory provisions of NFSA, 2013 are mandatory, and operation of TPDS as mandated shall be conducted in the manner prescribed under the NFSA, in order to ensure transparent and rightful targeting. The alleged proposal under consideration with the Delhi government for home delivery does not fulfil the norms of NFSA and therefore, is not permissible in its current form by the government of India,” said the letter sent by the under-secretary to the government of India to the city’s food commissioner on October 8.Also Read| Door to door survey in Nov to identify inactive ration cards: Delhi ministerThe letter evoked sharp criticism from the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government is colluding with the city’s “ration mafia”.“It must be noted that this letter came after the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers’ Sangh made a representation before Delhi LG [Lieutenant Governor] Anil Baijal against the scheme. This association includes the same people who went to court against the Delhi government. But, the high court had given a decision in favour of the Delhi government, which is now being violated by the Centre. This is a clear case of collusion between the BJP and the ration mafia. The BJP is using the central government’s machinery for their own political benefit,” said AAP chief spokesperson and Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj.The Union ministry of food and civil supplies said the letter is just a reiteration of the Centre’s earlier stand on the issue.“The Centre has only been talking about following the provisions of NFSA act passed by the Parliament. All ration distribution activities in states are to be done in accordance with the laid down statutes only. Let’s not drag government departments into politics,” said a spokesperson of the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution.Earlier this week, the Delhi government sent the file on doorstep delivery of ration to the LG for approval once again. This came after the Delhi high court on September 27 allowed the government to stop supplying food grains to fair price shops (FPS) for those who have chosen doorstep delivery over the physical collection. A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh took note of submissions by the AAP government that supplies made under the existing public distribution scheme will have to be curtailed so that food grains could be distributed door-to-door for those who want it.The LG office also did not respond when asked to comment on the issue on Saturday. However, senior officials in the LG office said that the file is still with Baijal and is yet to be sent back to the Delhi government.Nearly 7.2 million people in Delhi are eligible for subsidised food. They include 1.7 million ration card holders and nearly 3 million priority households. There are also other food-insecure categories identified by the Delhi government.Also Read| Transport of food grains in Delhi now an essential serviceThe doorstep delivery of ration scheme has been stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre. The scheme was to be launched on March 25. But the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 objecting to the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for the scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). The Centre also said that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament.The Delhi Cabinet on March 24 decided to change the name “Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna” for the scheme and to implement doorstep delivery of ration as part of the existing NFSA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-denies-nod-to-state-govt-s-doorstep-ration-delivery-scheme-101633803577203.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s annual air quality index worsens, to further deteriorate next week||With the withdrawal of monsoon from Delhi — and other parts of northwest India — on Friday, the Capital’s recent run of clear, clean, cerulean skies has started to give way to an annual veil of smog borne largely by stubble fires in neighbouring states. Data from the central pollution watchdog shows that the city’s air quality has seen a gradual, but sustained, drop over the past 10 days. And as farm fires pick up in Haryana and Punjab, Delhi’s air is only likely to get worse over the coming week.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday declared the withdrawal of the south-west monsoon from Delhi, which means that the moisture-laden easterly winds blowing over the Capital have now been replaced with dry, north-westerly winds. These winds will bring down temperatures, but push pollution levels, said weather forecasters.Recordings by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) show that as the wind patterns changed on Friday, air quality levels fell sharply.Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) reading, jumped from 127 on Thursday to 167 on Friday, and then to 171 on Saturday.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Experts said that this is the impact of stubble fires in the neighbouring agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana.Scientists from the United States’s National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) said that the rise in farm stubble burning is visible in the increased number of “fire dots” spotted over the region on satellite imagery.“Over the last one week, as the clouds have cleared up, there is a consistent increase in the number of fires appearing over north India. This will start impacting the region’s air quality,” said Pawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association.NASA’s fire map on Saturday showed a jump in fires over parts of Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, Ludhiana, Shahid Bhagat Singh Nagar and Sangrur in Punjab. In Haryana, fires were observed in parts of Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala, Yamuna Nagar, Karnal and Panipat.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also warned Delhiites of the impending deterioration of the city’s air quality in a series of tweets on Friday and Saturday.Kejriwal has tweeted out the city’s daily air quality for the past month to establish that the AQI in the city, with only local pollution sources at play is in the “acceptable” range, but as soon as farmers in the neighbouring states start setting their fields on fire, the air quality in Delhi starts taking a nosedive.“Pollution has started increasing. 09 Oct-AQI – 171...,” Kejriwal tweeted on Saturday.Weather forecasters warned that from October 15, temperatures will start falling, which will increase the share of stubble smoke in the city’s air.“At present, Delhi is largely getting north-westerly winds with some components of westerly winds, but there is a forecast of day and night temperatures falling from October 15, which will lead to the formation of haze because of the stubble fire smoke. The air quality is likely to get bad from here on,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather Services.Union Ministry of Earth Science’s air quality monitoring system, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also forecasted the impending worsening of air quality in Delhi. They also highlighted that the primary pollutants in the city’s air on Friday were “fire emissions and dust suspensions”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-annual-air-quality-index-worsens-to-worsen-next-week-101633803396777.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||Despite HC order, suspended AAP councillors not allowed to attend EDMC meet||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) called a special meeting of the House on Friday and discussed vector-borne diseases. Over a dozen suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillors were not allowed to attend the meeting, despite the Delhi high court’s Friday order allowing suspended members to attend the meeting. EDMC mayor Shyam Sundar Agarwal, who suspended the 17 AAP councillors for 15 days on September 27 over alleged indecent behaviour and obstruction of the proceedings of the House, said that since they did not receive the high court’s order before the meeting began, the suspended members were not permitted to attend. “By the time we received the court orders, the meeting was over,” he said. Leader of Opposition in EDMC, AAP’s Manoj Tyagi, alleged that the court’s permission was deliberately suppressed by officials of the municipal body, to restrict them from the meeting. “Our counsel informed us at 3.30pm that the high court has granted us permission to attend the House. But, EDMC officials continued to claim that the order was not communicated to them by the competent authority. As a result, we had no option except staging a peaceful sit-in outside the House. While we were suspended for raising our voice against corruption, by disobeying the order, the mayor and his supporters have shown their contempt to the court,” he said. Tyagi also said that his party will inform the court about the contempt. “The order of suspension was illegal and contrary to the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, which provides for suspension of a councillor only in the presence of two orders of withdrawal from two successive meetings within 15 days of each other. The EDMC is involved in corruption in collaboration with builders. We were suspended as we sought action against the officials, who cleared EDMC’s building plan for a temple without any field visit,” he said. The Delhi high court, on Friday, sought a response from EDMC on a petition challenging the suspension of AAP councillors for allegedly creating a ruckus in the House and granted permission to them to attend the special meeting held during the day. Issuing a notice on the petition and seeking a response from the EDMC mayor, Justice Rekha Palli said that this interim arrangement was subject to the members maintaining decorum at the House and sought EDMC’s response on the petition challenging the suspension order. “It is directed that by way of an interim arrangement, the petitioners be permitted to attend the special session of the respondent today. The same would however be subject to the undertaking by the senior counsel for the petitioner that they will maintain the decorum of the Sabha/House and it is clarified that the permission is granted to attend the session would be subject to the outcome of the petition. If the respondent is successful in showing (the legality of the suspension), the court will consider passing appropriate order regarding the presence of the petitioner in session today (Friday),” the order stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/despite-hc-order-suspended-aap-councillors-not-allowed-to-attend-edmc-meet-101633802976833.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Four firefighters injured while dousing blaze at factory in Narela||Four firefighters suffered burns, two of them seriously, in firefighting operations after a blaze set off an explosion which collapsed large portions of a three-storey factory engaged in manufacturing paper plates in Narela Industrial Area on Saturday.Fire department officials said the building, spread across 300 square metres, was operating without a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department. Nobody was inside the factory when the fire broke out.Of the four injured men, two of them -- identified as Manjeet and Praveen -- suffered nearly 40% burns and were admitted to the burn ward of Lok Nayak hospital where they were said to be critical till late Saturday night, officials said.A third fireman, Vijender, who suffered burns was also admitted to Lok Nayak but officials said he is out of danger. The fourth fireman, Brahm Singh, only suffered minor burns and few injuries to the leg, and was discharged soon, said Delhi Fire Services (DFS) director Atul Garg.“We first sent our injured firemen to a leading private hospital to provide them the best treatment. Unfortunately, the hospital did not have a burn ward. Without wasting any time, we admitted them to Lok Nayak hospital, where they are under the observation of doctors. We are closely monitoring their health status,” said Garg.Deputy commissioner of police (outer-north) Bijender Kumar Yadav said that around 7.30am, the police control room was informed about a fire in a factory in Narela Industrial Area.According to the fire department, initially 33 fire tenders were rushed to the spot as the factory was full of inflammable materials and the fire was growing in strength. It soon engulfed the entire building and thick smoke and flames started coming out of the windows and doors.“Nearly 120 firefighters were involved in dousing operations. Around 1.30pm, an explosion took place inside the building that had already developed some cracks because of the blaze. Four firemen were injured and half of the building came crashing down in the back,” said deputy chief fire officer Sunil Chaudhary, who was leading the operation, adding that no firefighting arrangements were in place at the factory.While the exact reason for the fire is not ascertained, senior fire officials suspect a short-circuit in the electric cables may have caused the blaze.“Prime facie, it appears that the presence of heavy smoke inside the factory building turned it into a gas chamber and it may have triggered the explosion. The impact of the explosion was such that the flames came out of the building fast and reached our firefighters, who were standing nearly 12 metres away from the factory to carry out firefighting operations. Half of the building also collapsed in the blast,” said Garg, adding that the factory did not have the fire NOC.DCP Yadav said “legal action will be taken in due course”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhifour-firefighters-injured-while-dousing-blaze-at-factory-in-narela-101633802496640.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||Freedom 251 scam mastermind held for framing brother-in-law in threat case||The Delhi Police on Saturday said they arrested Mohit Goel, the 34-year-old founder of Ringing Bells Company who allegedly masterminded the ₹200 crore Freedom 251 smartphone scam of 2016, along with two of his associates.The men were arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to frame Goel’s brother-in-law in connection with a case that involved threatening a rape survivor.Goel’s brother-in-law, Vikas Mittal, was booked and arrested in connection with a case involving the rape, drugging, and threatening of a woman at the Dwarka South police station in August 2020.According to the police, Goel considered Mittal a personal and business rival and suspected Mittal’s involvement in all the cases registered against him in 2016.Goel conspired with his personal security officer (PSO) Vineet alias Shanky and accomplice Sumit Yadav to frame Mittal in false cases, said joint commissioner of police (crime) Alok Kumar.Explaining the entire conspiracy, Kumar said that it all started with the registration of the rape case against Mittal in 2020. When Goel learnt about the case, he decided to settle his scores with him. First, he arranged a mobile phone and a SIM card using fake documents. When Goel learnt that Mittal, who was out on bail, had gone to Ujjain with his family, he sent Vineet there.“After reaching Ujjain, Vineet telephoned the rape survivor impersonating Mittal, threatened her and asked her to meet him (Mittal) at the Delhi airport. Vineet returned to Delhi in the same flight that Mittal and his family members were travelling in. As Mittal landed at Delhi airport, he was arrested by the police on charges of threatening the woman,” he said.On September 24, 2020, Goel sent Vineet to the Civil Lines area after he found out the woman was there. Vineet met her and threatened her at the Civil Lines Metro station. Goel’s other associate (Yadav) made sure to be in the vicinity and became a witness in the threatening case the woman filed at the Civil Lines police station.The police said that Goel and Yadav planned to trap Mittal further. On October 18, 2020, Vineet called up Yadav from Gurugram and pretended to threaten him with dire consequences if he did not withdraw his name as a witness. Then Yadav, who was in Jind (Haryana) at that time, fired four rounds in the air with a pistol, went to the local police station and got an attempt to murder case registered against Mittal and unknown persons.“Yadav, in his complaint, mentioned that he was subjected to a near-fatal attack because he was a witness in the threatening case lodged in Delhi by a rape survivor. The objective was to make the police believe that everything was happening on Mittal’s orders,” said the joint CP.Since the local police were not able to identify or trace the unknown caller who had been threatening the woman, the Supreme Court transferred the case to the crime branch.Investigators collected details of the flights between Delhi and Ujjain on the day the woman received the first threatening call and realised that Goel’s PSO Vineet had travelled in the same flight.On October 2 this year, the police arrested Vineet from a rented apartment in Gurugram and he confessed during interrogation. His interrogation led to Goel’s arrest from Noida and Yadav’s arrest from Chandigarh on October 5 and 6 respectively.Yadav is also wanted in connection with 12 cases registered in Noida against a fraudulent dry fruits company that he and Goel set up.Goel, who belongs to Shamli in Uttar Pradesh, founded the Ringing Bells Private Ltd company in 2016 to sell smartphones named Freedom 251 at ₹251 in India under the Central government’s Digital India Programme.Several cases were registered against him by distributors and dealers across India as he could not provide deliveries of the phones despite payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhifreedom-251-scam-mastermind-held-for-framing-brother-in-law-in-threat-case-101633802076565.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||32 construction firms fined ₹15 lakh as part of Delhi govt’s anti-dust drive||As part of its anti-dust campaign, the Delhi government on Saturday inspected 103 construction sites and fined 32 agencies around ₹15 lakh for violating dust control norms, said environment minister Gopal Rai.“In this anti-dust campaign, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) teams are visiting different districts and inspecting all construction sites. I had myself inspected the underpass construction work going on at Pragati Maidan earlier this week. There was a massive violation of the guidelines issued by the Delhi government there, after which strict action has been taken against them,” said the minister, who also conducted a surprise inspection of an under-construction commercial complex near Khyber Pass on Saturday.“While inspecting the construction work of the commercial complex on Saturday, we found no violation of the rules. I am happy that whatever guidelines have been issued by the government for the construction are being followed. Here, tin sheds and an anti-smog gun were installed. Water sprinkling was also being done. I appeal to all the private and government construction agencies in Delhi to carry out work while following the norms so that we can carry forward this fight against pollution with more strength,” said Rai.To control rising pollution levels in the Capital during the winter season, the Delhi government launched an anti-dust campaign across the city from October 7 to 29 to keep a check on construction agencies. The government released 14-point guidelines for the construction agencies in Delhi, including covering building sites with tin sheets and green covers, regular cleaning of vehicles carrying construction material and installation of anti-smog guns in sites with a built-up area of over 20,000 sqm, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/32-construction-firms-fined-rs-15-lakh-as-part-of-delhi-govt-s-anti-dust-drive-101633802016587.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fake call centre busted, 4 who posed as staff of e-commerce giant held||New Delhi: The city police on Saturday said they busted a fake call centre in south Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh and arrested four men who allegedly impersonated executives of a multinational company dealing in e-commerce and targeted US citizens. Police said they seized 10 mobile phones, four laptops, two desktop computers, and other items.Police received information about the fake call centre late on Wednesday night, following which a team raided the place around 4.30am on Thursday. Investigators said four men, who were present at the spot, allegedly tried to flee but were stopped by the police team.Deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Esha Pandey said a case of impersonation, cheating and criminal conspiracy was registered and the four were arrested. The suspects, who were identified as Mohammad Mukarram Hussain, Arjun Singh Saini, Gagan Bhatia and Shadab Ahmad alias Shadab Mullick, have no prior criminal record, she said.According to police, Mullick has completed his B.Tech in Mechanical Engineering, Saini holds a diploma in computer engineering, and the other two are Class 12 passouts. Explaining the modus operandi of the gang, DCP Pandey said that the arrested men created a fake website claiming to be the service provider of the MNC and posted virtual toll free numbers. Police said they managed to push their website to the top of search engine results.“When gullible victims (mostly from the US) called, they tricked the customers into buying gift cards of the company and share the details with them. They further redeemed the cards into US dollars, Bitcoins, and Indian currency on a trading platform through an app,” said Pandey, adding that efforts were being made to nab more co-accused in the case.More than 350 people have been arrested and nearly 20 fake call centres targeting citizens of the US and the UK through various cheating modus operandi have been busted in the past six months by the Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhifake-call-centre-busted-4-who-posed-as-staff-of-e-commerce-giant-held-101633801781893.html
10-10-2021||Delhi||100% threshhold eases in 7 courses as DU releases 2nd cut-off list for admission||Of the 11 courses in eight colleges that saw 100% cut-off under the first list last week, only three -- Political Science (Hindu College), Computer Science (Hansraj College), and Psychology (Jesus and Mary College) -- have closed admissions under the second cut-off list released on Saturday by Delhi University administration.The remaining courses with 100% cut-off have seen a marginal drop, ranging from 0.25 to 1.50 percentage points, except for Ramjas College, which has continued with the 100% cut-off in Political Science in the second list as well.Jesus and Mary College, which announced 100% cut-off for Psychology (Honours) for students who did not have psychology in their best-of-four results (and 99% for those with psychology in the best-of-four), announced on Saturday that there was not going be a second cut-off in any subject except BA Honours in Hindi (68%) and B. Vocational studies (84% for Retail management and IT; 82% for Healthcare management).Ramjas College, which had kept 100% cut-off in three subjects, has allowed admissions in all three courses under the second cut-off. While the college has continued with 100% cut-off in Political Science, it has reduced cutoffs in Physics (99.33%) and BA programme (99.5%). The college has, however, closed admissions in its B.Com programme after recording over-admissions.Tanvir Aeijaz, head of Political Science department at Ramjas college, said, “There are two spots left as two students had not paid the fee. We admitted 29 students in the UR (unreserved) category for 31 seats. This is why we decided to keep it open at the same percentage for second cut-off.”Hindu College saw a record number of admissions this year as a result of which they have closed admissions in 16 undergraduate courses. The college is accepting applications only for B.Com (Honours) and Economics, where the cut-offs have come down by 0.75 and 0.50 percentage points respectively. The college has admitted 1,784 students against its sanctioned strength of 937 for merit-based courses.Anju Shrivastava, principal of Hindu College, said it was unlikely that these subjects would open for UR category students in the subsequent lists. “There might be one or two stray cases but even that is unlikely because in most courses we have admitted twice or thrice the capacity of students in UR category. This is why we reduced the cut-off in commerce courses below one percent.”Authorities at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies – who had originally set a 100% cutoff in Computer Science – have reduced it to 98.5% in the second list after receiving no applications in the unreserved category under the first cut-off.Same is the case with Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College which had set a cut-off of 100% for its B.Com course and reduced it to 98.75% on Saturday, after recording no admissions for the course.Shri Ram College of Commerce has reduced the 100% cut-off in its two courses – BCom (Honours) and Economics – by 0.88 and 0.25 percentage points, locking it at 99.12% and 99.75% respectively.Popular courses such as Economics, English, History, Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics have seen a drop in the range of 0.25 to 2 percentage points in most colleges, keeping it in the range of 96-100%. Officials said students, who have scored below 90%, have little chance of securing admission for these courses in the unreserved category.Meanwhile, most off-campus colleges have exercised caution while reducing cut-off in the second list as well.Rajesh Kumar Dwivedi, admissions convener at Aryabhatta College, said the college has decided to reduce cut-offs mostly in the range 0.25-1 percentage point, as 50% of its seats were filled under the first cut-off.“We haven’t reduced the cut-offs beyond this range because around 150 students become eligible with the reduction of just one mark, which corresponds to a drop of around 0.25 percentage points. Even if we get 10% of that number of students, we will record over-admissions,” he said.For Computer Science, which emerged as a popular course this year as three colleges set 100% cut-off in the subject, admissions are closed in eight out of the 20 colleges offering the course.Many colleges have either closed admissions in Political Science or have continued to set high cut-offs in the subject. Out of the 45 colleges offering Political Science, admissions are closed in 13 colleges, and cut-offs in the remaining range from 97%-100% in the second list.For courses such as Psychology (offered in 11 colleges), Sociology (offered in nine colleges), and Journalism (offered in seven colleges), admissions are open in nine, seven, and five colleges, respectively, under the second list.Eligible students wanting to study Political Science can still apply to Ramjas College (100%), Lady Shri Ram College (99.5%), Kirori Mal College (99.25%), Sri Venkateswara College (99.25%), Daulat Ram College (98.75%), and IP College (97.75%).Unlike Political Science, English is still open in the second cut-off in more colleges, such as LSR (98.75%), Hansraj College (98.5%), Ramjas College (98.25%), and Sri Venkateswara College (98%).Of the 70,000 sanctioned undergraduate seats in around 65 colleges in the varsity, 36,130 had been filled under the first cut-off.Admissions under the second cut-off will be conducted between Monday and Wednesday and students can pay their fee till 5 pm on October 15. The third cut-off list is slated to come on October 16.The university is expected to release five cut-offs, followed by a special cut-off to close admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/100-threshhold-eases-in-7-courses-as-du-releases-2nd-cut-off-list-for-admission-101633801776648.html
10-10-2021||Pune||Water quality between Khadakwasla dam and Mundhwa bridge most polluted: Report||According to the Namami Chandrabhaga report 2019, the water along the stretch of river between Khadakwasla dam and Mundhwa bridge (Pune Municipal Corporation/PMC area) was found to be of poor quality as the dissolved oxygen reduces by 42.6% and the BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) increases 6.1 times only to then reduce to an increase of 4.8 times.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) – which studied the river samples at multiple spots – found that the dissolved oxygen levels, which should be 5mg/litre, are 6.62mg/litre at the Khadakwasla dam source; 3.70mg/litre along the Mutha river at Sangam bridge; and 3.80mg/litre at Mundhwa bridge.While the main cause of pollution along this stretch of river is sewage runoff as faecal coliform increases 10 times in the western part of Pune city, other sources include: industrial pollution from chemical industries such as electroplating; agricultural runoff containing fertilisers; and untreated sewage. However, the report also found that when fresh water from sources such as the Ghod river merges with the existing river, it rejuvenates the health of the river to some extent proving that rivers can be rejuvenated and the damage possibly reversed.In the wake of the report, the Pune district administration is now considering a proposal put forward by Vision Earthcare Private Limited to build five sewage treatment plants (STPs) at five different locations along the Bheema river, also known as the Chandrabhaga river in the holy city of Pandharpur. The STPs will be based on Continuous Advanced Multistage System using Soil Biotechnology (CAMUS-SBT) that was invented by professor H S Shankar, department of chemical engineering, IIT Bombay.Dr Chandrashekhar, director and CEO, Vision Earthcare, said, “The plants could be commissioned within a year when we get the approval. The STPs will not only ensure that the sewage water is treated but also that the treated water is potable and can be used for multiple purposes. It is not just about rejuvenating the river but also about reversing the damage caused to the health of the residents of all the villages downhill who use the same river as a source of drinking water. A lot of waterborne ailments can be controlled once the water is treated effectively.”Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune zilla parishad, said, “Along with this, we are also in talks for public consultancy with the villages. This is a proposal which will need approval from multiple authorities. Once approved, we can take it up along with multiple authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chandrabhaga-found-polluted-between-khadakwasla-dam-and-mundhwa-bridge-report-101633795655815.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri incident: Akhilesh Yadav says farmers, law being crushed||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and said that farmers and the law were being crushed.The way police served summons (on Union minister of state Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra), it was like giving samman (bestowing respect) or offering a bouquet instead of bringing them (the accused) to book, Akhilesh Yadav said at a press conference at the SP state headquarters in Lucknow.“You have seen how a vehicle ran over farmers who were fighting for their rights... It is as if instead of giving summons, a bouquet was being given. The summons is only in name, and (in reality) samman (honour) is given.”His remarks came barely a few hours before Ashish Mishra was arrested in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.Ashish Mishra was asked to appear before the police on Friday, but he did not do so. The Uttar Pradesh Police then issued a fresh notice asking him to appear before it by 11am on Saturday and he finally did so.Accusing the UP government of shielding the guilty, the SP chief again demanded the resignation of Ajay Mishra Teni from the Union Council of Ministers.“The MoS had said that he has been an MP, MLA, but he has also been something else and was threatening the farmers,” he alleged.He also said the BJP’s “dumdaar (powerful)” stance is only for “protecting the powerful”.The reference was to the BJP government’s hoarding in Lucknow using the tagline “Dumdaar”. “The government claims that it is a dumdaar sarkaar. Is the government only for the powerful and not for the farmers? In the coming time, the BJP will be wiped out,” he warned.The family members of the aggrieved persons wanted justice and punishment for the guilty, he said.“The law of the country is being pulverised under the tyres of a jeep,” he said.He said though there was evidence and the Supreme Court had rapped the government, this government was in slumber over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident and tried to save the accused.Reacting to Akhilesh Yadav’s statement that the BJP government was crushing the law and other allegations, UP cabinet minister and government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh told a TV news agency: “A fair investigation under a retired high court judge is on; some of the accused have been arrested, others are begin interrogated...And during Akhilesh ji’s tenure as the chief minister, more than 200 riots happened and a journalist in Shahjahanpur was burnt alive after he said something against his government.”(With agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-incident-akhilesh-yadav-says-farmers-law-being-crushed-101633793795486.html
10-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri: Farmer groups announce antim ardas in Tikunia on October 12||Farmer groups have announced that antim ardas (last prayers) will be held on October 12 for the deceased Sikh farmers at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri district, where eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed on October 3. The announcement made by farmers groups on Friday night has alerted the local administration.A poster under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha of Lakhimpur inviting people to pay their last respects to the farmers killed in the violence was circulated in Lakhimpur and the nearby districts on Saturday. The poster states that the antim ardas for the farmers will be held at the Maharaja Agrasen Inter College ground in Tikunia.Satwant Singh, an office bearer of Samyukt Kisan Morcha in the district, said, “The antim ardas will be held peacefully in Tikunia. We will seek permission from the administration for the same.” Mandeep Singh, the son of deceased farmer Nachhatar Singh, said the family is yet to decide the place where the antim ardas of his father will be held. Farmer leaders had earlier given a deadline to the state government for meeting their demands in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The farmer leaders were demanding the resignation of junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni, and his arrest along with his son Ashish Mishra, who is the main accused in the incident. Ashish Mishra was arrested on Saturday night hours after he reached the office of crime branch in Lakhimpur for questioning on Saturday after having skipped a summons on Friday. “The Union minister (Teni) should be arrested. We have given till 12th. There is a meeting on October 12th after that we will take the next decision,” farmer leader Rakesh Tikait told the press in New Delhi on Saturday. In a press conference held in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday, Tikait had made a similar announcement.According to people aware of the issue, the local administration has started making preparations for the event. Lakhimpur Kheri district magistrate Arvind Kumar Chaurasiya said, “The family members of the deceased farmers have not approached us regarding any such programme. The administration will think it over in the light of the recent incident and prohibitory orders, which are in place before giving permission for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-farmer-groups-announce-antim-ardas-in-tikunia-on-october-12-101633793742373.html
10-10-2021||Chandigarh||Emblems of Empowerment: In the midst of a pandemic, Tanzeela Naqshbandi took the start-up plunge||In the midst of a pandemic, when the world was looking at business closures and job losses, Tanzeela Naqshbandi, 26, took the leap of faith and opened a boutique in North Kashmir’s Baramulla town. Though the first from her family to venture into the business field, Naqshbandi’s gamble paid off. Her boutique, a first-of-its-kind in Baramulla, became an instant hit as it had clothes of the latest trends. “To my surprise, my boutique was a hit with not just women, but men too. Many of them visit my store and compliment my work,” says Naqshbandi, who has given an indigenous name ‘Qoraab’, to her enterprise. Qoraab essentially means folded sleeves of Pheran, a long Kashmiri gown. “In a rural town like Baramulla, it takes time to flourish in business. But I am happy and satisfied with the response of the clientele,” says the 26-year-old who plans to open more such boutiques in other parts of Kashmir. Naqshbandi currently employs around 10 women and hopes to create more jobs. “Though I completed my masters in English in the midst of the pandemic, I did not want to sit at home after that. I am happy that not just have I become financially independent, but have also created jobs for others,” she says. She adds, “It wasn’t easy for me to venture into the business field. Both my parents were former government employees and had no business experience. Relatives and friends wanted me to get a government job but now they do feel proud after seeing my business venture flourishing.” Naqshbandi is grateful for the support her family provided her. “I had meagre savings. My mother and brother played a huge role in making my venture a success. They are my biggest inspiration,” says the 26-year-old. Her message for other girls, hoping to set out on the entrepreneurial journey: “Nothing is impossible if you want to do it; I always wanted to do something different, but I was waiting for the right time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/emblems-of-empowerment-in-the-midst-of-a-pandemic-she-took-the-start-up-plunge-101633791696148.html
