11-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi asks officials to stay alert to maintain peace during festive season ahead||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked officials concerned to make concerted efforts to maintain a peaceful atmosphere in the state, now that the festive season has begun. He asked officials in each district to hold a dialogue with the Durga Puja committees, religious leaders, farmer organisations and civil society to make sure festivals are conducted peacefully and with everyone’s cooperation.Yogi issued the instructions at a Covid-19 review meeting he held on Monday and added, “All the district magistrates, police department and all the wings of the administration should stay alert and careful at all times.”He also added that the administration and police must also watch out for and act against miscreants and riotous elements that might disturb peace.The government also issued guidelines to maintain law and order and communal harmony. The public was urged to ensure strict compliance of instructions given to prevent Covid-19 during this festive period.For the establishment of Durga Puja Pandals and Ram Leela stages, the government stated that care should be taken that traffic is not affected. Small vehicles should be used for the immersion of idols as much as possible and a minimum number of people should be involved in the programme.Regarding Covid-19 status in the state, the CM said that in the last 24 hours only 12 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection were reported from across the state and the total number of active Covid-19 cases in the state was 142.Regarding Covid-19 vaccination, he said that so far, the state has administered 11.5 crore doses of the vaccine and 61% population in the eligible age groups have been given at least one dose of the vaccine.Prices of essential commoditiesYogi said that some spurt in the prices of edible oils and pulses has come to notice. He asked officials concerned to take steps to control prices and check hoarding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-asks-officials-to-stay-alert-to-maintain-peace-during-festive-season-ahead-101633976707873.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi launches mobile anganwadis for kids; day-care services, 50 creches added||In order to fulfil the nutritional and educational needs of those children who are unable to reach anganwadis, Delhi government on Monday launched mobile anganwadis which would also provide early childhood education and food to children across Delhi.“Now mobile Anganwadis will reach the children across Delhi. The Delhi Government’s mobile Anganwadi will reach those children who were not able to reach Anganwadis due to any reason and will provide them nutritious food as well as fulfil their educational and health-related needs,” the Delhi government said in a press release, while launching the initiative on occasion of International Girl Child Day.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “The goal of the Kejriwal government is to reach even the most marginalised communities and people of the society through its schemes and to change their lives for the better.”Women and Child Development minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said, “50 creches and day-care services for children below the age of 6 years have also been added to Saheli Samanvay Kendras. 329 supervisors and 10,245 Anganwadi workers have also been given digital training on Early Childhood Care Education through the nutrition tracker app.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-launches-mobile-anganwadis-for-kids-day-care-services-50-creches-added-101633975927475.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Count of police escorts to be hiked in trains during festive season||Security onboard running trains has been reviewed and tightened following the recent shocking incident of gang rape of a 20-year-old woman by eight robbers on the Lucknow-Mumbai Pushpak Express train in Maharashtra. Taking a serious view of the incident and the forthcoming festive season during which rush onboard trains, especially of women, increases significantly, the North Central Railway (NCR) has decided to increase the vigil by armed police escort teams on all trains and also hike their numbers as per need. The counts of women police personnel to maintain on running trains are also being increased so that they can better establish contact with women passengers and extend help for any security-related trouble that they may be experiencing during the journey, informed NCR officials. NCR has asked all its three divisions including Prayagraj, Agra and Jhansi to ensure heightened vigil on board the trains during the entire festive season, especially of women passengers, said chief public relations officer (CPRO) of NCR Shivam Sharma. He informed that to improve the security of women passengers on board trains, the Indian Railways has already implemented the “Meri Saheli” initiative which is further being strengthened. This initiative was launched as a pilot project by the railway protection force (RPF) across the South-eastern Railway for the security of women passengers in trains originating in that zone. Considering its success in instilling a sense of security among women passengers, this initiative has been rolled over to all zonal railways across the Indian Railways’ network from October 17, 2020, including NCR. “Meri Saheli” initiative has been launched to provide safety and security to lady passengers travelling by trains for their entire journey from originating station to terminating station. Dedicated teams of lady RPF personnel have been formed across all zonal railways for its implementation. Officials said that the deployment of RPF guards including women RPF personnel in ladies’ coaches is decided based on the vulnerability of the trains/sections concerned, timing, location of the area, threat perception of the hinterland, analysis of the past crime of data among others. Therefore, the deployment is dynamic and keeps changing from time to time. Under the initiative, a team of women officers and staff visit all of the passenger coaches including ladies’ coaches to identify women passengers. Details of their journey like coach number and seat number are noted down by the team, especially if a woman is travelling alone on the train. The passengers are briefed about integrated helpline number 139 and other precautions, for example, not to take food from strangers, buying food from IRCTC authorized stalls only and taking care of luggage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-count-of-police-escorts-to-be-hiked-in-trains-during-festive-season-101633975567499.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: Elderly man shot dead, two sons injured||A 62-year-old man was shot dead while his two sons were assaulted and injured by around a dozen miscreants at Yarna Kotia village under Sarai Inayat police station of trans-Ganga area of the district late Sunday night. Senior police officials reached the spot and carried out investigations. On the complaint of one of the injured, an FIR has been lodged against two named and some unidentified persons, police said. It is reported that the assault was a fallout of the suicide of a woman married to one of the sons of the deceased. According to reports, 62-year-old Mithialal Bind, his wife Rajjo Devi 58, his sons Abhishek 24 and Arvind 32 were asleep in his house situated close to the main road. Late in the night, around a dozen miscreants barged into their house and attacked them with iron rods and other weapons. The assailants tried to flee when locals rushed to the house on hearing the cries of family members. However, Mithialal caught the hand of one of the attackers despite being seriously injured. In a bid to rescue himself, the attacker whipped out a pistol and shot at Mithialal in the chest. The attackers fled while Mithialal died before he could be taken to the hospital. Sarai Inayat police reached the spot and admitted the injured to the nearest community health centre where the doctors referred them to SRN hospital. The body of the aged man was sent for autopsy, police added. Mithialal’s wife Rajjo Devi informed police that her son Arvind was married to Arti of Kathauta village in Phulpur. However, the couple was not in good relations and Arti committed suicide by hanging herself in November 2019. On the complaint of Arti’s brother Mahesh, an FIR was lodged against Arvind and other members of the family. Arvind was released on bail around two and half months back. Police questioning further revealed that Arvind was threatened by his in-laws after his marriage was fixed to a woman. Arti’s kin was pressuring him to give half of his land in the name of his two children Riya and Ritik who live with their maternal grandparents. SHO of Sarai Inayat police station Rakesh Chaurasia said on the complaint of Arvind, an FIR has been lodged against Mahesh Bind, Rohit and some unidentified persons. Some suspects have been rounded up for questioning, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-elderly-man-shot-dead-two-sons-injured-101633975147535.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab announces ex-gratia, govt job to kin of soldiers killed in J&K encounter||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday announced an ex-gratia grant of ₹50 lakh and a government job to one member each of the bereaved families of the three soldiers who lost their lives in a gunfight with the terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch sector, informed the Chief Minister's Office.Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh Sena Medal, Naik Mandeep Singh and Sepoy Gajjan Singh, lost their lives in a gunfight with the terrorists Poonch sector on Monday.Extending his sympathies with the bereaved families of the brave soldiers, the chief minister said that their utmost dedication to defending the country's unity and integrity, even putting their lives at stake would ever inspire their fellow soldiers to perform their duties with far more devotion and commitment.As per the statement issued by the Punjab CMO, Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh of unit 4 Mech Infantry, (one Sikh), hailed from Village Mana Talwandi in district Kapurthala and is survived by his wife Sardarni Raj Kaur and daughter Samarjit Kaur.Naik Mandeep Singh of 11 Sikhs, was from Village Chhatha Shira, near Ghanike Bangar (Aliwal to Fatehgarh churian road) in district Gurdaspur and he is survived by his wife Sardarni Mandeep Kaur and two sons who are three years and two months old respectively. Sepoy Gajjan Singh of 23 SIKH who belonged to Village Pachranda, Nurpur Bedi in District Ropar was married just four months ago and is survived by his wife Sardarni Harpreet Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-announces-ex-gratia-govt-job-to-kin-of-soldiers-killed-in-j-k-encounter-101633974476984.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi begins using Pusa bio-decomposer spray in fields to curb stubble burning||The Delhi government started spraying the Pusa bio-decomposer across farms in the city, environment minister Gopal Rai said on Monday. Rai said the process began in the fields at Fatehpur Jat village, adding that it will be done at more villages in the coming weeks. The bio-decomposer has been developed to resolve the problem of stubble burning, a major contributor to air pollution in the capital. The solution decomposes the stubble and can turn the residue into organic manure in just 15-20 days. “The bio-decomposer has helped the Delhi government achieve great results in making stubble management pollution-free. The number of farmers getting the spraying done has doubled as compared to last year. Those farmers who have still not taken part in this environment-friendly practice can register themselves by calling on- 9643844287,” Rai told reporters. He added, “Pollution in Delhi increases during winters. It includes pollution from dust, vehicles, garbage burning, and biomass but the most crucial problem is stubble burning. This time the Delhi government has decided to sprinkle twice as much decomposer on more farms in Delhi.” The minister said the government has received applications for about 4,000 acres of farmland that will be sprayed with the decomposer. Last year, it was sprayed on 2,000 acres of farmland. Rai said, “The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) has asked us to get a third-party audit done. We got it done by a central government agency, which heaped praises on its performance. We submitted the reports to the CAQM and also approached the union environment minister and state governments of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Punjab.” Rai said the problem of stubble burning will require coordination among all state governments concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-begins-using-pusa-bio-decomposer-spray-in-fields-to-curb-stubble-burning-101633974307823.html
11-10-2021||Noida||Three arrested for attacking Dalit family in Greater Noida||Tension prevailed in Kanpur village under the Rabupura police station limits after some members of a Dalit family were allegedly attacked by members of another community over taking out a procession in honour of Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar on Sunday. Police on Monday arrested three persons for allegedly assaulting the Dalit community members.Police said that a group of Dalits were carrying out the procession. When the procession reached the area where people belonging to an upper caste live, some people from the other community objected to the procession and asked them to return. An argument ensued between the two communities and the procession dispersed, police said.However, some people of the other community later barged into the house of a Dalit man and attacked him and his family members, said Dinesh Kumar Yadav, station house officer of Rabupura police station. A Bhim Army member, Bachchan (uses single name), filed a complaint at Rabupura police station on Sunday. The victim, 40, his wife, 38, and two sons aged 18 and 20 received serious injuries, police said, adding that the woman victim was also molested by the suspects. “Three others escaped with minor injuries. A case was registered against 10 named and some unnamed people under sections 147 (rioting), 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (sexual harassment) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and also under section 3(1) of SC/ST Act,” the SHO said. On Monday, police conducted a search and arrested three suspects – Raj Kumar, 52, Manish Kumar, 30 and Sumit, 28 – from Kanpur village. Chandra Shekhar Aazad, Bhim Army founder, tweeted some photos of the injured victims and demanded action against the suspects involved in the crime. “Members of ‘Thakur’ community assaulted a group of Dalits for holding a meeting on Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar. Several people, including women, are injured,” he tweeted.A police team has been deployed in the village to maintain law and order, officials said. “The suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody. We are conducting searches to arrest more people involved in the crime,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-arrested-for-attacking-dalit-family-in-greater-noida-101633973767354.html
11-10-2021||Noida||In a first, owners of 10 vehicles fined for HSRP violation in Noida||For the first time, the Noida transport department conducted an enforcement drive on Monday and fined the owners of 10 vehicles who had not upgraded their number plates to High Security Registration Plates (HSRP). Each vehicle owner was fined ₹5,000, said officials.Prashant Tiwari, assistant regional transport officer (ARTO-enforcement) Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the transport department has started issuing fines for HSRP violations.“On Monday we issued 10 fines-- seven were owners of commercial vehicles and three were owners of private vehicles. Each violator was issued a fine of ₹5000 as per the rules. During the enforcement drive, we also spotted 18 vehicles that did not have HSRPs but the drivers/owners produced booking receipts. They were let go as they would fix the HSRPs on their vehicles in the next few days,” he said.Tiwari said that the enforcement drive will continue in Noida. He urged people to get HSRPs fixed on their vehicles to avoid fines.The Uttar Pradesh government had set a deadline of September 30 for owners to install HSRPs on their vehicles.HSRPs are a new type of number plates made of aluminium. They are supposed to be tamper-proof and come with two non-reusable locks. The ministry of road transport and highways has mandated all vehicles sold in India before April 01, 2019, must have HSRPs. Those registered after the aforementioned date already come with HSRPs.There are around 787,000 registered vehicles in the district, of which 450,000 vehicles do not have HSRPs, according to data from the transport department.The ARTO said that traffic police also seized four private buses for permit violations.“The department also seized 20 other buses on Monday for violating the commercial tax rules,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-a-first-owners-of-10-vehicles-fined-for-hsrp-violation-in-noida-101633973408688.html
11-10-2021||Noida||Jewar gang rape: One held, cops announce ₹25k reward for main suspect’s arrest||Police on Monday arrested a man in connection with the gang rape of a 55-year-old Dalit woman in Jewar on Sunday. They identified the suspect as 36-year-old Devdutt alias Devu.Vrinda Shukla, DCP women safety, said police investigated the matter and found Devu was one of the four suspects in the case. “We showed his photo to the woman, who identified him. He has been arrested. We have launched a search for the other suspects,” she said.On Sunday, the woman had named 28-year-old Mahender from her village and three other men, including Devdutt, as the perpetrators. Police on Monday declared a reward of ₹25,000 for any information leading to Mahender’s arrest. The woman’s family members said a police team visited them and assured them the rest of the suspects will be arrested soon. The woman lives with her husband and five children in Jewar village. The woman’s nephew, who works in a private hospital in Noida, said that the incident took place between 9.30am and 10.30am on Sunday. “My aunt had gone to trim grass in the field about 700 metres away from our home. Four persons caught her and gang-raped her in the field. She somehow walked back home and collapsed outside the house. The family found her bleeding profusely,” he said. He said that the woman told them that four persons took turns to rape her in the field. “She identified Mahender. We immediately called police and informed them about the matter. We took her to the local primary health centre in a private vehicle. The police team reached there and rushed her to the district hospital in Noida,” he said. DCP Vrinda Shukla said that the main suspect Mahender grazes cattle in the fields. “Primary investigation shows Mahender and his accomplices gang-raped the woman. A case has been registered against them under Section 376-D (gang-rape), Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the SC/ST Act,” she said. Vishal Pandey, additional DCP, Greater Noida, said the police teams were conducting raids to arrest the suspects. “The suspects will be arrested soon,” he said. Gang rape survivors from Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes are entitled to receive a minimum compensation of ₹7.5 lakh as per the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Rules, 1995. Noida police, in a press statement, said that the Uttar Pradesh government has approved the proposal for the woman. “The woman will get ₹2.5 lakh on Tuesday... The rest of the amount will be delivered in a time-bound manner,” it said. The Noida police also recommended assistance to the woman through UP Rani Laxmi Bai Mahila Samman Kosh. This fund will provide financial assistance of ₹3-10 lakh for the woman and her kin for their medical and educational needs.Bahujan Samaj Party chief and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati on Monday tweeted and demanded strict action in the case. “The gang rape of a Dalit woman in Gautam Budh Nagar is a shameful incident. The UP government must deliver justice to the victim and take strict action against the suspects,” she wrote.Leaders of some political parties also visited the woman’s family and expressed solidarity with them. Pankhuri Pathak, Congress’ national media panellist, said that a delegation visited the woman’s family to enquire about her welfare. “The woman is admitted to the district hospital in Noida. She suffered serious injuries and also underwent a surgery. We demand the government punish the suspects involved in the crime,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jewar-gang-rape-one-held-cops-announce-25k-reward-for-main-suspect-s-arrest-101633973407504.html
11-10-2021||Noida||Repair of CISF Road in Ghaziabad: UPPCB may act against contractor||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) may initiate legal action against the contractor hired by the UP Jal Nigam for allegedly delaying the repair work of CISF Road in Indirapuram. Officials of UPPCB said that the dug-up road is impacting the air quality of the area. The CISF Road, which is used by thousands of commuters from Sahibabad, Vasundhara, and Indirapuram, among other areas, was dug up last year by the Jal Nigam for laying of pipeline to augment the discharge of treated water from the sewage treatment plants at Indirapuram. Though the work for the pipeline project ended in January this year, the road is yet to be repaired, the officials said, adding that the Vasundhara to NH-9 side of the road is causing massive air pollution due to numerous potholes and dust. “In May, we sent a letter to the Jal Nigam after which they intimated their vendor to expedite the repair work. But as of today, the road revamp work has not taken place. So, we have written to our headquarters for permission to prosecute Jal Nigam’s contractor. Once this is obtained, we will move the court under the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad. Ghaziabad has four air quality monitoring stations at Indirapuram, Vasundhara, Sanjay Nagar and Loni. Recently, the state government directed that all roads should be made pothole-free by October 30, citing a rise in pollution levels during the winter season. When asked, officials of the Jal Nigam said that the road repair and restoration work will be expedited. “The repair work for the road will start from tomorrow while the restoration works will begin from Monday next week. The work got delayed as the hot mix plant of our contractor was submerged in water last month. It is likely that the road will get repaired by October 30 as directed by the state government,” said Sanjay Gautam, general manager of UP Jal Nigam.The dug-up road is not only causing issues to commuters but also affecting residents of high-rises built near the road. “Our high-rise is adjacent to the road and residents have been suffering from polluted surroundings for more than a year now. Due to pending road repair, the works of utility services like cleaning of drains and streetlights have also suffered. We approached authorities many times, but to no avail,” said Kapil Tyagi, president of Divyansh Pratham, a high-rise. “The pending work has affected about 22 high-rises in the area. We even carried out protests against the bad condition of the CISF Road. But no one listened to us,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of federation of association of apartment owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/repair-of-cisf-road-in-ghaziabad-uppcb-may-act-against-contractor-101633973348710.html
11-10-2021||Noida||Noida fails to hire agency to deliver quality drinking water, residents worried||Residents are worried about the supply of drinking water amid news of Ganga water supply being halted temporarily from October 17 due to cleaning work in the Upper Ganga canal.The Noida authority has also failed to rope in an agency that is supposed to improve the quality of drinking water in the region for the last three years.“For the last three years, the Noida authority has failed to hire an agency that can repair or make defunct Ranney wells (a type of radial well used to extract water from an aquifer with direct connection to a surface water source) and tubewells functional, and improve the quality of drinking water. The authority is not supplying quality drinking water as the groundwater here is saline. This festive season, we will have to depend on salty groundwater. We do not understand why the authority is failing on this important issue,” said Amit Gupta, a member of Progressive Community Foundation, a residents’ group in Noida.The authority, however, issued a tender yet again on Monday to hire an agency for a ₹9 crore project to take care of different water-related works--help treat water, increase the quantity and improve quality of drinking water.The last date to upload bids for the project is October 20, 2021. The authority issued a similar tender seven months ago, but no agency applied.The Noida authority issued a tender for the project for the first time towards the end of 2018. It re-issued the tender in October, 2019. It then invited an expression of interest (EOI) from firms to undertake the supply, installation, operation and maintenance of groundwater (Ranney wells and tube wells) treatment technology to supply potable water within Noida for five years. The authority had hoped to finalise a firm by the end of 2019.“We are repeatedly trying to rope in private firms, but are yet to succeed because agencies are not applying for the project. We hope this time we will be successful,” said RP Singh, deputy general manager of the Noida authority and head of the water works department.The present demand for water in Noida is 332mld [million litres per day]. To meet it, the authority supplies 56% Ganga water and 44% groundwater. There are 11 Ranney wells in Noida, besides hundreds of tubewells. Each Ranney well extracts stored groundwater and supplies it to households as well as other consumers. One Ranney well supplies 18mld water to the city.“The latest technology can address taste-related issues. The water in Noida is salty and has high levels of TDS [total dissolved solids]. We hope that with new technology, the firm will be able to improve the quality,” Singh.According to the authority’s water department, five of the 11 Ranney wells are completely shut. And 126 tubewells of the total 431 are not functional due to technical issues. As a result, the supply of groundwater will also be affected during the festive season, troubling residents. Like last year, when the Ganga water supply was halted for a month around Diwali while the canal was cleaned, the residents will have to make do with groundwater supply only this year as well, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-fails-to-hire-agency-to-deliver-quality-drinking-water-residents-worried-101633973227163.html
11-10-2021||Noida||Abadi land issue: Farmers break Noida authority lock, clash with cops||Agitating farmers on Monday clashed with the police force after allegedly breaking the lock of a gate on the Noida authority’s main administrative office premises.The protesting farmers were demanding additional compensation for their land the authority acquired for development about a decade ago.The police lathi-charged the farmers to disperse them while they were trying to enter the authority’s main office. During the clash, many farmers, and police constables, and officers sustained minor injuries.The Noida authority and the police filed FIRs against 25 farmer leaders and at least 1,000 unnamed protesters under Indian Penal Code sections 147, 148, 332, 324 and 353, said police.“We have been protesting for the last 41 days demanding more compensation, residential plots, settlement of abadi issues other benefits. But the Noida authority is trying to cheat us instead of addressing our demands. When we tried entering the authority office to strongly put forth our demands, the police started beating us and injured many. We will intensify our protest further,” said Sukhbir Yadav, a leader of Kisan Ekta Parishad, a farmer union.The farmers reached the authority’s Sector 6 office around 2.30pm, breaking the lock of a gate in the process. They also pushed aside a police barricade and managed to get to the entrance of the reception at the office.“When they broke the lock, we tried to calm them down, but they did not stop and pushed aside the barricade. They misbehaved with constables and also tore my uniform in the scuffle. We are taking strong action against those who broke the law,” said Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, who led the police force at the protest site.Noida authority chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari said farmers were trying to cross legal boundaries.“We have already accepted their justified demands. We cannot give in to their unjustified demands just because they want to disturb official work by force. We cannot accept their terms, which are against the law. The police will act in this matter as it pertains to the breaking of the law,” said Maheshwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/abadi-land-issue-farmers-break-noida-authority-lock-clash-with-cops-101633973167456.html
11-10-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad air quality starts deteriorating slightly||The air quality of the region, which was stable over the past few months, has started to deteriorating slightly, according to data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).While Noida’s air quality is still in the moderate category, that of Greater Noida and Ghaziabad has slipped into the poor category, a first since the onset of monsoon in July.An air quality index (AQI) reading between 101 and 200 is considered moderate, between 201 and 300 is considered poor, between 301 and 400 is considered very poor, and above 400 is considered severe.According to the weather analysts, the air quality of the region may deteriorate further as dry winds will lead to dust particles being suspended in the air, thereby polluting it further.According to CPCB, the AQI reading of Greater Noida on Monday was 224 against 199 a day earlier. Similarly, Ghaziabad’s AQI reading also went up to 225 against 222 on Sunday.The AQI reading of Noida, meanwhile, managed to remain in the moderate category despite an increase--188 on Monday against 168 on Sunday.“The region is seeing dry westerly and northwesterly winds. Also, since the monsoon has passed, dust particles, which had settled on the ground earlier, have dried and are getting raised up by the already dust-carrying winds from Rajashtan and elsewhere. In the next week, as the mercury reduces, the entire region will experience haze and that’s when the air quality will fall further,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (Safar), further infusion of dust into the region’s air is likely.“Due to very dry conditions, local dust gets re-suspended, leading to high concentrations of PM10. The anticyclonic condition over northwest India helps in meso-scale transport of dust from the desert region,” said a Safar statement on Monday. Particulate matter (PM)10 and PM2.5 are considered the main pollutants in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-ghaziabad-air-quality-starts-deteriorating-slightly-101633973107195.html
11-10-2021||Gurugram||Dengue: Full-scale fogging to start next week, lack of equipment hinders drive||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will launch a citywide fogging drive from next week, officials said on Monday. MCG officials said that they had been carrying out fogging only at places from where they received complaints from residents due to lack of proper equipment until now.The development comes amid a spike in dengue cases in Gurugram. According to the district administration’s release, until Monday, the city had recorded 126 cases of dengue this season. Of the 126, 43 new cases have been recorded since October 6. According to MCG officials privy to the matter, the civic body has around 65 fogging machines, of which 15 were found to be non-operational, due to which fogging operations were getting affected at several parts of the city.The details of the drive were shared by MCG joint commissioner Hariom Attri during the civic body’s House meeting at John Hall in Civil Lines.“Until now, we have been carrying out fogging as per complaints received from residents. Around a dozen fogging machines have been fixed and 38 teams have been formed to initiate a citywide fogging drive next week onwards,” Attri said in the House meeting.The issue of inadequate and non-functional fogging machines was also raised by Sheetal Bagri, the councillor of Ward 10, in the House meeting for discussion. Bagri asked the MCG to procure more machines for fogging purposes, which was approved by the House.During the House meeting, mayor Madhu Azad said that she found water ATMs across the city to be non-functional during a surprise inspection and found all of them being used as a board for advertisements. A decision was taken subsequently by the House that the contract of agencies found to be violating MCG’s work order would be terminated and given to a new contractor while notices will also be served to make around 45 ATMs operational across the city.The matter of constructing a model road in each of MCG’s 35 wards, which was approved in a previous House meeting, was also discussed on Monday. The House unanimously decided that the project should be carried out by an agency with experience in executing large-scale construction projects, rather than localised contractors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dengue-full-scale-fogging-to-start-next-week-lack-of-equipment-hinders-drive-101633972873443.html
11-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG chief directs officials to take over DLF Phases 1-3 immediately||The commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Monday directed the officials concerned to start the takeover process of DLF Phases 1, 2 and 3 from Tuesday, bringing an end to an issue that has been pending since February 2016.Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, the MCG commissioner, took the decision during the MCG’s House meeting held at the John Hall in Civil Lines on Monday, while discussing an agenda that was proposed in the meeting regarding an update on MCG’s takeover of 19 privately developed colonies. While discussing the issue, Rama Rathee, the newly elected councillor of Ward 34, raised the issue that in February, the developer, DLF, had been given a June 30 deadline by the MCG for handing over DLF Phases 1, 2 and 3 to the civic body for maintenance. To this, chief engineer TL Sharma said that the MCG has scheduled a meeting with the developer on Tuesday to review the matter, and added that construction of only a few roads was pending, which was delayed due to the monsoon. Besides the roads, all other constructions and repairs to infrastructure have been completed by the developer, he said. In response to this, Ahuja said, “During Tuesday’s meeting, take a fresh commitment (a deadline) from DLF for completing the remaining deficiency work. However, in the interim, initiate the formal process for taking over the three colonies from tomorrow so that all paperwork and other formalities are completed and the colony can be taken over immediately.”“We will abide by the directions of MCG and extend all our support for a smooth transition,” a spokesperson for DLF said.According to MCG’s 2017 deficiency assessment report, ₹14.12 crore was required to fix civic deficiencies in DLF Phase-1, ₹9.43 crore for DLF Phase-2, and ₹11.89 crore for DLF Phase-3. Some of the deficiencies included repairs to roads, stormwater, sewerage drains, green belts, and parks.“We have been waiting for the takeover of the three colonies for the past five years. We have seen the upgrade in civic infrastructure in colonies taken over by the MCG, and want to avail of similar facilities in our area,” Dhruv Bansal, the spokesperson for Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC), an umbrella body of RWAs in the city, including DLF Phases 1, 2 and 3, said.Besides the three colonies, the MCG also discussed the pending takeover of 11 more privately developed colonies.The MCG takeover of DLF Phase 1, 2 and 3, Sushant Lok-1, Palam Vihar, Nirvana Country, South City-1, Suncity, and South City-2 was decided by the Haryana government in 2016 and 2017 and most of them were taken over by the MCG in 2019.In a second phase of colony transfers, 11 privately developed colonies were added to the list by the government in 2019. The areas included Mayfield Garden, Malibu Towne, Vipul World, Sushant Lok-2, Sushant Lok-3, Greenwood City, Ardee City, Uppal Southend, DLF Phase-4, and DLF-5. However, the process is yet to take off in full force.In the meeting, Ahuja directed Sharma to submit a detailed project report (DPR) by November 1 on the deficiencies found in the 11 colonies during a survey carried out by the civic body earlier this year. Ahuja said that after the DPR is approved, it would be sent to the directorate of town and country planning (DTCP) for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-chief-directs-officials-to-take-over-dlf-phases-1-3-immediately-101633972872177.html
11-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram to get nine air quality monitors to check pollution||For better tracking of ambient air quality, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is working on installing real-time air quality display monitors at nine locations in the city where outdoor air purifiers are already installed, officials said on Monday. Further, the authority will also install 48 more such air purifiers in the city in the coming months. Under Project Air Care, 71 outdoor air purifiers or wind augmentation purifying units (Wayu), were installed in November last year at Sikanderpur Metro station, Arya Samaj Chowk, GMDA office, Iffco Chowk, Max Hospital Road, Bakhtawar Chowk, Medanta Hospital Road, AIT Chowk and Sector 54 Chowk Metro station. Subhash Yadav, head of the urban environment division, GMDA, said, “As it is difficult to check whether the devices are being cleaned on time, whether the air quality is actually improving or when the data is being collected, we have asked the partnering agencies to install low-cost sensors along with the purifiers from which data will directly be available with us at the GMDA dashboard. Only then it makes sense to go ahead with the next phase of the project, where 48 more such devices are to be installed in the city.” Officials said that the range of efficacy of these devices lies between 35 and 50%. This means that when the device is turned on, it can reduce at least a third of the total dust pollution load, if not more, in an area of 500 square metres. However, experts working and tracking air pollution said that a method like this does not work outdoors as the volume of ambient air is too much for these devices to be effective. Abhishek Srivastava, a city-based environmental engineer, said, “A concept like this can work only in closed spaces where there is limited volume of air, but in the open, such machines do not work. Traffic cross-sections are usually breezy as cars keep pushing the air, making these air purifiers redundant. Rather, what can work is to ensure that is there is lesser dust around traffic cross-sections by increasing plantation, holding the soil and better traffic movement.” The purifiers have been designed and developed by researchers at the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. Meanwhile, the air quality index in the city remained in the moderate zone for a second consecutive day on Monday after deteriorating to the poor zone of the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index on Saturday. The city recorded an AQI of 152 with PM 10 and PM 2.5 as the prominent pollutants. Over the next two to three days the air quality is likely to improve marginally but largely remain in the moderate category, according to a weather bulletin issued for Delhi-NCR by the Air Quality Early Warning System. On Wednesday, the predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from the northwest direction of Delhi, with wind speed 8-16 kmph, mainly clear sky and mist in the morning predicted. Usually, winds coming from the northwest direction carry pollutants along with it, leading to a dip in air quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-to-get-nine-air-quality-monitors-to-check-pollution-101633972870994.html
11-10-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccination: Three-day mega drive to target 150K beneficiaries||The district health department will conduct a three-day mega vaccination drive with a target of administering Covid-19 vaccines to around 150,000 people from Tuesday to Thursday, officials said on Monday. The state has an overall target of inoculating 1.8 million people over the next three days and issued directions in this regard on Monday evening. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “With the aim of covering maximum population during the festive season, this mega vaccination drive will be conducted. We will try our best to achieve the target.” Officials said that directions have been issued to all states by the Centre to achieve the target of administering 1 billion coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses this month. On Monday, a total of 10,065 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district with 4,926 people being given the first dose and 5,139 people being given the second dose of the vaccine. With this, over 3.3 million have been vaccinated in the district. At present, 67% of the eligible population in the district have been given both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, said officials. On Tuesday, vaccinations will continue at 136 centres across the district, officials said. The first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 129 sites and the second dose of Covaxin will be administered at five centres. Sputnik V vaccines will be administered at the Sector 31 polyclinic. Four new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Monday along with nine recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccination-three-day-mega-drive-to-target-150k-beneficiaries-101633972869676.html
11-10-2021||Noida||Work on two elevated roads expedited in Noida||The Noida authority on Monday restarted work on the Chilla elevated road project, which will ease traffic snarls on the Delhi-Noida Link Road. The authority also expedited work on the Bhangel elevated road project, adding the first girder on the road planned to address traffic congestion issues on Dadri Road, officials said.The authority had halted work on the Chilla elevated road project a year ago due to fund-related issues.On Monday, the authority used earth movers to remove sand at the stretch where the foundation had to be dug up.Though budgetary provisions have not been made yet by the Uttar Pradesh government that is likely to approve them in its cabinet meeting at the earliest, the authority decided to go ahead and complete the work using its own funds. Initially, the government had approved ₹605 crore for the 6km-long elevated road in 2020.However, half the amount was to be provided by the Public Works Department (PWD) of the UP government.“The Noida authority will pay the funds for now, as the payment of 50% from PWD will soon be done after approvals,” said a Noida authority official.The initial deadline for wrapping up the project was December 2021, but officials said that work will continue for another year. Once ready, Chilla elevated road will link Mayur Vihar in East Delhi with Mahamaya Flyover in Noida.The authority has also expedited work on the Bhangel elevated road project. Officials said Covid-19-induced lockdown had hit the progress of the infrastructure projects and, post that, the graded action plan to keep pollution levels in check had hit the construction timeline during the last winter season.“On Monday, the first girder was placed using cranes. We are hopeful of finishing the rest of the work in less than a year. The project is on track and we will try to maintain momentum before the onset of the winter season. Both the elevated roads will address congestion issues and offer smooth seamless connectivity to the thousands of commuters, who have to face hassles daily,” said Rajiv Tyagi, chief general manager of the Noida authority.The deadline for the Bhangel elevated road fixed by the authority is December 2022. Two exit ramps will be also built to provide access to commuters travelling towards Vishwakarma Marg from the elevated road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/work-on-two-elevated-roads-expedited-in-noida-101633972868517.html
11-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram real estate: Demand for independent floors, plots on the up, states report||Independent floors and plots are getting increasingly popular in Gurugram and Faridabad since the Covid-19 pandemic started and over 20,000 such units are expected to be launched in the next year, according to a report released by a private consultancy, Anarock, on Monday. Experts said that the reason these floors are gaining traction is that they are larger than flats, delivery is quicker and can be customised to buyers’ requirements. The report stated that a major reason for these properties becoming popular is the fact that turnaround time for independent floors is lesser than group housing projects, and builders also get money faster. Also, money generated from builder floors starts flowing in within a year, while high-rises take at least four years to pay off. The average size of a builder floor flat is presently 2,000 square feet (sq ft) while that of an apartment is 1,375 sq ft, a difference of 625 sq ft. Santhosh Kumar, the vice-chairman, Anarock, said, “As many as 4,500 independent floors have already been launched in Gurugram and Faridabad in the first three quarters of 2021, accounting for over a 40% share of this period’s total supply in these two cities. Approximately 10,970 units, across different property types, have been launched in Gurugram and Faridabad between January and September 2021, of which 4,500 units are independent floor units.”According to the data, independent floors were popular between 2006 and 2010, when 21,300 such units were sold in these two cities. However, the demand dropped considerably between 2011 and 2015 as high-rise flats were preferred. The demand dropped further between 2016 and 2020, when only 2,900 such units were sold but the trend seems to have reversed over a decade on, with the demand for independent floors going up. Pankaj Tomar, a Gurugram-based broker, confirmed the development and said that quick delivery time and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Scheme, under which cheaper plots are being launched by developers, has helped in boosting the sale of independent floors and plots. “The sale of floors has also increased after Haryana government allowed the construction of four floors along with stilt,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-real-estate-demand-for-independent-floors-plots-on-the-up-states-report-101633972867113.html
11-10-2021||Noida||Two men involved in several cases of burglary arrested in Noida||Police on Monday arrested two persons involved in several cases of theft and burglary in Noida. The suspects were identified as Siddhartha Malhotra, 31, a resident of Ghaziabad, and Yogesh Kumar, 29, of Shahdara in Delhi.Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that police received information about the movement of suspects in a car at 2am in Noida’s Sector 25. “A police team stopped them for checking and recovered ₹12.5 lakh in cash, one gold chain, two rings, two earrings, and two knives, among others, from their possession,” he said.During interrogation, the suspects revealed that they used to conduct recce in different sectors and identify the houses and flats which were closed for some days. “They also sometimes rang the bells of random houses. If they did not get any reply from inside, they committed burglary,” he said.The additional DCP said that the two suspects were wanted in six cases in Noida and 16 cases in Delhi. A case was registered against the suspects under Section 380 (burglary) of IPC on August 23, 2021 at Sector 20 police station. The complainant, Vaibhav Verma, said that he had gone to Greater Noida at his relative’s place a day earlier. “I returned on August 22 and found that the house was burgled. The suspects had fled with gold jewellery worth ₹1.5 lakh,” he said. Police said suspect Malhotra completed a diploma course in animation. “The suspects were conducting thefts and burglaries to lead a lavish lifestyle. The duo was produced in court that sent them to judicial custody,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-men-involved-in-several-cases-of-burglary-arrested-in-noida-101633972687155.html
11-10-2021||Bhopal||MP man beats minor daughter to death for coming home late from Navratri pandal||A man allegedly beat his 10-year-old daughter to death after she came home late having played longer with other children at a Navratri pandal in Morena city of Madhya Pradesh.A PTI report said the incident took place on Sunday night in the Uttampura region of Morena, and the accused had been apprehended.At the time of the incident, the accused, identified as Rakesh Jatav, 40, was in an inebriated state and repeatedly struck his daughter with a stick after she came back home around 9pm that fateful night.A report said the child came home after playing with her friends at a tableau set up on the occasion of the ongoing Navratri celebrations.Police said repeated thrashing resulted in the death of the minor girl. Station Road police station in-charge Ashish Rajput said when the news of the incident reached the law enforcers, they went to the spot and held Jatav under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In another incident of a person killing his family member, a court in Kerala’s Kollam on Monday convicted a man, named P Sooraj, 32, of murder for letting loose a cobra on his wife, 25, and making the deadly reptile bite her when she was asleep, last year.The court said the accused did not deserve any sympathy for the brutal crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-man-beats-minor-daughter-to-death-for-coming-home-late-from-navratri-pandal-101633971631039.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Certificate of unsoundness of mind after attack not reliable, says Bombay high court||The Bombay high court recently rejected the petition filed by a 27-year-old architect and resident of South Mumbai wherein he had sought quashing of the proceedings arising out of an FIR against him. The man was booked by the Marine Drive police station as he had attacked and injured two police personnel who tried to stop him as he was carrying a chopper and was moving suspiciously in the area. The architect’s counsel had claimed that his client was not in a proper frame of mind when the incident occurred and as the attack was not premeditated, he should not be made to undergo a trial for intent to murder and other sections of the Indian Penal Code under which he is booked. The court however held that as no proof was placed before the court to prove the unsoundness of the man before, during or after the incident, it was not inclined to quash the proceedings arising out of the FIR and rejected the petition. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the petition filed by Karan Nair was informed by advocate Rizwan Merchant that his client was booked on May 8, 2020, as police inspector Jitendra Kadam and a sub-inspector from Marine Drive police station received cuts on their shoulder and hand respectively by the chopper which Nair was wielding. Merchant claimed that his client was not aware of what he was doing as he had suffered a bout of insanity and had no intention to harm anyone. In light of these submissions Merchant sought reliefs. According to the complaint filed at the behest of Kadam, on May 8, while on patrol Kadam spotted Nair roaming around with a chopper in his hand. Nair was not wearing a mask which was mandatory due to the Covid-19 pandemic which was at its peak at the time. The complaint states that when Kadam confronted Nair, the knife wielding man threatened to attack the police personnel and ran off. Kadam gave chase and when he managed to catch Nair, he was hit by the chopper on his shoulder. The sub-inspector who had joined Kadam in the chase also received a gash on his right arm by the chopper. The police finally managed to overpower Nair and brought him to the police station where he was booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Arms Act and Maharashtra Police Act. Merchant submitted that when Nair was produced before the magistrate for remand he had claimed to be of unsound mind at the time of the incident, but the magistrate refused to accept and assigned the case for trial. Merchant added that as the act of assaulting the police personnel was not premeditated and Nair was not aware of the outcome of his act he could not be subjected to the rigours of the trial. However, additional public prosecutor S R Shinde for the state and Kadam submitted that the claim of unsoundness of mind could not be accepted as there was no proof of Nair suffering from any such ailment prior, during or after the incident. Nair assaulted the cops fully aware of what he was doing and was also aware of the consequence of his act, hence the petition should not be entertained. After hearing submissions the bench held that the claim of unsoundness of mind could not be accepted as the mental health certificate submitted by Nair was secured after he was released on bail and it was prepared based on the statements of the mother of Nair. The bench held that as the certificate did not throw light on the mental state of Nair at the time of the incident and as the narrative of the incident showed that he was aware of his act and its consequences, it was not inclined to grant the reliefs sought and rejected the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/certificate-of-unsoundness-of-mind-after-attack-not-reliable-says-bombay-high-court-101633972087334.html
11-10-2021||Jaipur||Adani Group to manage Jaipur International Airport||Adani Group on Monday took over the responsibilities of the Jaipur International Airport from the Airports Authority of India (AAI).The airport has been leased out to the group by the government of India for a period of 50 year.Airport director JS Balhara handed over a symbolic key of the airport to Chief Airport Officer Adani Jaipur International Ltd Vishnu Jha in the presence of other officials.The company took over the airport at 12:00 am Monday.Balhara said that the company will work on the operations, management and development of the Jaipur airport through PPP mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/adani-group-to-manage-jaipur-international-airport-101633971686837.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||ACB starts open inquiry into assets of arrested ACP in Mumbai||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Monday searched the DN Nagar (Andheri) house of assistant police commissioner Suajata Patil, recently arrested for accepting bribe. The anti-corruption agency has now started an open inquiry to check if she has amassed assets disproportionate to her known source of income. Patil, an ACP of Meghwadi division, was trapped on October 8 in her office for allegedly demanding ₹1 lakh bribe and accepting ₹40,000 bribe from a shop owner. The shop owner had approached Patil as the local police was not taking his complaint regarding a case of trespassing. Patil had allegedly demanded ₹1 lakh from the complainant, promising him that his complaint would be lodged and the accused would also not trouble him in the future. The complainant gave Patil the first installment of ₹10,000 on the same day, the ACB said The ACB on Friday trapped Patil red handed while accepting ₹40,000 of the bribe money at her office. “We have commenced an open inquiry. If the inquiry prima facie reveals that Patil had amassed disproportionate assets then a separate case of DPA would be registered against her,” said an ACB officer. The ACB has also sent a proposal to Mumbai police seeking her suspension. Patil has been booked under section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. On Monday an ACB court remanded Patil to magistrate custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/acb-starts-open-inquiry-into-assets-of-arrested-acp-in-mumbai-101633971667113.html
11-10-2021||Patna||Bihar Cong stages silent protest against Lakhimpur Kheri killings||Expressing their solidarities with the farmers’ issues, the leaders and workers of the state Congress staged a silent dharna here in front of the Income Tax office on Monday and sought immediate dismissal of Central minister Ajay Kumar Teni whose son Ashish Mishra allegedly mowed down at least four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh last week. All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar Bhakta Charan Das, Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Madan Mohan Jha and a host of other leaders sat on dharna, holding placards in their hands, seeking the expulsion of Teni and justice for those killed in Lakhimpur Kehri violence. Four farmers, three BJP workers and a journalist were killed during the farmers’ protest. AICC media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the BPCC’s protest was part of the nationwide party’s programme to sympathise with farmers who have been agitating for the past ten months for the scrapping of three controversial farms’ acts. “Hundreds of farmers have died during the stir, but the government is not listening to them. Instead, the BJP leaders have been applying all sorts of conspiracy to defame them and attacking them like terrorists,” said Mishra. Even as senior state Congress leaders, including the Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma, former Union minister Shakeel Ahmad, chief spokesman Rajesh Rathore, staged the protest with party workers, farmers were conspicuous by their absence. Explaining the purpose of the dharna, Mishra said that it was aimed at throwing moral support to the farmers of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and other states, which have been witnessing protests from the agriculturists. “Bihar’s farmers are not restive, as they could not perceive the fallout of the draconian acts. There is hardly any strong farmers’ body in Bihar that can sensitise them about the consequences of the new laws,” added the MLC..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cong-stages-silent-protest-against-lakhimpur-kheri-killings-101633971547259.html
11-10-2021||Noida||Noida to get two ART centres for AIDS patients by next month||By next month, Gautam Budh Nagar will have two Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) centres for treatment of patients of human immunodeficiency virus infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS). ART is a lifelong therapy given to patients suffering from HIV/AIDS. The two centres are to be set up at the district hospital in Noida’s Sector 30 and the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida. Currently, the district does not have a single ART centre and patients have to go to Ghaziabad or Meerut every month to collect their ART kits. “The process for hiring of the medical staff is underway and the ART centre will be ready by next month,” said Dr Sushma Chandra, chief medical superintendent of the district hospital. The hospital already has an Integrated Counselling and Testing Centre (ICTC) for HIV patients. Currently, there are three ICTCs under the district health department -- one each at district Hospital, community health centre (CHC) Dadri and CHC Bhangel . Apart from this, testing facilities are also available at all CHCs and PHCs in the district.Dr Rakesh Gupta, director of GIMS said, “A proposal was placed in the meeting of the governing body last week and after getting the approval, space has been earmarked in the hospital for the ART centre. The hospital already has an ICTC that is functional since March this year,” said Dr Gupta.Since April this year, GIMS has tested 282 patients for HIV, of which two have been found positive. Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “Setting up of ART Centres in the district is priority for the district health department and officials have been asked to expedite the process and start the centres as soon as possible.” Dr Shirish Jain, district tuberculosis officer, said, “This year till July, 16,481 people have been tested for HIV/AIDS, of which 68 have been found positive. Since 2015, a total of 197,164 people have been tested for HIV/AIDS in the district, of which 868 have been found positive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-get-two-art-centres-for-aids-patients-by-next-month-101633971011528.html
11-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad misses target during two mega Covid-19 vaccination drives||The pace of daily vaccinations in the district has started slowing in the last one week, and health department officials have attributed it to the ongoing festival season. The officials said that due to low turnout, the district could not meet its targets during the two mega Covid-19 vaccination drives held on October 8 and 11. The target for October 8 mega drive was 45,000 and the district could vaccinate only 30,584 people, while on Monday only 35,732 people were inoculated against the target of 55,000, according to the Co-WIN portal figures. “It is due to the ongoing festivals that beneficiaries are not coming in large numbers and there is a dip in daily average turnout. Before the start of the festive season, the daily average turnout was about 29,000, which has now come down to about 20,000. So, the mega vaccination drives held on October 8 and 11 also suffered and the targets could not be achieved,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid vaccination. During the first mega vaccination drive on August 3, the district administered 79,822 doses; 42,444 doses during the second drive on August 16; 67,040 during third mega drive on August 27 and 69,248 during the fourth drive held on September 6. The district achieved its highest single day coverage of 110,664 on September 27 during the sixth mega vaccination drive. Ghaziabad has so far given 3,000,750 doses that include 888,195 second doses, according to the Co-WIN portal figures. “At present, we have a sufficient stock of Covid vaccines as our allotment has also increased from 16,000 to 23,000 per day. To speed up the coverage, our teams, through tele-calling, are urging beneficiaries to come to Covid vaccination centres and get themselves vaccinated,” Dr Mathuria added. Experts said that the beneficiaries should not be complacent. “It is generally seen that people do not move out during the festival season as they usually devote more time to prayers. So, the vaccination turnout has slowed down. But it is essential to get fully vaccinated to get maximum protection against Covid-19,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-misses-target-during-two-mega-covid-19-vaccination-drives-101633971009083.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Coal supply improves, power generation still hit in Maharashtra||With the improvement in the coal supply in the last couple of days, the state authorities expect the situation to regularise by bridging the demand-supply gap by the end of the week. Currently, the state authorities are compelled to purchase power from the open market at a high rate, and cutting the supply to the agricultural pump by two hours to meet the demand. The short supply of coal for thermal power generation in the last two weeks has resulted in shutting down of 13 units of state-owned and private power stations resulting in drop in generation of more than 3,300 MW. The state government’s six units with a total capacity of 1,860 MW and seven other units of two private players with a total capacity of 1,450 MW were shut for the past few days. Few of them have now resumed power generation. This has forced the state to buy power from open market at high rate ranging between ₹2.98 and ₹20 per unit. The state has purchased 800MW to 2200 MW power per day since October 1 and has spent ₹140 crore on it. The current per day demand of power hovers between 17,500-18,000 MW, but the state expects it to go to 22,000MW because of the rise in temperature in October, increase in agricultural activities and ongoing festive season. “The current shortfall of about 4,000MW is met through a hike in hydro-power generation at Koyana and other stations to 2,000MW and remaining from the power purchase through energy exchange. We have also reduced the supply of the power to agricultural pumps by 2 hours in the night and have appealed people to utilise the power judiciously during peak hours in the morning and evening. We have started receiving 1 lakh MT coals in the past few days against the daily requirement of 1.15 lakh MT and expect the supply to improve further. With the improvement in the supply, we are resuming Bhusawal unit of 500MW from tomorrow and expect all other units to go operational in next eight days,” said an official from MSEDCL. Dinesh Waghmare, principal secretary, energy department, said, “The coal supply is improving and we have started resuming the power generation in the units which were shut. Load shedding depends on various factors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coal-supply-improves-power-generation-still-hit-in-maharashtra-101633970826949.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri: People start arriving for antim ardas of killed farmers||People from other states have started arriving in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri for the “antim ardas” of the farmers killed in the violence there on October 3.No politician will be allowed to share the dais with farm leaders during the last prayers for the four farmers killed in the incident, said a Bhartiya Kisan Union leader. The programme will be held at Tikunia in Lakhimpur Kheri.The collective antim ardas is expected to be attended by farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. BKU leader Rakesh Tikait arrived on Monday for the last prayers.BKU-Tikait’s district president Amandeep Singh Sandhu said, “Preparations are under way for the antim ardas (final prayers) at a field, away from the spot where the violence took place in Tikunia village.Rashtriya Lok Dal national secretary Anil Dubey said his party leader Jayant Chaudhary is scheduled to go to Lakhimpur Kheri.However, BKU-Tikait district vice-president Balkar Singh said, “No political leader will be allowed to share the stage where only Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders will be present”.The SKM is an umbrella organisation of farmer unions spearheading the protest against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws, which were enacted last year.Asked whether political leaders would participate in the prayers, the BKU-Tikait district office-bearers said, “Only Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders would share the stage.”They said the programme was being organised by Samyukta Kisan Morcha.The venue of the function spans 15-acre land over a kilometre from the flashpoint in Tikunia.Agricultural fields were levelled to accommodate the stage, audience seating area, parking and create space for langar (community meal).Security has been tightened in and around Tikunia to maintain law and order during the antim ardas programme.Apart from the Lakhimpur Kheri police, Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), Rapid Action Force and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel have been deployed. Senior police and administrative authorities have been deputed to supervise and coordinate the security arrangements.Inspector general of police (Lucknow range) Lakshmi Singh, who is camping in Lakhimpur Kheri, said, “We are in touch with the family members of those killed in the Tikunia incident and local farm leaders. They have assured us that antim ardas will be held in a peaceful manner. Ample amount of local police and PAC personnel has been deployed in the area to ensure law and order.”(WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-people-start-arriving-for-antim-ardas-of-killed-farmers-101633970226943.html
11-10-2021||Other||Demolish all illegal structures having no legal issue: Lucknow Development Authority VC to officials||Lucknow: Vice chairman (VC) of Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) Akshay Tripathi on Monday instructed officials to demolish all such illegal structures against whom demolition orders have been issued and no legal issue is pending against them. Presiding over a meeting, Tripathi reviewed the drive being carried out by LDA officials for sealing of illegal constructions across the city. Tripathi instructed officials to demolish all such illegal structures against those demolition orders had been issued and no legal issue was pending against them. During the meeting, the LDA vice chairman issued a warning-notice to an engineer of zone -5 who was not able to provide information about illegal structures in his areas. The development authority has divided the city into seven zones and each zone has an officer in-charge to take action against illegal constructions. Tripathi has also sought a detailed list of illegal constructions from all engineers. On the issue of sealed buildings, Tripathi instructed officials to inspect such buildings regularly to make sure no construction work was going on in these establishments. While reviewing legal cases related to illegal constructions, Tripathi directed officials to expedite all such cases that were pending for more than a year. LDA secretary Pawan Gangwar and other officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/demolish-all-illegal-structures-having-no-legal-issue-lucknow-development-authority-vc-to-officials-101633970109186.html
11-10-2021||Bhopal||Social media influencer booked for shooting video at Mahakaleshwar temple in MP||A 28-year-old woman was booked for shooting a video on a Bollywood song at Mahakaleshwar temple in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, police said.A resident of Indore, Manisha Roshan shot a video clad in a saree at the temple premises on a Bollywood song and later posted it on her Instagram account a week ago.After the video went viral on social media, the temple’s main priest Mahesh Pujari called the video objectionable and asked the police to take action against her for hurting religious sentiments.After the objection raised by the priest and a few others, Roshan deleted the video and also apologized for her action. But another resident, Rakesh Parmar, filed a complaint at Mahakaal police station against the woman on Sunday.Ujjain, city superintendent of police, Pallavi Shukla said, “A case has been registered under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code against Roshan as nobody is allowed to disturb the sanctity of the temple.”Roshan said her intention was not to hurt anyone. “I didn’t shoot any obscene video but a small video which was later synced with a Bollywood song. I already tendered my apology for that,” she added. This is the third case in a month when an FIR has been registered against social influencers for shooting a video in a public space or a place of worship.The first case was registered in Indore against a woman for dancing on a road while another case was registered against a woman in Chhatarpur for dancing in a temple.Home minister Narottam Mishra said, “The state government or any other person has no problem in people shooting videos for posting them on social media but people should take care of decency and mind the place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/social-media-influencer-booked-for-shooting-video-at-mahakaleshwar-temple-in-mp-101633969987789.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bandh: Shops stay shut, transport hit, office-goers impacted in Mumbai||In wake of the state-wide bandh called by the ruling coalition of Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress, the road transport services were largely suspended, affecting Mumbaiites on Monday. Largely shops, restaurants, and establishments stayed shut in the Maximum City through the day, with workers of the ruling coalition enforcing the bandh in some parts.In Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking’s buses stayed off the roads after isolated incidents of stone-pelting in some areas, affecting office-goers in the morning. The black-and-yellow taxis and autorickshaws continued to ply, but at some locations, the drivers reportedly charged almost double the fare to ferry passengers. Mumbai suburban local trains and the Metro line were operational and remained unaffected.As Mumbaiites were unaware that BEST buses were not plying, initially there was crowding at bus stops. Bus services were majorly affected as BEST employees’ union had supported the bandh. After 11 am, bus stops wore a deserted look as the services stopped after buses were vandalised in the morning.A total of 11 buses were vandalised on Monday, according to a BEST spokesperson. BEST administration had sought for police protection around 9am in order to operate the services. BEST operated 1,833 buses till 6.45pm on Monday evening, a BEST spokesperson added. It operates above 3,000-3,300 buses everyday and has a daily ridership of around 2.5 million passengers.The ruling coalition has claimed that the call for the shutdown had received an “overwhelming” response. Party workers of the coalition carried out protests and an enforced bandh by asking shop keepers to down their shutters. The impact of the bandh would have been greater on people in the city had the work-from-home not been underway at most corporate offices and had the ruling coalition staged rail roko and disrupted the suburban train services.The pulse of Mumbai’s commercial areas, Fort and Nariman Point, had less hustle-bustle during the peak office hours. Government and private offices saw less attendance that usual. Street vendors, too, in Fort were absent. Popular markets in south Mumbai, such as Crawford Market, Colaba Causeway and Fashion Street, which buzz with street vendors and shoppers on other days, were shut. In Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), attendance in offices of financial and other sectors was low as staffers could not get public transport for travel. Some corporate houses hired private buses for their staff to commute. A few managements also asked their employees to work from home. The bandh’s impact was seen in most in parts of central Mumbai, where markets of Dadar and Matunga were closed, and all shops in these areas along with Worli, Parel, Lower Parel and Mahim had downed their shutters. The main entrances of the wholesale vegetable markets of Dadar and Matunga were locked. The Hindamata cloth market in Dadar (East), which is the largest wholesale market in the city, was also closed on Monday, as shopkeepers showed solidarity with the state-wide bandh.“Who is going to take a risk as Shiv Sena is known for violence,” said a shopkeeper. However, local Sena leaders said they had approached various associations on Sunday asking them to shut shop on Monday. “We requested the shopkeepers’ associations and they agreed. It was a successful bandh,” said former Sena corporator Parag Chavan.Shivaji Park in Dadar, which is sees many sporting activities every morning, wore a deserted look on Monday, even though the gymkhana office was open. While roads in Dadar, Worli, and Matunga appeared deserted, south Mumbai’s Marine Drive, Girgaum Chowpatty and Churchgate areas saw usual traffic. In the suburbs, tourists were spotted at Versova and Juhu beaches, but the shops around the beaches were shut.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar led the Shiv Sena protest at Worli. She, along with part workers, staged a dharna on Worli junction road to prevent vehicles from passing by.“We are protesting against the anti-farmers’ policy and the gruesome murder [of farmers] by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP),” said Pednekar. Shiv Sainiks also staged protests in Chembur and Shivaji Park and on the Western Express Highway to prevent vehicles from plying. Several party workers of Sena, NCP and Congress were detained by the police.The Shiv Sena was all buoyant in its stronghold of Dadar and Parel, Worli, Lalbaug and Byculla. Its workers roamed the streets, ensuring that the bandh is enforced strictly.At Shivaji Park, former mayor Vishaka Raut led the workers from Sena Bhavan to the nearby Shiv Sena shakha. The Sena workers seemed electrified as they had enforced bandhs for years when its founder, late Bal Thackeray,reigned over the party.In the western suburbs, shopkeepers gave a mixed response to the bandh as only a few downed their shutters. Many shops were open in Dahisar, Borivli, Kandivli, etc. “We were asked by workers of a political party to keep our shops shut. Hence, did so and are planning to open in the evening. It is better to keep the shop shut without profits rather than bear losses, in case of vandalism,” a Kandivli shopkeeper Nayan Khatri said earlier in the day. Natraj Market, one of the largest retail shopping centres in Malad, too remained shut. Shops at Irla Market, Bandra’s Linking and Hill Roads and Elco Market also remained closed. However, some shops were open at Pali Hill in Bandra.Similarly, lone shops of electronics, hardware, clothing and accessories, stationaries and groceries in and around Mohammad Ali Road operated as usual. But most shops in the markets under JJ flyover in south Mumbai had downed their shutters.Viren Shah, chief of the Federation of Retail Traders’ Welfare Association (FRTWA), said the traders had decided to keep shops closed till 4pm in support of the bandh at the “request” of Shiv Sena leaders. Earlier, FRTWA had opposed the shutdown, citing the huge losses endured by the shop owners in the past 18 months.At Byculla’s Clair Road, which houses many children, mothers and women’s clothing stores, it was business as usual. A shopkeeper said, “We do not want our business to be affected. We do not believe that one day of protest, where we lose our income for the day completely, will make any difference. Business has been slow, but we had a few customers walking in during the day.” Many shops in Byculla and Nagpada in south Mumbai remained open on Monday. BJP and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) had opposed the bandh. “People have hardly recovered from the Covid-19 lockdowns and here the Shiv Sena is forcing people to observe a bandh. If the Sena wants to show its empathy for farmers, they should donate one-day’s salary to them instead of troubling the people,” said MNS leader Ameya Khopkar.Nariman Point and Fort, which are busy commercial areas, saw thin attendance in offices. Many office goers who take their private vehicles to work did not do so fearing violence. In addition, many offices told their employees to work from home. “I could not risk taking my vehicle to Fort as there was a danger of it being ransacked on the way,” said Jitu Damania, who runs an export business and travels from Kandivli to Nariman Point daily. Similarly Kaveri Sharma, who works in a private office, said she was told to work from home. “My office staff was told not to take the risk of coming to office,” said Sharma.Meanwhile, first information reports (FIR) have been registered in other parts of the state in connection with the incidents of violence reported during the Maharashtra Bandh on Monday. These incidents were reported in Navi Mumbai, Amravati, Kolhapur, Nagpur and Mira-Bhayander regions. Police sources said there was a huge clash between members of BJP and workers of MVA allies in Jalgaon. BJP members were allegedly trying to open a few shops while MVA activists were trying to ensure that they remain shut. At few places, political party activists also tried to close the highway and burn tires. At the time of going to press, the state police headquarters was in the process of collecting information about violence reported in other districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-shops-stay-shut-transport-hit-office-goers-impacted-in-mumbai-101633969686983.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bandh: Show of strength by MVA over UP violence to counter BJP’s attacks||Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), the three-party coalition which formed the government in the state two years ago, put up its first joint show of strength on Monday’s state-wide shutdown or bandh. Though it was in solidarity with farmers in the wake of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, the ruling coalition has now taken an aggressive stand against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Narendra Modi-led Central government. At Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, farmers were allegedly mowed down by the son of a minister in Modi’s government.The MVA parties, while expressing solidarity with the farmers, have tried to paint the picture that the BJP was against them. MVA was criticised for bringing inconvenience to the citizens who are already troubled due to the Covid-enforced lockdown, but it succeeded in making the Lakhimpur Kheri incident a talking point across the state. Besides, by enforcing the bandh together, the three parties have also put up a united face, which could help them in forthcoming local body elections. Significantly, the ruling coalition’s aggression is seen as its response to the Centre’s action – several MVA leaders are facing probe by central agencies. The MVA government, comprising the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, has been facing challenges posed by the opposition BJP and the Central government led by it ever since it came to power in November 2019. It began with the clashes between the Centre and MVA government over the transfer of probe in the Bhima-Koregaon violence and the Sushant Singh Rajput death cases. The state government has been cornered by BJP over the issues of corruption by its leaders and ministers regularly. Many Shiv Sena and NCP leaders have been facing action by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Income-Tax (I-T) authorities. The ruling party leaders have claimed the action to be out of political vendetta and have also raised questions on why the agencies do not go after any BJP leader.“Fed up with the daily bashing, the three parties saw the outrage over mowing down the farmers as an opportunity. Our leadership was upset over the treatment meted out to its leader Priyanka Gandhi in UP during the incident, while the other two parties [Shiv Sena and NCP] were already upset over action against their leaders by the Centre using the agencies. The success of the bandh has helped MVA combine in many ways to score over the opposition,” said a senior Congress leader, requesting anonymity of name.The three ruling parties ensured that the bandh, which was happening after a long duration in the state, was successful. “Keeping auto-taxis and buses off the road and shutting shops in Mumbai, Thane and other parts of MMR (Mumbai Metropolitan Region) without Shiv Sena’s involvement was not possible. The other two parties [Congress and NCP] took responsibility of the region of their dominance in Vidarbha, western Maharashtra etc. Traders and their unions were taken into confidence to ensure that they keep the establishments shut. In some cases, state administration, too, was utilised to keep the activities shut,” said an NCP leader.The state cabinet on Wednesday had passed a resolution to condemn the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Any such resolution in the cabinet for an incident in some other state is rarely passed, but the three ruling parties were unanimous on it. Similarly, the decision of the bandh was taken unanimously, though it was initiated by NCP. Party chief Sharad Pawar’s appeal to the people in the backdrop of the I-T raids on his nieces, too, had helped charge up NCP leaders to actively participate in bandh.Political analyst Hemant Desai said that the bandh was successful and it could politically help the three ruling parties. “They have put up a joint show of strength against BJP, which is their common political rival. It was necessary for MVA for two reasons: first, BJP is leaving no opportunity to target the three ruling parties, and giving it back was necessary for the ruling alliance. Secondly, MVA government has not been able to perform anything big that can be showcased. The bandh was an attempt to keep that failure under the carpet. The success of the bandh will, however, help the ruling parties in the forthcoming local body as well as in the 2024-Assembly elections,” he said.Leader of opposition in the legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said that the three ruling parties are trying to gain political mileage out of the issue. “They have nothing to do with the farmers. Farmers had been fired at in Pune’s Maval 10 years ago during the Congress-led government’s rule. The Congress-led Rajasthan government had heavily lathicharged farmers two days ago. The state government has not been able to offer any relief to the flood-affected farmers in Marathwada and now they are protesting the incident in Lakhimpur. They are shredding crocodile’s tears,” he said.“This is a state-sponsored bandh implemented with the help of the police and administration. Traders and their unions were threatened to participate in it. The ruling parties misused the police and administration to impose the bandh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-show-of-strength-by-mva-over-up-violence-to-counter-bjp-s-attacks-101633969507059.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bandh 100% success, says MVA||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), a three-party coalition of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, enforced a Maharashtra bandh (statewide shutdown), which they termed a 100% success, on Monday, protesting the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. Shops, commercial activities and public transport largely remained shut in the state, including commercial capital Mumbai, affecting normal life. The bandh was by and large peaceful. barring a few incidents of stone pelting at BEST buses in Mumbai and minor skirmishes between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and MVA workers at a few places. The opposition, BJP, accused the ruling coalition of misusing police machinery to enforce bandh in the state. They also accused the MVA coalition of state-sponsored terror over forcing the people for a shutdown. Refuting the allegations, MVA responded, saying whatever happened in Lakhimpur Kheri can be called a terror act.Leaders and workers from the MVA coalition took to the streets to ensure the shutdown was observed in Mumbai and in the state that was called to condemn the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which four cultivators were mowed down by a SUV during a protest that triggered the violence. The farmers alleged that Ashish Mishra, son of Ajay Mishra, Union minister of state for home, was driving the vehicle that killed the farmers.The bandh was followed by protests and agitations such as blocking of roads and highways, bike rallies and silent protests against Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre, which also led to traffic snarls at several places in the state.The essential services, however, remained unaffected as they were allowed to be operated during the shutdown.Shops and commercial establishments at most of the places were shut since morning. Those who refused to support the bandh were forced to do so by the ruling party workers. The bandh affected the commuters in the morning rush hour in Mumbai and neighbouring areas as bus services were stalled, following incidents of stone pelting at some places. Eight BEST buses and one leased bus were vandalised between midnight yesterday and Monday morning in Dharavi, Mankhurd, Shivaji Nagar, Charkop, Oshiwara, Deonar and Inorbit Mall, the officials said.While the BEST bus services were affected in the wake of the bandh, the local trains that are considered the lifeline of Mumbai, were operating normally as no incident of “rail roko” was reported anywhere in the city. However, they were running fully packed as commuters shifted to suburban rail services. “Our services are running as per schedule,” Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of the Central Railway, told PTI.The Metro rail services were also operating normally in the city. According to the Union leaders, most of the black-yellow cabs and auto-rickshaws were off roads in the metropolis. “The black-yellow taxis are operating, but their number was less,” said AL Quadros, general secretary, Mumbai Taximens’ Union.City’s renowned lunchbox deliverymen popularly known as “Dabbawala”, supported the bandh by discontinuing their services on Monday. Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association (FRTWA) that had earlier declared not to support the bandh, also later changed their stand, after Sena leaders spoke to them. “After the request of Shiv Sena and other party leaders, we have decided to keep shops closed till 4pm in support of the bandh call by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in protest against the killing of farmers,” said Viren Shah, FRTWA chief.At some places, Sena workers were also seen beating autorickshaw drivers to force them to go off the road. There were also complaints of Sena workers puncturing tyres of vehicles to stall the traffic movement at a few places. They burned tyres on the eastern express highway during bandh at Vikhroli in Mumbai. MVA party workers have taken to the streets across Mumbai and several areas in the state, including Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Solapur, and Nagpur. Activists of the Sena also found caning autorickshaw drivers who were ferrying passengers and defying the bandh in Thane. A joint protest by workers from all the three ruling parties was also held at Samvidhan Chowk at Nagpur. Sena workers were detained by the police when they were staging a rasta roko on Pune-Bengaluru national highway in Kolhapur.In Pune, traders at wholesale vegetable and fruit markets supported bandh by choosing not to operate while several auto rickshaw unions also participated in the protest by not bringing out their vehicles on the street. Public transport such as PMPML also chose not to ply buses till 12pm, but the state transport (ST) buses operated as normal. According to PMPML officials, they have decided not to ply buses in view of bandh and to avoid any damage.Most of the APMC (agriculture produce market committee) markets were closed in solidarity with the bandh including Navi Mumbai, Nashik, Pune, Dhule, Nandurbar, Manmad, among others. All the prominent farmers’ organisations have already declared support to the bandh.This was the first time the three ruling partners together held a state-wide protest. It got good response in Thane, Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Sangli, Parbhani, Amravati, among other districts. In Jalgaon, NCP and BJP workers clashed against each over enforcing the bandh. A similar incident was recorded in Buldhana where a skirmish took place after BJP and MVA workers came face to face.In Mumbai, mayor Kishori Pednekar held a protest at Worli along with Sena workers by sitting on the road. Shiv Sena leader and former minister Sachin Ahir detained by the police for agitating at Worli.Sena leader Sanjay Raut claimed that the statewide bandh was 100% successful. “Bandh in state was 100% successful, as people have shown their anger against the incident of mowing down farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri,” Raut said. “If someone is opposing this Maharashtra bandh then they must ask themselves if they are citizens of this country,” he said in response to the BJP and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) who opposed the shutdown.To participate in the bandh, state NCP chief Jayant Patil, Baramati member of parliament (MP) Supriya Sule and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik held a protest at Hutatma Chowk in south Mumbai.“The major reason behind the bandh is that the BJP government neglected the farmers’ protest at the borders of Delhi, but Lakhimpur Kheri incident is a clear murder. They were killed by a BJP minister’s son. It appears that BJP wants to crush the farmers’ agitation and to condemn the incident we have called this bandh,” said Patil. “BJP has unfortunately opposed it. It means they are supporting those who have murdered the farmers by mowing them down,” he added“It is unfortunate to say that humanity has died. There was a time when humanity was alive in politics, but the current BJP government at the Centre has finished it off. We have called this bandh against the murder of the farmers. If you watch the video, you will get goosebumps even today. Have you ever seen such cruelty? It was a cruel incident. Condemning the incident will not be enough and he (Ashish Mishra) should be brought to justice. The union minister Ajay Mishra should have resigned from his position by taking moral responsibility for the incident,” Sule said.While all key Congress leaders, including PWD minister Ashok Chavan, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, state president Nana Patole, Mumbai chief Bhai Jagtap, women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur, state working president Arif Naseem Khan, among others, held a Maun Vrat (silence protest) agitation outside Raj Bhavan against farmers killing in Lakhimpur Kheri.Patole said they have received spontaneous response from traders, businessmen to the bandh as they, too, were upset against BJP rule after GST implementation. “The spontaneous response to the band is an indication that the people have stood up against the rule of oppression by the BJP government. We will stand firmly with the farmers,” said Congress minister Yashomati Thakur.Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said this is a state sponsored bandh imposed and implemented with the help of administration. “The traders and businessmen and their unions are being threatened to participate in it. The ruling parties are misusing police and GST administrations to impose bandh,” Fadnavis told reporters.He said the state government should first give relief to the farmers who have suffered losses in the recent downpour in Marathwada and Vidarbha. “The MVA government is imposter and humbug. The Congress-led government had killed farmers protesting on water shortage in Maval in Pune a few years ago. Congress-led Rajasthan government heavily lathicharged against protesting farmers two days ago. This government is anti-farmers and the farmers have realised it,” Fadnavis alleged.In response, Patole said that Fadnavis has shown his double face when it comes to farmers’ issues. “I had advised him to speak to the BJP-led central government against the step-motherly given treatment to Maharashtra instead of visiting flood affected areas. The state government has sought a relief package of Rs15,000 crore, but the Centre has agreed to provide nominal financial assistance. He should have taken up the issue with the Centre, but his hypocrisy is clear with what he is saying,” Patole remarked.Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said that the ruling parties in the state are trying to reap political mileage by giving the bandh call for what happened in Uttar Pradesh. “We condemn the bandh as it has posed a hardship to the general public. Instead of observing a bandh, the state government should first give relief to the farmers affected due to the floods in Marathwada and Vidarbha recently. The state government has done nothing except making tall assurances,” Patil said.Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS), too, opposed the bandh. MNS leader Ameya Khopkar said, “Instead of troubling citizens, the state government should have contributed one day’s salary to these farmers or worked overtime. People are already bruised by the consecutive lockdowns and this is like rubbing salts on their wounds,” he said.Senior Congress minister Balasaheb Thorat said that being political outfits, MVA coalition wants to save the democracy of the country by holding the bandh. “For them (BJP) whatever happened in Lakhimpur Kheri with the farmers is a petty incident. Moreover, attempts are going on to save the culprit (Ashish Mishra) and this needs to be condemned by all… We decided to hold a bandh to save democracy, though we are part of the government. The politics of terror to remain in power is unfortunate. The incident is a loud and clear message for the farmers that if you hold protests against us then you will be crushed,” Thorat said.Later in the evening, Fadnavis charged the MVA coalition with state sponsored terror over forcing the people for a shutdown. “This is a ‘Bandh Sarkar’ having stopped all schemes, all aid to the farmers. During Covid-19 pandemic, when the entire country was open, it kept Maharashtra shut. Today, when small traders, shopkeepers are somehow opened for business, it is using police and various agencies to enforce the bandh and this is a form of state sponsored terrorism,” Fadnavis accused.Responding to the allegations, Raut said what has happened in Lakhimpur Kheri can be called a terror act. “Whatever happened in Lakhimpur Kheri can be called as an act of terror and not the bandh called to condemn the massacre,” the Sena leader said.There was heavy police deployment across the state in the wake of the bandh. In Mumbai alone, security has been deployed at strategic points with three companies of state reserve police force (SRPF), 500 home guards, and 700 men from local arms units, according to the Mumbai Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-100-success-says-mva-101633969331385.html
11-10-2021||Ranchi||Cong silent protest:BJP has different law for ‘the high and mighty’, say Jharkhand leaders||As part of its nationwide exercise, the Congress leaders and workers of the party’s Jharkhand unit organised a five-hour long silent protest outside Raj Bhawan in Ranchi, demanding resignation of Union minister Ajay Mishra after his son was arrested for his alleged role in the recent Lakhimpur-Kheri violence.The protest was led by Jharkhand Congress chief Rajesh Thakur, with Congress ministers Rameshwar Oraon, Alamgir Alam, Badal Patralekh and Banna Gupta in attendance, besides other party legislators, office bearers and party workers.Addressing the media at the protest, Thakur said in the BJP, the rule is that law is applicable only on commoners, while they have “different standards for the high and mighty.”“We are seeing what is happening from Gorakhpur to Lakhimpur. It seems that the BJP implements the law only when it deals with commoners. However, they need to understand that the rule of law is established when examples are set by action against the powerful, who have committed a crime. By not acting against the erring powerful, the BJP has demeaned the democracy itself,” said Thakur.On the other hand, state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh said MoS Ajay Mishra has lost moral standing to continue in his post. “In our government, many a times ministers have resigned if any untoward incident happened even if they were not responsible for it, but just out of political morality and ethics. We are expecting the same from the minister,” he said.Eight people, including four farmers and a local journalist, died during the violence in UP’s Lakhimpur-Kheri after an SUV belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra and a convoy of cars mowed down a group of protesting farmers from behind on October 3.Earlier this week, the state Congress had set off for Lakhimpur to show their support for the agitating farmers, besides protesting against the house arrest of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. However, they were not allowed to enter Uttar Pradesh at the Wyndhamganj-Garhwa border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cong-silent-protest-bjp-has-different-law-for-the-high-and-mighty-say-jharkhand-leaders-101633969031458.html
11-10-2021||Patna||Twelve cops among 32 injured in mob attack, lathicharge at Muz village||At least 12 policemen, including two sub-inspectors, were injured and a police vehicle damaged when an irate mob allegedly attacked them with stones, weapons and sticks following an alleged liquor raid at Muzaffarpur’s Jhitkahiatola village on Sunday midnight, said officials of Sakra police station on Monday. This is the second such incident in the state within 48 hours.The police team, in defence, opened fire in air and used baton to control the crowd, according to eyewitnesses. Over 20 people were said to be injured in the lathicharge.All the injured persons--both policemen and locals--were currently undergoing treatment at nearby hospitals. The police have arrested seven persons, who were part of the mob, while a case has been registered against over a dozen people in this connection, said Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of the police (SSP) Jayant Kant.According to the police, the incident took place when the Sakra police team raided a village house following a complaint that a liquor party was being held there allegedly to celebrate victory in the panchayat election. “As the policemen were searching for the house of one Baliram, who won the panchayat election as a ward member, police could not find anything. However, his family members and other village residents gheraoed and made hostage the police team, forcing them to reveal the identity of the person who gave the false input to the police,” said one of the injured sub-inspectors Ashish Kumar. He added that when additional forces reached the spot to rescue them, the villagers pelted stones on the police team and beat them with bamboo sticks and sharp-edged weapons. As per station house officer of Sakra police station Saroj Kumar, the raid was conducted on the alleged liquor party after a complaint to the excise department. “A case has been registered against dozens of people from Jhitkahiatola village of Raghunathpur-Donwa panchayat. This is a very serious issue. None of those involved in the planned attack on the police party will be spared. Seven persons have been arrested so far, but there will be large scale arrests of those involved in the incident,” said the Muzaffarpur SSP. Earlier on Saturday, a sand mafia attacked the police and a mining team, and damaged their vehicles after a raid at at Bhagalpur’s Kamalpur village falling under Sajaur police station area.As per the state police data, as many as 24 such incidents have been reported from across Bihar in the month of August alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/twelve-cops-among-32-injured-in-mob-attack-lathicharge-at-muz-village-101633969030359.html
11-10-2021||Patna||Bihar Cabinet okays input subsidy for crop damage due to floods, rains||Farmers in Bihar, whose standing crops were damaged due to floods or excessive rains this year, will be getting compensation from the state government very soon. The decision was taken by the state Cabinet on Monday in view of the assessment of damages to agriculture due to the natural calamity. The Cabinet approved farm compensation worth ₹550 crore to be paid to the affected farmers as agriculture input subsidy. This was among a dozen odd proposals, which were discussed and approved by the Cabinet at its meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar. Briefing mediapersons after the meeting, additional chief secretary (ACS), Cabinet, Sanjay Kumar said that the agriculture input subsidy would be paid to farmers on the basis of assessment made by the district authorities concerned for crop damages. “Besides, those who could not do farming on their land owing to excessive rains would also get farm subsidy. The Cabinet has approved a sum of ₹100 crore for the purpose,” said the ACS. The Cabinet also gave its nod for payment of ₹50,000 to the nearest kin of those who died due to Covid-19 pandemic. The disaster management department (DMD) has been allocated ₹50 crore to be paid as ex-gratia to around 10,000 such persons. “This will be in addition to the ₹4 lakh to be paid or already paid to the family of each deceased by the state government. The additional amount is being paid as an obligation of the Central government in conformity to its affidavit made in the Supreme Court,” said an official aware of the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cabinet-okays-input-subsidy-for-crop-damage-due-to-floods-rains-101633969028087.html
11-10-2021||Patna||DoT gives radiation clean chit to mobile towers in Bihar||The department of telecommunications (DoT) has given a clean chit from radiation point of view to over 1 lakh mobile towers in Bihar. Of the 34% (34,082) mobile towers the DoT had inspected, all conformed to the government’s radiation norms, said Girijesh Kumar Mishra, senior deputy director general (DDG), department of telecom, Bihar Licensed Service Area (LSA), on Monday. The DoT prescribed maximum limit of power density is 1 Watt per meter square. Sharing these figures, Mishra said there were certain misconceptions related to the radiation of mobile towers among the public, who were reluctant to allow installation. “Some people believe that tower radiation harms health. However, this radiation is non-ionizing. Based on scientific facts, it has been found that it does not have any adverse effect on human health,” said Mishra. Non-ionizing radiations are those having low to medium frequency (3 kiloHertz to 300 Gega Hz), like sunlight, radio and microwave signals. On the contrary, ionizing radiations are those like X-ray, gamma rays, having high electromagnetic spectrum frequency in the range of 300 Pico Hz to 30 Exa Hz, said BM Patel, director (compliance), DoT, Bihar LSA. Mishra said the government of India had endorsed tower radiation level ten times more stringent as compared to the international standards prescribed by the WHO and the International Commission for Non-ionizing Radiation & Protection (ICNIRP). The senior DDG regretted that that the myth about radiation from mobile towers posing health hazards had affected the execution timeline of many projects in the state. “The success of many ambitious projects, such as Digital India, Smart Cities, National Broadband Mission and others, depend on the availability of mobile towers. The country is going to expand 5G technology in a big way soon. It is anticipated that the 5G rollout will require a qualitative increase in the number of telecom towers. In such circumstances, it has become extremely imperative to dispel the myths and misconceptions related to towers and their radiation,” added Mishra. Of the over 1 lakh base transceiver station (BTS), which connects tmhe obile device to the network, in Bihar, Reliance Jio accounts for around 49,000, Airtel 32,300, Vodafone and Idea 15,320 and BSNL 4,300, said Patel. Of these, as many as 10,556 BTS are in Patna district alone, while the rest are distributed among the 37 remaining districts of Bihar. The inequitable distribution of mobile towers is not a happy situation in the state, felt telecom officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/dot-gives-radiation-clean-chit-to-mobile-towers-in-bihar-101633968967321.html
11-10-2021||Other||Two cops accused of beating up e-rickshaw driver to death in Bulandshahr suspended||MEERUT Two cops, including an S-I and a constable, were suspended for allegedly beating up a 40-year-old e-rickshaw driver at Chaundhera village in Bulandshahr. The e-rickshaw driver died during treatment in a hospital on Monday morning. “Sub-inspector (S-I) Rameshwar Dayal Sharma and constable Ravinder Kumar of Chhatari police station have been suspended after the villagers accused both of beating e-rickshaw driver, Gaurishankar,40, a resident of Chaundhera village,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP), Bulandshahr, SK Singh. Circle officer of Dibai area, Vandna, however, defended the cops and claimed that both only scolded him while he was trying to enter into a no vehicle zone in Chhatari area where a fair was in progress on the occasion of Navratri. “Cops didn’t beat him and what I came to know that he was a heart patient and might have come into shock after being scolded by cops on duty,” said the circle officer, adding that only postmortem report would reveal the actual cause of the death. However, villagers claimed that Gaurishankar was beaten by the policemen for entering into the no vehicle zone. His condition deteriorated and his family members admitted him to a hospital from where he was referred to another hospital in Aligarh on Sunday night. He died during the treatment on Monday morning. Angry over the death, villagers and family members blocked the road outside the village on Monday morning. Police and administrative officials along with public representatives reached the spot and persuaded the angry mob to open the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-cops-accused-of-beating-up-e-rickshaw-driver-to-death-in-bulandshahr-suspended-101633968547598.html
11-10-2021||Patna||Cong leader seeks SC-monitored inquiry in Amazon’s kickback allegations||Former Union minister and senior Congress leader Subodh Kant Sahai on Monday sought an inquiry by a sitting judge of the Supreme Court into an alleged payoff worth ₹8,500 crore to the officials and representatives of the Central government by e-retail giant Amazon for relaxing the norms of e-businesses. Subodh alleged that local traders were running out of business owing to the enormous freedom given to the multinational companies. Talking to media persons at the Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) office, Sahai claimed that Amazon had made a statement in its latest annual financial report that it has spent the amount ( ₹8,500 crore) in the legal process in India during the years 2017-20. “The e-retail giants like Amazon and Walmart’s owned Flipkart managed to have a seamless business in India despite legal restraints,” alleged the Congress leader. Justifying his demand for an inquiry by a sitting Judge of the apex court, Sahai said that he was asking for it in the light of the Chief Justice of India’s observations in the case of the Lakhimpur Kheri violence. “The CJI was sceptical of a fair inquiry by the CBI into the case. Moreover, repeated pleas of the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) to Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal for the CBI inquiry into the alleged kickback failed to elicit any action,” said the Congress leader. The former Union minister claimed that nearly 14 crore people engaged with micro, medium and enterprises, traders and agricultural marketing were left to fend for themselves owing to the unrestrained business regime offered to the multinational e-commerce companies. To a query regarding the present state of the Congress in Bihar and Jharkhand, Sahai said that the 135-year old party would be able to revive its glorious past after the end of the transitional phase, dominated by the politics of polarisation and rhetoric. “Congress always fought for the issues of mass interest and the national pride. People will ultimately realise that they are being taken for a ride by sentimental issues tinged with communal agenda and lofty dreams of Great Bharat,” added the Congress leader. Sahai has reached Patna to participate in the party’s campaign for by-elections at Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly constituencies going to the polls on October 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cong-leader-seeks-sc-monitored-inquiry-in-amazon-s-kickback-allegations-101633968306788.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Valmikis come out in support of Sangrur nagar council ex-vice chief booked for cheating||Days after a former vice-president of Sangrur nagar council was booked for cheating over the registration of a government community hall before its inauguration, members of Ad-Dharam and Valmiki community staged a protest outside the city police station on Monday, seeking withdrawal of the case.The case was registered following a complaint by former Congress councilor Ravi Kumar under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code against Vijay Kumar alias Vijay Lankesh, a former Shiromani Akali Dal-backed councillor.According to the First Information Report (FIR), the community hall that was built using government funds was inaugurated on August 14 and the accused had already registered it as Dr BR Ambedkar Community Hall Management Committee with the “intention of possession and ownership”.State in-charge of Ad-Dharam Veer Shresht Raj Kumar Atikaye said the case was registered under political pressure to stop the political and social activities of Lankesh. “If the case was not withdrawn, the Valmiki community will start agitation against the state government,” he added.Lehra MLA and SAD (Sanyukt) senior leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa said the case was registered at the behest of Congress leaders and the party will start a stir against the ‘false case’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/valmikis-come-out-in-support-of-sangrur-nagar-council-ex-vice-chief-booked-for-cheating-101633968248069.html
11-10-2021||Patna||Muzaffarpur: 3 smugglers held with gold worth ₹3 crore||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence sleuths (DRI) on Monday arrested three persons from Bihar’s Muzaffarpur and seized 35 gold bars worth ₹3 crore from their possession in a surveillance operation on a gold smuggling gang, said officials.The action came after officials of DRI Muzaffarpur unit got a tip-off that three persons will be travelling with huge quantity of smuggled gold in a luxury car. The car was intercepted at Gaighat Maithi Toll plaza in the district, said officials, adding that it was also seized. “The smuggled foreign-marked gold bars, also having alphabets and numbers on them, were hidden in a specially built cavity beneath the vehicle’s engine. All the three occupants of the vehicle confessed their crime,” said a DRI official, refusing to be identified. While two of the arrested persons belong to Uttar Pradesh, the other is a Delhi native.During interrogation, they revealed that another such smuggling was underway, following which the DRI will conduct another operation to nab the main financer and buyer of the gold bars, said officials. The gold and the car have were seized under Customs Act, and all the three arrested persons were arrested under provisions of Customs Act, 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/muzaffarpur-3-smugglers-held-with-gold-worth-3-crore-101633968246849.html
11-10-2021||Patna||Power issue is there but Bihar ready to meet crisis: Nitish||Amidst the ongoing power crisis, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has assured the people that the effect of the crisis arising in the country will not be seen on Bihar as it has taken ample steps to deal with the situation.“It’s true there is a problem. As per our requirement, either we get power from NTPC or private companies. But the supply is affected now. There are some reasons due to which such a situation has arisen. It’s not only in Bihar, it’s everywhere,” said Kumar on coal shortage after the Janata Darbar on Monday.Accepting that the state was unable to get the amount of electricity required, the chief minister said that for the reduction in power generation, the state government has decided to buy power from other states at expensive prices. “We will not allow power crisis in Bihar under any circumstances. In the last five days, the government has purchased 570 lakh units of electricity by spending about ₹90 crores. Department officials are engaged,” he said. “This will ensure availability of peak hour demand of 5500-5600 MW in the state,” he said.According to Bihar State Electricity Board sources, the Coal stocks have reached a critical level, barely enough to last four days. “There is up to 1000-1500 MW shortage of power. The shortage has led to 4-8 hours of a power outage, especially in rural areas of Bihar,” said a BSEB official.The state, however, is buying power at ₹14- ₹16 per unit (against an average cost of ₹3-5 per unit earlier). “The situation is returning to normal. We will soon be able to ensure availability of power commensurate to its demand,” said Bihar’s energy secretary Sanjeev Hans through a tweet on the handle of the Bihar State Power Holding Company Limited.Kumar said that the state had started the Kanti and Barauni powerhouses. “Later on, they were handed over to NTPC. We have also built many new powerhouses. The Barauni Power Unit would be commissioned next month. Electricity rates have become very expensive, but the government is committed to supplying,” he said. CASTE CENSUSCM Kumar said that a decision would be made regarding the caste census after the assembly by-election. “It is very important to conduct caste census. A decision will be taken on this by forming an opinion unanimously with all the parties,” he said.“We are constantly thinking about how the caste census will be done. A final decision has not been taken yet. Right now, because of the by-election, everyone is busy with their respective work. An all-party meeting will be called after the by-election. Every detail will be taken care of in a meticulous manner. Caste, sub-caste, all these things are there, but they have to be studied deeply. The final decision will be taken after the by-polls,” the CM added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/power-issue-is-there-but-bihar-ready-to-meet-crisis-nitish-101633968066937.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Priyanka leads silent protest demanding removal of minister||LUCKNOW Congress leaders led by party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday observed ‘maun vrat’ (silent protest) at the Gandhi statue near Lucknow’s Grand Post Office (GPO) and other places across UP, demanding dismissal of Ajay Mishra from the post of Union minister of state for home affairs, over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.The protest, as part of the nationwide agitation of the Congress, was held on the day when the police secured three-day custody of the minister’s son Ashish Mishra for interrogation. He was arrested on Saturday by the UP Police in connection with the October 3 violence in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed. Late on Saturday night, he was produced before a court, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody. On Monday, the police got his three-day custody.Congressmen sat on a ‘maun vrat’ in front of the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Lucknow’s Hazratganj area, demanding the dismissal of the Union minister, a party spokesperson said. Party workers and leaders, including state president Ajay Kumar Lallu, CLP leader Aradhana Mishra, leader in the legislative council Dipak Singh among others converged at the GPO Park here and were were later joined by Priyanka Gandhi, the spokesperson said.None of the protestors spoke anything, they just sat there and waved placards with messages – “We will fight, we will win” and “Dismiss MoS.”The Congress and all other opposition parties have been demanding dismissal or resignation of the minister for ensuring a free and fair investigation into the Lakhimpur violence case. On Sunday, addressing a rally in Varanasi, Priyanka Gandhi had said, “Congress workers do not fear anyone, even if you put them in jails or beat them up. We will continue to fight till the Union minister resigns. Our party has fought for the country’s Independence. No one can silence us.” UP minister Sidharth Nath Singh, however, took a jibe at the Congress saying law will take its course and will not be influenced by any kind of pressure. He said: “As far as the maun vrat is concerned, it is the party whose prime minister was on maun vrat for 10 years.” Singh said if Congress leaders want to sit on a maun vrat or hold protests, it is their democratic right.He also said why protests were not held in the Congress-ruled Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh where atrocities were allegedly being committed against Dalits and farmers. “We will send them (Cong leaders) Google maps for the routes to Rajasthan and Chhattigarh. Why are they not going to Chhattisgarh where farmers were killed or Rajasthan where a Dalit was mob lynched,” asked Singh.Sidharth Nath Singh also tweeted the Google Maps routes of Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh from Lucknow and tagged Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-priyanka-leads-silent-protest-demanding-removal-of-minister-101633968006913.html
11-10-2021||Other||IIT Kanpur business incubator signs MoU with Canada’s TBDC to empower startups||Lucknow: Foundation for Innovation and Research in Science and Technology (FIRST), the technology business incubator at IIT Kanpur, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Toronto Business Development Centre (TBDC), Canada. The MoU’s primary objective is to provide business advisory, investors and industry connects to the startups qualifying under TBDC’s programmes like Startup Visa and Soft-Landing Program. The selected startups will also get an opportunity to relocate to Canada. The enterprises further will launch a joint cross-mentorship program as a collaborative venture for startups from both nations. This partnership will bring significant changes to the existing startup ecosystem in both the countries. In addition to this, FIRST and TBDC will also provide an opportunity for incubation to the selected startups for a period of 6 months. “We already have a partnership with Singapore India Chamber of Commerce. I am glad that with the establishment of the partnership with TBDC, we are moving a step forward towards expanding our footprints to make a mark in the global entrepreneurial ecosystem,” said Prof. Abhay Karandikar, director, IIT Kanpur. He further added that “FIRST IIT Kanpur is emerging as a pioneer in nurturing startups through their journey.” Adding to this, Nikhil Agarwal, CEO FIRST, IIT Kanpur, said, “I’m delighted on the signing of this MoU. FIRST has always worked towards serving the greater good, and this joint effort with TBDC will advance our startups by exposing them to exceptional networks through TBDC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iit-kanpur-business-incubator-signs-mou-with-canada-s-tbdc-to-empower-startups-101633967766814.html
11-10-2021||Patna||State enhances pension for JP Senanis||The state government on the occasion of the 119th birth anniversary of Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan announced to raise the pension amount for JP Senanis who served different durations in jail during the JP Movement.Making this announcement during the launch of the book, “The Dream of Revolution” -- a biography of Jayaprakash Narayan, written by Sujata Prasad -- chief minister Nitish Kumar said that the state government has decided to increase the pension amount of JP Senanis, who spent one to six months in jail from ₹5000 to ₹7500 and for those who spent more than six months in jail to ₹15,000 from the existing ₹10,000.In addition to this, Kumar announced to increase the corpus fund for the JP’s residence. “We have also decided to increase the corpus fund for the Gandhi Sanghralaya from the existing ₹2 crore to ₹5 crore,” Kumar said. Earlier, Bihar Governor Phagu Chauhan and CM paid floral tributes to JP on his birth anniversary in Patna on Monday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also paid tribute to JP and said that he had a remarkable personality that “left an inedible mark on India’s history.”“Tributes to Loknayak JP on his Jayanti. He was a remarkable personality, who left an inedible mark on India’s history. He devoted himself to public welfare initiatives and was at the forefront of protecting India’s democratic ethos. We are deeply inspired by his ideals,” the Prime Minister tweeted.He was posthumously awarded India’s highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna, in 1999.Meanwhile, an international conference on “JP and his Experiments with Indian Democracy” was organised by the University Department of Political Science at LN Mithila University (LNMU) on Monday..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/state-enhances-pension-for-jp-senanis-101633967646682.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Environmentalists oppose road widening in Aarey||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) earlier this month released a tender to widen the Aarey main road, officially known as Dinkar Rao Desai Marg, to four lanes, with a width of nine metres, up from the existing seven-metre wide, two-lane arrangement. The development, which marks the second time this year that BMC has issued a tender for revamping the Aarey main road, has sparked the ire of environmentalists, who maintain that such infrastructure expansion can be ecologically detrimental to the area.For example, the Aarey main road (which connects the western express highway) to the P/South, K/East and S Wards in suburban Mumbai, falls under the centrally notified eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), which states “vehicular movement of traffic shall be regulated in a habitat friendly manner” within the ESZ. Moreover, the ESZ notification also regulates the widening and strengthening of existing roads, bridges, infrastructure and construction of new roads, with the view that such activities may be taken up when without causing any adverse impacts to the environment, which environmentalists say will be an inevitable outcome of any road widening in Aarey.“It appears that, by widening the existing road, BMC intends to permit more vehicles to use this road which is in contravention of the provisions of the ESZ Notification, which directs that traffic must be regulated (controlled) in such ESZ areas. BMC cannot be permitted to allow the existing road, thru the ESZ & Forested areas of Aarey, to be used as some sort of traffic short-cut,” wrote Zoru Bhatena, an environmentalists and pro-Aarey campaigner, in a letter to authorities on Sunday.Bhatena also pointed out that the road’s alignment cuts through areas of Aarey which have been notified as reserve forest under the Indian Forest Act (1927) by the state government, and that forest department clearance is mandatory before the project can proceed any further. Hindustan Times was unable to locate any proposal on the state forest department portal relating to the BMC’s tender.A nearly identical tender to “improve” the main Aarey road had been floated in August, but was later scrapped by BMC, following a controversy over contractors quoting up to 40% less than estimated cost of ₹1,200 crore for road repairs and maintenance contracts across the city. The bids were reinvited for Aarey on October 4.Sanjiv Valsan, a pro-Aarey campaigner, said, “Widening roads will increase the already heavy vehicular traffic movement in the area, in addition to threatening green cover. If th eBMC’s goal is to sustainably make traffic movement in the area more efficient, they need to impose a toll on heavy private vehicles which enter the forest, which will reduce traffic jams and therefore eliminate the need to widen the road.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/environmentalists-oppose-road-widening-in-aarey-101633966573837.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Police arrest woman, brother for allegedly strangulating husband in Kalher area of Bhiwandi||A woman, with her brother, allegedly strangulated her inebriated husband to death for physically abusing her regularly. The Nizampura police registered a murder case against both of them and arrested them.The arrested 35-year-old woman who works as a house maid has been identified as Savita Sanjay Pagi and her brother is identified as Akshay Kalang, 32.The incident occurred at the couple’s home in the Kalher area of Bhiwandi on Sunday night. Kalang used to visit his sister often. On Sunday, when he visited, he saw his brother-in-law, Sanjay Pagi, 38, beating up his sister. He tried to stop him but in vain.Police officers said, “Savita got furious and saw her husband beating her brother as he was trying to stop him. In anger, she strangulated him and her brother allegedly helped her. After the incident, the neighbours saw the incident and called the police. We arrested both of them under IPC section 302.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-arrest-woman-brother-for-allegedly-strangulating-husband-in-kalher-area-of-bhiwandi-101633966326775.html
11-10-2021||Jaipur||Illicit liquor, drugs worth ₹9 lakh seized from poll-bound seats in Rajasthan||Illegal liquor and drugs worth around ₹9 lakh were recovered from poll-bound Vallabhnagar and Dhariyawad Assembly constituencies in Rajasthan, an official said on Monday.In a statement, state Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta said teams of the departments concerned have till October 10 seized illegal liquor and drugs worth ₹8.98 lakh in the two constituencies.The seized liquor is worth ₹6.20 lakh.The voting in the constituencies will be held on October 30 while the counting will take place on November 2.A total of 5,11,455 people are eligible to vote in both assembly constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/illicit-liquor-drugs-worth-rs-9-lakh-seized-from-poll-bound-seats-in-rajasthan-101633965535882.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Political parties ignoring real issues, says Sanjha Sunehra Punjab forum||Accusing the political parties of divisive and diversionary tactics ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, members of Sanjha Sunehra Punjab, a non-political forum, organised an interactive session with ex-servicemen at a resort here on Monday. Issues such as shrinking farm income, unemployment, deteriorating education standards, etc. were discussed at the event.Forum’s convener, former ambassador KC Singh, and other founder members, including Maj Gen Satbir Singh (retd), Air Marshal PS Gill (retd), former DGP DR Bhatti, Rusy Kohli, among others, participated in the event in which ex-servicemen from across Punjab and Haryana participated.The participants discussed a wide range of issues, including farmers’ protest and Lakhimpur Kheri violence.KC Singh said the meeting was aimed at highlighting the tactics being adopted by political parties to divert public’s attention from real issues. “Political parties are more concerned about the CM face for the upcoming elections. No party is talking about the decreasing farm income, rising unemployment, inflation, etc.,” he said.The participants also deliberated upon the in-situ and ex-situ crop residue management to check stubble burning. Demanding implementation of the Swaminathan report for betterment of farmers, the members said farming sector will not be out of the woods even if the farm laws are repealed.‘Weighing pros and cons of joining politics’Manch’s founding members said they were weighing the pros and cons of joining politics. Rusy Kohli said most members felt that bringing about a change was possible only if forum members join politics. KC Singh said they had also discussed the same with farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. “No decision has been taken as of now and the issue will be discussed again in detail,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-parties-ignoring-real-issues-says-sanjha-sunehra-punjab-forum-101633966088773.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Ensure no adulterated food item is sold in market, admn to FSDA||LUCKNOW In wake of the upcoming festive season, the district administration called a special meeting with Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA) department to chalk out ways to check sale of adulterated food items in the market. The DM also directed thorough inspection of food quality at food joints and restaurants. “As the festive season is round the corner, the FSDA should ensure that no adulterated food item is sold in the market. The department should set up camps and carry out special drives to keep a check on adulteration,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate. Only licence holders would be allowed to sell edibles in the market hence it is mandatory for all in the food business to procure licenses or else they will be treated as illegal vendors, he said.The administration is also going to organise a tourist carnival from December 5 to 12. However, the detailed blueprint of the programme is yet to be chalk out, added the DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-no-adulterated-food-item-is-sold-in-market-admn-to-fsda-101633965606904.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri case: Police get three-day custody of Union minister’s son||A local court on Monday sent Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra to three days’ police custody remand in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case.Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence on October 3.Senior prosecution officer SP Yadav said, “Police had demanded a 14-day remand of Ashish Mishra. But chief judicial magistrate Chinta Ram’s court allowed police custody remand from October 12 to 15.”Yadav added, “As per the Supreme Court guidelines, the court instructed not to adopt any coercion or torture of the accused.”“Also, a lawyer of his (accused Ashish Mishra’s) choice may remain present during interrogation at a distance without causing any interference,” Yadav said.The hearing on the police custody remand application began at the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Lakhimpur Kheri around 2pm under tight security. The hearing remained disturbed for a few minutes due to a technical snag in connecting the accused Ashish Mishra through video conferencing.Ashish is currently lodged in Lakhimpur Kheri jail.Defense counsel Awdhesh Dubey, Awdhesh Singh, Shailendra Gaur and others opposed the police application for custody remand. They argued the police had already questioned Ashish Mishra for 12 hours and no further questioning was required.They also argued that no further recoveries were to be made from the accused.The court allowed the police custody remand application for three days.Ashish Mishra was arrested on Saturday (October 9) after being questioned for over 12 hours in Lakhimpur Kheri.After the arrest, a court had sent Ashish Mishra to 14-day judicial custody.The arrest came five days after he was booked in a murder case lodged at the Tikunia police station.Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four protesting farmers on October 3.While farmer leaders and opposition parties had been demanding Ashish Mishra’s arrest, the minister and his son had denied the allegations.Two BJP workers and their driver were allegedly lynched by angry farmers in the violence. Local journalist Raman Kashyap also died.The Supreme Court had taken cognizance of the incident and asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take action against “whoever is involved.” According to the police officials , Ashish Mishra was not able to explain several points about his whereabouts during the incident on October 3.The police had issued their first notice to the minister’s son on October 7 asking him to appear before them on October 8, but he had missed the deadline. After a second notice was issued, Ashish Mishra appeared before the police for questioning on October 9.After his arrest, the police had moved an application before the court for 14 days’ police custody remand.However, the court had postponed the hearing on the application till Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-case-police-get-three-day-custody-of-union-minister-s-son-101633965367477.html
11-10-2021||Other||Farmers block roads in Sangrur, Jalandhar against power outages||Amid the power crisis in the state, farmers under the banner of BKU (Dakaunda) and BKU (Rajewal) on Monday blocked Sunam-Patiala road near Nagra village in Sangrur for seven hours against the outages. In Sangrur, A large number of protesters jammed traffic in front of the Gharachon power grid and raised slogans against the electricity department and Punjab government. Also, farmers blocked Jalandhar-Amritsar national highway for two hours at PAP Chowk in Jalandhar. The blockade affected the vehicular traffic going towards Amritsar, Jammu and Ludhiana. Police and civil administration officials reached the protest site and pacified the farmers. The dharna was lifted after Jalandhar zone PSPCL engineer-in-chief Jain Inder Dania assured the farmers that uninterrupted power supply will resume within two days, citing countrywide coal shortage as the reason behind the outages. Sangrur chief of BKU (Dakaunda) Gurmeet Singh Bhattiwal said, “The paddy crop needs irrigation and the government is resorting to power cuts. If the problem is not resolved within two days, we will intensify agitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-block-roads-in-sangrur-jalandhar-against-power-outages-101633965128319.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Village gossip led to quick arrests of accused in Pushpak Express train dacoity and sexual assault case||A village gossip played a significant role in facilitating the arrest of the eight accused in the Pushpak Express dacoity and sexual assault case within 48 hours of the case being registered, investigating officers said on Monday.The accused had allegedly boarded the Lucknow-Mumbai Express train just after it left Igatpuri on the night of October 8, robbed around 15 passengers in one of the sleeper coaches and sexually assaulted a 20-year-old woman in front of her husband. Seven of them managed to flee after the train reached Kasara while one was caught by Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel who responded to the passengers’ cries for help.Officers who were part of the investigation said that the first arrested accused, Arshan Sheikh (20), did not give any significant clues during his preliminary questioning. Further, the police did not have the option of interrogating him at length as the priority was to arrest the rest of the accused before they fled.“We made inquiries with the passengers but they had only heard the accused address each other by their nicknames like ‘Kalya’ and ‘Pakya’, which gave us no clues as to their identities. Our teams obtained Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) camera footage from the spot where they boarded the train, as well as from Kasara, where they alighted and fled. The footage was scanned till we had decently clear images of their faces,” an officer who is part of the investigation said.Armed with these stills, a joint team from the Kalyan GRP and the GRP’s Local Crime Branch (LCB) went to the Ghoti village in Nashik, where Sheikh hails from. With the help of the Nashik Rural Police, under whose jurisdiction the village falls, the police began going door to door in Sheikh’s locality, showing his picture to all the residents.“Like any village, Ghoti has its own gossip about all of its residents. Sheikh and his friends were allegedly infamous as drug addicts and good-for-nothings. Several of the villagers identified his co-accused for us, telling us their addresses as well as confirming the fact that all of them were often seen together,” the officer said. Using this information, the police fanned out in the village and started picking up the accused, with the Nashik Rural Police providing ground level intelligence. Sources said that one of them was hiding in the forest area near Ghoti, from where he was picked up on Sunday afternoon. “The Nashik Rural Police played a huge role in making the arrests possible,” Deputy Commissioner of Police, Manoj Patil, Central Railway, said. The joint team of Kalyan GRP and LCB personnel was working under Patil’s direct supervision.He added that after thorough inquiries, the investigating team has concluded that there were no more accused involved in the case other than the eight already arrested.“We are now working on building a watertight case by recording statements from eye witnesses as well as gathering corroborative evidence,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/village-gossip-led-to-quick-arrests-of-accused-in-pushpak-express-train-dacoity-and-sexual-assault-case-101633965126731.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Durga Puja in Lucknow: Honouring Covid warriors, invoking divinity||From honouring Covid warriors to invoking divnity and laying stress on equality for all, the ongoing Durga Puja celebrations in Lucknow are seeing a variety of themes, some poignant, some full of tradition and others showcasing innovation or the craftsmanship of artisans.For instance, in a reflection of the Covid times, Bondhu Mahal has set up homage points at Rajendra Singh Park in Indira Nagar’s B Block in Lucknow to enable visitors to pay tributes to those who passed away due to Covid.“We are putting up at least a dozen homage points with photos of the people who died because of Covid. People are coming and paying their respects,” said Manoj Bhadra, president of Bondhu Mahal Durga Puja committee.Sushanto Ghosh, secretary, Bondhu Mahal, said, “We will also honour Covid warriors, the neglected Asha bahus, who fought a relentless battle in villages.”Also, they will honour primary teachers, who imparted education to students in villages and dealt with the challenges of online classes. This event will be held on October 13, Ghosh said. Bondhu Mahal Durga Puja committee is organising the Durga Puja for the ninth year.“The pandemic has put a financial strain on the committee, as we can’t collect donations effectively. The businessmen and shopkeepers who were generously donating are unable to contribute as their businesses are not flourishing. We have spent our other deposits to arrange this year’s puja,” Bhadra said.Festival of equality at Kali BadiThe management of the 158-year-old Kali Badi temple at Ghasiyari Mandi in Lucknow feels the financial strain caused by the pandemic is gradually easing. The temple management is following the Covid-19 protocols.“We are adhering to the Covid-19 protocols. This is a festival of equality so everyone is on the same platform worshipping Maa Durga. Naturally, there are limitations posed due to Covid-19 and not many people can converge at one place,” said Abhijit Sarkar, president of Kali Badi Trust.Replica of Delhi’s Ramakrishna MathA massive Durga Puja pandal, which is a replica of New Delhi’s Ramakrishna Math, has been set up at Sector F, Jankipuram. “The entire structure has been created by a team from Medinipur district of West Bengal in a span of 20 days,” said Saurav Bandyopadhyay, chairperson of the puja committee at Jankipuram. However, there will be no bhog distribution for the public as per the government protocols, he said.“The entire structure has been created by a team from Medinipur district of West Bengal in a span of 20 days,” said Saurav Bandyopadhyay, Sahara Estate, Jankipuram. However, there will be no bhog distribution among the masses as per the government protocols, he said.Invoking the divine to defeat corona“We are maintaining Covid protocols at our Durga Puja pandal. We are sanitising consistently,” said Nihar Ranjan Dey of the Cantonment Puja and Sewa Samity which has been organising Durga Puja since 1952. They have come up with a tagline to promote Covid-19 precautions: “Mahishasur mardini bani karona sur mardini” (The Goddess has become the slayer of the coronavirus disease).Sanskritiki Sammilani shifts venueSanskritiki Sammilani, which has conducted Durga Puja rituals, at Shivaji Park, Indira Nagar, Lucknow, for the last 26 years, will do the worship at Kali Mandir, Manas Vihar, this time. “We are taking all necessary precautions and following the norms and regulations as per the government,” said Joy Chatterjee, secretary of the Sanskritiki Sammilani.Private celebrations at RDSOThe Durga Puja Samiti, RDSO, has kept Durga Puja celebrations private this year. They’ll be organising the puja for the 53rd year. “We’ll be arranging a low-budget puja only for members due to Covid-19 pandemic. Hopefully, next year we’ll be organising an event available to all the devotees,” said Tirtho Sengupta of RDSO Puja Samiti,.“The members of our committee are based both in India and foreign nations. They always help us in financing the puja and the administration is also cooperative,” added Sengupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/durga-puja-in-lucknow-honouring-covid-warriors-invoking-divinity-101633964526560.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Hundreds detained in Thane district for vandalising property; protestors attempt to immolate in Kalyan||Hundreds of protestors across Thane district were detained for vandalising property during the Statewide bandh on Monday. A few protestors were detained in Thane for vandalising auto rickshaws.In Kalyan, NCP leaders threatened to immolate themselves when the police tried to arrest them. However, the police managed to control the situation. Protestors damaged the image of the PM in Murbad and were later held by police. On Monday morning, auto rickshaws were seen plying in the city. This enraged a few Shiv Sena party workers. Sena protestors, who were accompanied by the husband of the deputy mayor of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), demanded that they stop plying and also assaulted the drivers. The Naupada police in Thane immediately detained some protestors from the street for creating nuisance. According to police officials, a similar incident happened in Kalyan, where protestors shouted at rickshaw drivers to stop their services immediately. Nationalist Congress Party leader of Kalyan, Sandip Desai, was protesting near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Chowk in Kalyan. He was threatening rickshaw drivers when police intervened. Desai also threatened to immolate himself if they arrested him. However, police controlled the situation immediately. A senior police official said, “Enough police bandobast was made. Every situation and nuisance was handled by the officials efficiently and no untoward incident was reported. The protestors were detained and were released later.” In other parts of the district like Bhiwandi Rural, Murbad and Shahpur, rallies were conducted. More than 100 were detained and were the released at the end of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hundreds-detained-in-thane-district-for-vandalising-property-protestors-attempt-to-immolate-in-kalyan-101633963579626.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Leave of all UP policemen cancelled till October 18||LUCKNOW The leave of all UP Police personnel has been cancelled till October 18 in view of the upcoming festivals and programmes scheduled by farmers’ body Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), officials said on Monday.Durga Puja and Ramlila celebrations are currently going on in the state and Dussehra will be celebrated on October 15. The SKM has decided to hold ‘antim ardas’ prayers on Tuesday for the four farmers who were killed in the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Tikunia on October 3. It has also announced ‘rail roko’ protest on October 18.According to police sources, officials have reached out to local farm leaders and efforts are being made to cancel the event at Tikunia. Police officials are also in touch with local Sikh religious leaders and family members of the deceased farmers.“Due to festivals and programmes of SKM, all leaves till October 18 are being cancelled. In case of any unavoidable reasons, the police headquarters will sanction/permit leave,” stated an order issued by ADG (law and order), Prashant Kumar.In wake of the countrywide protests called by farmers’ groups on October 18, the UP Police have deployed 30 additional IPS officials in western UP districts and 12 of these officials will camp in Lakhimpur Kheri, which is expected to turn into a hotspot after the death of eight people (including four cultivators and a journalist in Tikunia area) recently. Inputs from agency||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/leave-of-all-up-policemen-cancelled-till-october-18-101633962666451.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Country which forgets history cannot create history, says archaeologist GB Deglurkar||Noted archaeologist GB Deglurkar, Phd, insisted on the importance of knowing factually correct history, saying that the country which forgets history cannot create history. Deglurkar was speaking at the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute (Bori) in Pune on Monday, about an illustrated history book for children which explores the heritage, history, geography and several other aspects of Pune. Deglurkar also shared anecdotes from his research and lesser known archaeological findings, such as finding the remains of a hippopotamus during an excavation at Inamgaon village in Pune district; and ashes from a lava explosion in Sumatra which found on the banks of a river in Pune. “Every expert cannot know everything. In this book we have tried to compile a fact-based history through interesting illustrations. Those who do not know history cannot create it. It should reach people with the correct form and facts. People only know what they have been taught through the system and then they pass it on to the next generation,” said Deglurkar. He is one of the researchers of the book, called “Punyaktha - Pune’s story of a million years”, published by Heritage India. Prof P K Ghanekar, Ajit Vaman Apte, and Manjiri Bhalerao have also contributed to the book, and Kalyani Sardesai has written in the book in the form of a story that will appeal to children. “This book has been written in English on purpose because it should also reach Indians who are living abroad. Those children should also get to know about the correct history of India and of Pune. Children who are studying in Pune, don’t know about the surroundings beyond the curriculum. So a period from ancient to modern has been covered in this book,” said Deglurkar. Through nine chapters and 240 pages full of facts, rarely seen photographs, maps, quizzes, puzzles and activity sheets, the book explains how Pune evolved from primitive man and the Stone Age to a a small basti to a jagir to an important bastion of power on a national and international level. Manjiri Khandekar, CEO, Heritage India said, “In today’s volatile world there is an immense need to connect people to their roots, to impart a sense of stability, belonging, identity and pride. Our book is an endeavour to inculcate this. It is a book of hope, of a city and region that has not only endured, but grown by leaps and bounds and enriched thousands through its long course of existence.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/country-which-forgets-history-cannot-create-history-says-archaeologist-gb-deglurkar-101633962306416.html
11-10-2021||Other||DMK MP TRVS Ramesh surrenders before Tamil Nadu court in murder case||DMK Lok Sabha MP TRVS Ramesh, representing Cuddalore constituency in Tamil Nadu, on Monday surrendered before a court in a murder case probed by the CB-CID. The 50-year old MP appeared before a Judicial Magistrate Court in Panruti, about 25 kilometres from Cuddalore, and he was remanded to judicial custody till Wednesday. Later, he was lodged in a sub-jail in the district. A police officer told PTI that following the outcome of Covid-19 test, which is expected by tomorrow, he would be lodged in the Cuddalore Central Prison. Ramesh would be produced before the Chief Judicial Magistrate court in Panruti on Wednesday, he added. The Lok Sabha MP from Cuddalore has been named in an FIR in the alleged murder of Govindarasu, an employee in his cashew unit off Panruti in Cuddalore district. Already, five men including Ramesh's assistant have been arrested in connection with the worker's alleged murder last month. Police had claimed that they were on the lookout for him while he surrendered today.Ramesh has been booked under various sections of the IPC including murder, wrongful restraint and conspiracy and for causing disappearance of evidence and CB-CID is probing the case. Govindarasu, a PMK office-bearer, had been working in the cashew unit owned by Ramesh in Cuddalore district for the past about seven years. The cashew nut unit management had claimed that "Govindarasu died by suicide" and initially police probed it as a "death under suspicious circumstances". Later, the case was taken up by the CB-CID and the issue also went to the Madras High Court.PMK founder leader Ramadoss had alleged that if not arrested, Ramesh would tamper with evidence and urged the CB-CID to immediately arrest him. Ahead of his surrender, Ramesh said he would legally prove that the accusation levelled against him was baseless. He said he was anguished about a false propaganda against his party by "some political parties due to political vendetta," which was based on an FIR against him. The MP, in a statement, said he was surrendering before the court so as to not give room to those who wanted to hurl accusations at his party-led regime, steered by DMK president and chief minister MK Stalin, who is providing good governance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmk-mp-trvs-ramesh-surrenders-before-tamil-nadu-court-in-murder-case-101633958649424.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Mixed response to bandh in Pune; traders rue closure for one day||The Maharashtra bandh called by the three ruling parties in the state – Congress, Shiv Sena and NCP - to protest the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, evoked a mixed response in Pune on Monday.Wholesale vegetable and fruit markets and commercial establishments in central parts of the city remained shut till the afternoon. Commuters, however, had to face some hardship as the public transport service, PMPML, decided not to run most buses during the morning hours to prevent any untoward incident.While all essential services operated smoothly, some shops on Laxmi road, Tulsibaug and Jungli Maharaj road chose not to operate in the morning hours. The three parties, which are part of ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government took out mini rallies and demonstrations at various places, even as no untoward incident was reported in the city, much to the relief of police. At Gultekdi’s Market Yard (wholesale vegetable market), the traders’ association along with labourers and transporters decided to participate in the bandh. Police were on bandobast since the morning at the main gate of Market Yard “Maharashtra bandh appeal and its impact has been good as all of Market Yard and all its stakeholders have supported the bandh,” said Santosh Nangare, secretary, Market Yard Kamgar Sanghatana. Citizens purchased vegetables, fruits and flowers for the ongoing Navratri festival from hawkers on the Market Yard road, who were allowed to operate without any hindrance. “I come every day to Market Yard to purchase vegetables and flowers for Navratri pooja, but as the market was closed we had to purchase it from outside, and that too with a higher price,” said Meghna Bhandari, a resident of the area. A few of the shops on Bajirao road and Laxmi road were open, but the Tulshibaug market remained completed closed. Speaking anonymously, one of the shop owners who was open said, “I pay rent of ₹1.5 lakh per month. Currently our festival season is going on and keeping the shop closed for one day is not affordable. We have already suffered huge loses due to lockdown. Calling for a bandh is easy for political parties, but its impact on common people and traders like is big,” Nitesh Chopada, secretary, Laxmi Road Ganpati Chowk Traders association said, “The shop owners and traders kept their shops closed, mostly because they didn’t want any violence or to have losses. Certainly the financial impact of one day during the main Navratri season is heavy and this is the time when we are able to cover up our losses of the last one year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mixed-response-to-bandh-in-pune-traders-rue-closure-for-one-day-101633961346316.html
11-10-2021||Pune||PMC asks state to allow increased spending for purchase of EVs||The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has now officially requested the state government to increase its current limit on the purchasing of new cars.Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner said,” Due to the state government cap on purchasing cars, we cannot purchase electric cars (EVs) as the cost of the base model is ₹15 lakh. We have written a letter to the state government seeking an increase in the PMC’s spending limit on new cars.”As per the current state government directives the civic body cannot spend more than Rs8 lakh on the purchase of a new car.Khemnar added, “It will help to promote EVs in the city and protect the environment by reducing pollution. We.discussed the issue with Maharashtra state cabinet minister of environment Aaditya Thackeray. He gave a positive response.”The PMC’s vehicle department proposes to hire 38 e-cars for eight years. The proposal has been tabled before the standing committee. The corporation claims this will be a saving of ₹1.77 lakh per year. The total cost of the plan is estimated at ₹23 crore, i.e. rent for 38 EVs for eight years, including maintenance and a diver for each vehicle. Civic activists have also demanded that EVs be purchased instead of taken on hire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-asks-state-to-allow-increased-spending-for-purchase-of-evs-101633960512440.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bandh: Ahead of BMC polls, Shiv Sena shows dominance over Mumbai||The Shiv Sena on Monday displayed its dominance and control over Mumbai by enforcing a near-complete bandh (strike) to protest the killings of the farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. The response to Monday’s bandh showed that the party’s organisation’s strength is still intact and the party can bring Mumbai to a halt. This show of strength is particularly important for the party going into the crucial Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).However, the BJP said that the bandh was forced on shop and establishment owners. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis denied that the people have supported the bandh and alleged that administration, police and government machinery were used to enforce a bandh.The party’s history with ‘bandhs’ dates back several decades when Sena patriarch Bal Thackeray used to bring Mumbai to a grinding halt with a single call. When Bal Thackeray called for a bandh, the city came to a standstill, partly due to fear as well, as the party was prone to violence. The concept of Mumbai bandh was borrowed by Bal Thackeray from his contemporary, the late George Fernandes, but the former used it effectively to show his dominance over Mumbai.For the first time in nearly two decades (18 years), the Sena called or backed a bandh. Sena leaders said the party ceased to call a bandh after 2003 after the party was fined Rs20 lakh by the apex court for calling a bandh against the state government. The Thackerays did not back the bandh called by BJP, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, in Mumbai.In July 2006, when unidentified miscreants allegedly desecrated the statue of Meenatai Thackeray, the late wife of the Sena supremo, irate Shiv Sainiks blocked roads in Mumbai, Nashik and Thane, but officially the party said that there was no bandh. On November 17, 2012, when Thackeray senior passed away, the bandh in Mumbai was “spontaneous as a mark of respect” and the party officially denied calling a bandh on the next day.On Monday, key leaders from the Sena focused on areas such as Dadar, Shivaji Park, Worli, Lal Baug, Parel, Chembur, to stage protests, rasta roko, etc. These areas are largely Marathi dominated localities in central Mumbai, which constitutes a major chunk of the party’s vote bank. Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar staged protests at Worli — Sena scion Aaditya Thackeray’s constituency — along with key leaders party’s vibhag pramukh Ashish Chemburkar, former MLA Sunil Shinde, and Sena deputy leader Sachin Ahir. Sena legislator from Dadar-Mahim, Sada Sarvankar held protests in the vicinity of Shiv Sena Bhavan in Dadar — the heart of Mumbai. Party workers took to the streets in the suburbs as well to stop vehicles on arterial roads, shut shops, etc.Sena MP Arvind Sawant, who also heads the Sena’s labour wing, Bharatiya Kamgar Sena, said that the people supported the bandh. “It was a successful bandh as people supported it wholeheartedly. The appeal of the parties [to support farmers] was followed peacefully. We never forced anybody, one or two stray incidents are fine; they are bound to happen, but we never enforced it. The support from the people showed the anguish of the people over the Lakhimpur incident,” he said.Fadnavis, however, dismissed the claim that the bandh had the people’s backing. “The Lakhimpur incident is serious and the state govt (UP) is looking into it. However, today’s bandh is not to show solidarity over the incident, but to get a political benefit. People are not supporting the bandh, but with the help of administration — police, sales tax, GST — people are being forced to do bandh,” Fadnavis said in a press conference.In the last few months, the cadre of the Shiv Sena, which was brought up on the sustained diet of ‘rada’ politics, has been mobilised on the ground due to three instances. Political observers said that this has reignited the strength of the Sainiks on the ground. Sena workers hit the streets in Mumbai in August following union minister Narayan Rane’s ‘slap’ remark against the chief minister and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. Before that BJP and Sena workers clashed outside Sena Bhavan, the party headquarters, including once over BJP legislator Prasad Lad’s comment that ‘if needed they would demolish the Sena Bhavan”.Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said that with Bal Thackeray’s demise, the party’s culture had changed to a moderate stance. With the alliance with the NCP and Congress, the connection between the Sena chief and workers had loosened as the leadership was busy helming the state. “Shiv Sena has proven that its organisational mettle and political presence is still intact in Mumbai. In the Rane incident as well Shiv Sainiks had hit the streets. Sainiks, which is the soul of Shiv Sena, are still active and strong. There was a feeling of discomfort in them after the new political alliance (MVA),” Jondhale said.Though Sawant dismissed that the bandh was politically motivated, given the BMC elections next year, he, however, said that it shows the party’s dominance in the city. “We call bandhs to convey the anguish and resentment over issues. We don’t call bandhs to show our strength. The people know the strength of Shiv Sena. Today, there is strong resentment among the people. We never have political motives while doing these things. Balasaheb didn’t care for things like power. During his times, he would call bandhs for causes and justice for people. We have done the same in the past, and we are doing it now... Definitely, it shows our power and dominance because our party workers are strong,” he said. He added that the party was fined in 2003 and subsequently stopped calling for bandh, which he termed as a “Gandhian way to convey our resentment.”Jondhale, former professor of political science at Mumbai University, said that there is a distinction between Bal Thackeray’s bandh which were spontaneous and the one called by the ruling coalition in Maharashtra. “Shiv Sena has positively responded to the initiative taken by NCP [on bandh]. Uddhav Thackeray will gain political benefits from this next year. One must not forget that when BJP got almost as many seats as Shiv Sena in BMC elections in 2017, it was their government and their CM. This time it will be difficult for BJP. Marathi people in Mumbai do not exercise their votes to BJP, the political demarcation is quite clear. For Shiv Sena, its organisation network, presence in the ward has come alive which is important. This will give political dividends soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-ahead-of-bmc-polls-shiv-sena-shows-dominance-over-mumbai-101633960510999.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal launches programme to provide career guidance to Delhi govt school students||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal lauded the Aam Aadmi Party's (AAP) flagship ‘desh ka mentor’ programme aimed at providing career guidance to students by citizens who excel in their fields. “Good mentors can tell children about their options and give further guidance after the child picks one,” Kejriwal said at the launch of the programme.The AAP supremo also took a trip down memory lane to recall that when he was young “it was thought that if you're good at studies, become a doctor or an engineer.” He also said that “many children have a limited horizon of thinking and exposure” and the mentorship programme will help them “chalk a future path with mentors guiding them beyond the role played by their teachers."The ‘Desh ka Mentor’ programme aims to involve citizens in mentoring anywhere between one to 10 students from Delhi government schools to help them excel in “every sphere of life”. In August, Bollywood actor Sonu Sood was announced as the ambassador for the programme. The Delhi government also launched the ‘Deshbhakti curriculum’ in schools on the birth anniversary of Shaheed Bhagat Singh on September 28. “Every deshbhakti period shall start with a five-minute ‘Deshbhakti Dhyaan’, where the teacher and students shall practice mindfulness, reflect on their gratitude for the country, freedom fighters, and any five persons that they consider deshbhakts, and pledge their respect for the country,” the department of education had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-launches-programme-to-provide-career-guidance-to-delhi-govt-school-students-101633959279759.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Marathi actor Gauri Kulkarni’s cat rescued from parapet of high-rise building in Thane||Marathi television actor Gauri Kulkarni’s cat, which was stuck for more than an hour on the parapet of the terrace of her high-rise, was successfully rescued by the fire brigade and Thane disaster management team on Monday.The cat, Mishti, is 18 months old and was unable to jump back on the terrace after falling off the gap between the window grills on the parapet, officials said.Kulkarni, who resides on the fifth floor of Iris Tower near Horizon Prime in Kasarvadavli, called the fire brigade officials after Mishti accidently climbed the parapet.Fire brigade officials immediately informed the Regional Disaster Management team. Two of its officials went to check the situation. Mishti couldn’t move from the place and started meowing loudly. The family members tried to reach out to her but in vain.The Disaster Management Cell head, Santosh Kadam, said, “Our team first tried to rescue her with the help of ropes but that didn’t work out, after which we decided to show her some food so that she could at least try to come a little closer to eat and they could pick her up with their hands. This trick worked out and we were able to rescue her within 20 minutes after reaching the spot. She is safe and has no injury marks on her body.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathi-actor-gauri-kulkarni-s-cat-rescued-from-parapet-of-high-rise-building-in-thane-101633959666359.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh rolls out Vijay Yatra today to reach out to UP voters||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav will embark upon his statewide Vijay Yatra, a motorised rath journey, from the Ganga bridge in Kanpur on Tuesday to galvanise public support ahead of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.On the eve of the campaign, the SP released a 17-second video in which Akhilesh was seen talking to his father Mulayam Singh Yadav and touching his feet to get blessings for the success of the rath yatra, which will continue intermittently, till the notification of polls early next year.“The Samajwadi Vijay Yatra aims to make people aware about the corrupt, autocratic and suppressive policies of the BJP government and to establish real democracy,” the party said in a statement.Yadav will travel in a Mercedes bus, which has been turned into a ‘rath’ having posters of Akhilesh Yadav displayed on one side and that of party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav on the other, besides a picture of party leader Mohammad Azam Khan.Akhilesh’s motorised rath is already in Kanpur while he will leave Lucknow early in the morning to start the journey from Ganga bridge in Kanpur at 10 am.The SP said that yatra will start from Kanpur and in the first two days on Oct 12-13 it will cover Kanpur Dehat, Jalaun and Hamirpur.“During its first phase, the yatra is scheduled to reach Naubasta (Kanpur) at 11.30 am, then go to Naveli Lignite Power station, Ghatampur, and then reach Hamirpur at 5pm. The next day, the yatra will restart from Hamirpur at 9.30am covering Kurara, Hamirpur, Kalpi in Jalaun district and end this first leg of the journey at Mati in Kanpur Dehat at 4pm,” said Rajendra Chaudhary, state spokesperson, Samajwadi Party.“After his 2001 Kranti Rath Yatra, SP returned to power in 2002. After the 2011 yatra, SP again returned to power and he became chief minister for the first time,” said Chaudhary.“The yatra aims to provide justice to farmers, youths, dalits, the deprived, the backward, minorities and all sections and rid the state of autocratic and suppressive government,” he added.Meanwhile, UP cabinet minister and state government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh said: “No Vijay Yatra will be able to fulfill Akhilesh’s dream of acquiring power. Those who failed to serve people and handed over the state’s honour and dignity to criminals and goons, have no right to be in power.” Inputs from agency||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-rolls-out-vijay-yatra-today-to-reach-out-to-up-voters-101633958707922.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Will spruce up Amritsar’s walled city if SAD-BSP voted to power in 2022: Sukhbir||AMRITSAR Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday said once elected to power in 2022, the SAD-BSP alliance will develop the entire walled city of Amritsar on the lines of Heritage Walk to give a fillip to business and tourism activities. “Promoting tourism in Sri Amritsar Sahib will be our priority. We will not only focus on beautifying the walled city to make it a bigger attraction but will also revive all projects which the Congress government has ignored,” he said while talking to mediapersons here after paying obeisance at the Golden Tenple, Pracheen Shivalya Temple and Gurdwara Atari Sahib (Sultanwind). He also interacted with representatives of medical associations and goldsmiths’ association during his visit to Tahliwala bazaar, besides addressing public gatherings in different areas of Amritsar South and North assembly segments. He was accompanied by senior leaders, including Anil joshi, Gurpartap Tikka and Talbir Gill. Sukhbir said the previous SAD-led government had made Amritsar a tourist hub by developing the Heritage Walk besides creating other tourist spots such as Apna Pind and the Partition Museum. “The holy city had fallen victim to intra-party power games of the Congress, with no major development project taken up in Amritsar in the last nearly five years,” he said. Responding to a media query regarding Navjot Sidhu announcing to sit on a silent protest, the SAD president asked Sidhu to first clear his current status in the party. Terming him a “drama master”, Badal said he would like to appeal to Sidhu to continue this silent protest for four months, if he really wished to do something good for the state. “It shouldn’t be like his previous one at Lakhimpur Kheri where he went on hunger strike post-dinner and broke it before the breakfast,” he said. ‘Coal crisis result of state govt’s failure’ He held the Congress government responsible for the ongoing coal crisis leading to power outages. “Neither the chief minister nor the power minister thought it fit to take up the issue with the central government. Even the private thermal plants were not held to account to keep coal stock at least for 30 days at all times,” Sukhbir said. “Punjabis will also pay a heavy financial price because the state is now purchasing power at ₹11.60 per unit. Those opposing the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) done by the previous SAD government should now explain to the people the reasons behind their own failures. All sectors, including industry, are facing more than six-hour power cut, paralysing the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-spruce-up-amritsar-s-walled-city-if-sad-bsp-voted-to-power-in-2022-sukhbir-101633958706584.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||18-month-old cat of TV actor rescued by authorities in Thane||Marathi Television actor Gauri Kulkarni’s cat, which was stuck for over an hour on the parapet of the terrace of her high rise apartment, was successfully rescued by the fire brigade and Thane disaster management team on Monday, officials said. The cat, Mishti, barely 18 months old, was unable to jump back on the terrace after falling off the gap between window grills on the parapet, officials said. Kulkarni who resides on the fifth floor of Iris Tower near Horizon Prime in Kasarvadavli, called the fire brigade officials after Mishti accidentally climbed the parapet. Fire brigade officials immediately informed the Regional Disaster Management team while two of the officials went to check the situation and whether they would need more manpower. Mishti couldn’t move from the place and started meowing loudly. The family members tried to reach out to her in vain. Disaster Management Cell head, Santosh Kadam said, “ Our team first tried to rescue it with the help of ropes but it didn’t work out. Then we decided to show her some food so that she could at least try to come a little closer. This trick worked out and we were able to rescue her within 20 minutes after reaching the spot. Mishti is safe and has no injury marks on her body.” Kulkarni acts in a Marathi television serial Aai Kuthe Kay Karte and also worked in few Marathi films.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/18monthold-cat-of-tv-actor-rescued-by-authorities-in-thane-101633958646249.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Schooled in the lap of nature, full of sincerity, enthusiasm||“Those who have not done their homework, stand in a line, please.” This was the opening dialogue in our class daily. More than half the class would queue up with hands outstretched. The teacher would survey the length of the line and decide to delegate the job. The job was to whack each hand once with a rod. It was to honour the boys who had not done their homework. The teacher called to the fore the big boy of the class and personally whacked his hands. Then the rod was handed over to the boy to do the needful for rest of the defaulters. I studied in a school in the hinterland of Punjab in the ’70s. We grew up literally in the lap of nature. Students were introduced to nature right from the day of admission. Every student was supposed to plant a tree along the walls or in the partition of vast grounds, whatever variety, and nurture it till the time he left school. For want of classrooms, a majority of classes were held under trees. Thus, planting a tree was more like planting a classroom for future students. Winters were fun. Classes could be held under the sun, wherever the teacher deemed fit. For summer, big shady trees were earmarked for different classes by default. “Go and leave this chair under the Class 6 tree,” our teacher would direct the peon. Students were there in all shapes, sizes and ages. It was a boys’ school. Age was no criteria for any class. In Class 1, we had boys who should have been in Class 10, going by their age. But no one seemed to mind. Students, teachers and parents were cool, as long as the boy was attending school. No classrooms meant no chairs or benches for students. We were supposed to carry our own rugs to sit on. Big boys never carried anything to school. Most of the times, they helped the teacher in controlling the class. If they needed to sit, they would grab the rug from boys like me. Despite carrying the rug from home, I would be sitting on the ground. That is how the meek inherit the earth, I guess. It was more of physical education than a cerebral one. We spent more time on the school grounds rather than in classrooms under the tree. There was no official gardener, it was simply not possible for a single person to look after the vast grounds and plantation. So, every class was allocated a stretch of ground for its maintenance. We were happy doing that, as it was more fun than learning mathematics or science. We would water the plants, mow the grass, and take out weeds. There were no organised tournaments at that time. But it was normal for a hockey or kabaddi team from another school to come visiting. Sometimes, it was a planned event and sometimes unannounced. It would bring a festival like atmosphere to the school. The visiting team would be accompanied by their own supporters and the ambience would be charged with slogans and cat calls. The school taught me discipline in a practical way. It brought me closer to nature. It made a team player out of me. It taught me techniques of survival. We were not supposed to complain to parents about the whacking we got. Parents believed in teachers and left it to them to make men out of us boys. Though schools lacked in infrastructure and teaching aids but there was sincerity in abundance and enthusiasm all around. I’m happy that my schooling laid a solid foundation for me and helped me progress in life. gsbattu@gmail.com The writer is a Patiala-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/schooled-in-the-lap-of-nature-full-of-sincerity-enthusiasm-101633958166126.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Moderate exercise helps ease arthritis pain and stiffness: Docs||LUCKNOW Moderate exercise helps ease arthritis pain and stiffness in the joints contrary to the belief that it reduces quality of life, said doctors at a press conference on Monday, a day before World Arthritis Day (WAD). “Regular exercise can prevent arthritis, but also cut down on medicines significantly among people with the disease. Exercise makes muscles stronger and keeps the body joints healthy, reducing impact of any disease,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, secretary, Arthritis Foundation of Lucknow (AFoL) and director, Healthcity Hospital. Sharing details of the issues faced by arthritis patients during lockdown, AFoL president Dr Sandeep Garg said despite telemedicine and consultancy via video calls people with arthritis faced difficulties as the disease affects day-to-day life. “Many patients, who were prescribed medicines for a few weeks and asked to come after completing the course, could not do so for months. This is an incorrect way of dealing with the disease,” he said. “The number of replacement surgeries, the ultimate treatment option for arthritis patients, has gone up during the pandemic. This is because patients have become aware about improving quality of life post-surgery and they do not want to wait for things to go from bad to worse,” said Dr Kapoor. Pain, difficulty in movement and stiffness in joints are common factors among arthritis patients. Often, patients face loss of grip and hence are unable to pick up things and seek help from other family members. “In case of arthritis, it is significant to consult an expert doctor at the earliest to ensure that the disease progression is restricted and correct treatment is started,” he said. After surgery, patients are able to perform their daily activities comfortably. Arthritis is primarily a disease of joints, but with pain and other discomfort it affects the daily life for an individual, said Garg and Kapoor. Events to mark WAD The AFoL will organise various awareness events to mark World Arthritis Day (WAD) on Tuesday. Cyclothon, vintage car rally, zumba and yoga sessions will be conducted by Healthcity Hospital. Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director of the hospital, said participants will gather at the hospital at 6am and the vintage car rally will be flagged off soon after along with the cyclothon. Both will reach Janeshwar Mishra Park. Dr Sandeep Garg said the yoga and zumba sessions will be conducted under the guidance of expert trainers and with Covid protocols. WAD, a global awareness day observed every October 12, aims to raise awareness about the impact of arthritis on people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/moderate-exercise-helps-ease-arthritis-pain-and-stiffness-docs-101633956666414.html
11-10-2021||Other||J-K’s debt recovery cases shifted to Chandigarh, lawyers boycott courts in Jammu||The lawyers, on the call of Jammu and Kashmir High Court Bar Association, abstained from working in the high court, subordinate courts and all other tribunals in Jammu to protest against a government notification. As per the notification, the jurisdiction to deal with debts recovery cases of Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been transferred to Chandigarh Bench.Addressing media persons MK Bhardwaj, president of the J&K high court bar association, called it a calculated move on the part of the government to cause undue inconvenience to the public and advocates in particular in the UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh.He said that the government has already transferred the registration work to the revenue officers and the revenue offices are located at far off and scattered places. He said earlier, the registration work was with the judicial officers in court premises but due to the shifting of the registration work, the members of the Bar, and the public at large, are facing inconvenience and difficulties.Bhardwaj further said that at present, no consumer commission and forum is working in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir. He said the government of Jammu and Kashmir still has not constituted and notified the same to date.“There is no information about the pending cases and files. For the convenience of the Advocates and the public, the location of the Central Administrative Tribunal, registration work and other tribunals must be shifted to the court premises under one roof,” he said.Bhardwaj further said that the advocates who are working in the far-flung areas would also face difficulties in contesting their debt recovery cases at Chandigarh and this decision will also affect the public.He said the public is facing inconvenience and harassment due to such policies.Bhardwaj urged the government to revoke the notification within a period of 15 days and also redress the above mentioned genuine grievances, otherwise the J&K High Court Bar Association, Jammu has no other option except to fight against the anti-public decisions taken by the Government of U.T. of Jammu & Kashmir for getting their genuine demands fulfilled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jks-debt-recovery-cases-shifted-to-chandigarh-lawyers-boycott-courts-in-jammu-101633955227377.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bandh brings Navi Mumbai to a halt, Sena skips Cong-NCP rally||The Maharashtra bandh called by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Monday had an impact on Navi Mumbai with the wholesale Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) markets shutting down along with shops and establishments in the nodes. MVA leaders claimed a total bandh in Navi Mumbai. The MVA alliance, constituting Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena, called for the bandh to protest the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3.The Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) city leaders organized a protest rally. The Shiv Sena, however, stayed away from it.Navi Mumbai Shiv Sena leader Vithal More, said, “We jointly planned the bandh but were not aware of the rally. We do not believe it was necessary as the traders and the business community have cooperated and shut shops in support of the bandh call.”Denying cracks in the MVA, Congress city chief Anil Kaushik said, “Shiv Sena is with the MVA and we are all together to ensure the bandh is a success. Not much should be read in the absence of Shiv Sena in the rally.”Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport buses were off the roads as well, though autorickshaws were plying as usual. The impact was visible in Panvel and Uran region as well with Congress leader Mahendra Gharat and NCP leader Prashant Patil leading the bandh call.Even as differences appeared in the MVA, the leaders decided to hold a joint meeting at Shivaji Chowk in Vashi later in the evening to thank the business community for the support.Meanwhile, APMC traders alleged that they had been forced to shut shop as local MVA leaders made rounds of the market and threatened them. A trader who identified himself as Babubhai, said, “These are all politically motivated bandh calls. We cannot really oppose as we have to do business. Business is down and such bandh calls hurt our business even more.”The opposition condemned the bandh call. Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Navi Mumbai chief Ramchandra Gharat, said, “This bandh call is only to divert the raid on Sharad Pawar’s family by the government agencies. We condemn this bandh which is causing problems for the common man.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-brings-navi-mumbai-to-a-halt-sena-skips-cong-ncp-rally-101633952945967.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal byelections: BJP warns rebels, fall in line else face action||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday warned rebels in the fray for the byelections to the Mandi Lok Sabha parliamentary seat and three assembly constituencies of Arki, Jubbal-Kotkhai and Fatehpur to fall in line else face action. October 13 is the last date for the withdrawal of nomination papers for the byelections on October 30. Also read: Eye on elections, Punjab CM renames scheme as Mera Ghar Mere NaamState urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, who is also the minister in-charge of the byelections, said: “The party has taken the principled stand not to allot the ticket to the kith and kin of deceased leaders. Party national president (JP Nadda) has made this clear. The party has also decided to field women leaders who have been in electoral politics for many years.” Bhardwaj said he was hopeful that the BJP unit would work unitedly to ensure the victory of Neelam Seraik, the party’s candidate in Jubbal-Kotkhai. Ever since Chetan Bragta filed his nomination as an independent candidate, local leaders are divided over the party’s decision to allocate the ticket to Seraik. “The party had fielded (Chetan’s father) the late Narendra Bragta ji from Shimla after he lost from Jubbal-Kotkhai. He won the elections from Shimla and was made horticulture minister in the Prem Kumar Dhumal government. When he won again, he was inducted in the cabinet and in 2017, he was made the chief whip of the party with cabinet rank. The party gave him due respect. At times, children and kin of the leader aspire to contest elections,” Bhardwaj said. “This time, the decision has been taken by the BJP’s central leadership,” he said, hoping that Chetan would opt out. It is learnt that state power minister Sukhram Chaudhary and Chopal legislator Balbir Verma are in touch with Chetan, who has so far refused to budge. The party is also hopeful its leaders in Fatehpur will work for the victory of Baldev Thakur. Several office-bearers had quit after the party denied the ticket to former Rajya Sabha member Kripal Parmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-byelections-bjp-warns-rebels-fall-in-line-else-face-action-101633951806329.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Illegal’ dance bar raided in Thane, 17 girls rescued||Thane police’s crime branch raided an “illegal” dance bar in sector 3 of Ulhasnagar on Saturday night and “rescued” 17 girls from the premises besides arresting some employees and patrons of the bar, officials said.“We had received information that young girls were being made to dance in an obscene manner at the bar. Acting on the tip off, we raided the premises and found the information to be true,” police inspector Mahesh Tarde, Crime Branch Unit IV said. Also Read: BMC official among 15 held in raid at Mumbai dance barPolice said it rescued 17 girls from Chandni Bar and sent them to a rehabilitation centre. Meanwhile, 13 employees and ten customers at the bar were arrested and charged under Section 294 for indulging in obscene acts and songs under the Indian Penal Code, along with relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/illegal-dance-bar-raided-in-thane-17-girls-rescued-101633951145740.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Eye on elections, Punjab CM renames scheme as Mera Ghar Mere Naam||In a populist step with elections in mind, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday rechristened the state government’s Mission Lal Lakir as Mera Ghar Mere Naam (My house in my name). Channi announced this after approval of the state cabinet. Also read: Indian Army’s JCO, 4 soldiers killed in encounter with terrorists in JammuThe state’s scheme earlier was to give property rights to house dwellers living in the lal dora of 12,700 villages in the state. Lal dora is a village settlement, comprising a cluster of houses where residents live. It is surrounded by a road and outside it is the agriculture land attached with a particular village. Earlier, dwellers inside the lal dora did not have ownership rights, but this scheme is aimed to give them the rights to make properties saleable. This could be used as collateral to raise loans, too. The lal dora has now been extended for house dwellers in municipal limits of cities and towns for generations but people don’t have ownership rights. The scheme is an extension of the Centre’s Swamitav scheme or Survey of villages and mapping with improvised technology in village areas for which a pilot project was started in villages of Gurdaspur district six months ago. According to plans, the scheme will be extended to five more districts. Step to safeguard property of NRIsThe chief minister announced that in order to safeguard properties owned by NRI Punjabis, an entry would be made in revenue records that the owner of the property lives abroad,and it can’t be sold or purchased without his consent. This was also decided in Monday’s meeting. Assures of no power crisis in Punjab Answering a question from the media, Channi said there would be no power crisis in the state as his government has sought supply of coal from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eye-on-elections-punjab-cm-renames-scheme-as-mera-ghar-mere-naam-101633950125641.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Countdown to PMC polls, part 3: Parvati stuck in 3rd gear, waiting for overdrive||In 2019 when the southern parts of the city were hit by flash floods, unauthorised construction alongside the Ambil odha (stream) was once again centre stage. Two years since, the PMC hasn’t been able to clear the encroachments which threaten a similar flood-like situation in the future. For local residents in Sahakar nagar Parvati, memories of the flood are so stark, every time there’s a heavy spell of rain they fear the worst.This time though, the residents are also upset because of a proposal to develop Taljai tekdi (hill), which many say will take away the “soul” of the ecologically rich hill. The proposal mooted by Congress corporator Aba Bagul, which includes setting up of a stadium, garden and theme parks on the hill that attracts hundreds of citizens every day, has met with strong resistance. This has forced the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to tentatively put the proposal on hold, even as locals say they will fight it till the end. Besides unauthorised constructions, Parvati also has slum areas like Janata Vasahat, Dandekar bridge, Taljai, and Market yard. Despite repeated demands from residents here, no major slum rehabilitation project has been carried out in this area. Slum dwellers have erected two-storey shanties and slums have encroached onto the roads amid apathy from civic authorities. Spread across the Sahakarnagar and Bibwewadi ward offices, Parvati is dominated by the BJP, with four representatives from opposition parties holding positions of note. Among them are Ashwini Kadam and Priya Gadade from the NCP, Aba Bagul, the Congress corporator, and Bala Oswal from the Shiv Sena. Rupesh Shah, 45, working with an accounting firm, said, “Taljai hill is one of the important places, but it’s getting commercialised day by day. There is a need to control vendors as well to keep the hill natural. Footpaths have encroached everywhere.” The region has a mixed population that includes upmarket areas like Salisbury park, Mukund nagar, and Sahakar nagar. Local resident Sachin Kelkar, a 48-year old working at an oil firm said, “Garbage management is very poor, Padmavati, Sahakarnagar, Salisbury park, Bibvewadi all these areas are green and many societies and bungalows having trees. Citizens need to trim the trees, but are facing problems. The garden department does not collect branches lying on the streets. Another problem is pet dogs and strays. Citizens with pets allow the animals to poo near other societies, which is wrong.” Another citizen from Sahakarnagar said, slums in this part have increased over the years, as PMC turned a blind eye. “Many people are staying in slums and own four-wheelers, tempos, auto-rickshaws and two- wheelers. The Padmavati temple area has been completely encroached.” Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Shrinath Bhimale, also former leader of the house in the PMC said, “Many key projects were carried out during five years rule when BJP controlled the PMC. If we speak broadly on big projects, we built the flyover on Nehru road which ends near Market Yard, while also increasing the capacity of the Parvati water treatment plant. For the last several years the work of the underground closed water pipeline from Parvati to the Cantonment water works has been pending. This was completed during our tenure.” The Katraj-Swargate stretch that once boasted India’s first BRTS corridor is now plagued with multiple issues. Geeta Joshi, a 25-year-old resident staying near Treasure Park and working with an IT company said, “I wonder why PMC spent so much on the BRTS corridors when it is not functioning properly. Even the work pertaining to bridges near Aryaneshwar Park are underway for the last many months and roads are closed. PMC should speed up the work.” Besides, BRTS, the Metro corridor between Swargate and Katraj is awaiting the final nod from the state and centre. The PMC recently cleared this stretch at its general body meeting. “The multimodal Metro hub coming up at Swargate will change the face of the area and it will be a landmark. The subway has been built at Swargate to decongest traffic. Recently, all parties unanimously approved the underground metro line between Swargate and Katraj,” said Bhimale. Nitin Kadam, NCP leader and former president of the Parvati assembly constituency said, “During our tenure we changed the face of this area. All the roads in Sahakarngar area are now of cement concrete, We have also started many schools. In the last five years, BJP spent lot of money, but has not been able to kickstart the BRTS on the Katraj to Swargate stretch properly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/countdown-to-pmc-polls-part-3-parvati-stuck-in-3rd-gear-waiting-for-overdrive-101633949646725.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Pune’s airport plans continue to buffer in the wind||Last week, when the Airport Authority of India announced that Pune airport will remain out of operation for civilian flights for 14 days, starting October 16, many were shocked. This was a second shut down within a span of 13 years. The announcement coincided with the inauguration of another airport at Sindhudurg. Operationalisation of the airport at Chipi in Sindhudurg has opened the horizon of additional connectivity of costal Maharashtra with other cities, directly connected with bigger places like Pune. So while the people of Konkan are happy that their region has finally been given air connectivity, flyers in Pune are angry.First, the announcement was made at a very short notice when many had planned to fly as the festive season has begun. The sudden cancellation of trips on a planned day for a reason that should have been announced much earlier was a grumble worth making. Second, for a city not having a dedicated civilian airport is beyond comprehension. The existing airport at Lohegaon is owned by the Indian Air Force (IAF). As stated by IAF, shutting down the airstrip was “inescapable”, as the condition of the runway was rapidly deteriorating and needed re-carpeting. What has disappointed citizens for years is no dedicated civilian airport for the city with a population over five millions and a large presence of industries. The proposed international airport for the city is a saga that may soon be folklore, which one generation can pass on to another. Three years ago, that story looked real when government had finalised not just land in Purandar, but issued a notification for land acquisition. The resistance of farmers led by local MLA Sanjay Jagtap forced the rulers to look for alternate land in the same tehsil. This is now the fourth site the government is exploring for the project, which many now believe, may not be a reality in their lifetime. The joke now is – for the generation which first heard of the proposed international airport in Pune two decades ago, it will always remain ‘proposed’. Initially, it was in the Chakan industrial belt that the government had zeroed-in on land to develop the airport. Opposition of local farmers and entry of politicians, forced the state conduct a feasibility survey at two other sites, including the Khed Special Economic Zone. However, this option also failed to take off, because 74 per cent of this land is under the ownership of the Kalyani Group, which refused to give it up. Fed up of hurdles, the then Devendra Fadnavis government shifted the site to Purandar and obtained clearance from key authorities like Defence, Civil Aviation and Environment. When the project looked to take off, a bunch of farmers protested, putting the proposal in cold storage once again till the current Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) dispensation explored yet another site. Now, doubts are being raised about the future of the project at Purandar as those ruling the state like Ajit Pawar are maintaining that the site has not been confirmed yet, a clear contradiction to his earlier statements made in February 2021, that the newly proposed site for the airport was near the original site and would fall under Purandar tehsil. This isn’t the first or last woe for Pune. There are many more. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-pune-s-airport-plans-continue-to-buffer-in-the-wind-101633949166928.html
11-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan may get another tiger reserve in the Kumbhalgarh area of Udaipur division||The four-member committee constituted by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has found Kumbhalgarh Sanctuary in Rajasthan as a potential tiger reserve, officials said. After conducting a survey of the area in the last two months, the committee has found sanctuary potential as the fifth tiger reserve but also raised certain concerns. The Committee has prepared the draft report, which will soon be submitted to the NTCA. The report suggests marking a 2053 sq km area for tiger reserve. The reserve will be spread across four districts – Udaipur, Pali, Rajsamand and Sirohi. The committee included retired IFS officers, RN Mehrotra and NK Vasu, and assistant inspector general of forest, NTCA, Hemant Singh. Till 1970, Kumbhalgarh was a natural habitat of big cats with a good prey base and less human interference. In July, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change sanctioned Ramgarh Vishdhari Sanctuary in Bundi as the fourth Tiger Reserve of Rajasthan. Ranthambore Tiger Reserve in Sawai Madhopur, Alwar’s Sariska Tiger Reserve, and Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve in Kota have over 100 big cats. A senior official of the forest department familiar with the development said after the survey the committee has considered Kumbhalgarh sanctuary, a potential area for tiger habitat, provided certain conditions given are fulfilled by the state government. The conditions include adding more area to the sanctuary, increasing prey base, relocation of the villages, and sensitizing people about the big cats. He said the draft report is ready, which will soon be submitted to the NTCA. Another official said Kumbhalgarh sanctuary is a narrow strip with a hilly area, which is not feasible for tigers but for leopards. The committee has recommended increasing the protected areas by adding 1150 sq km of territorial forest and wasteland. The committee suggests developing a breeding centre for the prey base in the reserve. He said the committee suggests developing the habitat in two phases. In phase-I, the 1150 sq km land - Udaipur, Pali, Rajsamand and Sirohi - should be transferred to wildlife, which currently is under the revenue department. In phase-II, the tiger reintroduction plan will be made from 2024-25 by the NTCA, and initially, one or two tigers could be released. The official said around 20 villages need to be relocated and two roads crossing the forest should be shifted to elevated roads. On factors assessed to develop a tiger habitat, Retired IFS officer Sunayan Sharma said a host of things are studied, such as whether the area in past had tiger population, is the area suitable for tiger habitat and has prey base, adequate area, water, protected environment; can the tiger population survive and breed and can the area hold sustainable population. Sharma welcomed the initiative of having another tiger reserve and said, “What is the problem in releasing tigers in another habitat? The important thing is to ensure their safety. The Ranthambore Tiger Reserve is getting overpopulated and needs to be balanced by the relocation of big cats.” He said the territorial disputes are increasing in Ranthambore Tiger Reserve and relocation is a good solution. Member of Parliament from Rajsamand and NTCA member, Diya Kumari said, “I had raised the issue in Lok Sabha, even apprised former and current forest minister over the issue. Kumbhalgarh has huge potential to be a tiger reserve. The area used to be a tiger habitat five decades back, even today it can be developed into one.” Besides, the area can also be a good habitat for leopards. “If things go right then this would be the fifth tiger reserve of the state. I have also written to the CM asking to speed up the proposal for the same to NTCA,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-may-get-another-tiger-reserve-in-the-kumbhalgarh-area-of-udaipur-division-101633948867581.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka joins Cong workers in maun vrat demanding MoS Ajay Mishra's dismissal||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday joined her party functionaries in ‘maun vrat’ (silent protest) demanding the removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which at least eight persons, including farmers and a journalist, were killed on October 3.Among other senior party leaders present at the silent stir being held at the Gandhi statue at GPO park in Lucknow is Uttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu.A Congress spokesperson said the party was demanding the dismissal of Mishra, a junior minister in the home department, for ensuring a free and fair investigation in the case.Also read | Priyanka’s bid to reclaim Congress’ lost ground in eastern UP The minister's son Ashish was arrested on Saturday by the UP Police in connection with the violence. He was produced before a court late on Saturday night, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody.On Sunday, Vadra said her fight for justice would continue until Teni was suspended, adding the junior home minister’s son had trampled over protesting farmers, but he was sent an invitation for interrogation. “The chief minister (Yogi Adityanath) is protecting him... What is this?” she said at a massive rally in Varanasi.She also said nobody was safe under the Narendra Modi government and this included the poor, the Dalit community and women.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-joins-congress-workers-in-maun-vrat-for-mos-ajay-mishra-s-dismissal-101633948130042.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan’s bail plea: What lawyers said as court to hear petition on Oct 13||A special court under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on Monday directed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to file its reply on Wednesday, October 13, to a bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in connection with the seizure of drugs onboard a cruise ship last week. Special judge VV Patil said he would hear Aryan Khan’s bail plea on Wednesday.Aryan Khan is currently in judicial custody and lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai after he was arrested on October 3. The 23-year-old approached the special court for bail after his plea was rejected by a magistrate's court which said that it did not have the jurisdiction to decide the matter. Aryan Khan has been charged with offences under Sections 8(c), 20(b), 27, 28, 29 and 35 of the NDPS act related to possession, consumption and purchase of drugs. The NCB has so far arrested 20 people in connection with the case.Also read | Cruise raid: NCB witness whose selfie with Aryan Khan went viral has cheating complaints against him in PalgharThe NCB's advocates AM Chimalkar and Advait Sethna sought a week's time to respond and file their affidavit after Aryan Khan's counsel Amit Desai mentioned the bail plea in the special court. The NCB lawyers said the investigation in the case was still ongoing and the central agency needs to collect material. They also said that it needs to be seen if releasing Aryan Khan on bail would hamper the probe into the case.Also read | Why was Aryan Khan denied bail? Magistrate's court cites this actHowever, Desai objected to the NCB lawyers argument, saying a person's liberty is in question and said that releasing Aryan Khan on bail will not stop the NCB’s investigation. "The NCB can continue their probe. That is their duty. But keeping my client (Aryan Khan) in custody, especially when there has been no recovery (of drugs) from him, is not required," Desai said, according to news agency PTI. "He has not been found in possession of any narcotics and there is no other material against him. Since his arrest, he has been in the custody of the NCB for a week and his statement was recorded twice. Why does he still need to be in jail?" he said.Also read | 'Because it's a Khan?': What politicians say on Aryan Khan's arrestChimalkar said that the NCB needs at least a few days time to file its reply. "What Desai is arguing appears to be rosy, but this is not what the investigation reveals or divulges. Aryan Khan is in judicial custody. Whether his release on bail will affect or hamper our investigation needs to be seen," Chimalkar said, according to PTI.Sethna told the court that there was no extreme urgency for the bail plea to be heard immediately. To which, Desai asked the court to hear and decide Aryan Khan's plea separately, saying the recovery of drugs from each accused in the case was different. However, the NCB lawyers opposed it and said the conspiracy is the same.Arbaaz Merchant, Munmun Dhamecha, Nupur Sateja, and Mohak Jaiswal—the four other accused in the case—have also filed their bail pleas in the special court.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-s-bail-plea-what-lawyers-said-as-court-to-hear-petition-on-oct-13-101633946276282.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police tighten security, check for terror-preparedness during festivals||Delhi Police have tightened security in the Capital in view of the festive season and held mock drills to tackle terror attacks, if any, a senior official said on Monday. “We held meetings with various committees regarding document verification of tenants,” deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi told news agency ANI. “We conducted mock drills if we get any terror threat. We are prepared for drone attacks as well,” Kalsi added.Kalsi’s comments come after Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana held a meeting with top officials of the force on Saturday and discussed anti-terror measures in the wake of input of a terrorist attack in the national capital during the festive season. Asthana said there are inputs of a terrorist attack in Delhi, adding that no such attack can happen unless the attackers have local support. "Local criminals, gangsters and orthodox elements can help in such attack," Asthan said during the meeting, according to ANI. "Cybercafe, chemical shop, parking spaces, scrap and car dealers should be professionally checked and monitored. There are inputs that petrol pumps and petrol tankers can be targeted," the Delhi Police commissioner added.Also read | Initiative focussing on women safety, empowerment a ‘success’ , say Delhi copsDiscussions on how to prevent terrorists from taking support of locals were also held during the meeting as Asthana gave directions to launch a campaign for the verification of tenants and workers. The police will also hold meetings with Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs), aman committees and coordinate with 'eyes and ears scheme' stakeholders like vendors and watchmen to focus on community policing.In September, the Delhi Police arrested six people who they said were part of a “Pakistan-trained terror module” and claimed to have averted serial blasts and targeted killings in at least three states. They said that they learnt from the interrogation of the arrested suspects that Anees Ibrahim, brother of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim and currently suspected to be hiding in Pakistan, was connected to this module and trying to smuggle arms and ammunition into the country. Police said they seized RDX smuggled from Pakistan and meant to carry out blasts in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-tighten-security-check-for-terror-preparedness-during-festivals-101633944132093.html
11-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan eases Covid-19 curbs, allows religious events; night curfew stays||The Rajasthan government on Monday issued revised guidelines to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, giving permission to hold religious events, with not more than 200 people allowed to attend such programmes. In an order, the state home department said that such gatherings can take place by informing the district administration in advance, adding that all the attendees should have taken at least the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine.Events such as animal fairs can also be organised with prior knowledge of the administration, news agency ANI reported, citing the government order. Shops, malls, commercial establishments etc. can now function till 10pm, the order further stated. Service providers such as petrol and diesel pumps, CNG pumps, petroleum and gas-related outlets can decide the opening and closing time of these facilities, it added. Rajasthan Govt releases revised COVID guidelines; allows religious programmes with an attendance of maximum 200 people (at least partially vaccinated); night curfew to remain in place between 10 pm & 5 am every day pic.twitter.com/LpaOcnn2XyAdditionally, a night curfew will be in place everyday from 11pm to 5am.These fresh guidelines will come into effect immediately, while all previous SOPs will also have to be followed as well, the home department said. Also, in all cases, basic Covid-19 protocols such as face masks, sanitisation, social distancing and proper ventilation in close spaces are mandatory.On Sunday, four more people tested positive for the viral illness in Rajasthan, taking the cumulative infection tally to 954,359, according to a health department bulletin. With no new death, the toll unchanged at 8954. Of the new cases, two were reported from Ajmer, and one each from Jaipur and Hanumangarh,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-eases-covid-19-curbs-allows-religious-events-night-curfew-stays-101633942993893.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Situation in Delhi is 'critical': CM Kejriwal amid power crisis||The situation in Delhi is "critical", chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday claiming the threat of blackout looms large due to the acute shortage of coal in thermal power plants. "We all are working together to improve the situation," the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also said, according to news agency ANI."Many chief ministers have written about it to the central government," the chief minister Kejriwal also said.Despite the concerns flagged by various state government, the Centre has maintained that there is enough supply of coal for thermal plants in the country. "There is no need for panic as there is no power crisis," Union power minister RK Singh said on Sunday.Kejriwal's statement comes a day after Delhi's power minister Satyendar Jain said that most of the power plants supplying electricity to the national capital are left with only two to three days of coal stock. He also said that National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) has capped the production capacity of its plants to 55 per cent. "There is a coal shortage in most of the power plants. The stock of coal in any power plant should not be less than 15 days," said Jain at a press conference. "The stock is left for only two to three days," he added."There is a huge problem with coal right now," Jain stressed.On Sunday, the officials of Delhi's power ministry, BSES and Tata power reached the residence of the Union Power Minister for a meeting over coal shortage at power plants.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/situation-in-delhi-is-critical-cm-kejriwal-amid-power-crisis-101633941550328.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||MVA ‘threatened’ traders to participate in Maharashtra bandh, says Fadnavis||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, whose Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has opposed the ongoing day-long statewide shutdown called by the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance, alleged on Monday that though traders and businessmen were against the bandh, they were being threatened to participate in it. “This is a state-sponsored bandh that has been imposed and implemented with the administration's help. The ruling coalition is misusing the police to impose the shutdown,” Fadnavis told the media.Click here for live updates on Maharashtra bandhDescribing the MVA government as an “imposter,” the BJP leader recalled the incident of police firing on protesting farmers in Pune's Maval in August 2011, when the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) were in power in Maharashtra. The leader of the opposition also spoke about the recent police lathi-charge on farmers at Hanumangarh in Rajasthan, another Congress-ruled state.Also Read | ‘Instead of observing Maharashtra bandh…’: BJP leader lashes out at state govt“Hence, this government is anti-farmers, and the cultivators have realised this,” Fadnavis added. The former CM also called upon the ruling dispensation to first provide relief to farmers who have suffered financially due to the recent downpour in Marathwada and Vidarbha regions of the western state.Also Read | ‘If someone is against this…’: Sanjay Raut questions people opposing Maharashtra bandhThe Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP are the three constituents of the MVA. The alliance called for the bandh to protest against the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra, is accused of ramming his SUV into farmers. Four others were killed in the violence that followed--two BJP workers, minister Mishra's driver and a local journalist--taking the toll to eight.The BJP is in power in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-threatened-traders-to-participate-in-maharashtra-bandh-says-fadnavis-101633938470463.html
11-10-2021||Patna||Saran molestation case prime accused arrested||The main accused in Bihar’s Saran molestation case involving heckling, harassment and molestation of a woman by a group of men, captured in a video that went viral on social media, has been arrested while another identified accused is being pursued hotly, police officers said on Monday. Guddu Rai was among the six youth who molested a woman who was pillion riding on a bike with a man at Saran district’s Lakshman-Chak locality under Dariyapur police station on September 27. He filmed the incident and then posted it on social media networks. The woman and her male companion were surrounding by the accused who molested her and tried to undress her as she shouted for help and pleaded for them to stop.The matter came to light on October 5 when the video shot by the main accused went viral on social media. The state police headquarters alerted all police chiefs of all districts to trace the accused and following investigations revealed that the incident had taken place in Saran. Acting on a tip-off, Saran superintendent of police Santosh Kumar constituted a special team comprising experts of Cyber Crime and Social Media Unit (CCSMU), which arrested four accused, Rakesh Kumar, Arvind Kumar, Nitish Kumar alias Ghosh and Amod Kumar from Akilpur and Samanchak villages. During interrogation they disclosed the name of Guddu Rai and Dharmendra Kumar. Also Read: Bihar plans census of Gangetic dolphins in ArariaSaran SP said no complaint was filed by the victims, yet the police took suo motu cognisance of the matter and lodged an FIR against six persons.The police officer said main accused Guddu Rai was arrested from his hideout late on Sunday night and the mobile he used in the crime was also recovered from his possession. “Harassing a woman and filming the incident on a cellphone with the intention of posting it on the social media is a serious crime. No one will be spared,” Kumar said, adding that raids were on to nab the sixth accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/saran-molestation-case-prime-accused-arrested-101633938005459.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Instead of observing Maharashtra bandh…’: BJP leader lashes out at state govt||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Chandrakant Patil on Monday said the ruling parties in the state—the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress—are “trying to reap political mileage” by giving the call for the Maharashtra bandh as the shutdown was observed to protest the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district. “We condemn it as it has posed a hardship to the general public. Instead of observing a bandh, the state government should first give relief to the farmers affected due to the floods in Marathwada and Vidarbha recently,” Patil, who is the president of the BJP’s Maharashtra unit, said. “The state government has done nothing except tall assurances for them,” he alleged.The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) also opposed the Maharashtra bandh, which the ruling parties have said has been 100 per cent successful, and one of its leaders Ameya Khopkar said the government should have contributed one day salary to these farmers or worked overtime instead of troubling citizens. Khopkar said that people are already hurt by lockdowns and this is like rubbing salts on their wounds.Check live updates on Maharashtra bandh here Most of the shops and commercial establishments remained closed and bus services were affected in Mumbai and neighbouring areas during the Maharashtra bandh called by the three parties of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in the state. Buses of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST)—the transport undertaking of the city’s civic body—and many of the traditional black and yellow cabs remained off roads. BEST officials said that eight of its buses were vandalised in different areas of Mumbai between midnight and 8am on Monday and sought police protection.Also read | Maharashtra bandh: Thane commuters have hard time reaching officeHuge crowds were seen in railway stations as local trains were running according to schedule but were packed as many commuters took the suburban train services. "Our services are running as per schedule," Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of the Central Railway, told PTI. "Local trains are operating on their regular schedule, so you can plan your day accordingly. Essential services are functional as usual,” the Mumbai Police also tweeted.Also read | ‘If someone is against this…’: Sanjay Raut questions people opposing Maha bandhMaharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) officials said their buses from Mumbai to other places were plying according to schedule and no untoward incident was reported anywhere. "Regional offices across the state have been informed to operate bus services in consultation with the district administration concerned and police after taking stock of the local situation," an MSRTC official said.There was heavy police deployment across the state capital in the wake of the bandh. The three ruling allies have urged people to support the bandh, which began at midnight, to express their solidarity with farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/instead-of-observing-maharashtra-bandh-bjp-leader-lashes-out-at-state-govt-101633936754813.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan bail plea: Special NDPS court to hear matter on October 13||Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, will have to remain in the Arthur Road jail for few more days as a special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in Mumbai said on Monday his bail plea will be heard on Wednesday. The special court said that the bail plea of Aryan Khan will be heard on Wednesday after the lawyer for the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) sought seven days to file a reply in connection with the cruise ship drugs party bust. However, special judge VV Patil adjourned the matter to Wednesday.Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 by the NCB after the agency’s team raided a rave party on the Goa-bound cruise ship a day before. Before the special NDPS court heard the bail plea of Aryan Khan, his lawyer talked about the next move. "It is natural that if the bail application is rejected by a court, we move to the higher court. We have filed the bail application here. The hearing is likely to take place today,” Aryan Khan's lawyer Satish Maneshinde was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also read | Cruise rave party raid: Nawab Malik names BJP leader's kin 'let off' by NCB, says it must reveal factsA local court in Mumbai denied bail to 23-year-old Aryan Khan and two others last Friday and additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM) RM Nerlikar sent Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha to jail for two weeks pending an investigation into the case. They have been booked under various provisions of the NDPS act. Nerlikar said in his 15-page order released on Saturday that a magistrate's court does not have the jurisdiction to entertain a bail application for an offence with prescribed punishment of more than three years under the NDPS act and it has to be tried by a special court.Also read | 'Because it's a Khan?': What politicians say on Aryan Khan's arrestAn NCB team raided the Goa-bound cruise ship on October 2 based on a tip-off and claimed to have seized banned drugs. The NCB has so far arrested 20 people in connection with the case, which has lead to the political slugfest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-bail-plea-special-ndps-court-to-hear-matter-on-october-13-101633934749865.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Bandh '100% successful', says MVA; commuters face trouble||The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance of the Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress on Monday said the statewide bandh (shutdown) called over Lakhimpur Kheri violence is 100 per cent successful and added that people have shown their anger against killing of the farmers.Sanjay Raut, the leader of one of the three constituents of ruling MVA in Maharashtra, questioned the people opposing the shutdown. “Bandh in state is 100 per cent successful. People have shown their anger against the incident of mowing down the farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. If someone is opposing this Maharashtra Bandh then they must ask themselves if they are citizens of this country,” he added.Echoing similar sentiments, Nawab Malik, the leader of another MVA constituent Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) said, "All the major political parties, organizations and labour unions have supported the Maharashtra Bandh. Our bandh is successful. We have been making appeals to avoid any sort of violence," he added.Another NCP leader Jayant Patil alleged that the BJP government neglected the farmers' protest at the borders of Delhi, but Lakhimpur incident is a "clear murder". "They (the four farmers) were killed by a BJP minister's son. It appears that BJP wants to crush the farmers' agitation and to condemn the incident we have called this bandh. BJP has unfortunately opposed it. It means they are supporting those who have murdered the farmers by mowing them down," he added.NCP leader Supriya Sule along with party workers participated in a protest during Maharashtra Bandh at Hutatma Chowk in Mumbai. "We have called this bandh against the murder of the farmers. If you watch the video, you will get goosebumps even today. Have you ever seen such a cruelty? It was a cruel incident. Condemning the incident will not be enough and he (Ashish Mishra) should be brought to justice. MoS Ajay Mishra should have resigned from his position by taking moral responsibility of the incident," she added.Meanwhile, Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief Chandrakant Patil said that the ruling parties in the state are trying to reap political mileage by giving the bandh call for what happened in Uttar Pradeeh. “We condemn it as it has posed a hardship to the general public. Instead of observing a bandh, the state government should first give relief to the farmers affected due to the floodings in Marathwada and Vidarbha recently. The state government has done nothing except tall assurances for them,” he added.The bandh affected the commuters in the morning rush hour in Mumbai and neighbouring areas as bus services were stalled and most of the shops and commercial establishments remained closed. "I have to go to my office and I am waiting for the bus here for the last half an hour," a commuter told news agency ANI.As many as eight people, including four farmers, died in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. The farmers claim that a vehicle from Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish ran over some protesters who were coming back after an agitation over Centre's farm laws. On Saturday night, Ashish Mishra was arrested by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-100-successful-says-mva-commuters-face-trouble-101633931221478.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bandh: Thane commuters have hard time reaching office||Thane commuters faced difficulties finding transportation to work with the Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) buses staying off the road and auto rickshaws overcharging on Monday morning due to the Maharashtra bandh called by the ruling parties to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in Uttar Pradesh where eight people including four farmers were killed on October 3. With shops remaining shut and not even a single TMT bus operating from the Thane station, the shutdown call received a good response in Thane,however, it meant that daily commuters had a nightmare reaching their workplace in areas like Wagale Estate, Ghodbunder, Majowada, Vartak Nagar, Pachpakhadi and Kolshet among others. “I take a bus to Ghodbunder as an auto rickshaw ride costs over ₹100 and is not affordable for everyday commute. Since there were no buses available on Monday morning, I reached the auto rickshaw stand, which was full of commuters with very few auto rickshaws present; those operating were charging several times the usual fare. We waited for a long time before finding an auto,” said Sandeep Sherkhane, an officer goer. Also Read | Maharashtra bandh: Wholesale market shut, autos off the roads in PuneCommuters like him said public transport should be kept out of the purview of shutdowns that are political in nature. Barring a few small traders who didn’t participate in the shutdown citing loss of business suffered due to coronavirus induced lockdown, others stayed close. Over 90% auto rickshaws too went off the roads after Shiv Sena party workers forced them to do so. Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) workers staged a huge rally in Thane city and it was attended by both Thane mayor Naresh Mhaske and NCP city chief Anand Paranjpe, who asked the traders to shut shop for the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-thane-commuters-have-hard-time-reaching-office-101633933144644.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||‘If someone is against this…’: Sanjay Raut questions people opposing Maharashtra bandh||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday questioned people opposing the ongoing Maharashtra bandh, as the state observed the day-long strike, being held against the killing of farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3. “If someone is opposing this protest, they must ask themselves if they are citizens of this country,” Raut said of the bandh, the call for which was given by the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), which comprises the Sena, NCP and Congress.Follow all live updates of Maharashtra bandh here“Our call was 100 per cent successful. People have shown their anger against the incident of mowing down of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri,” the Rajya Sabha MP further said.Also Read | Maharashtra bandh underway, Shiv Sena workers block Pune-Bengaluru highway in Kolhapur: Top developmentsThough Raut did not name anyone, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Sena's former ally and Maharashtra's largest opposition party, has opposed the bandh. “The Sena has always opposed development. They indirectly supported the mill workers' strike in the 1980s, opposed key development projects including airports in Navi Mumbai, Sindhudurg, coastal road and are now observing bandh when people ae distressed because of the Covid-19 lockdown,” BJP MLA Ashish Shelar said.Also Read | Moderate response to Maharashtra bandh in PuneShiv Sena workers took to the streets, blocking the Pune-Bengaluru national highway in Kolhapur, and were detained by the police. Similar protest took place at Chembur in Mumbai, where workers of the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray-led outfit blocked the Ghatkopar-Mahul road, resulting in them being detained as well.Overall, though, the bandh seems to have evoked a mixed response; shops and establishments in many districts remained closed, while local bus services operated by local bodies, too, were unavailable. However, local train services in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) were functioning normally.Also Read | Mixed response to Maharashtra bandh over Lakhimpur Kheri violenceFour farmers were killed in Lakhimpur Kheri, when an SUV rammed into a group of farmers who were on their way back after protesting against UP deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya. Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister Ajay Mishra, is accused of being behind the wheels of the jeep that ran over the farmers.Two workers of the state's ruling BJP, and minister Mishra's driver, were killed in the ensuing violence. A local journalist, Raman Kashyap, also lost his life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/if-someone-is-against-this-sanjay-raut-questions-people-opposing-maha-bandh-101633928211894.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Maharashtra bandh: Wholesale market shut, autos off the roads in Pune||The day long Maharashtra bandh called on Sunday by the Maha Vikas Aghadi coalition to protest against Lakhimpur Kheri violence incident in Uttar Pradesh received mixed response during the morning hours in Pune, with the wholesale vegetable and fruit market in the city remaining shut along with several auto rickshaw unions deciding to stay off the roads.Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) officials said they had decided to keep the buses run by the corporation off the roads till 12pm to avoid any damage. However, state transport buses operated uninterrupted and so did the private cab service.Also Watch: Maharashtra comes to a standstill in protest against Lakhimpur Kheri violenceSeveral retail vegetable vendors opened their shops in the morning but shut them down later. The restaurants and hotel associations have decided to open their establishments at 4pm.In western Maharashtra, the shutdown has evoked mix response. The Shiv Sainiks blocked Mumbai-Bangaluru highway near Kolhapur for 15 minutes before around 15 of the party workers were detained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/moderate-response-to-bandh-in-pune-101633929964310.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bandh underway, Shiv Sena workers block Pune-Bengaluru highway in Kolhapur: Top developments||A day-long Maharashtra bandh is currently underway across the state against the killings of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpuri Kheri on October 3, who were run over by a car that was allegedly being driven by Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home, Ajay Mishra. The bandh call was given by the three constituents of the state's ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition: Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress.Follow all live updates on Maharashtra bandh hereHere are the latest updates on the Maharashtra bandh:(1.) The bandh, which began at midnight on October 11, seems to have evoked a mixed response thus far. Shops and establishments in many districts are shut. Local bus services operated by local urban bodies, too, are mostly off road. However, local train services in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are functioning normally.(2.) Shiv Sena workers staged a road blockade in Kolhapur on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway, and were detained by the police. Party activists staged a blockade at Chembur in Mumbai as well.(3.) Congress will observe a “maun vrat” outside the Raj Bhavan at 11am. Party workers also protested at Solapur's Mechanic Chowk, resulting in their detention.(4.) At least eight BEST buses have been vandalised in Mumbai since last night, a spokesperson of the bus provider said, adding that police protection has been sought for operation of services. Very few buses have operated since morning, the spokesperson further said.(5.) Traders at wholesale and fruit markets in Pune are supporting the agitation. Auto rickshaw unions, too, have backed the protests. However, state transport buses operated as usual though public bus services will begin only after 12 noon.(6.) Markets in Mumbai's Hindmata, Dadar, Lalbaug and Parel remained closed. Navi Mumbai and Nashik AMPC markets are also fully shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-protesters-block-pune-bengaluru-road-8-best-buses-vandalised-101633924975709.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||UP police cancel leaves of staff till Oct 18 ahead of farmers' protest||Uttar Pradesh Police has cancelled all types of leaves of the staff till October 18 in view of farmers' protests and upcoming festivals.An order in this regard has been issued by Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar on Sunday."In view of upcoming festivals and proposed programmes of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, Uttar Pradesh Police cancels all types of leaves of the staff till October 18. Leave from Headquarters will be allowed during this period only for unavoidable reasons. This order with immediate effect will be effective," the order reads.The entire country is celebrating the festival of Navratri. Durga Puja pandals are being set up at various places during Navratri. Ramlila is also being staged. In view of the festivals, overcrowding is set to increase in temples, Durga Puja pandals, Ramlilas, markets and public places.On the other hand, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has called the farmers to attend 'Antim Ardas' on October 12 at Tikonia in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh, in view of the violence that took place here last Sunday in which eight people including four farmers lost their lives.SKM also appealed for candle marches on the evening of October 12.The nationwide protest programme also includes burning the effigies of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government symbolised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and local leaders on the occasion of Dussehra, on October 15.A "Rail Roko" protest will be organised across the country on October 18 from 10 am to 4 pm.In this context, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar has asked all Zonal Additional Director General of Police, Commissioner of Police, Regional Inspector General of Police, Deputy Inspector General of Police, District Police In-charge, Superintendent of Police, Railways not to allow leave to police personnel till October 18.Earlier on October 3, as many as eight people including four farmers died in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.SKM, an umbrella body of several farmer unions, alleged that Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish Mishra arrived with three vehicles around the time that farmers were dispersing from their protest at the helipad and mowed down farmers.However, Ashish Mishra refuted SKM's allegations and said he was not present at the spot where the incident took place.The Uttar Pradesh Police on Monday had filed an FIR for murder against Ashish Mishra. Ashish was arrested by the Crime Branch of police on Saturday after 12 hours of interrogation.Earlier, the police had arrested two accused, identified as Luvkush and Ashish Pandey, in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-police-cancel-leaves-of-staff-till-oct-18-ahead-of-farmers-protest-101633923085330.html
11-10-2021||Patna||Bihar plans census of Gangetic dolphins in Araria||Bihar’s forest, environment, and climate change department has announced it will conduct a census and survey of endangered Gangetic dolphins in the state’s Araria. At least 11 dolphins are believed to have died over the last three decades in Araria, where they are found in the Parman and Mahananda rivers.District forest officer (Araria) N Prasad said they have been doing their best to protect the Gangetic dolphins and the census will boost their conservation.Zoological Survey of India, Wildlife Trust of India, and Tilka Majhi University (Bhagalpur) experts conducted a census three years back and found there were 1,150 dolphins in the Ganga, Gandak, and Ghaghra rivers in Bihar.Also Read | Power crunch hits Bihar; govt pays ₹20 crore more a day to buy powerConservationist Sudan Sahay said the move would help the conservation of Gangetic dolphins in Parman and Mahananda. “There have been 11 reported dolphin deaths in Araria since 1992 and fishermen have killed them intentionally or unintentionally. In 2013, there were 35 Gangetic dolphins in the Parman River and the number went up to 50 in 2021.” He added this would be the first survey of dolphins in the two rivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-plans-census-of-gangetic-dolphins-in-araria-101633921923735.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro commute update: Brief delay in services at Pink Line||There was a brief delay in services on the Pink Line of Delhi Metro, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), announced on Monday. The delay was reported at around 7:30 am, just when the footfall at the metro stations starts to peak. The services resumed back to normal at around 7:53am, according to the updated tweet by the DMRC."Delay in services between Mayur Vihar Pocket 1 and Shiv Vihar. Normal service on all other lines," it had tweeted.The Pink Line is the seventh metro rail line of the Delhi metro. It stretches from Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar and consists of 38 metro stations on the route. The Pink Line was opened in multiple phases starting in 2018.The Delhi metro often informs about the congestion and delays on Twitter. Most of the time these delays occur at the peak time of the commute.Currently, the trains are running at full capacity, however, the provision of standing is still prohibited by the DMRC due to the Covid-19 measures. This also contributes to the regular delays.The services of the Delhi Metro were shut completely in May after the city started reporting a spurt in daily Covid-19 cases. After several extensions, the services were partially opened on June 7. The Delhi Metro trains started operating with 100% seating capacity on July 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-commute-update-brief-delay-in-services-at-pink-line-101633921218007.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality to slip into poor category as farm fires pick up||Delhi is likely to experience mainly clear skies on Monday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast and the minimum temperature in the city is likely to be 24 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 36 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature was 36.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday which was three degrees above normal and the minimum temperature was 22.7 degrees Celsius – two notches above normal.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 165. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 168, which is also in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the moderate category with PM10 as fire emission upwind along with local and regional dust under dry conditions. With presence of such dry condition combined with both fire emission and dust suspension, the AQI will degrade to be in the poor category for next 3 days.”Also Read: Fire rules red tape keeps open-air dining policy behind closed doorsWith the withdrawal of monsoon from Delhi and other parts of northwest India on Friday, the capital’s recent run of clear, clean, cerulean skies has started to give way to the annual veil of smog, borne largely by stubble fires in neighbouring states. Data from the central pollution watchdog shows that the city’s air quality has seen a gradual, but sustained, drop over the past 10 days. And as farm fires pick up in Haryana and Punjab, Delhi’s air is only likely to get worse over the coming week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-to-slip-into-poor-category-as-farm-fires-pick-up-101633920303757.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||CBI nabs two cops for taking bribe from sub-inspector accused of rape||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested two Delhi Police personnel for allegedly taking a bribe from a sub-inspector accused of raping a woman constable, officials said on Sunday.The two men, sub-inspector Romi Memroth and assistant sub-inspector Lekhram, were posted at the Malviya Nagar police station, they said.According to the police, the woman constable, who was posted in south district, had on August 3 lodged a rape complaint against a sub-inspector who was earlier posted in the same district.Later, a case was filed under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 376 (rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and the investigation was handed over to Memroth.Meanwhile, the suspect applied for anticipatory bail at the Saket sessions. He was asked to join the investigation, and his bail plea was dismissed. He then moved the Delhi high court, where he was asked to join the investigation. The matter will be heard on October 11.A senior police officer said Manoj visited the police station on Saturday and handed Lekhram a bribe. On Saturday, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) apprehended Lekhram with ₹50,000. Lekhram and Memroth were arrested later, officials added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cbi-nabs-two-cops-for-taking-bribe-from-sub-inspector-accused-of-rape-101633914130465.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Fire rules red tape keeps open-air dining policy behind closed doors||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) launched its open air dining policy for restaurants under the civic body’s jurisdiction in September last year. However, till date, the corporation has given out only 69 licences -- with only 12 establishments getting the licences in the past four months.Officials of the civic body aware of the matter said the policy failed to take off at the expected pace because of confusion over the fire safety certificate provision.A senior official from the public health department of the civic body explained that a fire safety certificate is a must for all establishments applying for open air dining spaces. Though most of them were able to get the no-objection certificate (NOC) from Delhi Fire Services (DFS) for eateries on the ground floor, space on open terrace remains a sticking point.Restaurant owners said that DFS doesn’t issue NOCs for open terrace, and the fire department has said that the SDMC should get third party safety rules audit for terrace areas since they do not have enough staff to get inspections done.“Fire NOC is a precondition for open-air dining licence and owners are not able to secure it which is leading to very few prospective licensees approaching us. The Delhi Fire Services has asked them to make provisions like water sprinklers, staircases, hosepipes, etc. So far, licenses have been mostly issued to establishments located on ground-floor,” the SDMC official said.The National Restaurant Association of India representatives say that the policy should be amended to resolve the confusion over fire NOC condition for terraces. Sandeep Anand Goyle, managing committee member of National Restaurant Association of India, said that several meetings have been held between DFS, industry representatives and SDMC officials to resolve the issue. “This is a technical flaw in the policy. DFS is telling us that there is no provision of issuing fire NOC for open spaces while SDMC has made it into a precondition. Either the policy should be revised or the civic body may adopt suggestion by fire officials that the existing fire NOCs can be extended to the adjacent open spaces under some conditions like 25% vacant space, two stair cases, etc,” he added.Goyle said it was not clear that who among the two departments would take this responsibility of issuing the clearance.The Delhi Fire Service, in a letter to the municipal health officer of SDMC, suggested that the enforcement of guidelines should be verified by the municipal corporation. “In a joint meeting held in March 2021, the representatives of DFS have stated that they have limited manpower, and they are not able to issue NOC to terraces for which third party inspections may be carried out,” an SDMC official said.In a response to the request from SDMC arguing that DFS should continue to issue fire NOC to terraces, the DFS director had stated in a letter dated March 11, 2021 that the safety guidelines should be verified by SDMC and no further NOC is required from the department.DFS director Atul Garg said the of open-air dining policy was sent for their consideration. “We have told the corporation that our inspection should not be made mandatory. The establishments which have taken NOC for the covered portion can extend the same safety conditions such as equipment and staircase regulations to the open space as well. Why should the fire officials visit them again,” Garg said.The zone wise distribution of open-air dining licenses shows that 29 have been granted in the Najafgarh zone, 27 in the South zone and 10 in the Central zone. The lowest number of such establishments in under the West zone where three such open air eateries are currently operational.SDMC official said that some of area and establishments where outdoor dining licenses have been issued are located in places such as Aerocity, India Habitat Center, Aurobindo Marg, outlets in Kapashera, Dwarka, Rajouri garden, Hauz Khas and Green Park.Goyle said, “The concept of open air dining policy is good and the industry has been pushing for it for the past 15 years.”According to the policy approved in September last year, open-air dining is allowed only in restaurants with a health trade licence, and where there is an open space such as a rooftop which is private property. Recently, the north and east corporation have also adopted a similar policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-rules-red-tape-keeps-open-air-dining-policy-behind-closed-doors-101633914355199.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Man shoots mother-in-law, wife, arrested||A 32-year-old man allegedly shot dead his wife and mother-in-law with a pistol in Baba Haridas Nagar of Dwarka on Saturday.Police said the man himself called the police control room and confessed to have murdered the two women.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary, said they received a call at 9.45pm on Saturday regarding the murder of two people. When the cops reached the spot, they found two dead bodies of women with gunshot injuries.Police said the accused, Mahesh, shot them eight times. The gun was seized and Mahesh was arrested from the spot, investigators said. The two victims were identified as Mahesh’s wife Nidhi (21) and his mother-in-law Beero (55).“Nidhi and Mahesh had a love marriage in January 2020 against the wishes of their parents. Later, their parents accepted their marriage and Mahesh, along with his wife, started living with her mother,” said Choudhary.However, soon after, problems started arising between Mahesh and Nidhi, and they fought often over trivia matters, police said.“They had an argument on another argument on Saturday, following which Mahesh shot her and her mother,” said the DCP.Preliminary investigation has shown that Mahesh, who was into buying and selling cars, did not give any money to his wife, which was one of the reasons of discord between the couple.“The accused has a criminal bent of mind and has one case registered against him under 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) of the Indian Penal Code at Jaffarpur Kalan police station. Mahesh has been arrested and is in police custody,” said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-shoots-mother-in-law-wife-arrested-101633910998400.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Actress alleges YouTube influencer harassing her, complaint filed: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police registered a criminal case at the Vasant Kunj north police station on Sunday against a man based on a complaint by a Bollywood actor who alleged the suspect was allegedly stalking and harassing her on social media. Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma said the actress alleged that a ‘YouTube influencer’, ho also uses Twitter, has been circulating some messages on social media platforms with the intention of outraging her modesty, and trending some hashtags with regard to some movie scene.A case has been registered under sections 354 (D) (punishment for stalking) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the IPC and 67 (punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the IT Act, the deputy commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/actor-complains-of-being-stalked-case-registered-101633910845360.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: His October homework||Such a vivid series of cumulous clouds. There’s also a man with a moth perched on his mouth.To a visitor at Aditya Raj’s studio in south Delhi’s CR Park, these acrylics on canvas might bear little resemblance to the real world. The 3 pm sky outside is dull blue and without clouds. The primary view from this fourth floor terrace is in fact of the neighbour’s pani ki tankis.But right now, Mr Raj, 30, is sketching something straightforwardly relatable—the Majnu Ka Tila gateway in the north of the city. It is a part of his October project in which he is drawing one Delhi landmark per day, which he later shares on his instagram handle @adirajart. He first sighted the gateway many years back while driving along the Ring Road—“It stood out with its distinct design, and with the words ‘Tibetan Refugee Camp’… I’d no idea such a place existed in Delhi.” Mr Raj had then newly arrived from hometown Jaipur to join a law college in Delhi. He finished his graduation in 2016 and promptly became a full-time artist. These ongoing October compilations, he points out, mostly consists of places in the capital with which he finds a personal connect. Like the one on Delite Cinema he did last week. “My partner loves films, he’s a great fan of (late) Sridevi and some years back we went to Delite to see the pre-release screening of what turned out to be her last movie (Mom).”It takes two-three hours for Mr Raj to rustle out each October drawing—which comprises sketching and colouring. Some of the other city places he plans to recreate include the Alka hotel in Connaught Place, the German Bakery in Paharganj (it’s now a 24/7 convenience store!), the graffiti lane in Sarojini Nagar, Little Saigon restsurant in Hauz Khas Market, and Sudama tea stall in Delhi University.Meanwhile, a short walk away from his studio, an overgrown creeper on the roadside has clambered up to partially cover a signboard that details a local doctor’s consulting hours. The CR Park-based artist must consider this semi-wild spectacle, too, for his October chore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-his-october-homework-101633908286693.html
11-10-2021||Indore||Muslim kin alleges mob attack in Madhya Pradesh, police say no communal angle||A Muslim family of blacksmiths in Indore, Madhya Pradesh, alleged that five of its members were thrashed by a mob on Saturday shouting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans who wanted them to leave their village. Police, however, called it a clash that happened after the family couldn’t deliver an order for a trolley on time and refused to return money paid as advance.Two first information reports were filed on Sunday against both groups for rioting and voluntarily causing hurt. Police are yet to arrest anyone and the injured were admitted to MY Hospital Indore.The Muslim family claimed that some locals in Kampel village had been threatening them for a month and telling them to leave as they didn’t want to see Muslims in the village. “When we didn’t leave, scores of people attacked us on Saturday night with iron rods and canes,” said Shahrukh Lohar.He said they are blacksmiths who keep moving from one place to another. “Two years ago, we came to this village from the Neemar region of MP to work as ironsmiths. We make agricultural equipment and trolleys,” Lohar said.He said when a few villagers told the family to leave, they discussed the matter with the sarpanch and others in the village. “They asked us not to pay attention on their threats. On Saturday, a group of people from a neighbouring village came in large numbers and attacked on us with iron rods and canes. They injured my father, Farukh Lohar,” said Lohar, adding that his sister Fouzia, uncle Firoz and mother Shabnam were also thrashed.Shahrukh’s sister Fouzia said, “They came in large numbers and started shouting slogans of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and abusing us. Before we could react, they started beating my father. My father was already upset about burglars stealing ₹80,000 from our house a month ago and wanted to leave. But Saturday night’s incident shook us badly.”The family also accused the police of not supporting them and said they registered an FIR only after a local advocate named Ehtesham Hashmi intervened. “We had to wait for at least three hours at Kampel outpost to register the case. Instead of taking swift action against the accused, the police personnel were trying to present the matter as a normal group clash,” Hashmi said.The police, however, refuted the allegations and said it was a group clash and nobody received any grievous injuries.Indore (west) superintendent of police MC Jain said, “Farukh Lohar had taken ₹75,000 in advance from a villager Vikas Patel to make a trolley, but didn’t complete the order. Patel was asking Lohar to return the money, and on Saturday night, Patel along with eight others went to Lohar’s home for money. When he refused to pay, Patel attacked Lohar with an iron rod.”Jain added that Patel and others used rods and canes present at Lohar’s house as weapons so it’s clear that it was not a pre-planned attack. “The Lohar family didn’t register any complaint about being threatened and burgled earlier,” the SP said, adding that some people have been trying to give the incident a communal twist and they will be acted against soon.The first FIR was registered against Vikas Patel and eight others under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (using obscene language), 506 (criminal intimidation), 427 (mischief), 147 (rioting), and 148 (rioting with armed deadly weapon) of the Indian Penal Code while another FIR under the same IPC sections was registered against Lohar and five others, including two women.Heavy police force has been deployed in the village to avoid any untoward incident.When contacted, Kampel village sarpanch Prakash Bagwan accused the Muslim family of lying about contacting him or any other villager. “They didn’t inform me about any threat. It was a matter of money,” he said.But Bagwan said Vikas Patel was associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, which held a meeting in the village two months ago. “As I didn’t attend the meeting, I am not aware of the agenda,” he added.The incident, however, received some political attention with All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi condemning it. In a tweet, he said, “Sir Shivraj Singh Chouhan and DGP MP will you arrest these radicalized goons, will your government discharge your constitutional duty?”MP Congress spokesperson Aminul Khan Suri accused the Bharatiya Janata Party-led state government of allowing people to spoil the environment of the Malwa region. “The communal clashes and discrimination against minorities have increased manifold. The family was being harassed for a long time, but they didn’t report to the police because they knew that the police won’t support them. That is why even today, they termed the incident as clash not discrimination,” Suri said.However, water resources minister and local BJP MLA Tulsi Silawat said an inquiry has been ordered and nobody will be spared if what the Muslims have said is true. “Communal clashes have increased because people are being misguided for political advantage. We have arrested some and also sent notices to some others for creating unrest among people by circulating fake messages,” Silawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/muslim-kin-alleges-mob-attack-in-madhya-pradesh-police-say-no-communal-angle-101633902553845.html
11-10-2021||Mumbai||MVA alliance in Maharashtra calls for bandh today over UP violence||The three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance in Maharashtra has called for a statewide bandh on Monday to protest the killing of four farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri.“The statewide bandh will commence from 12 midnight,” NCP spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik.“The BJP-led central government has allowed the loot of agriculture produce through the three newly-enacted farm laws and now the kin of its minister is killing farmers. We have to show solidarity with the cultivators.”On October 3, eight people, including four farmers, died after a vehicle, reportedly owned by Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra, mowed down agitating farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. Farmers allege that minister’s Ashish Mishra was in the car that ran over people. The junior home minister and his son deny the allegation.The Kisan Sabha has extended support to the bandh and said its workers in 21 districts from across the state will ensure that the bandh gets good response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-calls-for-bandh-today-over-upviolence-101633902194363.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Cinemas to open at 25% capacity in Jammu and Kashmir||With coronavirus cases in Jammu and Kashmir stabilising, the administration on Sunday allowed cinema halls and multiplexes in the two divisions to open at 25% capacity. Chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta issued the orders after reviewing the Covid situation in the Union territory and speaking to other officials on Saturday. The order reiterated that there was a need to continue with the existing Covid containment measures in all districts “in view of the uneven trend observed in daily Covid cases.”“Cinema halls and theatres, and multiplexes are also allowed to function with 25% capacity, subject to the condition that the management will ensure strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour. All district magistrates and superintendents of police shall ensure compliance,” the order read.The ceiling of people permitted to attend any indoor and outdoor gathering will remain restricted to 25. “However, in banquet halls in districts with positivity rate below 0.2% and weekly caseload below 250, gatherings will be permitted up to 25% of the authorised capacity, preferably in open spaces, for vaccinated persons with RT-PCR or RAT tests not older than 72 hours,” it said, adding that while no weekend curfew will be imposed in any district, night curfew will continue to remain in force from 8pm to 7am.“For districts with a positivity rate below 0.2% and weekly caseload below 250, night curfew will be imposed from 10pm to 6am,” it said.The Union territory has also enhanced its vaccination pace. Over 1.5 lakh vaccine doses were administered in the UT on Saturday. Officials said that 93% of the adult population in Jammu and Kashmir had received the first dose, while 42% had received the second dose as well. Six districts – Samba, Poonch, Ramban, Anantnag, Shopian and Budgam – have administered at least the first dose to the eligible populace. Officials also told the chief secretary that the UT’s daily positivity rate now stands at 0.21% against the national average of 1.49%.J&K sees 99 fresh cases Ninety-nine more people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. Of the total cases, 85 were reported in Kashmir valley, while the Jammu division saw 14 infections. The active cases stand at 1,091.At 465, Srinagar has the highest number of active cases, followed by Poonch and Budgam districts with 99 and 100 active cases, respectively. Officials said with 41 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 12 each in Budgam and Baramulla districts.Jammu and Kashmir have so far logged 3,30,533 cases, of which 3,25,016 have recovered, while 4,426 have succumbed. The recovery rate has reached 98.33%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-cinemas-to-open-at-25-capacity-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101633900981339.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bandipora killing: 4 militant associates arrested, one at large||The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Sunday busted a Lashkar-e-Taiba - The Resistance Front (LeT-TRF ) module responsible for killing the president of a taxi drivers’ union in Bandipora on October 5. “Four militants were arrested for killing Mohammad Shafi Lone, of Naidkhai,” a police spokesperson said. “The arrested terrorist associates have been identified as Tariq Ahmad Dar alias Tariq Khoucha, Mohammad Shafi Dar, Mudasir Hassan Lone and Bilal Ah Dar alias Sahb Khoucha, “ the spokesman said. However, one of the militant associate involved in the killing, identified as Imtiyaz Ah Dar alias Kotru is absconding and has reportedly joined the terrorist ranks. “The killing was carried out at the behest and instruction of LeT (TRF) handler Lala Umar, a resident of Pakistan,” the spokesman said, adding that the module that was active in Shahgund, Hajin area, had planned the attack by carrying out reconnaissance of the target and surveiling him. On the day of the attack, one of the terrorist associates called the victim for a meeting at Gundboon, where the victim was assassinated, the spokesman said. Hundreds allegedly questioned over civilian killings Hundreds of people have allegedly been called for questioning, many of whom have been detained across Kashmir over the past few days to investigate the chain of civilian killings in the Valley over the last week.Police officials and local sources, on the condition of anonymity, said the police has been detaining over ground workers (OGWs) and members of the banned organisation, Jamaat-e-Islami to question whether they had any role in the civilian killings. While some reports have put the number of people detained for questioning at around 500, a senior police official said that the number is was not as much.While J&K DGP Dilbag Singh and IG Kashmir Vijay Kumar did not respond to calls, DIG (north Kashmir) Udaybhaskar Billa said that they have been calling people including OGWs to investigate if they had played a role.“It is true that we have called some people and we are verifying the involvement of locals,” he said, adding, “It is not detention per se.” Locals said that police has already detained many people in Hajin after the family members of Mohammad Shafi identified the people who had attacked him.“Right now, it is not appropriate to talk about the case,” the DIG said.Kashmir has been restive since October 3 owing to the targeted killings of seven persons including three belonging to minority communities of the union territory and forth one a non-local.On Thursday suspected militants opened fire on two teachers – Satinder Kour, the principal, and Deepak Chand – of a government school in Srinagar’s old city and killed them.The two were killed two days after Makhan Lal Bindroo, a 68-year-old chemist, street vendor Virender Paswan from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, and Muhammad Shafi Lone, a taxi driver, were shot dead in Srinagar and Bandipora districts on Tuesday.On Saturday evening, gunmen opened fire at Majid Ahmad Gojri, a resident of Chattabal Srinagar, and Mohammad Shafi Dar, a resident of SD Colony Batamaloo, killing them both.To augment the police investigations, the Union government has sent Intelligence Bureau’s head of CT operations Tapan Deka to the Valley to personally supervise the fight against militancy following the killings while CT teams of other national security agencies have also been in Kashmir to act as force multipliers to Jammu and Kashmir police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bandipora-killing-4-militant-associates-arrested-one-at-large-101633900381406.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Lightning kills teen in Ambegaon||PUNE: A girl, 19, died on the spot after lightning struck her in Ambegaon on Saturday. The deceased, identified as Meera Lohkare, was returning home along with her father Sakharam Lohkare, after finishing her studies when lightning struck, killing her instantaneously. Her father, who is a postman, sustained minor injuries.The deceased lived with her family in Khadki village in Ambegaon tehsil and studied at the Annasaheb Awate college in Manchar. According to the police, the father-daughter duo was returning home in the evening on Saturday. As a stretch of the road was damaged, Meera got down from the two-wheeler her father was riding even as lightning struck her, killing her on the spot. She was rushed to the sub-district hospital in Manchar where she was declared dead on arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lightning-kills-teen-in-ambegaon-101633899661203.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mandi bypoll: Development has failed to reach hill state, says Kanhaiya||One of Congress’ star campaigners and recent inductee former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president was in Mandi on Sunday to campaign for Pratibha Singh, who has been fielded from the parliamentary constituency.  Slamming the ruling BJP government, he said the Modi government slogan should be “this time an advertisement government. Tourists reach Himachal from different states for its apples, but development does not reach Himachal,” he said. All India Congress in-charge for Himachal affairs, Rajiv Shukla, said, “One can gauge the level of development in the state from the conditions of the roads. Besides, there has been a hike in fuel prices. Before assuming power, the Prime Minister had promised that the price of petrol will be ₹40 per litre, but the price of diesel is about to reach ₹100.” Shukla asked people should go through the party’s manifestoes and question the leaders over unfulfilled promises. He also criticised the BJP over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. National secretary Sanjay Dutt, state Congress president Kuldeep Singh Rathore, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, former state president Kaul Singh Thakur, former president Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu, district president Prakash Chaudhary, MLA Vikramaditya Singh, general secretary Chet Ram Thakur and former minister Rangeela Rama Rao were also present at the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-bypoll-development-has-failed-to-reach-hill-state-says-kanhaiya-101633899601296.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Suspicious bag sparks scare near Pune school; bomb squad finds wet clothes||PUNE A suspicious bag found near the RSS office near Ahilyabai Devi School on Sunday morning triggered a bomb scare. The incident led to the entire area being cordoned off by the city police and the Bombay Disposal and Detection Squad (BDDS), who rushed to the spot. The BDDS squad emptied the bag and found nothing suspicious. PSI Vishnu Deshmukh said, “Wet clothes were found in the bag and it seems to have been forgotten by someone. Nothing suspicious.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/suspicious-bag-sparks-scare-near-pune-school-bomb-squad-finds-wet-clothes-101633899420693.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Four, including 12-year-old girl, injured in cylinder explosion in Pune||PUNE Four persons were injured by an explosion caused by an LPG cylinder leaking in a kitchen in Kirkatwadi at 10 pm Saturday night. According to the fire department, a 12-year-old girl sustained serious injuries in the incident.The fire incident took place at Karanjawane vasti in Kirkatwadi, 12km from Pune. The injured have been identified as Veena Laxmikant Newaskar (56), Shubhangi Pasalkar (35), Sonakshi Pasalkar (12) and Ranjit Giri (25).Prashant Ranpise, chief of Pune’s fire brigade said that the explosion took place in Newaskar’s house. “It was a very loud explosion and it sent residents running for cover. The fire brigade completed its work within 30 minutes and doused the fire in the house,” he said.“The window panes of the house were blown away and the house sustained severe damages,” Ranpise added.Before the fire brigade arrived, the neighbourhood residents took the injured to Sassoon General Hospital. Ranpise said that Sonakshi sustained 45 per cent burn injuries, while the other three sustained 25 per cent burns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-including-12-year-old-girl-injured-in-cylinder-explosion-in-pune-101633899301215.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Beed police arrest addl collector N R Shelke in land scam||PUNE The Beed Police arrested additional collector N R Shelke from Aurangabad on Sunday, in connection with a multi-crore land scam in Chinchpur Ashti taluka of the district. Shelke was earlier suspended from service on graft related charges. Besides Shelke, 15 others are accused in the case.MLA Balasaheb Ajbe requested the state police to take strict action against the accused in the case, following which the arrest was made. Shelke allegedly signed off land that belonged to the Waqf (property donated in charity held by a Muslim trust) in the name of a private individual. Shelke was earlier arrested on graft charges when he was serving as district supply officer (DSO) in Beed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/beed-police-arrest-addl-collector-n-r-shelke-in-land-scam-101633899061257.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Water supply timings to parts of Pune city likely to reduce: PMC||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) water department has decided to control excessive supply of water to parts of the city, which will see a reduction in the span of time supply will be available. The PMC is acting on instructions from the canal committee of the state water resources department and the Maharashtra Water Resource Regulatory Authority (MWRRA). At a recent meeting, the water supply department called in officials and discussed how to control water supply and minimise usage.Aniruddha Pawaskar, chief superintendent engineer, water supply department said, “We are working on the plan on how to control and regulate water supply in the city. At present, some parts of the city are getting more water whereas some parts are not getting enough water. We are trying to minimise the gap and provide at least enough water to every part of the city. It is not that we are going to cut down the water supply.”He further said, “We are under pressure from the water resource department and MSWRRA to reduce water usage. We are working on it. We introduced 24x7 regular and equitable water supply projects. We installed around 53,000 water metres in different parts of the city and laid 550km of pipeline. The project will help us with a water audit and identify leakages and losses in the distribution system.” A senior water distribution official said, “Actually, we are trying to reduce water supply to the Swargate and SNDT zone where there is excessive supply and usage. The timings (hours) of water supply may reduce.”According to PMC officials, there are five major zones in the city - Parvati, Wadgaon, Pune cantonment, Bhama-Askhed, Chikhali - which are divided into different sub-zones. Parvati and Pune cantonment account for 50 per cent of the city in terms of water supply. In August, deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar had attended a canal committee meeting where a review of water availability in the four dams from which Pune gets its water was taken. Pawar had instructed the PMC to make a time-bound plan to restrict water usage.Baramati-based farmer Vithal Jarad filed a case against PMC with the MWRRA for excessive use of water by the PMC as a result of which the water supply to the rural areas is affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/water-supply-timings-to-parts-of-pune-city-likely-to-reduce-pmc-101633898821069.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Several Pune-Solapur trains cancelled, diverted and short terminated||PUNE The Central Railway (CR) has cancelled, diverted and short terminated several trains on the Pune-Solapur railway route due to the ongoing doubling work between Bhalwani-Bhigwan in the Solapur division up to October 28. This includes the daily Pune- Solapur-Pune daily special train. Apart from that several other trains have been either diverted or short terminated from Pune railway division. Passengers are requested to note the diversion and cancellations and visit www.enquiry.indianrail.gov.in for more details. They are requested to bear with the railway administration for the inconvenience caused due to this infrastructure work.“I regularly travel to Pune from Solapur for my business related work and our daily special train is our main mode of transport. And now suddenly they are cancelling it for almost a month. Travelling will be problem for thousands of passengers between the two cities,” said Shailesh Kshirsagar. Trains diverted1) 01201 LTT-Madurai weekly special JCO 20.10.2021 and 27.10.2021 diverted via Roha-Madgaon-Mangaluru Jn-Shoranur-Palakkad-Erode-Tiruchchirappalli Jn.2) 01202 Madurai-LTT weekly special JCO 22.10.2021 diverted via Tiruchchirappalli Jn. -Erode-Palakkad-Shoranur-Mangaluru Jn. -Madgaon-Roha3) 02882 Bhubaneshwar-Pune weekly special JCO 19.10.2021 and 26.10.2021 diverted via Wadi-Solapur-Kurduwadi-Miraj-Pune4) 02881 Pune-Bhubaneshwar weekly special JCO 21.10.2021 diverted via Pune-Miraj-Kurduwadi-Solapur5) 06340 Nagercoil-CSMT Mumbai Special (four days a week) JCO from18.10.2021 to 26.10.2021 diverted via Dindigul-Namakkal-Erode-Palakkad-Shoranur-Mangaluru Jn-Madgaon-Roha-Panvel-Thane6) 06339 CSMT Mumbai-Nagercoil Special (four days a week) JCO from19.10.2021 to 27.10.2021 diverted via Thane-Panvel-Roha-Madgaon-Mangaluru Jn-Shoranur-Palakkad-Erode-Namakkal-Dindigul7) 06352 Nagercoil-CSMT Mumbai Speical (Bi-weekly) JCO 21.10.2021 and 24.10.2021 diverted via Tiruchchirappalli-Erode-Palakkad-Shoranur-Mangaluru Jn-Madgaon-Roha-Panvel-Thane8) 06351 CSMT Mumbai-Nagercoil Special (Bi-weekly) JCO from 18.10.2021 to 25.10.2021 diverted via Thane-Panvel-Roha-Madgaon-Mangaluru Jn-Shoranur-Palakkad-Erode-Tiruchchirappalli9) 08520 LTT-Visakhapatnam Special JCO from 18.10.2021 to 28.10.2021 diverted via LTT-Igatpuri-Manmad-Nanded-Nizamabad-Secunderabad10) 08519 Visakhapatnam-LTT Special JCO from 18.10.2021 to 26.10.2021 diverted via Secunderabad-Nizamabad-Nanded-Manmad-Igatpuri-LTT11) 01017 LTT-Karaikkal weekly special JCO 16.10.2021 and 23.10.2021 diverted via Pune-Miraj-Hubballi-Yasvantpur-Jolarpettai Jn.-Katpadi-Vellore-Villupuram12) 01018 Karaikkal-LTT weekly special JCO 18.10.2021 and 25.10.2021 diverted via Villupuram-Vellore-Katpadi-Jolarpettai Jn-Yasvantpur-Hubballi-Miraj-Pune13) 07221 Kakinada Port-LTT special (biweekly) JCO from 16.10.2021 to 23.10.2021 diverted via Solapur-Kurduwadi-Miraj-Pune14) 07222 LTT-Kakinada Port special (biweekly) JCO from 17.10.2021 to 24.10.2021 diverted via Pune-Miraj-Kurduwadi-SolapurTrains cancelled1) 01139 CSMT-Gadag special JCO from 14.10.2021 to 27.10.20212) 01140 Gadag-CSMT special JCO from 15.10.2021 to 28.10.20213) 02116 Solapur-CSMT special JCO from 17.10.2021 to 27.10.20214) 02115 CSMT-Solapur special JCO from 18.10.2021 to 28.10.20215) 02207 CSMT-Latur special (4 days a week) JCO from 18.10.2021 to 26.10.20216) 02208 Latur-CSMT special (4 days a week) JCO from 19.10.2021 to 27.10.20217) 02043 CSMT-Bidar special (triweekly) JCO from 20.10.2021 to 23.10.20218) 02044 Bidat-CSMT special (triweekly) JCO from 21.10.2021 to 24.10.20219) 07614 Nanded-Panvel special JCO from 14.10.2021 to 27.10.202110) 07613 Panvel-Nanded special JCO from 15.10.2021 to 28.10.202111) 07014 Hyderabad-Hadapsar special (triweekly) JCO from 18.10.2021 to 28.10.202112) 07013 Hadapsar-Hyderabad special (triweekly) JCO from 19.10.2021 to 29.10.202113) 01157/01158 Pune-Solapur-Pune daily special upto 28.10.202114) 06237 Mysuru-Sainagar Shirdi weekly special JCO 18.10.2021 and 25.10.202115) 06238 Sainagar Shirdi-Mysuru weekly special JCO 19.10.2021 and 26.10.2021Short termination 1) 01302 KSR Bengaluru-CSMT special JCO from 17.10.2021 to 27.10.2021 will terminate at Solapur2) 01301 CSMT-KSR Bengaluru special JCO from 18.10.2021 to 28.10.2021 will originate from Solapur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/several-pune-solapur-trains-cancelled-diverted-and-short-terminated-101633898582655.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chamba road mishap: Bus skids off road, 34 hurt||At least 34 people were injured when the bus they were travelling in skidded off the Chamba-Bharmour road near Karian on Sunday morning.It was a close shave for the passengers as the bus barely missed hitting a house. Locals initiated rescue operations and were soon joined by the police, home guards and firefighters. Chamba superintendent of police S Arul Kumar said the bus was on its from Lylh to Chamba via Dharwala, but when it reached near Sarei nullah around three kilometers away from Karian, the driver lost control of the vehicle and the bus rolled down the road. “No causality was reported in the incident. Those injured were rushed to the Chamba medical college for treatment. The cause of the accident is yet to be ascertained,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chamba-road-mishap-bus-skids-off-road-34-hurt-101633898581082.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Fees, daily living worries cloud reopening of colleges for students in Pune||PUNE From Tuesday, October 12, college campuses reopen for in-person classes. Students are eagerly waiting, but along with the excitement, several are also worried. College fees, student accommodation, hostels, and the availability of study material are all the post-Covid issues on the minds of students and parents alike.“We are excited to join start in-person lectures and getting back onto campus after a long break. Many of my friends are returning to Pune, but we are worried about the college fees. Most students, including me, have not yet paid the full college fees. Some have not paid a single penny. The major reason is the Covid pandemic and the financial crisis thereof, especially in rural parts of the state,” said Kuldeep Ambekar, a law student and president of the Students’ Helping Hand organisation. There are more than 10,000 junior and senior colleges, institutions and private universities in Pune district. The approximate number of students studying in all these educational institutions is 1.4 million at least. Payal Mitra, a second year Arts student from the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) said, “I was waiting for this day to start, but my parents and me are worried about the accommodation facilities. Earlier, I used to stay at the university hostel and it is closed now. If I want to rent a flat then I need to stay with other girls, or as a paying guest. This is a bit of a worry looking at the Covid safety and precautions. The university should open up their hostels and students with two vaccination doses should be allowed to stay,”Another student Hitesh Ghule said, “Me and three friends from Beed district are planning to come to Pune next week and start offline lectures. We hope to be able to access accommodation, food mess and other day-to-day needs. Our monthly budget of staying and meals in Pune goes to around ₹7,000 and if this increases then it will affect our studies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fees-daily-living-worries-cloud-reopening-of-colleges-for-students-in-pune-101633898101053.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Child devp services report claims 34.88% of kids under 6 in Maha have stunted growth||PUNE Maharashtra’s Integrated Child Development Services report for June 2020 states that 34.88% or 398,000 children suffer from stunted growth and 168,000 are severely stunted, which accounts for 14.73% of children under the age of six years. Some of the districts with the highest number of stunted children are Palghar and Nandurbar, while districts reporting the least number of stunted children are Pune, Sangli, Jalgaon and Satara. The report states that of the 7,858,646 children in the state aged below six years, 398,545 or 34.88% are stunted and 168,278 are severely stunted. A child is identified as stunted by measuring the height against his/her age and is used to identify if the child is gaining height as per age. As per the central government’s Poshan Abhiyan, stunting is a child short of height and some of the antecedents of stunting are repeated minor illnesses and not eating enough for a long periods of time.The tribal population in the state is the most affected with the highest percentage of stunted children. Of the total of 168,278 severely stunted children in the state, 56,037 are from the tribal community. Of the 398,545 stunted children, 116,885 are from tribal pockets. Nandurbar has the highest percentage of stunted children at 60.79%, while Palghar has 38.27% children with severe stunting. Both districts have a significant number of tribal pockets.The central government guidelines state that children who are stunted have lost the opportunity to regain height, but these children should be cared for, because if they fall sick and start getting thin, then it can be dangerous. For both stunted and underweight children, it is important to ensure complementary feeding, immunisation, deworming and vitamin A supplementation. These children should be monitored regularly and should be referred if found to be losing weight or falling ill. Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad said, “Pune has reported the least number of children who are stunted. Children who are stunted and who are underweight are considered malnourished and although the height gain is not possible once the child is stunted, balanced nutrition to a pregnant woman and also for lactating mothers can provide nutrition to the child at a very early stage and so the related problems that could add troubles for the stunted child could be reduced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/child-devp-services-report-claims-34-88-of-kids-under-6-in-maha-have-stunted-growth-101633897801010.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Sunday crowds jam traffic around Dagdusheth, Tambadi Jogeshwari temples||PUNE As the Navratri festival has religious places open for the public, mandals have kept celebrations simple this year. Despite all this a massive crowd was seen on Sunday outside the Dagdusheth Ganpati temple and at Tambadi Jogeshwari Devi temple. As it was Sunday, people across the district came to take darshan of at the temples. While there was no proper management of traffic, long queues of vehicles and traffic congestion was seen throughout the day on the Shivaji road. Adding to it were the roadside hawkers creating hurdles for pedestrian movement. “I have come from Baramati to Pune city and one of my main reasons was to take darshan of Tamabdi Jogeshwari Devi as the Navratri festival is going on. After seeing the crowd outside the temple, I was bit afraid,” said Prashant Nikam a citizen. While police bandobast was all around the temple, vehicles coming from Shaniwarwada were not allowed to go towards Tulshibaug market from the Rameshwar chowk on Shivaji road. This led to traffic jams all over the area during the evening peak hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sunday-crowds-jam-traffic-around-dagdusheth-tambadi-jogeshwari-temples-101633897381509.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mandi bypoll: People of Lahaul were saviours of Ladakh, says Brigadier Khushal Thakur||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and BJP candidate from the Mandi parliamentary constituency brigadier Khushal Thakur (retd) on Sunday campaigned in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti for the October 30 byelections.Speaking at a meeting in Udaipur, the retired brigadier said, “I share a bond with the people of Lahaul and Spiti as I spent a long time here while the Atal Tunnel was being constructed. While I was in the military , I spent a lot of time in tribal areas and am well versed with the problems faced by those living in remote areas.” He also praised the residents of Lahaul-Spiti for the role they played during the invasion of Kashmir and Ladakh in 1948. “The people of Lahaul were the saviours of Ladakh,” he said. While promising to focus on developing the area, he said the BJP government had done a lot to promote winter tourism and adventure sports in Lahaul-Spiti. The chief minister said the BJP government had ensured that the pace of development had not slowed down over the last four years in Lahaul and Spiti. “The previous government has reduced the budget for tribal areas, which our government has increased to 74 crore. The Atal Tunnel has emerged as a boon for the people and will boost the tourism sector, he said, while also congratulating the residents for achieving 100% vaccination before any other district in the country.Taking a jibe at the Congress, the chief minister said the Congress had no issue against the government. “The Opposition’s candidate, Pratibha Singh, had said she was not interested in contesting the election during a rally at Mandi. If she is not interested, who forced her to fight the polls and why?” He also condemned an Opposition leader for abusing him at a Mandi rally. “Everyone has the right to ask for votes, but votes cannot be sought by abusing,” he said, adding that he was confident that the people would vote in favour of the BJP. Chief electoral officer visits Mandi Ahead of the bypoll, chief electoral officer and Himachal Pradesh election secretary C Paulrasu visited the Mandi parliamentary constituency on Sunday to review poll preparations. He checked the counting centres and strong rooms at Sundernagar. He also visited the polling station to check the availability of assured minimum facilities at some of the polling stations at Sundernagar, Balh, Mandi and Padhar. He also went to the construction site of the district EVM warehouse and directed that construction work be expedited. He also chaired a meeting with DEO, returning officer, Mandi, expenditure observer, SP Mandi AROs and nodal officers appointed for different activities..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-bypoll-people-of-lahaul-were-saviours-of-ladakh-says-brigadier-khushal-thakur-101633896840833.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Rajiv Gandhi zoo to introduce new ticketing system prior to reopening||PUNE: With the Byculla zoo in Mumbai likely to open by the end of this month, Pune’s Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre too is considering updating their ticketing system and preparing for the day Maharashtra announces reopening of its zoos. The zoo authorities are planning to introduce the new ticketing system prior to the reopening, which according to them will take place at the earliest. The zoo authorities met officials from Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) garden and information technology departments last month to discuss options to control crowding at the zoo once it reopens.Dr Rajkumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research Centre, said, “We are aware that once the zoo reopens, it will be difficult to manage and control offline visitors hence, we are in discussions with the information technology department of PMC to upgrade the old system of online registration and ticketing for visitors. That way we can control and monitor the number of guests visiting the zoo and also avoid a big rush to the zoo.”Officials of PMC’s information technology department said that they are planning a completely new and separate portal for the zoo along with making ticketing and reservation user-friendly.Rahul Jagtap, head of the information technology department, said, “We are developing a ticketing and reservation application which is an upgrade to the old system that was in use earlier. This new app will help make reservations hassle-free and offer UPI, QR codes and other payment gateway options. It will also help with crowd management by giving us centralised data to compartmentalise visits to attractions inside the zoo.”Jagtap said that the entire idea is the culmination of a meeting on how temples have introduced online booking for devotees and that it will take a month to get the new system up and running. The zoo and the information technology department are also working on procuring information about animals through QR codes to help maintain appropriate distance between visitors and the animals and prevent people from crowding at one place.The zoo is located at Katraj and has been closed since March 2020 when the nationwide lockdown was first announced in the wake of Covid-19. While the PMC has reopened gardens for the public as part of the easing of Covid norms, the zoo at Katraj continues to remain out of bounds for the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rajiv-gandhi-zoo-to-introduce-new-ticketing-system-prior-to-reopening-101633896780926.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Truckloads of produce offloaded at Market Yard day before bandh||PUNE: With several political parties having called a Maharashtra bandh on Monday, October 11, to condemn the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, the Market Yard (market) saw heavy rush on Sunday considering it would remain closed on Monday. Earlier, the Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard Traders’ Association announced that the market would remain closed on Monday and appealed to farmers not to bring their agricultural produce to market.On Sunday, over 1,200 goods’ trucks carrying various kinds of vegetables and grains arrived at the Market Yard market, and loading and unloading took place throughout the day. Santosh Mutha, a trader at the market, said, “As the market is closed tomorrow, we told the retailers to buy the vegetables well in advance today. The market will be completely closed on Monday and this might affect vegetable rates for a day.”The Chhatrapati Shivaji Market Yard Traders’ Association will keep tabs on whether or not traders at the market comply with the bandh and security arrangements have been made for Monday. There are more than 1,000 traders’ shops in the Market Yard market, which is divided into separate areas for vegetables, grains, fruits, flowers and bananas. Nearly 800 to 1,000 trucks from across the country arrive at the market daily with different kinds of goods to be supplied to the city. Meanwhile, goods’ trucks that are already on their way and slated to reach Pune on Monday will be kept on hold for a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/truckloads-of-produce-offloaded-at-market-yard-day-before-bandh-101633896361061.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi’s son ties the knot in simple ceremony at Mohali gurdwara||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s elder son Navjit Singh tied the knot in a simple ceremony at Gurdwara Sacha Dhan Sahib, Phase 3B1, in Mohali, on Sunday. Navjit, 27, an engineering and law graduate, married Simrandheer Kaur, also an engineering graduate who hails from Amlala village near Dera Bassi in Mohali district. Punjab governor and UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit, senior Congress leaders Harish Rawat, Selja Kumari, Harish Chaudhary, Punjab cabinet ministers, Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and party MPs and MLAs from the state were present on the occasion. Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu was conspicuous by his absence as the party leaders said he had flown to Jammu from Lucknow to visit the Vaishno Devi shrine. Early in the day, Channi himself drove the vehicle carrying the bridegroom from their Kharar residence to the gurdwara that was decorated with flowers. The shrine premises were jam-packed amid tight security arrangements. Though most of the Congress leaders had lunch in a special enclosure made for them, Channi along with his family and the newlywed couple partook langar on the floor. Addressing the gathering, Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh praised Channi for holding a simple wedding ceremony, saying the CM has set an example.Punjab deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni, their cabinet colleagues Pargat Singh, Sangat Singh Gilizian, Gurkirat Singh Kotli, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Manpreet Singh Badal, Rana Gurjeet Singh, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Brahm Mohindra, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Randeep Singh Nabha, Gurkirat Singh Kotli and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria besides Congress MPs from the state Manish Tewari, Amar Singh, Partap Singh Bajwa, Jasbir Singh Dimpa, and Muhammad Sadiq were present. Former cabinet ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu and Rana Gurmeet Sodhi were also present.The wedding reception will be held in a hotel near Kharar on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-s-son-ties-the-knot-in-simple-ceremony-at-mohali-gurdwara-101633896241831.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Sanitary worker arrested for theft at lab, ₹3.5 lakh recovered||Four days after his joining, a sanitary worker stole ₹4.36 lakh in cash from a medical laboratory with the help of one of his aides. The police have arrested the sanitary worker and recovered ₹3.50 lakh in cash from his possession, while his accomplice is yet to be arrested. The accused has been identified as Deepak, 26, of Gopal Nagar. His accomplice Vishal, 28, is yet to be arrested. Deepak’s father Vikram is a security guard in the same laboratory, but he had left early on October 8 citing ill health. He had helped his son in getting the job. The police are also scanning the role of Vikram in the case. Vikram had joined the laboratory as a security guard eight months ago. The complainant, Jagjeet Singh of Kot Mangal Singh, who is an administrator at a private laboratory on the Humbran road, said on October 8, he and the other staff had left for home at 7.30 pm. On October 9, when they came, they were shocked to see the laboratory was ransacked and ₹4.36 lakh was stolen from almirah and drawer. He informed the police and lodged an FIR. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 3) Sameer Verma said Deepak hatched a conspiracy to steal the cash along with his accomplice. He said Deepak’s father used to work in the night shift. However, on October 8, he had left at 11 pm as he was unwell. Taking advantage of it, Deepak stole the keys of the laboratory from him and executed the theft. ₹3.50 Lakh has been recovered from Deepak and the rest of the amount is with Vishal who would soon be arrested. A case under Sections 457 and 380 of IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-sanitary-worker-arrested-for-theft-at-lab-rs-3-5-lakh-recovered-101633896060843.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Shirdi Intl Airport resumes flight operations||PUNE: Shirdi International Airport, which had suspended all flights since March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, resumed operations on Sunday with flights scheduled to arrive from Delhi, Hyderabad and Chennai (see box). With temples and other religious places having opened in the state on October 7 and the festive season having begun, air traffic at the airport is expected to increase as people across the country would like to take Shirdi Sai Baba’s blessings at this time. An official from Shirdi airport said, “The number of flights will be increasing in the coming days ahead of the festive season as people love to visit the shrine during this time.”Before the pandemic, 26 flights (13 each of landings and departure) were recorded from Shirdi airport. During the lockdown, the airport authorities completed the work of increasing the length of the runway, which will now allow landing of bigger airplanes that need longer runs to take off. The runway length has been increased from the former 2,500 metre to 3,200 metre.Shirdi International Airport spans 350 hectare land at Kakadi, Kopargaon, which is 14km from Shirdi. The airport will also soon be able to handle flight operations at night. It was inaugurated in October 2017.All aboard for Shirdi11.30am – arrival from Delhi (departure at 12.30 pm) 2.30pm – arrival from Hyderabad (departure at 3 pm)4pm – arrival from Chennai (departure at 4.30 pm)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shirdi-intl-airport-resumes-flight-operations-101633895940839.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two years after opening of Kartarpur corridor, not much has changed on ground for Dera Baba Nanak||Even as it has been two years since the Kartarpur corridor was thrown open, not much seems to have changed on the ground for the historic border town of Dera Baba Nanak that connects the visa-free passage on the Indian side with Gurdwara Darbar Sahib in neighbouring Pakistan. Having faced neglect for 70 years after Independence due to its location along the International Border, the town saw a ray of hope of economic development when the corridor was inaugurated in November 2019 to commemorate the 550th Parkash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) of Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism. Two months before the opening of the corridor, the then Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh held a special cabinet meeting at Dera Baba Nanak and sanctioned ₹75.23 crore for widening and strengthening of major roads leading to the town that was a trading hub before Partition.But sadly enough, the work on the key Amritsar-Dera Baba Nanak road is still in its initial stage and is going at a snail’s pace. The road connects the town with Amritsar, the largest city in Punjab’s Majha region, the Sri Guru Ramdas Jee international airport, and the Amritsar railway junction.Another major project announced by the then CM was construction of a heritage street at the cost of ₹3.70 crore to give a fillip to religious tourism, but work on it is yet to start.This street is to be constructed in the town’s main market which is in a state of utter neglect. Full of potholes, the market turned into a pond when it rained recently. Local residents and shopkeepers lament that their life turns miserable during the rainy season due to poor drainage system.Even the Dera Baba Nanak Development Authority was constituted to ensure “holistic development” of the town, but to no avail. The CM had directed the director general of police (DGP) to expedite the process of setting up office of deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and police station building in the city.“The projects should have been completed even as the corridor is closed from the Indian side due to the pandemic,” said Kirpal Singh, a local resident. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Harpreet Singh said, “The work on the heritage street is about to start as tendering process has begun. The work on widening of the Amritsar-Dera Baba Nanak road got delayed due to the rainy season. Now it will be finished in a few months. The open-air amphitheatre and the city wall projects are also underway.”The town is represented in the state assembly by deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-years-after-opening-of-kartarpur-corridor-not-much-has-changed-on-ground-for-dera-baba-nanak-101633895760702.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Oct 14 is date for monsoon withdrawal from Maha: IMD||PUNE The Monsoon is likely to withdraw from many parts of Maharashtra, including Pune and Mumbai, by October 14, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD). On Sunday, IMD officials said that conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of southwest monsoon from some more parts of Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, most parts of Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, some parts of Odisha and West Bengal by October 11.Anupam Kashyapi Head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said that on October 10 no withdrawal was seen but now conditions are becoming favourable.“ Maharashtra, Vidarbha and adjacent north of central Maharashtra and north of Marathwada is likely to see withdrawal of monsoon. There are no further strong systems as of now,” said Kashyapi.He added that around October 14, almost 80 per cent of Maharashtra will witness withdrawal of monsoon.“By October 14, Pune and Mumbai may also witness monsoon withdrawal, but southern parts of Maharashtra and southern parts of Konkan and Goa may need more time,” said Kashyapi.Till October 11, monsoon will remain active over Konkan and Goa and Central Maharashtra. “Fairly widespread rainfall is forecast in these areas,” noted Kashyapi.“Konkan and Goa will see a reduction in rainfall from October 12. In Central Maharashtra, till October 12 many places may receive rainfall. In some places of central Maharashtra, may receive isolated heavy rainfall. On October 13 and October 14, some places in the State may remain dry,” said Kashyapi. Pune weatherPune city is expected to see cloudy weather and lightning and thunderstorms on October 11.“Overall rainfall is likely to reduce from October 11. Ghat areas may receive isolated rainfall. Till October 15, rainfall chances are less in Pune, but the weather may remain cloudy,” said Kashyapi.On Sunday, Shivajinagar reported only 0.2 mm rainfall, Lavale reported 6.5 mm and Chinchwad reported 1.5 mm rainfall giving Pune city a respite from intense rainfall. Met department noted that Lohegaon and Pashan reported only traces of rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/oct-14-is-date-for-monsoon-withdrawal-from-maha-imd-101633895700749.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Car swept away by overflowing nullah in Pune; driver escapes||PUNE Intense spells of rain saw waterlogging at several places on Saturday, with Undri, Mohammadwadi, Dhanori, Vishrantwadi, Yerawada and Lohegaon all seeing roads submerged in the rain water.A car and driver was washed away near Sanskriti School in Undri on Saturday night. The driver Munawwar Sharif managed to save himself. A nullah in the area was overflowing with rainwater around 8.30 pm and Sharif tried to cross it when his car got swept away.The nullah which passes through the area does not have a barricading or a retaining wall. Area residents have been demanded construction of a mini-bridge on both sides of the road. Social activist Rajendra Bhintade said, “The area is extremely dangerous and can lead to loss of lives and a bigger tragedy can happen. We have been demanding construction of a mini retaining wall at the spot, but our plea has fallen on deaf ears.” In Mohammadwadi, a car parked outside Vibgyor school near Dorabjee Heritage was submerged in the deluge on the road on Saturday. The car was later removed on Sunday. Heavy rainfall within a short span caused water to enter housing societies. Between 5pm and 8:30 pm Lohegaon received 75.8mm rainfall while Shivajinagar got 49.2mm and Chinchwad 70mm. PMC deputy commissioner Madhav Jagtap said, “Heavy machinery was deployed to ensure that filth was removed from the nullahs. Also chronic spots will be taken up for repairs and action will be taken. We will respond at the earliest to all the problems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/car-swept-away-by-overflowing-nullah-in-pune-driver-escapes-101633895402580.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Power crisis in Punjab a result of administrative paralysis: Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said the power crisis in Punjab was a direct consequence of an overall administrative paralysis gripping the state due to lack of planning and preparedness by the Congress government as well as the ruling party’s obsession with power games and vendetta politics. Sukhbir, who was in Amritsar to pay obeisance at various religious shrines and hold a rally, said, “This crisis was waiting to happen. It has nothing to do with the so-called shortage of coal. The Union government has clarified that there is no shortage of coal in the country. This clearly shows that the Punjab government is the real villain as it was not keeping the required reserves of coal to deal with such a situation.” When the Akali Dal came to power in 2007, the state used to have daily power cuts of 14-16 hours, he said, adding that they promised to turn Punjab into a power surplus state and made it happen. The present power crisis, the SAD chief said, was easily foreseeable and manageable if the government had time and will to prepare for it in advance. “Coal shortages are not new and they happened during our times also. We always kept enough coal reserves and never let the state run into such a crisis. I request the chief minister to stop rushing to Delhi every second day and start taking responsibility of the state. It is condemnable that the CM and his power minister never bothered to check the stock of coal,” he said.On a query regarding Navjot Sidhu’s proposed “maun vrat” in Amritsar from Monday, Sukhbir said, “He is a dramebaaz (master of theatrics). Even at Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri, he sat on a hunger strike and observed silence for a night but broke it before breakfast.” Later, Sukhbir held a rally in the Ranjit Avenue area. The rally was organised by party leader and former minister Anil Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-crisis-in-punjab-a-result-of-administrative-paralysis-sukhbir-badal-101633895400983.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Nursing courses: BFUHS to hold another entrance on October 24||With 97% seats in undergraduate nursing courses still vacant after the first round of counselling, Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, is going to conduct another entrance test on October 24. In a notice, BFUHS said the candidates can submit online applications for BSc nursing and BSc (post-basic) nursing courses till October 18. “The candidates who failed to clear the first entrance test do not need to re-submit online application. A new roll number will be issued to them,” it read. In the first entrance test conducted in August, the eligibility for admission to the BSc nursing course was 50 marks and for the BSc (post-basic) nursing course 30 marks. However, only 240 of the 2,596 candidates could score more than 50 marks, while 154 of the 380 candidates scored 30 or more, respectively. As many as 7,825 seats are available for both courses in 103 colleges in the state. But during the first round of counselling, only 244 were allotted to eligible candidates. Therefore, BFUHS had sought permission from the department of medical education and research to conduct another entrance test, which was granted. Official sources said in an attempt to fill the nursing seats, BFUHS may put up an easier question paper in the second entrance test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nursing-courses-bfuhs-to-hold-another-entrance-on-october-24-101633895284868.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress, SAD-BJP govts ruined Punjab’s public health services: Delhi minister||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Sunday hit out at the successive Congress and SAD-BJP governments for the “deplorable condition of government health services” in Punjab.Accompanied by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president Bhagwant Mann and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, Jain was in Dhuri to attend a function organised by the family of late party leader Sandeep Singla, in his memory.He said till 1980, Punjab’s government healthcare system was the best in the country. “Over the last four decades, the Congress and the SAD-BJP combine have created a pitiable state of public health services in Punjab, with a deliberate conspiracy to promote private hospitals, the cost of which is being borne by all sections, including the poor people of Punjab,” added Jain.The Delhi health minister said the AAP will implement Delhi’s development model in Punjab if voted to power. “Punjab is a full state. We will not just provide better services in the health sector but also in all other fields,” he added.Describing the Lakhimpur Kheri incident as a blot on the democracy of the nation, Jain said it was unfortunate that the BJP and its leaders had started behaving like dictators, and instead of paying attention to the farmers’ demands, they were treating them cruelly and inhumanely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-sad-bjp-govts-ruined-punjab-s-public-health-services-delhi-minister-101633895283545.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Farmers protest 25-quintal cap on paddy procurement||Up in arms against the limit of 25 quintals yield per acre of paddy and seeking compensation for pink bollworm attack on cotton crop, thousands of farmers held a massive protest against the state government at the grain market in Barnala on Sunday.Gathered under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Sidhupur), the protesters criticised the Congress-led state government for not fulfilling its pre-poll promises of employment and farm debt waiver.BKU (Sidhupur) chief Jagjit Singh Dallewal, and actor and director Amitoj Maan, along with other farmer leaders, opposed the “anti-farmer” policies of successive governments.Dallewal said, “Punjab government has put a cap of 25 quintals yield per acre for paddy procurement. What will farmers do with the rest of the produce? The government has also not given any compensation to cotton farmers who suffered damages due to the pink bollworm attack. Though the kin of farmers, who lost their lives at the Delhi border after November 26, 2020, were given assistance, we also want aid for farmers who died in Punjab earlier.”“The Congress government had promised employment to youth and complete debt waiver to farmers. But these remain unfulfilled even when the government is going to complete its tenure. If farmers can fight the central government, we can struggle against the state government as well. Only a new face of the chief minister will not work. It is the responsibility of the CM to fulfil the party’s pre-poll promises,” he added.Actor Amitoj Maan said had the elected leaders been good, farmers would not have to hold protests. “We will choose the right representatives. If anyone wants to achieve something through the farmer agitation, we will expose them. But we will appreciate those who contribute to it,” he said from the stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabfarmers-protest-25-quintal-cap-on-paddy-procurement-101633895282444.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest call on Dussehra insensitive: BJP Punjab general secretary||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Punjab general secretary Subash Sharma on Sunday termed the demonstrations planned by some farm unions on Dussehra as “insensitive and unfortunate”. “The forces are bent upon creating upheaval on religious occasions,” he said, adding that last year as well, similar demonstrations were held on Dussehra and Diwali. “The Hindu religious sentiments have been hurt and no politics on religion will be tolerated,” he added. Agitating against the three central farm laws and the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, which led to the death of four farmers, farmer bodies have given a call to burn effigies of political leaders belonging to the BJP on Dussehra (October 15). “The Lakhmpur Kheri incident is being quoted as the reason. However, an FIR has been registered, the Uttar Pradesh government has announced compensation and arrest has also been made. So what is the rationale behind disturbing the festival?” asked Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-call-on-dussehra-insensitive-bjp-punjab-general-secretary-101633895280761.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Coal crisis: PSPCL failed to follow central norms on maintaining fuel reserve||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is itself to blame for the persisting coal crisis in power plants in the state as it failed to adhere to the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (CERC) norms on maintaining minimum fuel reserves, people familiar with the situation said. As a result, the corporation is not only buying power at a whopping ₹11.80 per unit, but it also missed an opportunity to sell electricity to the national grid in October. A power engineer dealing with coal procurement said, “The corporation management didn’t pay heed to our advice to build coal stock as per the guidelines, saying the demand will dip in the wake of the Covid-19 third wave. But the demand went up against their expectations.”As per figures, the government-run Ropar thermal plant on June 1, 2019 had coal stock for 48 days against 23 days on the corresponding day this year. Similar was the situation at the Lehra Mohabbat plant. Similarly, the private thermal plants didn’t adhere to the guidelines on maintaining coal stocks. According to the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission guidelines, the power plants in Punjab have to ensure a minimum stock of 30 days, as all of them are located more than 1,500 km from coal mines. The private sector plants had no stock as they as keep limited reserves to cut their expenditure on an increasing inventory. The PSPCL in the past has maintained sufficient stock and earned profits by selling power to the grid. In a year before the Covid-19 outbreak, the state sold power worth ₹1,183 crore to the grid mostly in September and October when electricity prices remain high. The management was already aware that a 660 megawatt (MW) unit of the Talwandi Sabo plant was operational and it had to meet coal demand of their own plants, but they didn’t maintain stock for at least 40 days, said another power engineer. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad admitted that the corporation is facing an acute coal shortage in all plants across the State. “All the private plants in the state have coal stock for one-and-a-half days while the state-owned plants have about 4 days of reserves. Yesterday, 11 coal rakes were received against the requirement of 22 rakes. Due to depleted coal stock, these plants are operating at less than 50% of their generation capacity. The demand of agriculture sector is still persisting due to delayed transplantation of paddy,” he said. The situation, he claimed, will improve after October 15 as more stock will arrive. “About 1800 MW power was purchased from the grid at ₹11.60 per unit today. Despite that, we are going for load shedding across the state on all categories of consumers to bridge the gap between demand and supply. Power cuts lasting 2-3 hours will be imposed daily till Wednesday,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coal-crisis-pspcl-failed-to-follow-central-norms-on-maintaining-fuel-reserve-101633895221967.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||BSF roping in panchayats in Punjab to tackle drone threat from Pak||The BSF has started roping in panchayats of border villages in Punjab to tackle increasing incidents of drones being used for dropping arms, ammunition and drugs from across the fence, said officials.Company commandants of the Border Security Force (BSF), India’s first line of defence, have been directed to share their contact numbers with sarpanches of villages falling within the 5km radius of the International Border with Pakistan. The panchayats are being requested to inform the concerned BSF officials immediately whenever they spot any unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs).Officials said in absence of anti-drone technology along the border, they need public support to check UAVs entering the Indian territory. The move assumes significance as more than a dozen incidents of smuggling of tiffin bombs, hand grenades, pistols, and heroin through drones from Pakistan have been reported in the state in the past two months.“As drones continue to pose a security threat, we have started holding meetings with panchayats of villages which fall within the area of 5km from the International Border. Phone numbers of our company commandants are being shared with the public representatives to pass on immediate information regarding the flying objects,” said BSF’s Gurdaspur sector deputy inspector general (DIG) Prabhakar Joshi.On October 6, three drones, purportedly from Pakistan, were forced to retreat after the BSF troopers opened fire to prevent their entry into the Indian territory in Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts. “Various anti-drone gadgets are under consideration. We hope of getting these soon. Until then, we need the support of villagers,” said a senior BSF official, who didn’t wish to be named.“Drones being used for smuggling of arms and drugs fly at a height of 300 to 400 metres and are not spotted on radars. These flying objects can carry five to seven kilograms of drugs and ammunition and are usually used at night,” said the official. Last month, Tarn Taran police arrested three members of the Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) in Bhikhwind sub-division after the recovery of two tiffin bombs, two hand grenades and three pistols. The accused had confessed to the police that the weapons were smuggled through drones from Pakistan and they had retrieved them from a border village to unleash terror activities in Punjab.In August, a tiffin bomb packed with over 2kg of RDX and five hand grenades were found from Daleke village in Amritsar. The police said the ammunition was dropped by a drone from the neighbouring country.Meanwhile, Punjab Police have intensified security near the border keeping in view of the festival season ahead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-roping-in-panchayats-in-punjab-to-tackle-drone-threat-from-pak-101633895220832.html
11-10-2021||Pune||I-T searches continue at premises linked to Ajit Pawar’s kin||PUNE: The income tax (I-T) department’s search of premises linked to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and his kin which started last Thursday, continued well into its fourth day on Sunday with officials seen at Jarandeshwar sugar mill in Satara, Ambalika sugar mill at Karjat in Ahmednagar, and Dynamix dairy in Baramati. Sources at the sugar mills said that the income tax officials were scrutinising documents even as the department concluded its search operation at places owned by Ajit Pawar’s three sisters.On Friday, Ajit Pawar termed the income tax department searches as “guests” and said that he will comment further once the operation is over and the “guests” return from various places. “The ‘guests’ are still at various homes. I will say more once they return,” Ajit Pawar said on Friday in Pune when the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) led a show of strength against the income tax department’s raids outside central hall. Income tax officials raided Ajit Pawar’s two sisters’ houses and his son Parth’s office on Thursday. Sugar factories linked to him were also raided the same day.Ajit Pawar’s cousin and NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s daughter, Supriya Sule, termed the action against her cousin sisters as an attack on women. She taunted the Bharatiya Janata Party saying that those who rule in the name of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj do not follow his principle of respecting women and act like the Mughals instead. Sharad Pawar has already reacted strongly to the income tax searches of premises linked to Ajit Pawar and kin saying that the action reeks of abuse of power and might be the BJP’s reaction to his strong position on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident which he likened to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre.Ajit Pawar’s name surfaced in a money laundering case involving the Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank in July after which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached assets worth Rs65.75 crore belonging to the Jarandeshwar sugar mill in Satara district in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/it-searches-continue-at-premises-linked-to-ajit-pawar-s-kin-101633895160611.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Will take up with Union home minister ‘unjust’ move to relocate Shillong Sikhs: Randhawa||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Sunday opposed the decision of the Meghalaya government to relocate Sikhs living in the Punjab Lane area of Shillong. The deputy CM said he will take up the matter with Union home minister Amit Shah and Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma. Based on the recent recommendations of a high-level committee headed by Meghalaya deputy chief minister Preston Tynsong, the Meghalaya cabinet approved a proposal to relocate Sikhs living in Thame Liu Malong area (Punjabi Lane). Randhawa said the decision was unjust and was taken allegedly under the pressure of the land mafia. “The civil rights of Sikhs who have been living in Shillong for more than 200 years would not be allowed to be trampled upon at any cost,” he said, urging the Meghalaya government to revoke the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-take-up-with-union-home-minister-unjust-move-to-relocate-shillong-sikhs-randhawa-101633895040687.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man held for killing 8-year-old nephew in Punjab’s SBS Nagar||A 21-year-old man was arrested for allegedly killing his 8-year-old nephew at Daulatpur village in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (SBS Nagar) district on Sunday, police said. Sahil, who used to live with his maternal grandmother in the village, was a student of Class 4 in a government school. The accused, Karandeep, who works as construction worker, is a distant maternal uncle of the victim. Sahil was living in the village after his mother divorced his father and married again five years ago, police said. SBS Nagar sadar station house officer Satish Kumar said that the accused confessed that he along with his friend Gagan Singh got infuriated when Sahil took a bite from their snacks. Karandeep attacked the child with a sharp-edged weapon and following his death, the body was thrown in a tubewell at the village, the SHO said. Police said Sahil’s maternal grandmother, who was a Mnrega worker, informed the villagers when she didn’t find him in the house. The villagers searched the entire night and informed the police on Sunday morning. Police said Karandeep was rounded up on the basis of suspicion and he confessed to the crime. The body was recovered from the tubewell. The SHO said they are probing the role of Gagan in the case. The exact reason for the murder is yet to be ascertained, he said. A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC at the Sadar police station in SBS Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-held-for-killing-8-year-old-nephew-in-punjab-s-sbs-nagar-101633894861353.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 27 fresh Covid cases, two more deaths||Two more Covid-related fatalities were reported from Punjab on Sunday while 27 fresh cases took the infection tally to 6,01,876, according to a medical bulletin.The deaths were reported from Amritsar and Gurdaspur, taking the toll to 16,531.Among the new cases, Pathankot reported nine, followed by three each in Rupnagar and Mohali.The number of active cases in the state stands at 234.Twenty-two people recovered from the infection as the number of those who have been cured rose to 5,85,111, as per the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-27-fresh-covid-cases-two-more-deaths-101633894680753.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow’s power infrastructure set for revamp||Managing director of Madhyanchal Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited (MVVNL), Suryapal Gangwar said on Sunday that power infrastructure in Lucknow would be revamped and upgraded. “Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh (UP) is gearing up to meet the rising demands of a fast-expanding city. The state capital set to witness huge changes due to the upcoming Defence Corridor project and expansion of city once the outer ring road project is completed,” Gangwar said. “The power consumption in the state capital is increasing at the rate of 12% per annum and going by this rate the power demand will be more than tripled and hence we would need infrastructure that is good enough to tackle the fresh demand for next 25 years,” chief engineer, Cis Gomti, Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (LESA) Madhukar Varma said. The officials said Lucknow would require around 60 more substations to meet the growing load on transformers. The capacity of existing substations will have to be enhanced too. “Land is being searched for new substations. In the first phase 15 new power substations have been planned in Gehru, Latouche road, JaitiKhera, Vibhutikhand, Visheshkhand, HAL, Dewa road, Indira Nagar sector 25, Hussadia, Deendayal Puram , Faizullaganj, Sarvodaya Nagar, Gwari, New GSI colony, Viram Khand, Kamta,” officials said. “With Defence Corridor coming to Lucknow, the power supply infrastructure has to be prepared. Not only that, when the Green Corridor and outer ring road become operational in next few years, new housing colonies will come up and the power demand would increase. LESA is preparing itself for this challenge,” officials said. “To get rid of open wires, aerial bunch conductors are to be put up at many places and introduction of prepaid meters for power consumers will end the problem of power theft,” officials said. “Once the entire power infrastructure is revamped and upgraded, people would benefit as there would be no problem of low voltage and power cuts too would become a thing of the past,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknows-power-infrastructure-set-for-revamp-101633894200594.html
11-10-2021||Other||AU research on capsaicin and its ‘Nobel’ connection||The Nobel Committee has awarded the 2021 Physiology and Medicine Nobel Prize to US scientists Ardem Patapoutian and David Julius for their discoveries of receptors for temperature and touch. They had used capsaicin to decipher their study on pain receptors. The pungent ingredient in chilli peppers, which gives ‘hot taste’ to chillis is capsaicin. This formed the basis of this award-winning research and one which has an indirect connection with Allahabad University (AU) too. A research group under Prof SI Rizvi in the Biochemistry department here has been engaged in understanding the non-neuronal effects of capsaicin for the last 15 years. This research group has published a large number of research papers on the physiological and biochemical effects of capsaicin. “Capsaicin is a very interesting molecule. It binds to the same nerve endings on the skin which carry sensation of pain and also sensation of temperature. When capsaicin binds to these nerve endings, termed as nociceptors, the nerve is activated, and we experience a sense of ‘hot’ feeling. However, when capsaicin binds to nociceptors or pain receptors for a longer time the nerve becomes insensitive or numb,” prof Rizvi explained. This property of capsaicin to make the nerves, which carry sensation of pain, numb has opened up possibilities to use this pungent compound to mitigate pain. It is also a common observation that food tastes hotter when it is at a higher temperature. This is because capsaicin’s effect is augmented by hot temperature, explained prof Rizvi. Prof Rizvi’s group at the AU has been engaged in research on the effects of capsaicin on the cell membrane. “We have explored a new dimension focused on the question as to why people in hot climatic regions eat more chillies,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/au-research-on-capsaicin-and-its-nobel-connection-101633893781240.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Smart City Mission: BJP seeks probe into disbursement of funds by Ludhiana MC||With the authorities making tall claims regarding the development of the Malhar road and the Sarabha Nagar main market under the Smart City Mission, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has sought an inquiry into alleged ill-planned development and corrupt practices adopted by the Municipal Corporation (MC). Bikram Sidhu, BJP state executive member, has demanded that a proper inquiry needs to be conducted regarding the disbursement of funds and the work done at the ground level. Further, he also urged the civic body to resolve the problems being faced by commuters on the Malhar road due to traffic congestion. He said the authorities claimed to have spent over 38 crores on the project to transform the Malhar road into a smart road and retrofitting the Sarabha Nagar main market, but nothing concrete had been done at the ground level rather than installing interlocking tiles at large. Earlier, the authorities said the market would have multi-storey parking, but that component has also been dropped. Sidhu said despite spending ₹24 crore on the Malhar road, the width of one of the busiest roads of the city had been reduced from 120 ft to around 50 ft due to which traffic snarls were witnessed in the area. Further, the unplanned tabletops (speed breakers) established at certain points are resulting in accidents. Other BJP leaders, including Sidhu, had also submitted a memorandum regarding the alleged discrepancies with secretary, ministry of housing and urban affairs, Durga Shanker Mishra during his visit to the city in September. Pardeep Sabharwal, MC commissioner, said proper monitoring of development projects was being done to keep a check on the quality of work being taken up. The project to transform the Malhar road into a smart road was still underway and would be completed soon. Secretary, MoHUA, Mishra had also appreciated the projects being taken up by MC under the Smart City Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/smart-city-mission-bjp-seeks-probe-into-disbursement-of-funds-by-ludhiana-mc-101633893660903.html
11-10-2021||Bangalore||Heavy rains continue to lash Bengaluru, other parts of Karnataka||Heavy rains continue to lash Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka, throwing life out of gear in many regions in the south Indian state.On Sunday, Bengaluru witnessed heavy rains in the afternoon, evening and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast indicates that there will be more over the night. The forecast also states that the city and several other parts of the state are likely to witness heavy rains over the next few days.The IMD in its daily bulletin on Sunday said that several parts of the state will continue to receive heavy rains for at least the next 24 hours.Heavy rainfall is expected over Belagavi, Bagalkote, Vijayapura, Gadag, Koppal, Chikmagalur, Shivamogga, Kodagu, Bengaluru Rural, Chikballapur, Ramanagara and other parts of the state, according to IMD.“Thunderstorms with lightning (are) likely to occur at isolated places over the state,” the IMD said in its forecast for the next 24 hours. The IMD-Bengaluru also said that several districts of the state will receive heavy rainfall (64.5 to 115.5 mm) over the next few days that could further add to the challenges of the state and its population who are yet to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdowns.“Due to the cyclonic circulation over east-central Arabian Sea and a trough off the Karnataka coast, which is resulting in wind instabilities and also due to east-west wind share, many places over South Peninsular, South Interior Karnataka districts, including Bengaluru, is very likely to receive scattered to widespread rains associated with thunder activity towards evening/night during the next 2-3 days,” according to a forecast by the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA).According to Manoj Rajan, commissioner of the Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, Bengaluru urban district recorded rainfall of 468mm as against the normal of 471mm between September 1-30.Nagarbhavi station in the south-western part of Bengaluru received 117mm of rain on October 4 which is the highest so far in the year.Bengaluru has also reported water logging in several parts of the city. The rapid and unplanned expansion of Benglauru has led to encroachment of lakes and storm water drains (SWD) that lead to flooding in these parts, experts have said. Residents have also complained that the constant digging of roads makes it difficult even commute in the city where several persons have lost their lives due to what they call “civic apathy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/heavy-rains-continue-to-lash-bengaluru-other-parts-of-karnataka-101633893541832.html
11-10-2021||Bangalore||Mysore sugar factory must remain with state: Siddaramaiah||Congress Legislative Party leader and former chief minister Siddaramaiah on Sunday participated in a protest held at the Farmers’ Protection Committee in Mandya, demanding that Karnataka retain ownership of the historical Mysore Sugar Company Limited Factory.“The Mysore sugar factory is the only government-owned sugar mill in the state which has a total of 65 sugar factories. Therefore, I demand that the factory be kept in the state’s possession without being privatized,” said Siddaramaiah participating in the Dharani Satyagraha.Founded by Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wodeyar in the pre-independence era, the Mysugar Sugar Factory which been in profit for many years and has subsequently suffered losses. Siddaramaiah said that the government and not the farmers is responsible for the loss and the onus lies on the government to revive it.“So many state-owned factories and companies are now at a loss. The government must find out what causes the loss and revive them,” the former chief minister said.JD(S) MLA Annadani had in the state Parliament session asked the government about the Mysugar sugar factory. “I then intervened and urged the Speaker to allow at least half an hour of discussion as this was an important issue. At my insistence, the Chairperson allowed the debate in the session. I also brought to the notice of the government several factors and urged the factory to be retained by the government,” Sidaramaiah said.“At first, the government-appointed managing director had no interest in the factory. How about the factory getting back on track? When I was the chief minister, the factory had 145 crore funds to save factory.“The factory-owned property is located in many places, including Bangalore and Mysore. On the opposite side of Ravindra Kalakshetra, there is land belonging to the factory. The land can be developed and the proceeds from it can be used for the factory,” the JD(U) leader said.Slamming chief minister Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah asked that if private sugar factories in Mysore and Mandya could make profits why could not a government factory make a profit?“Doesn’t this have to be a commitment to the government? Yediyurappa is from Mandya district, I thought he would develop this factory. But in his time he began work on privatization,” Siddaramaiah said.“The Mandya people have an emotional connection with the Mysugar sugar factory. The farmer welfare forum is rallying and protesting in Mysore, and I have demanded that the government not privatize the factory for any reason,” he said.To our protest and demand, the government abandoned its decision to privatize the factory. Now the farmers are protesting to revive the factory and reopen it.“I am talking to Chief Minister Basavaraja Bommayi to provide the necessary grants for the revival of the factory. If they do not do this, we will start the factory again within a month of taking office once we come to power.I have my full support for the Farmers Welfare Forum. I hope that all of you struggle, starting the factory as soon as possible” said Siddaramaiah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/mysore-sugar-factory-must-remain-with-state-siddaramaiah-101633893540637.html
11-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka far from its daily vaccination target: Data||The Karnataka government has reiterated its goal to inoculate at least 70% of its over 70 million population with two doses of Covid-19 vaccine and around 90% with the first by the year end.However, data shows that Karnataka has seen sharp fluctuations in its vaccination drives, designed in a way that there are high on selective occasions and then a sharp dip almost as if doses are hoarded to make these events a success.Mansukh Mandaviya, the union minister for health, family welfare, chemicals and fertilizers on Sunday said that Karnataka was the highest among all other states in the country in its vaccination targets on September 17, the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“In the special drive undertaken on September 17, around 2.5 crore doses were administered. Karnataka had given the highest doses of vaccines and created a record,,” according to a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO), attributing the comment to Mandaviya.But data shows that since September 17, Karnataka’s vaccine coverage has seen a sharp dip barring just three days when it administered around one million doses.Karnataka has also seen a sharp fluctuation in its vaccine drives since September 17 when it administered a record 3.17 million doses in a single day as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday.Since then, the state has administered around one million doses just three times and sometimes as low as below 30,000.Data from Cowin portal shows that the state administered 3,177,382 doses on September 17. However, just a day later, it went down to 247,464 and down to 70,298 the following day, data shows.On October 3, the state administered just 29,390 doses, data from Cowin shows.Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has maintained that the government would aim to inoculate five lakh doses per day since the beginning of September and that there was enough stock to do the same.“When we asked him (union health minister) for 1 crore doses, he said take 1.5 crore doses and administer five lakh per day. He gave us more supplies and even fixed a higher target for us,” Bommai said at an event on Sunday.But data shows that Karnataka has administered higher than five lakh doses only on four days in the last one month (since September 10).On September 17, the state administered 3,177,382 doses, 10,68,839 on September 221,098,478 on September 29 and 976,040 on October 8, according to data from Cowin portal.But the challenges are many in the state which is expecting the impact of the impending third wave of Covid-19 infections by the year end.The government has also made several concessions to celebrate festivals, opening of schools and other activities to bring back some normalcy in the state even as fears of a third wave looms large.Most of the high vaccination coverages are in large urban centres while people are sent back home without their shots, especially in rural areas where distance and transport have added to existing problems like growing hesitancy in districts like Yadgir, Raichur and Chamarajanagar among other places.To overcome hesitancy, the district administration of Chamarajanagar had also tried to implement a ‘no-vaccine, no-pension/ration’ order that came under heavy criticism and eventually pulled back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-far-from-its-daily-vaccination-targetdata-101633893481806.html
11-10-2021||Bangalore||Will look at finances before deciding on fuel duty cuts: Karnataka CM Bommai||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Sunday said that the state government will soon take a decision on reducing the duty on petrol and diesel as prices of fossil fuels continue to rise across the country.“We will take a look at our financial position, revenues and then make a decision. Let us see,” Bommai said in Bengaluru on Sunday.The statements come at a time when prices of diesel are inching towards breaching the ₹100 mark and join petrol which is already above ₹105 in most parts of the state and country.There has been pressure by the political opposition in Karnataka and other places across the country, demanding that the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre reduce the taxes on petrol and diesel to provide some relief to citizens who have been unable to cope with the price rise of essential commodities.There have been similar demands in other states of the country as well.Karnataka is also facing a shortage in coal which Bommai said that the union government is looking into and assured supply.Bommai said that there is a coal shortage globally and in India too.“We have met the mines and geology minister, Pralhad Joshi and placed our demands before him. We are getting 10 racks everyday and we asked if this can be raised to 14 to make things better,” Bommai said.The chief minister said that the state is also asking to fast-track its demand on supplies coming from Western Coal Fields in Maharashtra and Mahanadi Coalfields in Odisha.“They (union) have assured us that there will be no shortage of coal for Karnataka,” Bommai said.They have assured that there will be no shortage of coal for Karnataka.“Distinction between daily coal supplies & coal stock: Daily coal supplies from @CoalIndiaHQ & others are meeting coal requirement for generation of electricity. Coal supplies are recording an all-time high, thus stocks at power plants are set to increase in the coming days,” Joshi said in a post on Twitter.“We take pride that domestic coal supply has risen to substitute imported coal in the country. Furthering the vision of an #AatmanirbharBharat, domestic coal-based power generation has increased by 24% in the 1st half of this fiscal & imported coal supply has reduced by 30%,” he said in another post.“Thermal power plants have rolling stock being replenished with daily supply. Moreover, with the withdrawal of monsoons, coal despatches are set to rise in the coming days thereby increasing coal stocks. Reiterating, there is sufficient coal stock, do not fall for fear mongering,” Joshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-look-at-finances-before-deciding-on-fuel-duty-cuts-karnataka-cm-bommai-101633893480693.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two killed, four injured as speeding SUV hits residents in Karnal’s Nilokheri||Two people including a woman, were crushed to death and four others sustained serious injuries after a speeding SUV allegedly hit a group of people at the Hafed Colony in Nilokheri town of Karnal.Police said the deceased have been identified as Raj Rani (42) and Subhash Chand (55), of Hafed Colony in Nilokheri and the injured Sheela Devi, Rajneesh, Ranjeet, and Bebi have been hospitalised.Police have booked two people, including the driver of the SUV, for murder, as the family members of the victims alleged that the incident took place in reaction of an argument between victims and the accused, who live in the same locality.According to police, family of the deceased alleged that the incident took place on Sunday as guests had gathered at their house to attend a marriage. The accused was allegedly angry as he was asked to drive responsibly as he used to rash drive in the neighbourhood.Raju, nephew of deceased Subhash, said they had raised the issue with his father on several occasions but they did not take it seriously.Aman came into the colony in his Ford Endeavour and allegedly had an argument with the victims. Later, he allegedly hit six people and fled the spot.They were rushed to hospital, where Raj Rani and Subhash succumbed to their injuries during treatment, they alleged. Later, police reached the spot and started investigation.Butana police station in-charge Kanwar Singh said a case has been registered against Aman and his father Balvinder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The bodies have been sent to Kalpana Chawla Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. He said the accused are yet to be arrested and investigation is on.Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said police teams have been formed to arrest the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-killed-four-injured-as-speeding-suv-hits-residents-in-karnal-s-nilokheri-101633893300590.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Nothing smart about Sarabha Nagar of Ludhiana||At a time when the authorities are making tall claims regarding development projects being taken up under the Smart City Mission in Sarabha Nagar and its surrounding areas, residents in one of the posh areas of the city being developed under the mission are a harried lot due to “unplanned” development projects.With roads dug up for over eight months, erratic water supply in the area for the last two weeks and no proper cleanliness, the residents of Block-B of Sarabha Nagar rued that the mission had caused a plethora of problems rather than facilitating them.The residents said their area was selected under the area-based development (ABD)— one of the components of the Smart City Mission. The authorities made tall claims of development and assured a 24/7 water supply. The roads were dug up for laying supply lines, but the residents are now bearing the brunt of the apathy of the civic body officials and public representatives.Manmohan Singh, a local, said rather than providing a 24/7 water supply, the authorities had even failed to provide supply during regular hours. “Residents have been raising a hue and cry over the disruptions in the supply for months and the problem has turned severe in the last two weeks. We even struggle to get water for drinking and other purposes,” he said.The residents said the authorities had failed to resolve their problems despite repeated complaints to MC officials and councillor Amrit Varsha Rampal.Naini, another resident, said due to the pathetic condition of roads, they do not allow their children to play outside. Further, waterlogging had added to their woes during the rainy season. Due to the lack of cleanliness, there are also chances of mosquito breeding in the area.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson and a resident of the area, Ahbab Grewal said some of the residents were forced to get the areas outside their houses cemented on their own as the authorities failed to reconstruct roads. Though the work at parks in the area is incomplete, the authorities have completed the projects in their records. Similar problems are also being witnessed in other blocks of Sarabha Nagar.It was learnt that there is some problem with the tubewell or pump installed by the MC and the situation is getting worse. The authorities should at least streamline the water supply in the area. Due to the shortage of parking space in the Sarabha Nagar market and Malhar road, residents park their vehicles in residential areas resulting in congestion and nuisance, said Grewal.Councillor Amrit Varsha Rampal could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Pardeep Sabharwal, commissioner, MC, said water supply/sewer lines had to be installed in the ABD area and that had to be done in phases so that residents should not face any trouble. “All roads/streets can’t be dug up simultaneously. The work to install the lines will be completed in the coming time and roads will be repaired. I will direct the staff to temporarily repair the roads wherever required and the problem in the water supply line will also be checked,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nothing-smart-about-sarabha-nagar-of-ludhiana-101633893181517.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Minister should be sacked for fair probe into Lakhimpur Kheri incident: Tikait||Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra Teni, father of Ashish Mishra, alleged to be the prime accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident that left four farmers among eight people dead, should be sacked by the central government immediately, said BKU spokesman Rakesh Tikait.“The probe will get influenced till he remains on the post. He is also accused of criminal conspiracy in the case,” Tikait told the media in Yamunanagar on Sunday.The farm leader was here to pay homage to father of Yamunanagar BKU (Tikait) president Subhash Gujjar, who had died recently.Tikait said, “Ashish was arrested after five days and has been sent to judicial custody after questioning; it is still not clear on what grounds. But I believe no witness will be able to speak against them because of Teni’s terror in the area. He has earlier been involved in many criminal activities.”He added that a series of protests have already been announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) demanding action against the accused of the massacre, starting with a Bhog ceremony of the slain farmers on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minister-should-be-sacked-for-fair-probe-into-lakhimpur-kheri-incident-tikait-101633893060217.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Focused sampling drive to check Covid spread in Lucknow from Monday||A focused sampling drive to check Covid-19 spread will begin in the state capital from Monday. On the first day, it will primarily cover street vendors, drivers, shopkeepers and people near religious places, as per the plan of the district administration. Chief medical officer of Lucknow Dr Manoj Agrawal said every day the focus would be upon one segment such as on the first day, street vendors and drivers while the next day religious places. “Focused sampling is a proven method to bring out people who may not be aware that they are actually infected. Such cases can be super spreaders, but if tracked and treated can help in controlling spread of the Covid infection,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors. Every day, the health department targets to take samples of about 10,000 people under the focused sampling drive. On Monday, drivers of e-rickshaws, tempos, three-wheelers will be the target group for sampling. On Tuesday, employees working in shops around religious places while on Wednesday, sampling will be carried out for the staff at restaurants, hotels, two and four-wheeler shops and people in weekly market in Mahanagar. On Thursday, the sampling will be done in weekly market at Aminabad and on October 15, Dussehra Mela area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/focused-sampling-drive-to-check-covid-spread-in-lucknow-from-monday-101633892949539.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Guaranteed MSP can help to end the impasse: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Sunday launched his ‘Vipaksh Aapke Smaksh’ campaign from Karnal and had an interaction with people over problems being faced by them.Accompanied by several sitting and former MLAs of Congress, Hooda said the programme was launched to provide a platform to people in the state so that they can raise their issues and being a principal Opposition party of the state, the Congress could raise their issues in the state assembly.He said the “enormous” response to this programme in the chief minister’s constituency has reflected that there is resentment among people as the BJP-JJP coalition government has failed to deliver on its promises.“People told me how they are suffering due to the wrong policies of this government. Even people in the chief minister’s constituency are not happy with this government,” Hooda said, adding that the next programme will be carried out in deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s constituency after the Ellenabad byelection.“This government has failed to conduct any recruitment exam fairly and farmers are on the roads for the past 10 months. We had given two years to this government to fulfil the promises they made during polls but could not deliver,” he added.When asked about solution to end the impasse between the agitating farmers and the central government, Hooda said a guarantee to purchase all produce on the minimum support price (MSP) to farmers could be a first step to end this stalemate.Slamming the government for several conditions imposed on procurement, Hooda said over 8 lakh MT paddy has been procured but the government did not make payments to farmers yet and most paddy is yet to be procured and lifted.“I cannot speak like our chief minister and ask people to pick up sticks. I request people of Haryana to hit the BJP with their votes,” he added.Hooda said following state-wide protests, the BJP and JJP did not have a candidate for the Ellenabad byelection as they had to borrow a candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guaranteed-msp-can-help-to-end-the-impasse-hooda-101633892821313.html
11-10-2021||Other||Load-shedding if shortage of power from central pool continues: Kerala minister||Kerala electricity minister K Krishnankutty said on Sunday that the state government may have to resort to load-shedding in case shortage of power from the Central pool continues for a long time due to non-availability of coal for the thermal power plants.For the past few days, the state has been experiencing a shortage of 15% of power from the Central pool due to the closure of four thermal stations because of coal shortage. However, there has been no load-shedding till now.“Kerala is already affected. Yesterday (Saturday) we received only 30% of our daily quota from Koondankulam. The issues related to coal from Australia and various environmental issues. We need to find a permanent solution. If the situation continues like this for a long period, then we will have to impose power cuts in the state,” the minister told reporters.He said the state was waiting for the response from the Union ministry and a decision on power cuts would be taken only after further discussions with stakeholders. An energy crisis is looming large over some states, including Delhi and Punjab, due to a combination of factors such as excess rainfall hitting coal movement and imported coal-based power plants generating less than half of their capacity due to record high rates.A senior official of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) said that there would be repercussions in the state but that does not mean that it would resort to load- shedding right away.“Currently, it’s manageable. Due to rains these days, the power consumption during the peak hour has come down. At present, we are experiencing a shortage of around 15%. If it goes beyond 20%, then we will have to think about load-shedding.” The official said that during peak hours, the consumption in the state ranges from 2800-3800 MW. “We are experiencing a shortage of 120 MW to 900 MW on certain days. Today, the estimated shortage is around 200 MW,” the official said.Earlier in the day, Krishnankutty said he was in favour of hydel power projects and that Kerala has a huge potential. He said 3,000 TMC of water is available, of which 1,700 TMC can be used for electricity generation.“But we are not using the same. We need to provide cheap electricity for industries in order to attract investment. Currently, from Idukki, we are generating electricity at a cost of 0.51 paise per unit. However, yesterday during the peak hour we had to purchase for ₹18 per unit,” the minister said.The KSEB has asked the customers to self-regulate the usage of electricity during the peak hours. The average daily power consumption in the state has been hovering around 72 million units (mu) out of which net power imports account for approximately 45 mu. In a year when the country produced record coal, rains hit movement of the fuel from mines to power generation units, impacting power generation in many states such as Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Tamil Nadu.While power producers and distributors have warned of blackouts as generation units are running coal as low as two days, the Coal Ministry said the country has adequate coal stocks and low inventory doesn’t mean generation would stop as stock is being continuously replenished.Power plants that usually rely on imports are now heavily dependent on Indian coal, thus adding further pressure to already stretched domestic supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/loadshedding-if-shortage-of-power-from-central-pool-continues-kerala-minister-101633892700288.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers struggling to get DAP in Bhiwani, other parts of Haryana||Acute shortage of diammonium phosphate (DAP) fertiliser in Bhiwani, Hisar, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendergarh, Jhajjar and other parts of Haryana may affect mustard cultivation, which is likely to start in the next three to four days.Farmers said they have tilled their land and are waiting for DAP so that they can start mustard cultivation.All India Kisan Sabha secretary Balbir Singh Thakan said there is insufficient stock of DAP at cooperative societies and dealers.“Farmers are running from pillar to post to get fertiliser. DAP is the much-preferred fertiliser for mustard and wheat as it contains nitrogen and phosphorus which are the primary nutrients for crops. Farmers are all set to grow mustard from next two to three days but they have apprehensions over the shortage of DAP. The government should ensure that at least mustard growers can get fertiliser,” he added.Satywan Singh, a farmer from Loharu constituency, represented by Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal, said he has prepared 20 acre land to grow mustard, which is a profit-oriented crop.“I got just five sacks and need 15 more bags of DAP. Dealers told me that other farmers have already paid in advance for the fertiliser. After a good spell of rainfall this month, most farmers want to go for early sowing,” he added.Bharatiya Kisan Union youth state president Ravi Azad said the government should ensure proper supply of DAP for mustard crop, otherwise they will be forced to launch a stir against the government.“Farmers in the agriculture minister’s constituency are struggling to get DAP. At a time when farmers should have been equipped with adequate stocks of fertilisers, many parts of the state are reporting a severe shortage,” he added.Two fertiliser retailers, pleading anonymity, said they did not get the DAP for the last two days.“We have been getting phone calls from farmers. We are likely to get 800 bags on Monday but that is not enough to fulfil farmers’ requirements,” they added.Bhiwani deputy director (agriculture) Aatma Ram Godara said they have 4,500 MT stock of DAP and have asked the dealer to give only five bags to each farmer in a day for mustard cultivation.“If wheat growers start procuring DAP, then there will be a shortage of fertiliser. Mustard sowing is round the corner so, we have decided to give DAP to mustard farmers only. I have appraised agriculture minister JP Dalal of the situation and he assured that there will be no shortage of DAP. We are cooperating with big land-holding farmers as well,” the DDA added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-struggling-to-get-dap-in-bhiwani-other-parts-of-haryana-101633892583695.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Woman, aide steal four gold chains from jewellery shop in Ludhiana||Posing as customers, a woman and her male aide allegedly stole four gold chains from a jewellery shop in the city’s famous Sarafa Bazar on Saturday. The incident has been captured on closed-circuit television cameras (CCTVs) installed inside the shop. The Division Number 4 police lodged an FIR against unidentified persons and initiated investigation.Police have also procured the CCTV footage for identification of the accused.Ritesh, the shop owner, said that on Saturday evening, the woman, who appeared to be pregnant, entered the shop with her son and a male aide, and asked him to show some gold chains. She was addressing her male aide as “brother”, Ritesh added.“While I was busy showing them jewellery, the woman stole four gold chains from the box and slipped it into her bag. We realised that the chains were missing only after they left,” said the shop owner.Division Number 4 station house officer, sub-inspector Jashpal Singh said a case of theft has been lodged against the unidentified accused.He added that the accused had visited two other shops before visiting the shop of the victim, but failed to steal anything from those shops.According to the shopkeeper, he has incurred a loss of ₹4 lakh in the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-aide-steal-four-gold-chains-from-jewellery-shop-in-ludhiana-101633892582119.html
11-10-2021||Other||LDF govt implements schemes to tackle mental illness: Kerala CM||Mental illness, apart from being a medical condition, is a social problem that is caused due to lack of food, shelter and education and therefore to tackle it the LDF government has implemented a number of schemes for welfare of the common man, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Sunday.In a Facebook post on the occasion of World Mental Health Day, the CM said that studies have shown that poor human health as well as lack of proper food, shelter, and education can have a detrimental effect on a person’s mental health. “Therefore, mental illness should be considered as a social problem as well. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has always worked to understand the problem.“In addition to implementing comprehensive mental health schemes, the LDF government has successfully implemented a number of schemes to ensure the welfare of the common man, including social welfare pensions, food kits, life scheme, distribution of leases, renovation of public schools and expansion of government hospitals,” he said.State health minister Veena George said that mental health literacy was essential as everyone pays attention to physical ailments and seek timely treatment for it, but most people are not able to diagnose mental health problems or seek scientific treatment. Most people do not have an accurate understanding of mental health, she said at a seminar organised by the department of psychiatry of Thiruvananthapuram Medical College, Kerala Chapter of Indian Psychiatric Society and Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad on the occasion of the World Mental Health Day.“About 12.8 per cent of the total population in Kerala has mental health problems that require scientific treatment. But only 15 percent of these people seek scientific treatment,” she said in a release.This is not because of a lack of treatment centres or medical facilities, but it is due to the fact that people are not availing the same she said and added that it was imperative that activities to spread awareness about mental health be intensified.Giving details of the state government’s plans to deal with the issue, the minister said that the health department was going to intensify mental health activities from the primary health level onwards.At the same time, the activities of mental health centers and mental health departments in medical colleges will be strengthened and research on the issue would be given priority, she said in the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ldf-govt-implements-schemes-to-tackle-mental-illness-kerala-cm-101633892580421.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Two held with 80 gm heroin||Two locals were held with 80 grams of heroin, said to be worth ₹8 lakh, from NH-44 in Ambala, the police said on Sunday.In a statement, officials of the Ambala police said that the suspects, identified as Bhupinder Singh, alias Pinda, and Parwinder Singh, alias Happy, of Nariyali village were arrested with the contraband by a team of Special Task Force and the anti-narcotics cell.“Two packets of 40 grams each were found from the pockets of the bike-borne accused during checking at Shastri Cut. A case was registered at Parao police station. The duo will be presented before a court on Monday,” a police statement reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-two-held-with-80-gm-heroin-101633892400343.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh blaze: Four shanties gutted in Maloya||Four shanties in Gursagar Colony in Maloya were gutted in a fire that broke out on Sunday morning.Three gas cylinders also exploded in the fire, however, no injuries or loss of life were reported. Most of the items kept in the four jhuggis were completely burned down.As per the officials, the incident happened when the residents were cooking food. While the food was unattended, one of the gas cylinders caught fire and exploded. This led to the fire spreading to nearby shanties.It took the officials of the fire department around an hour to control it. Five fire tenders had reached the spot as per the onlookers, however, the roads were too narrow and there was some difficulty in getting the tenders to the spot.Officials of the Maloya police station, which is also close to the spot, reached there to investigate the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-shanties-gutted-in-fire-at-maloya-101633892160530.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Suicide in Mohali: Gym trainer shoots himself in front of wife||A 35-year-old gym trainer committed suicide by shooting himself at his house at Lakhnaur village in Mohali on Saturday night. The man, who was working at a gym in Sector 91 for the past five years, had liquor after returning home on Saturday night. Around 11pm, he came out of his room and pointed a countrymade pistol at his temple. As his wife ran towards him to stop him, he pressed the trigger and died on the spot. On the wife’s statement, police have registered a case under the Arms Act against the man’s unidentified friend who had given him the pistol. Investigating officer Bir Singh said preliminary interrogation revealed that the victim had got the pistol two days ago. He was disturbed over the fact that a criminal case had been registered against him following a scuffle in Kharar a few months ago. After the postmortem, the body has been handed over to the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suicide-in-mohali-gym-trainer-shoots-himself-in-front-of-wife-101633892101996.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali admn fully vaccinates 50% eligible population||The Mohali health department has fully vaccinated 50% of the district’s eligible population against Covid-19, and plans to cover all those remaining by November 30. According to civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur, Mohali was also the first district in the state to achieve 100% first-dose target.According to the population growth estimates made on the basis of the 2011 census, the health department had set the target to inoculate 7,46,119 people in Mohali. A government spokesperson said on Sunday that as many as 3,73,000 have got their second dose already. “We are proud to have administered vaccination to a sizeable number of the eligible population of our district and to those belonging to the tricity,” said deputy commissioner Isha Kalia, adding that the administration was hopeful to fully inoculate the targeted population by November end. Three test +ve in districtMeanwhile, the district on Sunday reported three new cases, taking the total to 68,756. With one more patient being discharged, active caseload came down to 17 and the number of those recovered reached 67,671. In Chandigarh, two people tested positive while Panchkula reported no new case, taking the tricity’s daily tally to five. No virus-related death was recorded for fifth consecutive day. Chandigarh has recorded 65,279 cases so far, of which 38 are active. While 64,421 patients have been cured, 820 have succumbed to the virus.In Panchkula, 30,744 people have tested positive, of whom only eight are still to recover. While 30,358 have been cured, 378 have died. At 1,068, the death toll remains highest in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-admn-fully-vaccinates-50-eligible-population-101633892045947.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: RWA apex body to field 11 candidates||To ensure that issues concerning the citizens are effectively raised in the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s General House, the City Forum of Resident Welfare Organisations (CFORWO) plans to field 11 candidates from various resident welfare associations (RWAs) in the upcoming civic body elections. The decision was taken during a first-of-its-kind meeting of various RWA apex bodies, including Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC), Chandigarh Housing Board Resident Welfare Federation (CHBRWF) and Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED), organised by CFORWO on Sunday.“We plan to survey around 2,500 people to identify best performing councillors in the city. On the basis of the results, we will form a team of eight best candidates each from BJP, AAP and Congress besides 11 from various RWAs to fight the MC elections,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, CFORWO. There will be 35 seats in the next MC House, which will go to the polls on December.All RWA bodies present at the meeting expressed their dissatisfaction with the present MC House. Voice of Housing Societies convener MN Shukla said their association already plans to field two candidates from the two wards that cover Sectors 48, 49, 50, 51 and 63.FOSWAC chief spokesperson Pankaj Gupta said that all candidates must be educated, honest and accessible to the citizens. CHBRWF president Nirmal Dutt asked all RWAs to play an active role as campaigners rather than petitioners ahead of the elections. CRAWFED patron Major DP Singh urged all RWA bodies to stay politically neutral and united and not to let political parties use them for their benefit.Dyal Krishan, president of Dadumajra Joint Action Committee, also spoke about “parachute councillors”, who represent Dadumajra in the MC House despite living somewhere else. “I will ask the area residents to vote for NOTA if the parties don’t field a Dadumajra resident as a candidate from our ward,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-rwa-apex-body-to-field-11-candidates-101633892044924.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Centre cuts UT’s power allocation by 16%||Amid coal shortage that has hit thermal plants across India, the Centre has reduced Chandigarh’s daily power allocation from 300 MW to 250 MW. Even as the UT administration on Sunday maintained that there was no power shortage, officials added that the next two days will be crucial in assessing the demand and supply situation.“We don’t intend to impose any cuts. We have adequate supply arrangements. I will review the power situation on Monday,” said UT adviser Dharam Pal.Chandigarh receives power from the central generating stations, state generating stations and independent power producer’s through long-term power purchase agreements and short-term purchases (through exchange, bilateral purchases, etc).The city’s current peak demand is hovering around 250 MW. On Saturday (October 9), the peak demand stood at 247 MW around 7 pm. During off-peak period (around 3 pm), the demand was 173 MW. No shortages were reported. “The peak demand is only reflective of the maximum demand at a point in a day, which subsides within minutes. So, the average demand is much lower than the peak demand. Even after the cut (from 300 MW to 250 MW), we are managing the power supply situation with no requirement of cuts,” said UT chief engineer CB Ojha.Only 12% power from coal-based plantsOjha said the UT electricity department has not imposed any power cut, even as some states have resorted to it due to shortage of fuel to run their coal-based plants.“Most of the power allocated to Chandigarh is hydro-based, and only 12% comes from coal-based electricity producers. So, there are minimal chances of the city getting adversely affected. But increased pressure on the central grid due to rising demand from other states can lead to supply constraints in Chandigarh too,” said a UT official, who didn’t want to be named. The department officials also contended that the Centre’s cut in the city’s power allocation could be related to the change in seasonal demand. “The allocation is increased during the summer, and in other seasons it is reduced. As the winter approaches, the allocation has been cut by the Centre. During the summer, the peak demand consistently crosses 400 MW. However, it has halved now,” said the official. The peak demand had touched 426 MW in July this year. Admn open to buying power beyond allocationThe administration, to avoid any cuts, is also open to buying higher priced electricity beyond its allocation. “It should not be required, but is still an option. These things will be reviewed on Monday,” said the adviser.Ojha said that at present, there is no requirement for purchasing additional power. “We are meeting the demand within the present allocation. The demand, in fact, plummets in the night during this time of the year. It’s only in the middle of the day, particularly working days, when it touches the peak,” he said.Generally, the cost per unit can more than double if there are supply shortages. “If the UT has to buy power beyond its allocation, the department’s spending will increase, which could reflect on the consumer power rates too,” said another official.No scheduled cuts in Mohali, Panchkula tooThere are no scheduled power cuts planned in the neighbouring Mohali and Panchkula districts too. Even as other districts in Punjab are reeling under power cuts, the authorities in Mohali say they have enough power for all industrial, commercial and domestic users. There are around 19 grid substations in the district, which get their power supply from the Rajpura and Ropar thermal plants besides the Ganguwal hydroelectric project. The average power demand in Mohali is 420 MW, while the supply stands at 560 MW. PSPCL superintending engineer Mohit Sood said: “As of now, there are no scheduled power cuts in Mohali, but we are urging the consumers to use power judiciously in the wake of the coal shortage.” Sanjay Kumar, subdivisional officer, Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam, Panchkula, said: “As of now, there is the least possibility of power cuts in Panchkula. If in case, any possibility arises, it will be publicised in advance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-centre-cuts-ut-s-power-allocation-by-16-101633892043379.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali labourer booked for molesting 13-year-old daughter||Acting on a complaint from the Chandigarh child helpline, the Mohali police have booked a labourer for molesting his 13-year-old daughter. The incident comes a day after a man was booked for raping his stepdaughter after sedating her in the absence of his wife in Mohali’s Sohana village.The present case was first registered at Government Railway Police station in Chandigarh, but as the crime took place in Mohali’s Balongi village, it was transferred to the area police station. Neeraj Thakur, a member of the child helpline, said the victim was rescued along with her minor brother from the Chandigarh railway station. She told the team that her mother had died eight years back and both kids were staying with their father. She said her father had been touching her inappropriately for the past several months, because of which she decided to run from the house with her brother. A case has been registered under Section 10 (aggravated sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO ) Act and Section 75 (cruelty to child) of the Juvenile Justice Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-labourer-booked-for-molesting-13-year-old-daughter-101633892041483.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol price breaches ₹100 mark in Chandigarh||The spiralling fuel prices have hit yet another milestone in the tricity with petrol crossing the ₹100 per litre mark in Chandigarh.While petrol was priced at ₹100.24 per litre on Sunday, even diesel rates were at an all-time high of ₹92.55 per litre. The prices have gone up by nearly 25% since the beginning of the year, as petrol was available for ₹81.08 while diesel cost ₹74.14 in the first week of January. According to PTI, petrol is priced above ₹100 across all state capitals except Ranchi.However, across the tricity, fuel still remains cheapest in Chandigarh. Petrol had already crossed the ₹100 mark in Mohali on June 26, while Panchkula reached the milestone on October 5. On Sunday, petrol cost ₹106.28 per litre in Mohali while diesel was available for ₹95.95. In Panchkula, the prices were ₹101.59 and ₹93.34, respectively.Fuel prices have been on the rise since January, though they stabilised between July and September. For the past six days, petrol price had been rising by ₹0.30 per litre daily and diesel price had been seeing a spike of ₹0.35. “This hike is tied to the rise in prices of crude oil in the global market. However, when the price of crude oil falls globally, the price of petrol doesn’t fall proportionately and it’s only symbolic,” said Chandigarh Petroleum Dealers Association president Arjan Singh.Singh said that a decade back the price of crude oil had gone up to $140 per barrel while petrol cost around ₹75 per litre in the city. “The price of crude oil is lower now (around $80), but the retail prices are inflated in comparison,” he said. Various dealers also rued the fact that they need more capital to keep their petrol pumps running and their operational costs have gone up by over 50% after the recent hike.The impact of the hike is likely to be seen on the prices of fruit, vegetable, groceries and other daily essentials in the coming days, according to local transporters.The Congress also protested the spiralling fuel prices on Sunday. Taking a dig at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Chandigarh Congress spokesperson Harmail Kesri said: “Where are all those BJP leaders today, who used to protest on bicycles and horse carts when the price of petrol increased from ₹70 to ₹71 during the Congress regime?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-price-breaches-100-mark-in-chandigarh-101633892040439.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Bike-borne men snatch woman’s gold chain near CMCH||In a shocking incident, a 65-year-old woman lost her gold chain to two bike-borne miscreants in broad daylight near Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Sunday. Closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed near the crime spot showed the men snatching her chain and speeding away with ease.The victim has been identified as Elizma Joseph, 65, of Sector 32, Chandigarh road.She said she had come to see her cousin, who resides in CMCH staff colony, when the incident took place. As she entered the main gate of the colony, two men turned up on a bike. One of the accused waited on the bike while the other walked up to her and snatched her chain. After that, the two sped away on their bike.Joseph said she raised the alarm but no one turned up for help. Division Number 2 station house officer, inspector Satpal said a case has been lodged against unidentified persons and the police will arrest the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bike-borne-men-snatch-woman-s-gold-chain-near-cmch-101633891980593.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt sets up Kaushal Rozgar Nigam||The Manohar Lal Khattar-led government has set up Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam to make all appointments which were earlier being done under the outsourcing policies.The Kaushal Rozgar Nigam will launch its portal from November 1 after which the youth can apply online for the posts earlier filled through outsourcing. All those hired through the new system will get all the benefits such as EPF, ESI facility, etc.“This decision will not only prevent exploitation of employees working on contract basis but also play a pivotal role in ensuring transparency and ample employment opportunities to eligible candidates,” said Haryana minister of state for women and child development, Kamlesh Dhanda.According to Dhanda, the contractual appointments will be made on merit under this new and transparent system being implemented by Khattar. She said outsourcing employees will be engaged through Haryana Kaushal Rozgar Nigam in the state.She said employees appointed through various outsourcing agencies in various departments used to complain about not getting EPF and ESI facility.“Now they will get all these facilities,” she said, adding that the deserving youth will get employment and training sessions will be held for their skill development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-sets-up-kaushal-rozgar-nigam-101633891741219.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Jewellery, camera stolen from house in Sector 42||Thieves made off with jewellery and a camera from a house in Sector 42 while the victim was out of station, the police said on Sunday.As per the police, Ravinder Kumar Soni of Sector 42 had gone to Delhi between September 30 to October 8. Upon coming back, he saw that his house had been broken into and jewellery including three gold chains, four gold rings, two pendant sets, six earring sets, a gold nose ring, three sets of gold earrings, a gold nose pin, three sets of silver anklets, eight silver rings, two small bangles and a camera worth ₹32,000 were found missing.A case under Sections 380 (theft) and 454 (lurking house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against unidentified persons.As per the police, on the intervening night of October 7 and 8, another house in Sector 42 close to the victim’s house was also broken into and some jewellery was stolen from here. Police officials are exploring the angle that the two house thefts were the work of the same thieves, and they are working on identifying the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/house-theft-jewellery-camera-stolen-in-sector-42-101633891740234.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Audit report flags irregularities, violation of rules by NIT Kurukshetra||An annual audit report has highlighted irregularities and contraventions of rules by the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kurukshetra.In the audit conducted by the CAG’s audit party under assistant audit officer Vinod Prakash and supervised by director general of audit (central) Chandigarh Munish Kumar Leekha from July 5 to July 16, irregularities in the establishment of Siemens Centre of Excellence (SCoE) of ₹188.62 crore, contraventions of prescribed rules and indiscretion in the grant of extension to the agencies, procurement of goods and services besides irregularities in the grant of Grade Pay and maintaining service record of 23 officials were detected.NIT Kurukshetra was granted approval by the finance committee to establish the Centre of Excellence (CoE) and placed the project order with Siemens Industries Software India Private Limited for a total project cost of ₹188.85 crore. Of this, the share of NIT was ₹20.71 crore plus 18% GST, while the rest of the project cost, the grant-in-kind, was to be provided by the Siemens as per global academic programme.But during the audit, it was noticed that the MHRD, in a letter on February 6, 2019, conveyed approval for setting up of SCoE at NIT Kurukshetra as per the CoE guidelines approved by the Union ministry of human resource development (MHRD).According to the report, the institute placed a purchase order for setting up of SCoE and the institute executed a tripartite agreement with the agencies on March 22, 2019.The check depicted that the agency released payment of ₹21.95 crore up to March, 2021 and the payment was made from the Corpus fund by diverting funds available towards procurement of services instead of seeking regular grants from the ministry concerned, which is irregular, asserted the report, further seeking justification on the proposal of setting up the CoE leading to allotment of purchase SIS India being a single-service provider without providing opportunity to other service providers, in contradiction of Rule 149 of the General Finance Rules (GFR), 2017.The report also revealed irregularities in the ₹13.77 crore grant of extension to three private agencies in violation of Rule 198 of the GFR, 2017. It was noticed that the institute deployed highly skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled manpower through different agencies on account of housekeeping, farmhouse, with the same terms and conditions from the existing agencies and fresh tenders were not called timely in contravention of the Contract Labour Act, 1970, Workman’s Compensation Act, EPF, ESI and MP Acts.It also flagged serious violation of Rule 149 GFR, 2017 in procurement of various components worth ₹33.06 crore for 2020-21. The report mentioned that procurement of only ₹66.42 lakh was made from government e-marketplace and 98% procurement for ₹32.39 crore was made from open market in contravention of Rule 155 of GFR, 2017.Similar violations were reported in procurement of library books amounting to ₹3.39 crore and irregular purchase of sports articles of ₹16.60 lakh by calling e-tendering instead of procuring articles on GeM as prescribed under Rule 149 of the GFR, 2017.It also mentioned non-conducting of physical verification of furniture, equipment, store and stock besides irregularities in maintaining service records of 23 staff members.However, the report mentioned that all minor irregularities and points noticed during the course of audit were discussed and settled on the spot but it also mentioned that on being pointed out the institute did not submit any reply over the irregularities highlighted in the previous reports since 2010-11.The non-conducting of physical verification of furniture, equipment, store and stock and irregularities in grant of grade pay and maintaining of service record of 23 staff members were also highlighted.Reacting to the irregularities in the audit report, NIT Kurukshetra officiating director Prof Akhilesh Swarup said, “These things are routine and it is an official process. The auditors come from different backgrounds and something of technical nature they do not understand properly. Also, they do not interact with the people concerned but do their part of duty and then the people concerned respond to it.”“But the NIT is a public institution and is responsible for putting its audit and annual finance report in the Parliament every year and all things are scrutinised again,” he said.“Even if irregularities happen, the MHRD has a mechanism to check it as it is public money. There are many checks and balances. The NIT is answerable to everything and will definitely submit its report to the authorities when required,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/audit-report-flags-irregularities-violation-of-rules-by-nit-kurukshetra-101633891501957.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 2 new Covid cases detected in 24 hours||Two fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative count of cases to 87,558, health officials said on Sunday. As many as 85,436 patients have recovered from the disease so far, while 2,103 have succumbed. There were 19 active cases in Ludhiana as of Sunday. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma appealed to residents to continue taking all precautions and follow the guidelines issued by the administration and government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-2-new-covid-cases-detected-in-24-hours-101633891442666.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||PUTA goes to polls on October 28||The elections for the office bearers of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) will be held on October 28 at PU law auditorium.The election date was announced on Sunday by the returning officer, professor Vijay Nagpal. As per the election schedule, the last date for filing of nominations is October 16; the scrutiny of nominations will be held the same day after 1pm.Nominations can be withdrawn from 3.30pm to 4pm on October 17, after which the final list of candidates will be announced on the same day. It has been stated that scrutiny of nomination forms will be done by the returning officer with the assistance of the PUTA president/secretary.Library staff working at the AC Joshi library and in different departments are eligible to contest for the executive positions from Group-I. The programming staff working at the computer centre and different departments/offices are also eligible to contest for executive positions from Group-II.PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar said, “We are ready for this year’s elections and soon we will announce our team.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/puta-goes-to-polls-on-october-28-101633891441492.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers call off protest after admn assures of fair probe||Two days after three cases were lodged against farmers, including BKU (Charuni) district president Malkit Singh and Yamunanagar peasant Bhawan Preet, who had claimed to have been hit by BJP MP Nayab Saini’s convoy, the farm leaders called off their Sunday protest after assurances of fair probe from the Ambala administration.On Friday, three cases were lodged at Naraingarh police station against four farm activists on charges of rioting, unlawful assembly, wrongful restraint and others. While, there has been no action on complaint filed by Bhawan yet.Pressing for FIR, farmers, mostly affiliated to the Charuni group had gathered at the Naraingarh grain market at around noon, after attending a bhog ceremony at Panjokhara Sahib gurdwara in memory of their slain fellows of Lakhimpur Kheri.After a panchayat at the mandi, the leaders held a meeting with administrative officials including area SDM Niraj and DSP Anil Kumar.Malkit Singh said they had assembled to discuss the series of events that unfolded post the incident on Thursday and what should be done next.“Police have made a record of lodging three cases against the farmers in a single day. We know that they are under immense pressure, but we are not. We won’t bow down even after hundreds of cases,” Singh said.Speaking to the media after the meeting, the DSP said farmers have been assured of a fair probe in the three cases lodged against them by an SIT led by DSP (Cantt) Ram Kumar.On being asked about the farmer’s plaint, station in-charge Dhoom Singh said DSP Cantt will look into this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-call-off-protest-after-admn-assures-of-fair-probe-101633891264358.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Public works department to begin repairs on GT Road in east Delhi||New Delhi: The Public Works Department (PWD) of the Delhi government will launch a road improvement project on the busy GT Road in east Delhi, officials aware of the development said. The project, which is estimated to cost ₹6.87 crore, will be taken up between the Shahdara flyover and the Seelampur flyover. A senior PWD official said that tenders have been called for the road improvement project.“The tenders have been called for carrying out the re carpeting work on GT Road. The bids will be finalised in next 20-25 days. We are trying to expedite the project in the view of winters when a ban on construction activity may come up due to high air pollution,” the official said asking not to be named.The GT Road stretch in East Delhi connects UP (Apsara Border) and Inter-State Bus Terminus, Kashmere Gate. Recently, the Delhi government inaugurated the one-way Seelampur flyover on the road. A flyover on the other carriageway existed already. The PWD official said since the vehicular density on GT Road is high, the work will be carried out in phases. “We will take up work on only one carriageway at one time. The traffic police are being consulted to finalise a traffic plan,” official said. The project will also include redevelopment of the service lanes, and is expected to take 90 days to complete. The agency has also expedited the other maintenance work before winter sets in that includes Sri Aurbindo Marg between IIT flyover and PTS signal intersection, near Malviya Nagar; on Mathura Road near Jasola Apollo flyover and the Savitri Cinema Road. “There is a depressed damaged portion of road near the Jasola flyover which also witnesses frequent waterlogging. The level of this depressed portion will also be raised during the repair work,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/public-works-department-to-begin-repairs-on-gt-road-in-east-delhi-101633891145873.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ghaggar pollution: Seasonal rivulets still being polluted, admits Chandigarh admn||Failing to act on the directions issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the UT administration is yet to plug all the discharge points that release polluted water into the three seasonal rivulets passing through the city.In a report submitted before the environment standing committee of the administrator’s advisory council, UT stated that all the three seasonal rivulets still had discharge points, which continued to pollute them.“On the N-choe, the administration identified a discharge point in Faidan village. There is a discharge point on Sukhna choe at Dhaka Colony near Raipur Khurd. Similarly, on the Patiala ki Rao, there are multiple discharge points in Sarangpur, Khuda Lahora and Khuda Jassu,” reads the report.The report further states that all other discharge points on the choes have been closed.In a bid to stop pollutants from entering the Ghaggar river, the NGT had directed the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) to stop the sewage being discharged into the seasonal rivulets. Polluted water from Sukhna choe and N-choe merge into the river near Zirakpur, which ultimately pollutes the river too.Notably, the NGT had even warned the administration of imposing financial environmental costs on it if it failed to plug all the discharge points. It had also directed the Central Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) to make a fresh survey of such points. After the survey it was discovered that discharges were still being allowed in the rivulets.UT adviser Dharam Pal, too, in September had also directed the MC and the UT environment department to come up with a definitive plan to stop discharge of sewage in the rivulets.Monitoring stations for real-time assessment of water pollutionMeanwhile, the UT administration has installed real-time water quality monitoring stations at N-choe and Sukhna choe. A UT official said that the development comes on the directions of the National Green Tribunal.The system monitors the pH value, the biological oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) of water. The administration can live-track the pollution levels in the seasonal rivulet from the monitoring station.Debendra Dalai, director, environment, said, “The MC is preparing a plan to stop the seepage, which is mainly concentrated in unauthorised colonies. We and the MC are keeping an eye on these discharge points. On spotting such points, they are immediately closed. But with no sewerage pipelines in these colonies, these keep cropping up. Now MC is considering, as a short-term solution, to deploy sewage collection trucks in these colonies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ghaggar-pollution-seasonal-rivulets-still-being-polluted-admits-chandigarh-admn-101633891021484.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Illegal weapons’ suppliers take to social media to hunt for potential buyers||Police claim to have busted an illegal weapons’ smuggling module with the arrest of three persons recently, but their aides continue to hunt for potential buyers through social media.The suppliers had recently posted multiple pictures of illegal weapons on a Facebook group named ‘Ludhiana Wale’ and had invited residents to place orders for weapons. They had even mentioned a mobile number in the post, where residents could reach the sellers. Interestingly, some residents even posted queries regarding the rates of weapons. The sellers were offering a range of weapons starting from the ‘Desi Katta’ to sophisticated pistols priced between ₹2,000 to ₹1 lakh. The accused also offered to provide home delivery of the weapons but sought full payment in advance. According to police officials, the weapons are produced illegally in Madhya Pradesh and then supplied to different cities. The accused used to find potential buyers, including gangsters, through social networking sites. They used to keep tabs on Facebook users who frequently commented on the posts made by gangsters, so as to influence them. A senior police official said, “We tracked some accounts selling weapons on social networking sites but found them to be fake. We also tried to trace the users through their phone numbers, but to no avail as the mobile numbers were procured using fake identity proofs.” On October 4, the CIA Staff-1 had arrested Harinderpal of Lallian Khurd village of Jalandhar, Balwinder Singh of Badhala village of Jalandhar and Arjan Kumar of Rajasthan for supplying illegal weapons. Police had recovered two pistols of .32 bore, four live cartridges, two magazines and three mobiles from their possession. The accused had come to the city to deliver the weapons. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said more arrests can be expected in the case. Weapons quest September 21: The Marado police arrested two persons with an illegal pistol and bullets following a chase near Duburji cut. Their two accomplices managed to escape. According to the police, the accused had indulged in a scuffle with another group in Bilga village and had bought the weapon from Madhya Pradesh with the intention of harming their rivals. September 3: Police recovered a weapon and six bullets from a man found roaming around the venue where Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president and former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Badal was holding a rally. The accused had confessed that he had bought the weapon from Madhya Pradesh. July 19: Delhi police arrested Karanbir Singh alias Karan Walia along with his accomplice Sarabjot Singh alias Raja and recovered 13 illegal pistols from their possession. The accused who were wanted by Ludhiana police in multiple cases were returning from Madhya Pradesh with the consignment of illegal weapons. July 11: A team of CIA Staff 2 arrested two miscreants and recovered illegal weapons from their possession. May 27: The Khanna police recovered a consignment of illegal weapons, being taken to Amritsar, with the arrest of two Tarn Taran residents and recovered eight pistols and 12 magazines from their possession. May 22: The Khanna police arrested a person for supplying illegal weapons to criminals and different gangs. Police recovered a total of 11 illegal pistols and three bullets from his possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-illegal-weapons-suppliers-take-to-social-media-to-hunt-for-potential-buyers-101633891020298.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||4th waste to energy plant in Delhi to be ready by August next year||The waste to energy plant at south Delhi’s Tehkhand will become operational by August next year, South Delhi Municipal Corporation officials said, adding that a crucial piece of hardware for the plant is expected to arrive by month-end. Officials aware of the matter said boilers being imported from China were expected to come by March this year, but faced repeated delays. However, the boilers are now reach the port in Kerala by month-end, from where they will take nearly 40 more days to reach Delhi by road, the officials said. This will be SDMC’s second waste to energy plant which will process 2,000 tonnes of municipal solid waste per day. The facility will be spread over 15 acres near Tehkhand. “With the second plant being operationalised next year, we will be able to process 100% of municipal waste generated in the SDMC areas. Currently, only 53% of waste is being processed while the rest ends up at the Okhla landfill,” an official said asking not to be named. The areas under SDMC generate a total of 3,600 tonnes of municipal waste every day.Currently, Delhi has three waste to energy plants in Ghazipur, Narela and Okhla. The three existing plants have an aggregate capacity to process 5,250 tonnes of waste to generate 52MW power. Delhi generates more than 11,144 tonnes of waste. In 2019, the north corporation proposed to build a second plant with 1,500 TPD (tonnes per day) capacity near Bhalswa and EDMC plans to build its second such facility in Ghonda Gujran. “In a few years, the new engineered landfill sites will receive only the ash and burnt leftover from the waste to energy plant and certain components of waste which cant be incinerated. The Okhla and Tehkhand plant will together generate 400-500 tonnes of such waste which will then be dumped at the new engineered landfill site,” official explained. The general trend in Delhi is now towards using incineration as primary method of waste processing. However, the waste to energy plants have faced stiff resistance by local residents who have flagged pollution generated by such plants. Experts have repeatedly pointed out that Delhi should focus on segregation of household waste instead of setting up waste to energy plants. Defending the move to set up the waste to energy plants, a senior SDMC official said that the waste management models of smaller cities cannot be easily replicated in a city with a population of more than 200 million people. “Existing landfills are saturated. People have been resisting the setting up of new landfill sites in their regions while the household waste segregation levels still remain relatively low. The waste to energy plants generate electricity for the city while also providing a solution for the waste disposal problem,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4th-waste-to-energy-plant-in-delhi-to-be-ready-by-august-next-year-101633890901794.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to enhance greenery on roads to curb dust pollution||New DelhiThe Delhi government has decided to enhance greenery on its roads and flyovers with the help of shrubs, hedges, creepers and a variety of flowering plants to curb dust pollution, government officials aware of the matter said on Sunday.According to senior officials of the Public Works Department (PWD), central and side verges of roads and flyovers and walls of overbridges will be spruced up with seasonal flowering plants and shrubs on a number of road stretches and flyovers. “There are many flyovers and roads where greenery is less which results in dust. We have identified such stretches to enhance greenery there and beautify these streets. Some of these stretches include the Ring Road, Chirag Delhi flyover, IIT flyover etc. In the mega drive, we will use decorative and seasonal flowering plants, shrubs, hedges for roads and flyovers,” a senior PWD official said.He said tenders have been floated for the procurement of plant saplings, shrubs and hedges. The official said that the main aim of the project is to cut down dust pollution.Dust on roads and from major construction projects in the city is one of the major contributors of suspended particulate matter – one of the primary pollutants in the city air --- in Delhi. The move comes after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last month directed PWD officials to improve greenery to reduce dust pollution in the city. According to PWD officials privy to the development, tenders have been issued for improving greenery and beautification of a number of flyovers. These include IIT flyover, Munirka flyover, Africa Avenue flyover, Chirag Delhi flyover and Panchsheel flyover.Officials said that greenery beneath these flyovers will be improved and road footpaths will also be made free of encroachment. The officials said that at least 42,000 plants saplings, hedges and shrubs will be used to beautify roads and flyovers in PWD’s south sub-division. Bio-decomposer spray from todayDelhi environment minister Gopal Rai will start free spraying of Pusa bio-decomposer from Fatehpur Jat village in northwest Delhi from Monday, the government said.The microbial solution, which can turn stubble into manure in 15 to 20 days, will be sprayed over 4,000 acres of harvested rice fields in Delhi, an official said.A total of 844 farmers in the national capital have applied for free spraying of the solution this year, Rai said. Last year, 310 farmers used it on 1,935 acres of land.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on September 24 launched the Pusa bio-decomposer formula at Kharkhari Nahar village in southwest Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-enhance-greenery-on-roads-to-curb-dust-pollution-101633890900511.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Man arrested for setting Okhla factory on fire||A 26-year-old man was arrested for allegedly setting fire to a thread factory in south east Delhi’s Okhla area on Sunday. Although no one was injured in the mishap as people rushed out of the factory on time, goods worth ₹5 lakh were gutted in the fire, said police. One of the locals in the area said the fire began around 4am and 31 tenders had to be rushed to the spot, who brought the fire under control by 7am. Police said a team was rushed to the factory as soon as they received information about the fire. A truck and an autorickshaw were also set on fire. Police registered a case under relevant sections at the Okhla police station. During investigation, police scanned the CCTV footage of the cameras installed in the vicinity of the factory, which showed two men roaming around in the premises of the factory. Police apprehended one of the two men, identified as Gulfam, a resident of Okhla Phase-2. During interrogation, it was ascertained that he was present with his associate near the factory and both of them were drunk. Police said while the two suspects were there, a man drove up to them and called up his friend, who reached the factory premises and offered money to the suspects for setting fire to the factory. Gulfam’s friend brokered the deal . He told Gulfam that in one or two days, he will get the money and will give Gulfam his share. Since he was in an inebriated state, Gulfam listened to the man and set the factory on fire using petrol. Gulfam told police that they did not get any payment. Police said further investigation is underway to nab the other accused persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-arrested-for-setting-okhla-factory-on-fire-101633890840238.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Durga Puja organisers told to manage idol immersion||Durga Puja organisers in the city will have to make adequate arrangements to immerse idols at or near the venues, and the government will not make provisions such as artificial ponds unlike previous years, said senior officials in the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). The Yamuna river remains out of bounds for idol immersion under guidelines issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). As a result, in 2019 and 2020, the Delhi government put in place artificial ponds across the city for Durga Puja organisers to immerse their idols — around 30 in 2018 and 105 in 2019. The DDMA disallowed Durga Puja celebrations in 2020, over Covid-19 fears.Under the current protocol, all organisers have to seek permission from offices of the sub-divisional officers concerned, following which an assessment of the venue and arrangements is done. “The arrangements have to be somewhere very close, because idol immersion otherwise leads to rallies and processions, which are not allowed this year in the light of the Covid-19 threat,” said a senior DDMA official on Sunday.In usual years, Delhi witnesses around 500-600 Durga Puja pandals. The number, this year, has dropped to around 300, said a senior official in the government’s revenue department.DDMA last week allowed Durga Puja celebrations this year, but with several riders — organisers will have to ensure venues do not have visitors beyond the seating capacity, and there can be no stalls of any kind. Organisers are reeling from immense fund shortfalls borne out of the pandemic, and have struggled to find sponsorships, forcing several to dip into their reserves. However, DDMA’s idol immersion norms are likely to have little impact, several puja committees said, because of the low-key nature of festivities this year.Swapan Ganguly, convener of the Kalibari temple in New Delhi’s Mandir Marg, which organises one of the most prominent Durga Puja celebrations in the city, said: “We have arrangements to immerse the idol inside the temple premises itself. All steps necessary will be taken to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed.”Several prominent organisers in the city have decided to go low-key with no idols at all this year.“In our case, immersion will not be a problem because we will not have a large idol this year. We did not get adequate time to make arrangements. We will follow all rituals with a kalash (earthen urn),” said Robin Bose, general secretary of the Durga Puja committee in Kashmere Gate.The Durga Puja in CR Park’s D Block have will have a decorated pandal and idol. “We have created a pond in the neighbourhood, and will immerse idols there. There will be no rally or procession,” said Sujoy Ghosh, secretary of the block’s Durga Puja committee.“DDMA allowed festivals very late this year. As a result, there was not much time for idol and other arrangements. But organisers who plan to have idols have been clearly told to have arrangements in place for immersion. The protocols are understandable in light of the pandemic,” said Narayan Dey, secretary of the Mela Ground Durga Puja in CR Park.Durga Puja this year will be celebrated between October 11 and 15. DDMA has allowed organisers to set up pandal and celebrate on public spaces, but it has prohibited processions, rallies, and shops, eateries, exhibitions and fairs in and around the venues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-durga-puja-organisers-told-to-manage-idol-immersion-101633890420417.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police constable shoots brother-in-law after argument over dues||A Delhi Police constable posted at Greater Kailash killed his brother-in-law, who was posted as a sub-inspector in the Haryana Police, after they had a heated argument over some monetary issue in south west Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave.Police identified the accused as Vikram Singh. His brother-in-law Virender Nandal (36), a resident of Rohtak in Haryana, was staying with him for almost a week. Deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma said that they received a PCR call around 8am on Sunday and were informed that a person has incurred gunshot injury in Krishna Nagar area of Safdarjung Enclave. “When the team reached the spot, Virender was found with a bullet injury on his head. He was dead by that time,” said the DCP.Acording to police, Virender was staying at Singh’s house for the last six days due to some work. Police said Singh had borrowed some money from Virender, who was pressurising him to return it. “Singh and Virender had some dispute over the money transaction. Their fight took an ugly turn when Virender abused Singh. Since Singh was already under a lot of mental pressure, he pulled out his service revolver and shot Virender on his head,” said another police official.Soon after Singh killed Virender, he went to his wife, who was in the other room, and told her that he killed her brother. She immediately raised an alarm and made a PCR call informing police about the incident. “We nabbed Singh from the house, and seized the service revolver from him. We have registered a case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC and are investigating into the matter,” said another official. The post-mortem of the deceased will be conducted at the Safdarjung hospital, police said.During interrogation, Singh told police that his anger towards Virender started increasing as the latter used to abuse him and his family regularly. Singh said he could tolerate everything that was told to him but not to his family members. Singh said that the same happened on Sunday morning just before the argument flared up and he shot Virender in a fit of rage. According to police , many arguments broke out between Singh and Virender in the last one week. Singh told Virender several times that he would sell off his property and return his money but Virender refused to budge. Police said they are probing all angles—if Virender was shot right after the argument or was he sleeping at the time of the incident. A senior police officer said that in February this year, Vikram alone managed to save four members of a family who were trapped in a house that caught fire in the Greater Kailash area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-constable-shoots-brother-in-law-after-argument-over-dues-101633890060189.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||‘Marks jihad’: Kerala sends letter to Centre deploring DU Prof||Kerala higher education minister R Bindu on Sunday wrote to Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan seeking action against Delhi University professor Rakesh Kumar Pandey who kicked up a row last week by coining a communally sensitive and derogatory term -- “marks jihad” -- to contend that students from the southern state were being given higher marks in Class 12 so that they could systematically take over the country’s top higher education institutes.In the letter, Bindu said his words cast unnecessary aspersions on the state, and that they were in bad taste intended to create a communal rift.“The derogatory statement was an intentional move to create division among Keralites. His antipathy and intolerance were quite evident in his venomous words,” the minister said in her letter, and sought strict action against the teacher. Many teachers, student outfits and writers have deplored his post.After Pandey’s comments went viral on social media, the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) on Wednesday alleged that top scorers from the Kerala state board were being denied admission on flimsy grounds by various Delhi University colleges.The Delhi University on Thursday said that the university equally values the academic credentials of all students. “The University of Delhi strongly refutes and condemns the falsity of news which is being circulated regarding favouring candidates from a few boards,” DU Registrar Vikas Gupta said in a statement on Thursday.Pandey is a member of RSS-backed National Democratic Teachers Front (NDTF). In a statement last week, the NDTF distanced itself from Pandey’s comments. “NDTF has nothing to do with views expressed by any individual on any state secondary board. NDTF unambiguously dissociates itself from any objectionable statement,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/marks-jihad-kerala-sends-letter-to-centre-deploring-du-prof-101633889640364.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Cycling infra in Delhi gets upgrade, but experts say some way still go||New Delhi: Cyclists in the Capital can look forward to better infrastructure and more ride-sharing options in the near future as the administration has adopted a slew of measures to promote this green transport, said officials aware of the developments.Two new cycle-sharing projects will be up and running by early next year that will connect residential neighbourhoods with commercial centres and important transit points. The Delhi government is also adding more cycle tracks as part of its project to redesign 540km of city roads, while the Delhi Development Authority is constructing a 16-km dedicated cycling corridor in Dwarka, which will connect sectors 3, 5, 11, 12, 13 and 14.New projectsIn Dwarka, DDA plans to provide 5,000 bicycles and 250 docking stations around markets, metro stations, residential neighbourhoods, etc. The project has been awarded to Yulu, a tech-based shared mobility startup with headquarters in Bangalore and presence in five Indian cities.A senior DDA official said on condition of anonymity, “We hope to start the project by March. We have planned for the service throughout Dwarka.”Amit Gupta, co-founder and CEO of Yulu, said, “We plan to introduce pedal cycles in the first phase of the project and later on introduce other vehicle formats, if we get permission from the authorities.”The South Delhi Municipal Corporation is also doing something similar. It has already floated tenders to set up 82 e-bike stations in several south Delhi areas like AIIMS, IIT-Delhi, Gargi College, Qutub Minar, Hauz Khas, Green Park, etc. But unlike DDA, SDMC will provide the service in seven clusters or areas in a 3-5km radius of residential colonies.Prem Shankar Jha, deputy commissioner (remunerative project cell), SDMC, said, “To provide last-mile connectivity, 82 e-bike stations will be set up in residential colonies, markets, metro stations, etc.”The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) is also planning to scale up its cycle sharing project, which was launched in 2018 with 250 bikes.Satish Upadhyay, vice-chairman, NDMC, said, “During the pandemic we saw so many people cycle to city roads. To encourage people to cycle, we will develop dedicated cycling corridors in Nehru Park (3km) and a 10-km corridor between New Moti Bagh and North Block. We are exploring ways to promote cycling in our area, especially during holidays.”Kunal Kumar, joint secretary and mission director (Smart Cities Mission), ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA), said that cities have to make efforts to move people to sustainable modes of transportation. “People want to cycle, but safety and lack of infrastructure are their top concerns. In several cities which started the cycle sharing system before the pandemic, its usage has increased post-Covid.”More cycle sharing options neededDelhi is among the first few Indian cities to introduce a cycle-sharing system. In October 2009, the Delhi government introduced the first cycle feeder and rental system along the BRT (bus rapid transit) corridor with 50 bicycles and five stations. But the project, which was implemented by Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System, didn’t get a good response.Experts say that for cycle sharing to be successful, it should be implemented on a large scale.Anuj Malhotra, mobility expert and knowledge partner to the high-powered committee of the ministry of home affairs, said if cycle stations are too far away, then the system is bound to fail.“A minimum of 10-20 sq km of area with stations at every 250m is essential for a cycle-sharing system to be successful. A good density of stations is essential. There should be at least 10-15 stations per sq km. Also, implementing pilot projects in small areas or developing small stretches doesn’t work,” said Malhotra.Various government agencies have developed cycling infrastructure in the past, like during the 2010 Commonwealth Games, it’s not well connected.“There is a need to interconnect the missing links. If we do this, then 50-60% of the area in Delhi will have a good cycling infrastructure in the next few years,” said Malhotra.Cities such as London, Paris, New York, Hangzhou, Amsterdam, etc., have invested heavily in cycling infrastructure. For instance, Paris has 1,400 docking points with 20,000 bicycles. Similarly, London has 750 docking stations with close to 12,000 bikes. All these cities have developed hundreds of dedicated lanes for cycling.Amit Bhatt, executive director at World Resources Institute, India, said, “Just providing a few cycles and docking stations is not enough. It is important to flood the area (where the project is implemented) with cycles so that it is easily accessible to people. Cycling is popular in top global cities as they have invested in developing safe infrastructure for cyclists and also provide a large number of cycles. Cities in China have 50,000 and more cycles.”In India, too, people will start cycling short distances if a well-planned system is in place, said Bhatt.Shreya Gadepalli, managing trustee at Urban Works Institute, said getting the private operators to do everything isn’t working. “For cycle sharing to succeed, the operator should be paid by the government for service quality—like cycle quality and availability—rather than be asked to take the risk of ridership. The government should take the ridership risk. Otherwise, operators focus more on advertising revenue rather than maintaining the system,” Gadepalli said.Lack of safe infra big hurdleA study done by the Central Road Research institute last year using secondary data from different sources projected that the dependence on public buses and private vehicles for short trips (6km or less) can be reduced by nearly 40% if adequate cycling infrastructure is provided in Delhi within the next three years.Gaurav Wadhwa, founder of Delhi Cyclists, a group of cycling enthusiasts, said that if safe infrastructure is provided then people will cycle. “We have reworked our timings ever since traffic began to increase on roads. We now start at 4.30-5am and are back by 8am to avoid peak-hour traffic. If dedicated corridors, safe crossing at intersections, etc., are provided, then a lot of people will again start cycling.”Even the firms that are running cycle sharing projects in the city admit that inadequate infrastructure is a hurdle. DV Manohar, chairman of SmartBike, a shared mobility startup which has implemented the bike sharing project in NDMC area, said e-bikes come with locks that have to be charged every few days. “Of the 50 stations, electricity connection is available only at six. We have to take the cycles to our warehouse for charging the locks. There are logistical issues that need to be addressed,” said Manohar.A senior NDMC official said on condition of anonymity that the process to provide power connections at all the stations is going on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cycling-infra-in-delhi-gets-upgrade-but-experts-say-some-way-still-go-101633889580275.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Unlikely Covid fillip boosts famous scissors market in Meerut||New Delhi: It is a warm October afternoon and Mohammad Anis is giving the finishing touch to a pair of scissors at his small factory in Bazar Peramal in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh.There are a large bunch of scissors in front of him on the floor and Anis is moving the blades of all scissors near his right ear. “The sound of the movement of the blades tell me if a pair of scissors is working fine,” he says. “These are busy days for us. This consignment needs to be delivered by evening today. The Meerut scissors are in demand again.” The Covid-19 pandemic has unexpectedly given a new lease of life to Meerut’s 350-year-old scissors industry, which faced a downward spiral in the past two decades due to the growing popularity of Chinese scissors. Many manufacturing units in the city shut down over the years, with thousands losing jobs. But now many scissors manufacturers such as Anis say that demand for their product has gone up by over 50% in the past one and half years. The reasons, they say, include the declining Chinese imports in the wake of the government’s push for AatmaNirbhar Bharat mission, and also the fact that millions of Indians decided to shun barbers and cut their own hair during the Covid-19 induced lockdown. “After the first lockdown last year, the demand for hair-cutting scissors went up five times and the factories here worked day and night for months and still could not meet the demand. This sudden spike did not come from barbers but common people who were not ready to visit their neighbourhood salons because of the fear of catching the infection,” says Tanseer Saifi, who runs Shalimar Scissors Company. “Before the pandemic, I was making 100 scissors a day, now I was making about 200 on an average,” says Abid Hussain, who runs Mission Scissors.But in Meerut, India’s largest scissors manufacturing hub, no one talks about scissors with greater passion than Anis. His forefathers, he says, introduced scissors making in Meerut in the 1750s. His late father, Rais Ahmed, was a local celebrity, whose hand-made scissors were much in demand not just in India but also in west Asia. He pulls out a catalogue -cum-price list from 1896 of General Scissors Factory set up by his great-great grandfather. “Even in those days, we used to be very professional and sent these lists to traders in India and abroad,” says the soft-spoken Anis, showing us several letters from the 1950s and the 1960s from west Asian countries such as Saudi Arabia. “Most well-known tailors in India have also been using our scissors for decades. In fact, some of them have been using the same scissors; when their blades blunt, they courier them to us for sharpening. Chinese scissors are only better in look, they do not cut with the same finesse and are not as durable as ours.” Bobby Grover of Grover Tailors in Khan Market says his tailoring shop has been using Meerut scissors since the 1960s . What makes them special, he says is their cutting edge and their durability. “There are pairs of Meerut scissors that we have been using for 30 years. We just sharpen them from time to time,” says Grover whose shop has tailored suits for former US presidents Bill Clinton and George W Bush when they were visiting India.“The handles of these scissors are so well designed that they hardly leave marks on your hands even after decades of use,” he said. Meerut produces a vast variety of scissors -- tailor scissors, barber scissors, paper, hardening and wire cutting scissors, among others, and they all are made manually with the help of basic cutting, grinding, drilling and polishing machines. Each type has specific blades, weight and length, and is either tapered or blunt-tipped, depending on its use. The size varies, from six inches to 14 inches, and a pair of Meerut scissors are sold at anything between Rs.80 to Rs.2,500 depending on the size. The scissors are made of carbon steel sourced from scrap metal found in cars, buses, trucks and railways, and are plated with nickel or chromium to make them rust-proof. Meerut’s scissors are known for their strength, sharpness, smoothness and durability, says Anis. “It is the meticulous handwork that makes Meerut’s scissors far superior to mass-produced Chinese ones.Not just top tailors , but also barbers across the country use or have used our scissors,” says Anis. “Unlike Chinese scissors, ours can be repaired and reused for decades. All they require is sharpening, ” says Chaman, his brother. The scissors industry in Meerut has about 400 units and employs over 60,000 craftsmen. Manufacturers will tell you that making scissors is an art involving several artisans. “A pair of scissors is made in 14 steps and pass through at least 20 people, each person with expertise in a different processes such as cutting, welding, sharpening, polishing,” says Abdul Aziz, a contract manufactures of scissors. “My orders have doubled compared to pre-pandemic days. A lot of our artisans turned rickshaw pullers and daily-wage labourers because of lack of work. But now with demand for Meerut scissors increasing, many of them are returning to their old vocation. During the pandemic, it has been proved that if we curb the Chinese imports, it can really help boost demand for domestic manufacturing,” adds Aziz. In 2013, Meerut scissors made the cut for Geographical Indication tag (GI), which is a sign used on products that have a specific geographical origin and possess qualities or a reputation that are due to that origin. Abdullah Saeed of M Saeed Scissors Works, says that there is a need for Meerut to modernize its manufacturing processes. “After initial gains during the pandemic and anti-Chinese sentiments, Chinese scissors are again making a comeback slowly. So, ultimately we would have learn to compete with Chinese products and that would not be possible unless we adopt technology and move from manual to machine manufacturing,” says Saeed. In 2009, the government decided to set up a common facility centre (CFC) with the latest machines to help local scissors manufacturers adopt the technology. “Nothing has come out of it so far,” says Saeed. “The rising cost of raw material and high GST will soon undo the gains we have made during the pandemic. I am hoping against hope that the scissors industry’s good times are not short-lived,” says Tanseer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unlikely-covid-fillip-boosts-famous-scissors-market-in-meerut-101633889040992.html
11-10-2021||Chandigarh||UPSC prelims 2021: Parents allege mismanagement at SCD College||High drama was witnessed at the SCD Government College in Ludhiana, which was one of the centres marked for the UPSC civil services preliminary examination, 2021, on Sunday, as parents demanded cancellation of the centre, accusing authorities of delaying the entry of candidates in the morning shift.Of the 6,590 registered candidates, a total of 5,622 students appeared for the exam in 20 centres of Ludhiana. The exam was held in two shifts -- the morning shift from 9:30 to 11:30 am and the afternoon shift from 2:30pm to 4:30 pm.A few anguished parents even got into an argument with sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal and raised slogans against the administration for the alleged poor management at the centre.As many as 520 candidates appeared for the exam at SCD Government College in the morning shift.Pardeep Kumar, the parent of a candidate from Jalandhar, said, “The authorities were supposed to open the gates at least an hour before the exam. But since the officials were struggling with the final arrangements, they let the candidates in around 9:13am. It takes around 15 minutes for candidates to settle down but the delay on their end caused a lot of mental harassment for our children.”Kumar added that since there were different wings inside the college, many struggled to find their wing according to their roll number, thus leading to more delay. He further alleged that there were no seating plans or roll number sheets displayed at the gates.Ashwani Kumar, another parent from Sirsa, Haryana, said the UPSC should cancel this centre immediately.“It takes around 15 minutes for candidates to fill the OMR sheet before the exam. Since the students were allowed late entry, they took time to settle down and lost out on the extra time to fill the OMR sheet. All other centres allowed entry between 8:30am and 9am,” said Ashwani.SDM Jagdeep said the paper started on time as students were not frisked and were sent directly to exam hall. Meanwhile, parents stopped the official vehicle of Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma, who had reached there to inspect the arrangements for the exam. The DC said, “Parents wanted permission to sit on the ground inside the centre. After their demand was turned down, they made an issue out of it. Proper protocol was followed by the officials,” claimed the DC.When asked if the candidates were allowed to take the exam without being frisked, he said that jammers were installed inside to avoid usage of electronic devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/upsc-prelims-2021-high-drama-at-scd-college-of-ludhiana-as-parents-allege-mismanagement-101633888804128.html
11-10-2021||Delhi||Woman gang-raped at gunpoint in Jewar, suspects on run||A Dalit woman, in her fifties, was allegedly gang-raped by four men at gunpoint near a village in Jewar on Sunday morning, police said.The victim who also sustained multiple injuries was rushed to the district hospital in Noida’s Sector 30 where her condition is now stable, police said. On the basis of the victim’s statements, an FIR has been registered against Mahender, 23, and his three unidentified accomplices under sections 352 (assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation), 376D (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of the SC/ST Act. According to police, Mahender was known to the woman and is from her own village under Jewar police station. A search operation is underway to nab Mahender and other suspects, they said.The woman had gone to trim grasses in the fields in the outskirts of her village where the suspects were already present, said a police official from Jewar police station.“The incident took place between 9.30am and 10.30am. The suspects are addicted to cannabis and would often go around the area to graze his cattle. The suspects took the victim to a secluded place nearby and raped her at gunpoint and fled from the spot after leaving her in a bad condition. But she managed to reach her house which is about 800 metres away from the incident spot,” the official said.Police said that upon receiving the information from the victim’s nephew around 12.30pm, senior police officials reached the spot to get some clues.“Police took the victim to the primary health centre in Jewar for medical treatment, but later she was referred to the district hospital. The victim told police that Mahender of the same village, along with his three friends, raped her at the gunpoint. We are looking for Mahender and the others involved in the crime,” said Umesh Bahadur Singh, station house officer of Jewar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-gang-raped-at-gunpoint-in-jewar-suspects-on-run-101633888500102.html
11-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Police investigators search for more evidences||The police investigators probing the Lakhimpur Kheri case on Sunday visited a fuel pump on Tikunia-Banbirpur road, which is said to be equipped with CCTV cameras and is in close proximity to the violence site, to collect more evidences. The police team’s visit came a day before a local court in Lakhimpur Kheri district hears the police plea seeking custody remand of Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra on Monday, Ashish Mishra was arrested late on Saturday night after which a local court sent him to 14 days’ judicial custody.A police official privy to the investigation said the nine- member committee of investigators headed by deputy inspector general (DIG) Upendra Agarwal tried to establish the sequence of events in connection with the Lakhimpur violence and verify the statements obtained so far on the basis of visuals of CCTV cameras installed at the pump.He said the probe team also visited Banbirpur, the native village of the minister, and recorded statements of several people there.UP Police additional director general (ADG), Law and Order, Prashant Kumar on Sunday said the Lakhimpur police have applied for the custody remand of the main accused Ashish Mishra to interrogate him further about the incident. He said the local court would hear the police petition on the custody remand on Monday. Ashish Mishra was arrested on Saturday after he did not give satisfactory answers to questions, he said.Another police official said Mishra did not clarify his location and presence at the spot when the violence erupted allegedly after his vehicle mowed down four farmers on October 3. He said Ashish Mishra submitted multiple videos and affidavits about his presence in the village, but did not give satisfactory answers about his location between a certain time period — 2.36 pm and 3.40 pm. He said Ashish Mishra’s cell phone was seized and video recording of the entire process was done by the investigation committee.Mishra was arrested after multiple hours of questioning at the crime branch office in reserve police lines at the district headquarters on Saturday.After the main accused was sent to 14 days’ judicial custody, district jail superintendent PP Singh said Ashish Mishra was kept in quarantine barrack number 21, designated for new jail inmates. He said Ashish Mishra was provided all the facilities which are permissible to every prisoner.Earlier on Thursday, ADG Kumar had said the police identified six people as accused –three of them dead in the violence, the two men arrested on Thursday, and Ashish Mishra. Another accused was unidentified. Two of the accused, Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey, were arrested and sent to jail on Thursday.Later, people familiar with the issue said the names of two more people — former Union minister Akhilesh Das’s nephew Ankit Das and one Sumit Jaiswal — also surfaced during the investigation. They said the police are carrying out raids in search of the duo. They said the duo was said to be accompanying Ashish Mishra in an SUV at the time of the incident on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-police-investigators-search-for-more-evidences-101633879619723.html
11-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 450 new Covid cases, one death||Pune: As of Sunday, Pune district has reported 450 new Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.14 million of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,856 deaths and 8,573 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 39,000 doses vaccinated on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 259 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 361,658 and the death toll stood at 6,829 as one more death was reported on the day. Pune city reported 128 new cases which took the progressive count to 518,861 and the death toll stood at 9,179 as no new death was reported on the day. PCMC reported 63 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 267,367 and the toll stood at 3,499 with no more death reported. Pune also saw 39,865 vaccinations on the day as per Co-WIN dashboard on Sunday and in total 11,143,985. Of which 7,369,604 are first doses and 3,747,381 are second doses. A total of 398 sites saw vaccination of which 254 were government centres and 144 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-450-new-covid-cases-one-death-101633878898802.html
