12-10-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar: One more arrested for attack on Dalit family in Rabupura||Police have arrested the fourth suspect in connection with the attack on a Dalit family in Rabupura in Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday, officials said on Tuesday. The 25-year-old suspect -- identified as Vikas Singh -- is a resident of Kanpur village in Rabupura.Three more suspects were arrested in the case on Monday.A group of people had attacked the Dalit family on Sunday over playing DJ music and carrying out a procession in Kanpur village, said Dinesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Rabupura police station.“Seven persons were injured in the attack. A group of people had barged into the house of the victim, 40, his wife, 38, and two sons aged 18 and 20 received severe injuries and the woman was also molested by the suspects. They were admitted to a hospital,” Kumar said.A case was registered against a few persons -- 10 named and others unidentified persons -- under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 147 (rioting), 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (sexual harassment), and 506 (criminal intimidation), and SC/ST Act Section 3(1) on Sunday, Kumar added.A police team has been deployed in the village to maintain law and order, officials said.Police conducted a search and arrested three suspects -- Raj Kumar (52), Manish Kumar (30), and Sumit (28) -- from Kanpur on Monday, Kumar said. “Police arrested Vikas Singh from his home on Tuesday, and produced him before a court and sent him to judicial custody,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-one-more-arrested-for-attack-on-dalit-family-in-rabupura-101634062879383.html
12-10-2021||Noida||Loni’s air quality monitoring station may be relocated to city forest||Officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation are planning to relocate the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station (CAAQMS) at Loni to the city forest area in Ghaziabad. They said that the CAAQMS at Loni has been recording very poor/severe air quality index (AQI) readings, which is affecting the overall AQI reading of Ghaziabad and may, in turn, also affect their performance-based grants accorded by the Fifteenth Finance Commission for air quality improvement.Ghaziabad, currently, has four CAAQMS systems at Vasundhara, Loni, Sanjay Nagar, and Indirapuram. According to official records of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the monitoring station at Loni recorded the highest levels of PM2.5 and PM10 among all four stations during the years 2019 and 2020.Official CPCB records indicate that the annual average PM2.5 reading recorded by the monitoring station at Loni was 121.03 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) in 2019--the second-highest among all four stations--and 122.07mpcm in 2020--the highest among all four stations.Likewise, the annual average PM10 level recorded by the monitoring station at Loni was 263.22mpcm in 2019--the highest among all four stations-- and 233.98mpcm in 2020--also the highest among all four stations.The standard reading for PM2.5 is 60mpcm, and for PM10 it is 100mpcm.“The Loni station does not portray an accurate picture, as its AQI readings are added to the readings from the three other stations. Loni is anyway out of the jurisdiction of the corporation area. So, we have planned to relocate the monitoring station at Loni to the city forest at Karhera,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.Once relocated, the monitoring station will be installed about 14km away from Loni in the clean surroundings of the city forest, which is near the Hindon river.The city forest is managed by the Ghaziabad development authority (GDA), while the corporation is the custodian of the 100-acre land on which the forest is located.“For the past several years, the city’s AQI reading has been impacted by the high readings of the Loni monitoring station and it will, in the long term, affect our performance-based grants allotted by the Fifteenth Finance Commission. So, we are taking the necessary steps. We have received approval for relocation from the state officials and now we have sought permission from GDA to install the station,” Tanwar said, adding that the works for relocation are likely to be completed within a month.Another station whose location is leading to high readings is the one at Sanjay Nagar. Corporation officials said that they are also considering relocating it elsewhere.Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that once the monitoring station at Loni is relocated, they will start monitoring AQI manually in the area.“The Loni station’s readings remain high because there are bad roads, regular construction activities and even garbage burning and illegal factories in the area. Once we relocate the station, we will start manually monitoring the AQI at Loni. In the next financial year, when more funds are allotted, an online CAAQMS will be installed in Loni and its readings will be recorded separately in the CPCB’s daily AQI bulletin,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB.However, environmentalists said that the relocation of the monitoring station is the administration’s attempt to conceal the true picture of air pollution in the city.“It seems that the measure has been taken only with the aim to get funds. Loni is a part of the Ghaziabad district and its citizens have the right to clean air if the readings are poor. Instead of relocating the station, the administration should make efforts to lower pollution. Further, relocating the monitoring station to a green area will give low readings. This will conceal the true picture of the city as a whole,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and lawyer.Sushil Raghav, another environmentalist, said that if relocation goes through, he will challenge the decision before a court.“In case they relocate the monitoring station, we will challenge it in a court. Instead, the city should have more monitoring stations, like in Delhi, so that the correct picture can be ascertained. If there is no CAAQMS in Loni, then real-time figures will not be available and Loni residents will continue to suffer due to bad air,” Raghav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/lonis-air-quality-monitoring-station-may-be-relocated-to-city-forest-101634062759230.html
12-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Gautam Buddha University prepares to resume in-person classes from October 25||The Gautam Buddha University (GBU) in Greater Noida is set to resume in-person classes from October 25. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Meerut divisional commissioner Surendra Singh who took additional charge of the university’s vice-chancellor on Tuesday. Around 4,500 students of GBU are presently taking online classes. The offline classes at the university have remained suspended since March 2020 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The varsity had briefly opened its campus in March this year but it had to shut down again on account of the second wave of the pandemic. “The normalcy is returning to the city since a significant population has been vaccinated. We are of the opinion that the university should also open so that the academic studies are streamlined,” Singh, 42, said. The new vice-chancellor inspected different departments of the varsity and directed the officials to plan for offline studies from October 25. “The university will give additional 15 days for the first-year students to report to the campus. The health department will organise a vaccination camp for the students and the staff from October 23,” he said. Singh has succeeded Prof BP Sharma, who retired on October 9. The new vice-chancellor said that the admission in this academic session is going on.Officials said that the hostels will also open for the students soon. There are nearly 5,000 rooms in 12 boys’ and six girls’ hostels in the university. AK Singh, director (international relations), GBU, said the university also attracts a significant number of international students from countries such as Vietnam, South Korea, Canada, Myanmar, Magnolia, Nepal, Yemen, Afghanistan, and Bangladesh. “There are around 200 foreign students enrolled in different programmes. They are presently in their respective countries. We will inform them to join the offline classes,” he said. The university offers 124 academic programmes in technology, management, engineering, law, humanity, cyber security, business analytics, data science, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-gautam-buddha-university-prepares-to-resume-in-person-classes-from-october-25-101634062699817.html
12-10-2021||Noida||Dengue cases cross 500-mark in Ghaziabad||With 33 new dengue cases recorded in the district on Tuesday, the tally of such cases has crossed the 500-mark, according to figures of the district health department. Of the total cases, 221 have been reported in October so far, the data showed. Till Tuesday evening, Ghaziabad had a total of 533 dengue cases. Officials of the district health department said that they are keeping a close watch on number of cases and taking every possible measure to tackle the dengue outbreak. “We have about 75 rapid response teams working for control of dengue and more can be roped in if cases continue to rise. However, no death due to dengue has been reported as yet,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. The last time the district recorded death due to dengue was in 2016 when 621 cases emerged. According to official records, the district recorded 928 cases and two deaths in 2014, and 413 cases with one death in 2015. According to the officials, 22 dengue patients are currently admitted in government facilities while 57 are in private hospitals. “The cases of dengue are coming in at a rapid pace and it is expected to decline after the Deewali festival. This year the count has shot up due to frequent heavy rains which resulted in waterlogging in many areas,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). This year, the first dengue case was detected in Ghaziabad on September 1. The district recorded the first 100 cases on September 15 in a span of 15 days and the next 100 cases came in another nine days on September 24. The next 100 cases were reported in six days on September 30. On October 6, the district recorded another 100 cases and crossed the figure of 400 in six days while next 100 cases were recorded in five days with tally at 500 on October 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dengue-cases-cross-500-mark-in-ghaziabad-101634062644816.html
12-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Land worth ₹100 crore freed up in Dasna||Nearly three decades after it was encroached upon, officials of the Dasna Nagar Palika, with the help from the local police, on Monday freed up nine acres of land worth about ₹100 crore. The officials said that encroachers who belong to nomadic tribes had illegally occupied the land meant for burial. The officials said they had to face stiff resistance from the encroachers. “They (encroachers) set afire several shanties and then threw some LPG cylinders in the fire. However, our staff pulled out the LPG cylinders from the fire. It has been about five times during the past decade that our teams tried to drive them away but each time they put up stiff resistance,” said Manoj Kumar, executive officer of Dasna Nagar Palika. Kumar said that when the municipality staff were sent to announce the demolition drive on October 7, the encroachers threatened them of dire consequences. He also said that during previous drives, the encroachers untied their monkeys and horses and the municipality teams had to make hasty retreat. “We got two FIRs lodged against them in 2017 and 2018. Due to the encroachment, it was not possible to bury a body on the land. So, we decided to take help from police and got the encroachment removed,” Kumar added. The officials said that they will now level up the land and erect a proper boundary wall. They added that the cost of land, valued at around ₹100 crore, could be much higher as the rates have shot up after the construction of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway. “The land in question was freed up by teams of administrative officials, along with police personnel. We have not received a complaint against the encroachers from the officials as yet,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).Shahid Ahmad, head of the nomadic group, denied allegations that members of his group attacked the teams which arrived for freeing up the land. “We have been staying on this land for about 40 years now. The team of officials drove us out of the land and pulled down our shanties. We have never been violent with anyone. Our houses have been razed and we have nowhere to go now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-land-worth-100-crore-freed-up-in-dasna-101634062640893.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Cong leader gets show cause for making viral poster welcoming Varun to party||PRAYAGRAJ: A poster bearing photographs of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and BJP MP from Pilibhit Varun Gandhi, welcoming the latter to the Congress, has gone viral on social media here. The poster carrying the message “Suswagatam! Dukh bhare din beete re bhaiya, ab sukh aayo re…” (Most welcome! Sad days have passed brother, happy days are here...) in Hindi also bears photographs of two local Congress leaders, including city Congress committee secretary, Prayagraj Irshad Ullah and former president of city Congress committee Abhay Awasthi. Even as the poster attracted a lot of attention on social media, Irshad Ullah was served a show cause notice on Tuesday and now faces possible action if the party remains dissatisfied with his reply over allegedly making the poster viral on social media platforms. The viral poster comes close on the heels of BJP leaders Varun Gandhi and Maneka Gandhi being dropped from the 80-member National Executive of the BJP within days of Varun Gandhi’s tweets on Lakhimpur Kheri violence. The notice to Irshad Ullah has been served by Pradeep Narayan Dwivedi, vice-president (administration) of the city Congress committee, Prayagraj , seeking a reply within 24 hours. In the notice sent to Irshad, it has been said that on October 12, the poster was released by him on the Internet and social media with the message welcoming BJP leader Varun Gandhi in the Congress along with his picture and the photographs of Congress national president Sonia Gandhi. The notice goes on to claim that his continuous actions were damaging the image of the party while warning that if his reply was not satisfactpory, he could be dismissed from all posts and responsibilities given by the party and also expelled, said city Congress committee, Prayagraj president Nafees Anwar. He said that the act of Irshad Ullah fell under the category of indiscipline and the party would take a decision on it after going through his reply to the notice. Congress leader Abhay Awasthi distanced himself from the poster, maintaining that he neither made the poster nor shared it. He said that it was now the responsibility of the city Congress committee to look into the incident and take a decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-leader-gets-show-cause-for-making-viral-poster-welcoming-varun-to-party-101634062519481.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls: Mandi and its tryst with the blue blood||Mandi parliamentary constituency, the second largest in the country in geographical terms, truly has been described as a ‘Battlefield of Royals’. Mandi’s tryst with the blue blood began right from the first election post-Independence when Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, daughter of King Harnam Singh and scion of the princely state of Kapurthala, was elected from Mandi in 1952 general polls. In 1957, it was a high-stake battle when the eighth ruler of Mandi and Congress candidate Joginder Sen Bahadur defeated another royal and Independent candidate Anand Chand, the scion of the erstwhile Bilaspur state.It was represented by Congress leader and erstwhile ruler of Suket princely state Lalit Sen for two consecutive terms in 1962 and 1967.In 1971, Virbhadra Singh, the scion of Bushahr princely state, was elected from Mandi, who later went on to become the chief minister of Himachal and tallest political figure in the state politics. The first commoner to win the election from Mandi was Janata Party’s Ganga Singh, who defeated Virbhadra Singh in 1977 amid anti-Congress sentiments. However, Virbhadra returned in 1980 after the fall of the Janata Party’s government.The first-ever election with no royal in fray from Mandi was held in 1984 when Congress veteran Sukh Ram defeated BJP’s Madhukar. However, in 1989, a royal again stepped into the poll arena, this time from the BJP. Maheshwar Singh, a scion of the Kullu royal family, won the election.In the next election in 1991, Sukh Ram defeated Maheshwar while in 1996 it was again a contest between two non-royals and Sukh Ram retained the seat.Two royals, Maheshwar Singh and Pratibha Singh, wife of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, locked horns in another high-stake battle in 1998 in which the former emerged victorious. In 1999, Maheshwar Singh defeated Congress’ Kaul Singh.Five years later, Maheshwar was defeated by Pratibha while in 2009, Virbhadra returned to represent the constituency. Pratibha returned as Mandi MP in the 2013 byelection after her husband vacated the seat to become the chief minister of Himachal. Riding on the Narendra Modi wave, Ramswaroop Sharma defeated Pratibha in the 2014 elections. Sharma retained the seat in 2019 defeating Sukh Ram’s grandson Aashray Sharma. War veteran slugs it out against a royalHowever, Mandi’s association with the royals is yet not over as Pratibha is back in the poll fray. BJP candidate and a Kargil war veteran, Khushal Singh Thakur, would slug it out against her in an election wherein emotions are likely to eclipse the political issue. The Congress is seeking votes in the name of Virbhadra, who passed away in July, and hopes to cash in on the sympathy wave.All odds are stacked against the BJP. The election would be a litmus test for chief minister Jai Ram Thakur for Mandi being his home turf. It would also be a reality check of his popularity.Farmers of Balh, the most fertile valley in Himachal, are already angry with the state government over the issue of a proposed international airport. There also prevail anti-BJP sentiments among the people affected by the Chandigarh-Manali four-lane project. Interestingly, BJP nominee Khushal led their movement for compensation, but he abandoned the cause once the BJP came to power and chose to become chairperson of ex-servicemen corporation.Lack of development is one issues where both the parties have failed. Mandi comprises remote and tribal areas of Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti, Bharmour and Pangi which are still underdeveloped with poor connectivity. The villages along the China border, particularly in tribal Lahaul and Spiti and Kinnaur districts, still lack proper roads, water supply and schools. The majority of the population in the border villages have migrated to the semi-urban and urban areas for better future prospects. Himachal shares a 260km porous border with China. Of the total border length, 140km lies along tribal Kinnaur district, while 80km of the border is along Lahaul and Spiti district. Though the state’s border with China remains peaceful, the fast pace of development in neighbouring country has been a matter of concern for the government. China is continuously strengthening its infrastructure and constructing new roads along the border, particularly in the sensitive Kaurik sector in the Kinnaur district.Himachal will strengthen its basic infrastructure in different phases under the border area development programme. The government would spend more funds on the development in 76 villages that lie within a close range from the international border. Tattered health and educational services compound the problems for the people. While the electors in the last election voted in favour of the BJP, which had promised to eliminate all their troubles, that promise has not been fulfilled. Anti-incumbency against the state government may also hurt the saffron party dearly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypolls-mandi-and-its-tryst-with-the-blue-blood-101634062279324.html
12-10-2021||Bhopal||Row over meeting to ‘increase’ liquor consumption in Madhya Pradesh||The commercial tax department of Madhya Pradesh had to cancel a proposed meeting on “increasing the consumption of liquor” in the state after a controversy erupted, with the Congress pointing out that the state government had promised to make the state “liquor free.” In February, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that he wants to make Madhya Pradesh a liquor-free state which will be done by running a campaign to stop people from consuming alcohol. A circular was issued on Monday in which the deputy secretary of the commercial tax department called a meeting of commissioners and deputy commissioners of the excise department through video conference on Tuesday. The circular read “madira khapat mein vriddhi hetu baithak (meeting on increasing the consumption of liquor)”. However, the department cancelled the meeting after the controversy erupted. Excise department commissioner Rajeev Dubey called it a normal meeting to discuss the status of revenue through liquor and said that it couldn’t take place because of other scheduled meetings. An officer of the excise department, requesting anonymity, said, “The meeting was called as the tax collection from liquor sale has been decreased by 10% after the MP Excise (Amendment) Act came into force. Now, a shopkeeper has to give a bill on the purchase of any liquor but they are selling liquor without a bill. Black marketing is rampant and the meeting was called to discuss how to crack down on this black marketing.” Dubey also accepted that there was a dip in the sale of liquor in MP. He said, “Like slow-down in the sale of many other products, the sale of liquor has also dipped due to Covid-19 but it doesn’t mean that we were going to make a policy decision to increase the consumption. It was a routine meeting which happened every week to discuss income and consumption rate.” However, the opposition launched an attack on the BJP-led state government for fooling people. Congress senior leader and MLA Govind Singh said, “The state government and BJP leaders are staging the drama of putting a ban on liquor in MP but in reality they want more people to start consuming alcohol. The government has nothing to do with people and their health, they are focussing on minting money only.” BJP spokesperson Hitesh Vajpayee said the circular had a typo. “The meeting was called to discuss the consumption rate of liquor in MP not to increase the consumption but opposition leaders, who don’t have any issue to raise, are taking advantage of a typing error.” After Gujarat and Bihar, the MP government was also planning to prohibit the sale of liquor in a phased manner. In 2017, the MP government shut 58 liquor shops located within 5 kilometres of the Narmada river. However, the state government changed its stand in 2018 and the then finance minister Jayant Malaiya said the ban of liquor would decrease the revenue and it will affect many people-centric schemes. But the matter again came to light in February this year when the former chief minister and BJP senior leader Uma Bharti announced to hold a campaign against the consumption of alcohol and CM Chouhan also announced in Katni that a campaign will be run to stop people from consuming alcohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/row-over-meeting-to-increase-liquor-consumption-in-madhya-pradesh-101634062040961.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Dengue fever raging in Meerut, 750 afflicted in past 55 days||MEERUT Dengue is raging in the district, with over 750 people having been diagnosed with the fever in the past 55 days. Multiple localities in urban and rural areas have emerged as dengue hotspots. On Tuesday, 33 new cases of dengue fever were identified in the district, which led to a total of 254 cases in rural and urban areas. Out of these, 142 patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals. As many as 502 patients out of the total 750 have recovered. The first dengue patient was detected in the district on August 18 and the number soon swelled to 750 by October 11. Localities like Maliyana, Kankerkhera, Jai Bheem nagar, Sabungodam and Rajban has emerged as hotspots of dengue in city area, while in rural area majority of the cases were detected in Rohta , Mawana , Jani , Daurala and Saroorpur . Divisional surveillance officer Dr Ashok Taliyan claimed that anti-larva spray and fogging were being done. Teams were also conducting home surveys to ensure there was no stagnant water in containers, flower pots and other vessels, because dengue mosquitoes breed in stagnant water. He said that notices had also been issued to people in houses where larvae of dengue mosquitoes were found. Dr. Taliyan shared that the best possible way to ward off dengue was that people should not allow stagnation of water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dengue-fever-raging-in-meerut-750-afflicted-in-past-55-days-101634061860835.html
12-10-2021||Gurugram||Plantation: Around 500K saplings planted this monsoon, says admin||Around 500,000 saplings were planted across the district this monsoon, the district administration said on Monday. Officials said that different agencies, including the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and forest department, had collectively targeted to plant 425,000 saplings this year, but managed to exceed it.The information was shared with the state government by deputy commissioner Yash Garg during a review meeting of activities carried out under Jal Shakti Abhiyan in the district. The meeting was chaired by Devender Singh, the additional chief secretary of the state irrigation and water resources department.“A target of construction of rainwater harvesting structures at 2,113 places had been set in Gurugram district, out of which construction work has been completed at 1,900 places. Along with this, 21 places were identified for renovation of traditional and other water bodies and water tanks, out of which renovation work has been completed at 18 places. This time more, than 500,000 saplings have also been planted in the district to promote rainwater harvesting,” Garg said in the meeting. Further, 98 old wells were identified in the district for water harvesting, out of which 68 wells are being renovated. Along with this, 35 watersheds have also been developed in the district, Garg said. Singh said, “In Gurugram, work has been done prominently on six points of the above campaign, which include water conservation and rainwater harvesting, restoration of traditional reservoirs and tanks, reuse of old wells and borewells and recharge structures, development of watersheds, plantation and organiaing Krishi Vigyan Kendra Mela.” He said that all the districts should make efforts to complete the pending works at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/plantation-around-500k-saplings-planted-this-monsoon-says-admin-101634061803924.html
12-10-2021||Gurugram||Colony transfer: MCG sets developer Dec 31 deadline for fixing infra in DLF 1, 2 and 3||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) set a deadline of December 31 for DLF, the developer of DLF Phases 1, 2 and 3, to complete work on the remaining civic deficiencies and hand them over to the civic body.Officials said that the deadline was set in a review meeting between MCG officials and DLF at the civic body’s Sector 34 office on Tuesday. The takeover of the three colonies has been pending since February 2016.“A review meeting was held with DLF regarding DLF Phases 1, 2 and 3. DLF had decided to fix all deficiencies instead of paying the MCG for doing so and handing over the colonies with immediate effect. DLF is yet to fix the existing civic deficiencies and they were directed in Tuesday’s meeting to complete them at the earliest,” Vivek Gill, superintending engineer (SE), MCG, said.Gill said that DLF had sought time till March 31, 2022, to fix the civic deficiencies in the three colonies. “We did not approve DLF’s March deadline and instead have given them a stern direction to complete the task by December 31. DLF officials also agreed to this,” Gill said.Representative of DLF did not respond to requests for comment.Gill said that Rama Rathee and Kusum Yadav, respective councillors of wards 34 and 35, in the meeting requested the MCG to start taking up civic amenities in the three colonies other than those that are yet to be fixed.Before taking over privately developed colonies, MCG carries out a deficiency assessment survey to check if the civic amenities, as listed by the developer at the time of procuring building plans, have been completed and if the condition of the existing amenities is optimum.Each DPR contains details of the amenities found to be missing or in poor condition during an MCG survey.According to MCG’s 2017 deficiency assessment report, ₹14.12 crore was required to fix civic deficiencies in DLF Phase-1, ₹9.43 crore for DLF Phase-2 and ₹11.89 crore for DLF Phase-3.“The two councillors requested us to take up civic work besides those mentioned in the DPR. We will be taking up this matter with MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar this week. If the MCG commissioner gives approval, we will immediately start offering civic services in the three colonies,” Gill said.MCG chief engineer, TL Sharma, said, “Civic services that are not under the purview of DLF will be started by the MCG in the three colonies.”During a House meeting on Monday, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja had directed Sharma to start the formalities of the takeover process from Tuesday. Sharma said that providing additional services in the three colonies was also a part of this direction.According to a senior MCG official who attended the meeting, the repair and upgrade of most civic deficiencies in the three colonies have been completed by the developer. “DLF officials disclosed during the meeting that work on most deficiencies has been completed; only around 30% of all road projects are left, along with few minor works in horticulture, sewerage, and water supply,” the official said, requesting not to be named.According to Rathee, work on renovating roads of G Block in DLF Phase-1, J and L blocks in DLF Phase-2 are among the pending works.Both Sharma and Gill said that another review meeting will be held within the next 15 days with DLF, under the chairmanship of the MCG commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/colony-transfer-mcg-sets-developer-dec-31-deadline-for-fixing-infra-in-dlf-1-2-and-3-101634061802832.html
12-10-2021||Gurugram||SGT University shooting: Students seek police action, arrest of accused||Students of the SGT University in Budhera held a condolence meeting at the campus on Tuesday, four days after a 24-year-old student was murdered on the campus, demanding the arrest of a fellow student and three others who were allegedly behind the shooting. The victim, Vineet Kumar, was a 24-year-old student pursuing a BAMS (bachelor of ayurvedic medicine and surgery) degree and was allegedly shot dead by Lucky, a law student of the university, on October 8 over a personal rivalry. A case of murder was registered against the main accused and his three accomplices at the Rajendra Park police station, but no arrests have been made in the case so far.According to SGT University officials, the students on Tuesday demanded answers from the police on the latest developments in the matter. Subsequently, they called the Gurugram police to the campus.“A group of students held a condolence meeting inside the campus. The students wanted to know more about the police investigation. A team of Gurugram police came to the campus and assured students that they were investigating the matter,” Rajneesh Yadav, public relations officer (PRO), SGT University, said.Yadav said that the university has beefed up security since the incident, allowing only people with identification cards on the campus, setting up barricades at various entry and exit points and installing CCTV cameras across. Subhash Boken, PRO, Gurugram police, said, “No arrests have been made so far in the case. Investigations are ongoing. A team of police had gone to the SGT University.” Students had held a condolence meeting on the campus on Saturday also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sgt-university-shooting-students-seek-police-action-arrest-of-accused-101634061801404.html
12-10-2021||Gurugram||HSVP clears encroachments from road connecting Rampura Chowk, Pataudi Road on NH-48||An enforcement team of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Tuesday cleared encroachments from Sector 81/82A Road, on the stretch connecting Rampura Chowk on National Highway-48 with Pataudi Road.Officials said that 150 metres of the road was cleared and 20 illegal structures removed, while a few structures were not removed due to ongoing court cases. The road is currently under construction and once completed, will provide better connectivity to residents.In the drive, which started around 1pm, a car service station, car painting station, building material store, three vegetable vends, a flower shop, three welding shops and two furniture shops were demolished with the help of an earthmoving machine.Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, estate office 1, said, “The demolition drive was carried out in heavy police presence and the violators were warned not to indulge in encroachment again or the department will get FIR registered against them. We had already issued notices to the shop owners and 15 days earlier, they were asked to remove the goods and items from these shops, but they did not do so voluntarily. So, action was taken.”According to HSVP officials, a sizeable area still needs to be cleared as many owners had obtained stay orders from courts against demolition. The team had also planned to carry out a drive on Sector 89/90 Road, but it had to be postponed as some owners had obtained stay orders from courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-clears-encroachments-from-road-connecting-rampura-chowk-pataudi-road-on-nh48-101634061800288.html
12-10-2021||Gurugram||Winter pollution: Grap implementation for air quality to start from Friday||Officials said that a Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to prevent deterioration of air quality during winter will be implemented from October 15, following directions from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Tuesday.The CPCB, in its first meeting on Grap, said that some of the actions under the ‘very poor’ category should commence from October 15 in the National Capital Region (NCR).States and cities in the NCR were suggested to implement 10 measures — stopping coal/firewood use by hotels and open eateries, augmenting bus and Metro services, including frequency of operation, stringent checks on garbage burning in landfills and other places, including the imposition of heavy fines, closing all brick kilns, periodic mechanised sweeping and water sprinkling on roads with heavy traffic and dust generation potential, enforcing PUC [pollution under control] norms and rules for dust control in construction activities, by penalising motorists or impounding vehicles causing pollution and closing non-compliant construction sites, respectively, and deploying traffic police for smooth traffic flow at points vulnerable to jams.According to the minutes of the meeting, the member secretary of CPCB, who chaired the meeting said that “with onset of winters, implementing agencies must intensify efforts to control air polluting activities.”“Sub-committee deliberated on the meteorological conditions and actions under Grap. It was agreed that in addition to actions under ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category, some of the actions under ‘very poor’ category should commence from 15th October, 2021, though the AQI is expected to remain in ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ category,” states the minutes of the meeting.Very poor air quality is recorded when the level of particulate matter having a diameter less than 2.5 microns (PM2.5) is between 121-250 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) or when PM10 level is between 351-430 µg/m3. Under Grap, the use of diesel generator sets is stopped when air quality dips to the very poor category.S Narayanan, the member secretary of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said, “From October 15, Grap is being implemented in NCR districts of the state and the Grap subcommittee on Tuesday decided that measures to tackle deteriorating air quality should be implemented, before it dips to very poor category due to onset of winter and other local sources. Review meetings will keep happening on a regular basis and more directions will be issued in the coming weeks.”In Gurugram, 18 areas have been identified by the state pollution control board as hotspots for vehicular emissions and traffic congestion. These areas include Iffco Chowk, Rajiv Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Vatika Chowk, Delhi-Gurugram border at Sirhaul, among other places.Officials said that action regarding the operation of diesel generator sets will be taken up in the next meeting, given the satisfactory to moderate AQI in NCR cities at present. The date for the next meeting is yet to be decided.A total of 40 departments, including the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran and transport department, among others, will be responsible for the implementation of measures under Grap, under the supervision of the HSPCB.Apart from stopping the use of diesel generator sets, measures like surge in parking fee by three to four times, stopping use of coal or firewood in eateries and urging people with respiratory or cardiac problems to stay inside; are measures implemented when the AQI dips to the very poor category.On Tuesday, Gurugram recorded an AQI of 184 (in moderate category), according to the CPCB’s air quality bulletin, and the primary pollutants were PM 2.5 and PM 10.Meanwhile, light rain is expected on October 17 and 18, due to which the AQI is likely to remain in the moderate or satisfactory category for the next four to five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/winter-pollution-grap-implementation-for-air-quality-to-start-from-friday-101634061799209.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Oppn demo in Kheri a “super flop show”: Minister||Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh termed the much-publicised demonstration by the opposition in Lakhimpur Kheri on Tuesday a “super flop show”.“People are well aware that the opposition is just engaged in spreading fear and lies for their petty political gains. The opposition could gather a handful in the name of “opposition unity”. Their ‘super flop show’ at Lakhimpur today (Tuesday) was another example of the failed conspiracy to put the entire state into a turmoil,” Singh, who is also the state government’s spokesman, said.He alleged that the opposition leaders, desperate to regain their lost political ground, were solely engaged in political stunts instead of helping the people.“None of the locals came out to support the movement. The reason is that every person has witnessed the series of measures taken by the Yogi government in ensuring a fair investigation and justice in the Lakhimpur case,” he said.Targeting Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, he said, “The Congress is using the Lakhimpur Kheri issue to revive itself in the state ahead of polls.”“It is ironic that Priyanka Gandhi, who had been too vocal on the issue lately, was not even allowed to speak. Probably, she also would have been shocked to realise that people in Uttar Pradesh will no longer fall prey to the opposition’s foul play,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/oppn-demo-in-kheri-a-super-flop-show-minister-101634061559539.html
12-10-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 vaccinations: Gurugram achieves 14% of mega drive target on Day 1||The district health department administered over 21,300 doses of Covid-19 vaccines on Tuesday, achieving 14% of its 150,000 target on Day 1 of a three-day statewide mega vaccination drive.The state has an overall target of inoculating 1.8 million people in the three-day days.On Tuesday, a total of 21,388 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district, with 12,360 people being given the first dose and 9,028 people being given the second dose of the vaccines.According to the health department data, over 3.32 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the district. At present, 67% of the eligible population has been given both doses of the Covid-19 vaccines, officials said.“During the festive season, many people in the district are not willing to take the vaccine as they are fasting. Due to this, vaccination pace has been slow in the district over the past few days. We are still trying to mobilise people to come forward and take the vaccines,” Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said.On Wednesday, vaccinations will take place at the 173 sites across the district, officials said. The first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 166 sites and the second dose of Covaxin will be administered at five centres. Sputnik V vaccines will be administered at the Sector 31 polyclinic.On Tuesday, four new cases of Covid-19 were reported, along with seven recoveries.Fever OPD to start at government hospitalsAmid rising cases of viral fever in the district, the chief medical officer on Tuesday, issued an order instructing government hospitals in the district to start fever outpatient departments (OPDs) on their premises from 3pm to 5pm every day, starting Wednesday.Seven new cases of dengue were reported on Tuesday in Gurugram, taking the total to 133 this season.The fever OPDs will be set up at Civil Hospital in Sector 10, subdivisional Civil Hospital in Pataudi, subdivisional Civil Hospital in Sohna and the Sector 31 polyclinic.On weekdays the fever OPD will be functional from 3pm to 5pm, while on weekends and holidays, the OPD will be functional from 10am to 1pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-vaccinations-gurugram-achieves-14-of-mega-drive-target-on-day-1-101634061439215.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Seven UP aspirational dists in top 10 list of delta ranking: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday announced that of the eight aspirational districts in the state seven had figured in the list of top 10 in the national July-August “delta ranking”.Announcing it at the Covid-19 review meeting, he said the seven districts are Fatehpur, Siddharthnagar, Sonbhadra, Chitrakoot, Shravasti and Chandauli.“Delta ranking” is a ranking done by NITI Aayog of all the 112 aspirational districts in the country and the ranking rates incremental progress made by these districts in various development areas.Aspirational districts’ programme was launched in 2018 by the Centre for transforming these districts. Uttar Pradesh has eight districts among the total 112 nationwide. These are Sohbhadra, Shravasti, Fatehpur, Siddharthnagar, Chitrakoot, Chandauli, Balrampur and Bahraich.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/seven-up-aspirational-dists-in-top-10-list-of-delta-ranking-yogi-101634061199139.html
12-10-2021||Noida||Noida police meet RWAs to discuss bolstering security during festive season||Noida police officers met representatives of different residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and other resident organisations to discuss issues and suggest ideas to strengthen security during the ongoing festive season.While residents asked the police to increase their presence on the road and increase motorcycle patrolling, the police, on their part, asked residents to get their tenants’ antecedents verified and install CCTV cameras in and outside their RWA entrance points. The meeting was presided over by the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) central and additional DCP, among other officers, at Bisrakh police station in Greater Noida west.“The meeting was held to discuss ideas to boost security during the festive season. We noted several issues the residents spoke to us about and will be working to resolve them in a few days,” said Ankur Aggarwal, ADCP central.“A few days ago, there were two incidents of snatching Greater Noida West within a day. Just two weeks before that, there were several instances of chain snatching as well. Today (Tuesday) in the meeting, we discussed such issues with the police. The meeting was very important and much needed and we urged them to increase the presence of beat policemen as well as increase bike patrolling. They told us that soon the strength of the district police is set to increase and their presence will also increase,” said Manish Kumar, president, Noida Extension Flat Owners’ Welfare Association (NEFOWA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-meet-rwas-to-discuss-bolstering-security-during-festive-season-101634061079070.html
12-10-2021||Noida||Cops raid illegal firecracker factory in Ghaziabad, seize material worth ₹3 cr||The Ghaziabad police said on Tuesday that they arrested six persons for allegedly operating an illegal fireworks manufacturing factory near the Manan Dham area under the jurisdiction of Madhuban Bapudham police station. They said that the material recovered from the suspects was valued at about ₹3 crore.Police identified the suspects as Ravi Kumar, Sandeep Singh, Akash Singh, Rakesh Kumar, Vishnu Kumar, and Arvind Ram. According to the police, the six suspects were handling the operation of a laboratory and the manufacturing unit at the site.“The premises comprised two sites, one for a laboratory wherein the suspects mixed different chemicals to use for manufacturing firecrackers, and the second as the actual manufacturing unit. The suspects could not produce any valid document permitting them to manufacture fireworks and they were arrested,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1).“The suspects told us that the factory was operated by and supplies distributed among several people, who had allegedly operated a unit at Bawana in Delhi where 17 people died in a fire in 2018. They told us that the suspects obtained bail in the Bawana case and started operating the illegal factory in Ghaziabad. We are ascertaining their roles and our teams will launch searches to arrest them. This factory has been in operation for the past three months,” Agarwal added.Police said three-storeyed building, where 17 people died in a fire in Bawana, was registered as a plastics factory but was illegally used as a unit to package and store firecrackers.Ghaziabad police said that they are on the lookout for Manish Jain, Lalit Goyal, and Tarun Rai in connection with the operation of the illegal factory near Manan Dham.The police said that during the raid, they seized about 16 different-sized drums and plastic cans which contained chemicals, besides 400 cartons of manufactured firecrackers and other different materials and equipment used for their manufacture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cops-raid-illegal-firecracker-factory-in-ghaziabad-seize-material-worth-3-cr-101634060899236.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Manish Sisodia urges Centre to allow Chhath celebrations, says Covid-19 situation in Delhi is ‘under control’||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday wrote a letter to the Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, urging the Centre to issue guidelines for the Chhath festival as soon as possible following consultation with health experts. This came after protests were staged by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers outside Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo Arvind Kejriwal’s house earlier in the day, which even led to party MP Manoj Tiwari sustaining injuries.In the letter, Sisodia wrote that Chhath is celebrated especially by “people from Purvanchal” with “deep faith and sacrifice.” “In is also celebrated very dedicatedly in Delhi every year. This year too Purvanchali people are eagerly awaiting celebrations of Chhath with their families and dear ones,” he added.A statement issued by Sisodia’s office further quoted him as saying that the Covid-19 situation is “under control in Delhi and the central government should allow the celebration of Chhath at public places.”The Delhi deputy CM further mentioned that last year too, Chhath celebrations were done as per “directions of the government of India.” “As you are aware, the whole country, including Delhi, has faced the situation caused by Covid-19 in an unprecedented manner in the past 18 months,” Sisodia wrote in the letter.Notably, Chhath celebrations at public places such as on riverbanks, water bodies and other areas were banned last year and have been prohibited this year as well. On this matter, Kejriwal had earlier said that the decision was made in view of the health and safety of people due to Covid-19.However, BJP has criticised the move by saying that Kejriwal is “insulting” the sentiments of the Purvanchal community. The party’s chief in the national capital Adesh Gupta said on Monday that they will celebrate Chhath while adhering to Covid-19 protocols in all the three municipal corporations.Northeast Delhi MP Tiwari has also been critical of the Kejriwal-led government’s decision to prohibit Chhath celebrations, while permitting Dusshera, Ramleela and other public gatherings during the ongoing festive season.Notably, Tiwari was rushed to the emergency wing of Safdarjung Hospital after he sustained injuries while protesting outside the Kejriwal’s house against the ban on Chhath celebrations at public places. He was reported to be stable after being taken to the hospital.Delhi police used water cannons to disperse protesters, and an officer told Hindustan Times that Tiwari got injured after toppling down from a barricade he had climbed onto.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-writes-to-mandaviya-urges-to-issue-chhath-puja-guidelines-101634060244233.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Investors’ summits: ‘Units set up under 221 MoUs start production’||The industrial units set up under the 221 memoranda of understanding (MoUs) signed for an investment of ₹52,859.586 crore during the investors’ summits held here two-three years ago have started production in the state, according to an information shared in project monitoring group’s meeting chaired by chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari here on Tuesday.“The work on another 141 MoUs that propose an investment of ₹37,272.57 crore is in full swing and work on other 441 MoUs worth ₹75,134.17 crore is also in an advanced stage,” the industry department officials said in the meeting. They told the chief secretary that month-wise targets had been fixed for the execution of MoUs. During the review of the Amritsar-Kolkata industrial Corridor, it was found that 1,139 acres of land had been identified in Prayagraj district and 1,050 acres in Agra for acquisition for the project. It was found that the land acquisition for the proposed Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor was in an advanced stage.The chief secretary also reviewed the progress of the under-construction Sainik School, Gorakhpur, and the Atal residential colleges and directed officials to expedite the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/investors-summits-units-set-up-under-221-mous-start-production-101634060779226.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi to issue QR code-based smart cards for driving licenses, registration certificates, soon. Check details||To make the transport-related transaction hassle free, the Delhi transport department will soon issue QR code-based smart cards for driving licenses and registration certificates, reported news agency PTI. A statement from the Delhi government read that the move was aimed at making Delhi a "hub of innovation in governance".While the new driving licence will have an advanced microchip with features like Quick Response (QR) code and Near Field Communication (NFC), the new registration certificates will have the owner's name printed on the front while the microchip and the QR code would be embedded at the back of the card, according to the statement by the Delhi government."The cards earlier had embedded chips, but there have been issues with reading the information coded into the chip, chip reader machine was not available in required quantity with both the Delhi traffic police and the enforcement wing of the transport department."Moreover, chips were designed and implemented by the states concerned, which resulted in difficulties in reading the chip and retrieving information, especially in case of defaulters," the statement said, explaining the need for the upgrade.The QR-based smart card will enable unification in linking and validating one's information to smart cards with Sarathi and Vahan, the two web-based databases of all driving licenses and vehicle registrations, it added.The QR code is also expected to have an added advantage of acting as a "safety feature" on the smart card."The department will be able to retain records and penalties of the holders of driving licenses for up to 10 years on the VAHAN database as soon as a driver or owner's smart card is confiscated."The new DLs will also help the government in maintaining records of differently-abled drivers, any modifications made to the vehicles, emission standards and the person’s declaration to donate organs," the statement said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-issue-qr-code-based-smart-cards-for-driving-licenses-registration-certificates-soon-check-details-101634060003235.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Hackers spoof email ID of Mumbai cyber police, send malware mail to government offices across India||The government offices in Maharashtra as well other states in the country on Monday received a suspicious email under the subject intelligence report related to terrorists involved in ongoing terror attacks in Jammu and Kashmir. The email, which allegedly contained malware, was reportedly sent from an email account similar to that of a senior inspector of a cyber police station under Mumbai Police.Another police source said that the email was sent with the subject ‘Terrorists behind JK attacks gunned down in Mumbai’. The email had an attached PDF document named ‘Report Intelligence’. On clicking the document user’s computer system got compromised.The email was sent from the email ID: ps.eastcyber.mum@mahapolice.gov.in . This id belongs to the east region cyber police station, and it is in the name of the in-charge of the police station- senior inspector Rajesh Shivajirao Nagawade.Following the incident, the Maharashtra cyber police on Tuesday wrote to all the police commissioners and district police superintendents in the state alerting them.The deputy commissioner of police (DCP), cyber wing, on Tuesday, visited the police station to make further inquiries in the matter.Officials said that the attackers may have done this by hacking the email account or by simply spoofing the email account of the cyber police officer.“Preliminary enquiry has revealed that the email was sent from the Punjab province of Pakistan. But we are not sure if the email in reality was sent from Pakistan, or the cybercriminals used other methods to show it that it is sent from the servers in Pakistan. The investigation is on,” an officer said requesting anonymity.A senior IPS officer said that the cybercrime police station system has nothing to do with it as of now. Experts are still checking if it was malware or something else. In March a ransomware attack was also done on the servers of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), which disrupted the functioning at the MIDC’s head office in Mumbai and 16 other regional offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hackers-spoof-email-id-of-mumbai-cyber-police-send-malware-mail-to-government-offices-across-india-101634060118911.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||‘No power outage in Delhi, AAP ensuring supply via gas-based electricity’: Jain||Delhi's power minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said there have been no power cuts in the national capital despite a crisis as the Arvind Kejriwal government is ensuring round-the-clock supply through electricity generation from gas at much higher rates.Speaking to news agency PTI, Jain said the city buys electricity from coal-based power plants in neighbouring states, but these states are unable to generate electricity due to coal crunch.The power minister further claimed that the National Thermal Power Corporation Limited (NTPC) has to provide 3,500MW power to Delhi under the purchase agreement, but it is giving only 1,750MW which is half of the agreement.ALSO READ | Central govt orders power firms to boost supply to DelhiThe NTPC, however, clarified that it was providing required power to Delhi although city discoms have been scheduling only 70% of the electricity."NTPC has been making available required #power for Delhi. As the data shows (1st October to 11th October), Delhi DISCOMs have been scheduling only 70% of power that has been made available by NTPC," the thermal power producer said in a tweet.Jain said all coal-based power plants in Delhi are non-functional and that the BJP was spreading "rumours" about the same.He said the national capital has gas-powered electric power plants, but the Centre has stopped giving gas to the city at a controlled rate. Thus, the Delhi government has to buy gas at market rates to generate electricity, he added."This has increased the cost of power generation to the Delhi government. Despite this, there has been no power cut in the city and the AAP government is ensuring 24×7 electricity to the people,” the minister asserted.ALSO READ | ‘No shortage of coal? But power plants are shutting’: Baghel counters CentreHe also asked the Centre whether there is really a coal shortage in the country or is it "deliberately" cutting power.Last week, Jain had warned residents of an acute coal shortage in thermal power plants across the country and cautioned that the national capital had enough coal stocks to last one more day.He said chief ministers of around six states have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the issue.“Be it Punjab, Andhra Pradesh or Uttar Pradesh, power cuts are being imposed everywhere in the country except Delhi,” Jain added.However, Union minister RK Singh refuted these claims insisting that the demand for coal is actually a sign of the economy recovering after the brutal second wave brought things to a standstill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-power-outage-in-delhi-aap-ensuring-supply-via-gas-based-electricity-jain-101634058903982.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur case: Kheri police takes Ashish Mishra’s custody||The Lakhimpur police on Tuesday took custody of Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the FIR lodged in connection with the October 3 Kheri violence in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed, for further interrogation, said senior police officials.They said Ashish’s accomplice and former union minister the late Akhilesh Das’s nephew Ankit Das, whose name has surfaced in the case, also filed his surrender application in a local court during the day.The officials said the police, however, arrested Ankit Das’s driver Shekhar Bharati who reportedly was driving the black car behind Mishra’s car that allegedly mowed down four farmers that led to violence in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Tikunia. Four others, including journalist Raman Kashyap, Mishra’s driver Hari Om Mishra and two BJP workers Shyam Sunder and Shubham Mishra, were later killed during the violence.So far, the police have arrested four accused, including the Union MoS’s son, his two accomplices Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey besides Ankit Das’s driver Shekhar Bharati, in connection with FIR lodged for mowing down the farmers. The police claimed that three other accused, including Mishra’s driver and two BJP workers, were killed during the violence.Earlier in the day, the police took Ashish Mishra to the crime branch office at reserve police lines in Lakhimpur Kheri for interrogation. Senior prosecution officer SP Yadav on Monday told reporters that a local court in Kheri had allowed his three-day police custody starting on Tuesday morning. The court has put the condition that Ashish Mishra would not be harassed and his lawyer would remain present at a certain distance during interrogation.Ashish Mishra was earlier questioned for 12 hours by the investigation team headed by deputy inspector general Upendra Agarwal before his arrest on Saturday. Elaborate security arrangements had been made in and around the police lines, Yadav added.Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Kheri on October 3. Ashish Mishra, 35, looks after the political activities of his father in his Kheri parliamentary constituency and was also vying for party ticket from Kheri’s Nighasan assembly seat to contest polls. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-case-kheri-police-takes-ashish-mishra-s-custody-101634060059565.html
12-10-2021||Noida||Emerald Court: CBRI team visits twin towers facing demolition||A team from the Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), along with a group of experts and Noida authority’s senior officials, on Tuesday visited the Supertech’s Emerald Court project in Noida’s Sector 93A. The three-member team from the Roorkee-based institute inspected the 40-storey twin towers in the project, whose demolition was ordered by the Supreme Court on August 31.The CBRI team that spent more than an hour at the site was also accompanied by a group of residents living in the towers adjacent to the twin towers. Later, the team discussed the demolition-related issues at length with the Noida authority’s top officials, including town planners from the planning department.According to authority officials, the CBRI team discussed impact of demolition on nearby towers and methodology related with the demolition work. The Emerald Court project has 15 11-storey towers which were built in the first phase of the project. About 650 families are living in these 15 towers, the officials said. The second phase of the project consists of two under-construction towers which have to be demolished. The officials said that of the 633 people who booked flats in the second phase, 133 have shifted to other projects and 248 have already taken refunds, while 252 homebuyers still have bookings with the company in the project. The apex court has directed to refund money of all remaining buyers with 12% interest. “The CBRI team visited the site and then discussed the issues related with demolition with us. We have also discussed the matter with the Supertech Limited that has to hire an agency for the demolition of twin towers. According to the court’s order, we have to provide the technical support in the task,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.In its order, the apex court had said that the CBRI and the Noida authority will supervise the demolition of the twin towers built in violation of the building bylaws.The CBRI has also suggested that a committee should be formed consisting of experts having experience in construction and demolition. The experts from state-owned National Building Construction Corporation and other agencies will be roped in for the job, the officials said.“We have formed an internal committee that will supervise the demolition work. We hope that Supertech will hire an agency for the purpose in the next 10 days,” said Maheshwari.The developer also carried out a survey at the site on Tuesday and it will do the same again on Wednesday to understand how the job can be done in a manner so that it does not affect the adjoining towers, the officials said.“We will discuss this issue again on Thursday and then decide the future course of action on the matter,” said Maheshwari. Supertech officials were not available for comment on the issue.The Supreme Court on August 31 said that the violation was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida authority and the real estate developer”.The issue was first taken to the Allahabad high court in 2012 by the Emerald Court residents’ welfare association claiming that several rules were violated in constructing the two 40-storey towers -- Apex and Ceyane. On April 11, 2014, the high court ordered the demolition of the two towers, observing that they stood too close to each other. The Noida authority had appealed against the verdict claiming that no norm was violated. On September 2, the Supreme Court directed Supertech to demolish the twin towers in three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/emerald-court-cbri-team-visits-twin-towers-facing-demolition-101634059943775.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||NCP pushes for extending timings of shops, restaurants in Maharashtra||A day after Maharashtra Bandh was held by the ruling coalition — Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) — against killings of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh, one of the ruling partners Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Tuesday said they want the timings for shops and restaurants to be increased ahead of the upcoming festivals. The party in its meeting decided to push for the same by making a formal request with the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Nawab Malik, chief spokesperson, NCP, said that the decision would be beneficial for the shopkeepers and restaurant owners in the backdrop of the financial losses they had faced owing to the one-day shutdown. The party has also decided they will fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the central investigation agencies allegedly being misused against them with full strength.The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by the party supremo Sharad Pawar at YB Chavan Centre on Tuesday. It was attended by NCP Members of Parliament, ministers and senior leaders. Pawar is expected to hold an interaction with media persons on Wednesday.In Mumbai, shops and restaurants are allowed to open till 10pm. The timings will be different in other cities and districts as the state government has empowered the local bodies to decide the timings of the establishments based on the respective Covid-19 situation.The bandh was observed in Mumbai and in the state to condemn the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which four cultivators were mowed down by an SUV during a protest that triggered the violence. The farmers have claimed Ashish Mishra, son of Ajay Mishra, Union minister of state for home, was driving the vehicle that killed the farmers.“The party has decided the timings of shops and restaurants will be increased and more time be given to them as they have faced economic losses during the bandh. We want the timings to be extended more than the regular time considering the upcoming festivals such as Dussehra and Diwali. It will be proposed to the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) so that a final decision can be taken,” Malik told reporters.“It will be beneficial and also provide relief to shopkeepers and restaurant owners,” he added.The ruling party in the state also decided not to bow down against the BJP led central government and the action by the central investigation purportedly to harass the MVA leaders and their families.“The BJP is misusing the central agencies such as the income tax (I-T) department and Enforcement Directorate (ED) to create trouble for our political leaders. In today’s meeting, it was decided to firmly face their action and stand with the affected leaders and their families. We have decided to fight it with full strength,” Malik said.Last week, the I-T department carried out searches at premises of multiple sugar mills and real estate groups, including those linked to the deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and his three sisters. Pawar himself told journalists that the I-T department was raiding places linked to him and his three sisters. He also said he doesn’t know the purpose of these raids as he was tax compliant. I-T sources said the premises of a company linked to Pawar’s son Parth was also searched during the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-pushes-for-extending-timings-of-shops-restaurants-in-maharashtra-101634059279036.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police to open 5 counselling centres for survivors of sexual crimes, violence||Mumbai Mumbai Police are all set to open five counselling centres – one each policing regions of the city – for psychological counselling of survivors of sexual offences, acid attacks and assault in order to help them get out of the post-incident trauma. Expert psychiatrists would be roped in for this initiative, the police said. The move has comes in the backdrop of the Sakinaka rape and murder case. The initiative, ‘Saksham’ is being implemented by the city police in collaboration with a non-profit organisation (NGO). Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale is likely to inaugurate the first counselling centre at Vikhroli police station in a few days, sources said. “During this counselling, the cops and NGO members will also try to help the survivors get jobs in order to ensure that if survivors restart their life their financial problems don’t become a hurdle on their way,” said a senior police officer. As per National Crime Record Bureau (NCRB) reports, Mumbai ranks number two among metro cities across the country with regards to crimes against women. In 2020, the city had reported 4,583 crimes against women, only second to Delhi city, which had recorded 9,782 crimes. In 2018, Mumbai had recorded 6,058 crime cases against women, while in 2019, the number was 6,519. Besides giving psychological support to women, experts at these centres will also help children who have been survivors of sexual and domestic violence. “Children were included in this initiative as serious crimes leave long-term, adverse impacts on their minds making them prone to choose wrong paths ahead in their life” said another police officer. The accused arrested in crimes against women would also be profiled and subsequently counselled by cops and psychiatrists after they are released on bail. This is to deviate them from the path of crime and prevent further crimes. The counselling centres would see to it that if there is a scope of rehabilitation in any offender’s case, then they would try to help them in all possible ways, the officer said. Another cop said that there has been already a counselling centre at place in Mumbai Police, but it generally deals with very few cases, probably due to lack of awareness among citizens. Officers there counsel mostly women filing complaints of dowry or domestic violence or divorce-related issues. Now with the new initiative, the police will cater to a broader need of psychiatric counselling to survivors of serious crimes. Last year, Mumbai reported 332 rape cases (sexual assault on women above the age of 18 years), as compared to 967 in the country’s capital Delhi. However in cases of cybercrimes related to women (posting objectionable literature, defaming women, morphing, blackmailing, publishing or transmitting sexually explicit material), Mumbai ranked third with 58 cases, after Bengaluru (144) and Chennai (80 cases).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-to-open-5-counselling-centres-for-survivors-of-sexual-crimes-violence-101634058438980.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai woman police officer gets bail after held by ACB in bribery case||An assistant commissioner of police who was trapped by the Maharashtra Anti Corruption Bureau last week while allegedly accepting a bribe secured bail on Tuesday and claimed she was innocent. ACP Sujata Patil claimed, in a social media message, that she had a clean record in the police force for 34 years and her arrest for bribery was a conspiracy. Patil was held in a trap on Friday while allegedly accepting ₹40,000 from a man, who wanted a case registered in connection with his shop. Since the trap was laid in the evening, and norms forbid women from being arrested post sunset, Patil was arrested the next day, ACB officials had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-police-officer-gets-bail-after-held-by-acb-in-bribery-case-101634056819429.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur in focus, BJP mulls damage control measures||LUCKNOW Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker and the country’s junior home minister Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’ and his son Ashish are in the news ever since the Lakhimpur violence left four farmers among eight dead on October 3. The minister’s son has been arrested, but the opposition is now pressing for the removal of the union minister. Battling the latest crisis, and one which provided fresh ammunition to the opposition months ahead of the 2022 UP polls, this is not the first time when the ruling party has been embarrassed by its own leaders. The elections are due in a few months and the buzz is that the BJP could replace many sitting lawmakers in a bid to beat incumbency. It’s in this backdrop that party leaders admit that ahead of the ticket distribution the party needs to send out a strong signal that indiscipline won’t be tolerated. “Being in the ruling party has its own responsibilities. Acts of some of our people are tarnishing the party’s image. Ahead of UP polls, we do need to send out a message and that’s what the party would be mulling too. One bad statement or deed causes immense damage,” said a senior BJP leader. Since June, the BJP in UP has consistently run into problems caused by its own leaders. During his recent meetings with party lawmakers and functionaries, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been talking of the need to project a good image of the party, admitted leaders. The RSS too is reportedly unhappy at the manner in which some leaders have been bringing the party to disrepute. “If I start counting the number of initiatives taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi or chief minister Yogi Adityanath for the people, it will possibly consume all of newspaper space. Yet, despite doing such good work, it is opposition build-up over Lakhimpur that is dominating media space and that is what is frustrating. Moreover, this isn’t the first time we have faced flak due to our own people,” a party leader admitted. In June, even as the party was recovering from the barrage of complaints of lack of medical treatment and inadequate health infrastructure during the second Covid surge in April-May, not just from masses but from party’s lawmakers too, a viral video of a local leader Narayan Singh Bhadauria allegedly helping a wanted criminal escape after his arrest in Kanpur made the party leadership squirm. Bhadauria was subsequently stripped of his post and arrested. But by then, the opposition had rammed the ruling party over the manner in which its leaders were undermining law in the state. The BJP had come to power in 2017 promising an end to what it termed ‘goondaraj’ (lawlessness) during the Samajwadi Party rule. BJP’s Unnao MP Sakshi Maharaj also didn’t help matters when he publicly blessed a candidate for district panchayat chief’s post, who contested as an independent despite being replaced by the BJP leadership. The BJP was forced to change the ticket of Arun Singh after the Unnao rape victim objected to the party’s choice, alleging that he was “very close” to former BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who was convicted for the crime. Sengar, a former lawmaker from Unnao’s Bangarmau seat, was accused of rape by the victim in 2017. A Delhi court had sentenced Sengar to life imprisonment in the case in December 2019. “Such actions by a section of party people lead to unnecessary controversy and a lot of precious time is wasted in damage control. The BJP governments at the centre and in UP have done great development, but such things divert focus and give an opportunity to the opposition to get at us,” said a party leader. This party leader too spoke of the need to rein in such leaders. “Under the BJP government, the police have a free hand. As and when cases have come to light, action has been initiated both by the party and the police. The party has stripped such leaders of post and the police have quickly arrested the accused. The latest example is the arrest of the son of the union minister of state for home. Yet, such is perception and political play that despite the party making it clear that police have been given a free hand to unravel the truth behind the Lakhimpur violence, opposition is focused on their demand to dismiss the minister,” said another BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-in-focus-bjp-mulls-damage-control-measures-101634057239013.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Cinema halls in Maharashtra to resume from October 22 at 50% capacity||The Maharashtra government issued guidelines to allow the reopening of cinema halls, drama theatres and auditoriums, while not mandating entry only to fully vaccinated people. Patrons are, however, mandated to have the Aarogya Setu app showing “safe status” to be allowed entry. The cinema halls, single-screen theatres, drama theatres and auditoriums will open their doors from October 22 at 50% seating capacity.The state government on September 25 announced that the state would allow the reopening of cinemas and auditoriums from October 22. With the second wave of Covid-19 infections receding, since mid-August the state has been providing gradual relaxation in restrictions that were in place to curb the spread of coronavirus.Continuing to log cases around the 2,000-mark daily, the state added 2,069 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. The state also saw 43 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 139,621. The active cases in the state stood at 30,525. Mumbai, meanwhile, added 418 fresh Covid infections and reported two fatalities. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 116,775 samples and has a positivity rate of 1.77%.The state issued the standard operating procedure (SOPs) on Monday stating that Aarogya Setu App showing “safe status” will be mandatory for all patrons. As an “alternative”, visitors can show their final Covid vaccination certificate before entering a cinema hall or multiplex or a drama theatre, the SOP stated. Even as entry in the malls is restricted to only fully vaccinated citizens, cinema-goers can produce a ticket to enter the malls where multiplexes are situated. Cinema halls, drama theatres and auditoriums are not allowed in containment zones.“Aarogya Setu App showing safe status shall be mandatory for all visitors or in the alternative, visitors can show final Covid vaccination certificate... Entry to multiplexes situated in shopping malls will be allowed on production of movie tickets although entry in the shopping malls is restricted to fully vaccinated adults and children below 18 years of age,” the SOP stated.However, all staffers, including those employed at the food court or engaged as ushers or cleaning services, must have received two doses of Covid vaccine and 14 days must have elapsed since the second dose, the SOP stated. Similarly, artists and staffers performing drams or engaged at drama theatres auditoriums must be fully vaccinated against Covid and 14 days should have elapsed. Child artists are mandated to have a “safe status” on the Aarogya Setu App.The SOPs also added that no food and beverages would be allowed inside the screening halls. Any purchased packaged food and beverages would be allowed only outside the screening halls. The state government had mandated that the management of cinemas and theatres must keep show timings staggered to avoid crowds.In a bid to ensure that there is no contact between people at the auditoriums and cinema halls, the SOP has encouraged the use of digital payment methods for booking tickets, payment for food and beverages. Cinema halls and drama theatres have to carry out sanitisation of the screening halls and auditoriums after every show, the SOP has mandated. “Frequent sanitisation of the entire premises, common facilities, and all points which come into human contact, e.g. handles, railings, etc. shall be ensured. The cinemas, theatres, multiplexes, auditorium shall be sanitised after every screening,” the SOP said.Managements have been asked to have proper crowd management in the parking lots, thermal screening of visitors at the entry points, where only asymptomatic people will be allowed and entry of limited persons in elevators have been advised. Besides that, the regular Covid-appropriate behaviour including masking, physical distancing, covering of face while coughing and sneezing, regular hand sanitization etc are to be followed, the SOP stated.Meanwhile, the state also issued specific SOPs for drama theatres’ staffers and artists. It mandated that only designated people would be allowed to operate curtains, backstage property, etc. Actors are mandated to wear a mask till they go on the stage. “Strictly no guests be allowed in the backstage, green rooms. It is recommended that the cast and crew should regularly have their medical check-ups,” the SOP stated. The management will have to carry out daily fumigation of the sets, the green rooms as well as the auditorium. “Child artists have to use Aarogya Setu App showing safe status. Their regular checkup has been recommended,” it further stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cinema-halls-in-maharashtra-to-resume-from-october-22-at-50-capacity-101634057121713.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Over 1.3K trees to be affected for various infra projects in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has proposed to cut and transplant over 1,300 trees in the city for various infrastructure projects like metro, road projects, railway projects etc.According to the proposals, in all 1,342 trees will be impacted, of which, 770 trees will be cut, 573 will face transplant for projects like metro rail projects, construction of a bridge at the western line and redevelopment project in Worli. Of this, a proposal to cut 485 trees and transplant 179 trees were passed on Tuesday and the remaining will be taken on the agenda next month.Officials said that the highest 522 trees to be cut and transplanted are for Metro 4 (Wadala to Thane), Metro 3 and Metro 2B line, 307 for railway projects like construction of a bridge between Ram Mandir to Jogeshwari, construction of coaching line at Kurla terminus.The proposals to hack the rest of the trees will be discussed at the next Tree Authority meeting in November. Further, three proposals for hacking more than 200 trees were not passed on Tuesday and will be sent to the state government.This as on July 6, state government amended Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Preservation & Protection of Trees Act, 1975, under which, trees that are more than 50-years old will be given heritage status and chopping off more than 200 trees will require permission from the state-level committee.However, corporators from Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have alleged that the Tree Authority meeting is conducted in a hurry. Amin Kutti, Congress corporator said, “Everything happened very quickly, and we did not understand what proposals were passed and which were held.”Abhijit Samant, a BJP corporator said, “We do not know how many proposals were passed and how many are held back. We should know about this as a member of Tree Authority, but the meeting got over very quickly.”Harish Bhardinge another BJP corporator said, “The meeting was of 1 pm and I logged in at 1.05 when the meeting was over. This is not how it should be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-1-3k-trees-to-be-affected-for-various-infra-projects-in-mumbai-101634057059189.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra approves 10-year action plan for safety, conservation of wildlife||The Maharashtra government has approved an action plan that suggests comprehensive measures for the safety and conservation of wildlife. The action plan has been prepared for the next 10 years — 2021-2030. Maharashtra has become the first state to have prepared such an action plan. The approval was granted in the 17th meeting of the state wildlife board held on Tuesday.It has also approved an extension of the boundary of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve by around 79 sq km. Located in Chandrapur district of Vidarbha region, Tadoba sanctuary is a popular tourist destination owing to frequent tiger sightings.In the board meeting, it was decided to include 78.79 sq km in the core area of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve. The decision was taken owing to the rising number of tigers in the sanctuary, the officials said.The existing area of the sanctuary is 509.27 sq km.“The man-animal conflicts have increased in the area as there is a rise in the number of tigers in the reserve. A tiger requires at least 40 sq km land and due to the total number of tigers the existing area is falling short,” said a senior forest official.Out of 312 tigers in the state, 203 are within Tadoba and its buffer zone. The man-animal conflict in Chandrapur forest, which houses Tadoba, has resulted in the deaths of 33 people in 2020 and 18 so far, this year.The action plan has been divided into 12 chapters which include conservation of rare species, control on poaching and illegal trade of wildlife, measures and rescue work on man-animal conflict, wildlife health management, conservation of regional ecosystem conservation systems, conservation of coastal and marine ecosystems, wildlife tourism management, conservation awareness, public participation, strengthening research and monitoring, ensuring sustainable funding for wildlife, strengthening and expanding the network of protected areas in the state.The plan will be implemented in a timely manner by setting up a committee of concerned government departments, scientific organisations of the concerned field and non-governmental organizations. The state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray has directed the officials to set up a monitoring committee to see if the implementation of this plan is going well or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-approves-10-year-action-plan-for-safety-conservation-of-wildlife-101634056820151.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Coal shortage costs ₹340 crore for Maharashtra power companies||The shortfall of coal for power generation has resulted in the additional burden of Rs340 crore on the cash-strapped state-run power companies in the past few weeks. The state- run companies have been purchasing power at a high rate to meet the gap of 4,000MW daily. The state has, however, said load shedding would not be initiated in the state. Energy minister Nitin Raut, however, blamed the central government for the current coal supply crisis in the country. The coal shortage in the state resulted in a drop in power generation by more than 3,300MW in the past few days, widening the gap between supply and demand to 4,000MW. This has forced the state government to buy the power from the open market at a high rate which goes up to Rs20 a unit during the peak hours. The state government spent Rs197 crore in September for the purchase, while it has borne the cost of Rs140 crore in 11 days of October after the peak hour rate increased significantly due to shortfall in power across the country.Against the daily requirement of 18,000MW, the production was hit by around 4,000MW as seven units of thermal power at state-run stations (three of them are shut for maintenance) and six units at private stations providing power to Maharashtra. The shortfall has been made up by purchasing power – ranging from 1,200 to 3,600MW daily since September 12 from open market. This has cost dear to the power discomm as the average purchase rate increased to Rs10.70 in October from Rs4.21 a unit in September. The rise in power rate increased tremendously in the past two weeks due to the shortage of coal.“We have coal stock of 217,000MT and we have been getting 70,000MT coal daily against our requirement of 135,000. Besides that, although Mahavitaran has a power purchase agreement with Coastal Gujarat Power Limited and JSW for 760 and 240MW respectively, the two companies have not been providing us power for the past few months. Both the companies have stopped generation because of the spike in the imported coal they use for the generation. Despite this, we have been coping with the shortfall by purchasing the power from open market. There is no load shedding initiated anywhere and no load shedding is our mantra,” said Maharashtra power minister Nitin Raut.Besides the power purchase, the state companies have also increased the hydro power generation to 2,000MW and reduction in the supply by 2 hours to the agricultural pumps.The opposition has, however, attacked the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for its “inefficient” management of coal stock, lifting of stock. Former energy minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Chandrashekhar Bawankule said that the mismanagement by the state government has thrown the power companies in debt and they do not even have the funds to pay off the bills for coal supply and labour payments. “The outstanding dues towards the payment of coal purchased from the central companies has increased to Rs2,800 crore. The state generation company has not been able to pay the dues. Either the state government should fund these companies or the companies should raise debts from the open market. This has happened because of mismanagement by the state government and lack of coordination between the power companies,” Bawankule said. Responding to it, Raut said, “Bawankule is misguiding by quoting wrong figures. The outstanding is Rs1,500 crore, of which Rs430 crore will be paid in next few days. The amount of dues during BJP-led government had mounted to Rs1,565 crore. The power shortage is because of the short supply of coal by the BJP-led central government. The shortage has arisen because of the mismanagement of Coal India and it has been endorsed by ministry of coal and mining in its letter to the company on September 27,” he said. Raut has slammed coal India for short supply and the sub standard of the coal supplied to the state. “The shortage is the result of the clumsy and unplanned management by Coal India. The company was expected to ensure adequate stock of the coal ahead of monsoon, but the reduction in the mining could not enable it. Besides it, the rise in the rate of the import of the coal from outside the country has affected the power generation by the private companies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coal-shortage-costs-340-crore-for-maharashtra-power-companies-101634056818899.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||New TB drug trial starts in Shatabdi Hospital in Mumbai||A 40-year-old patient is the first to receive pretomanid, new anti-tuberculosis (TB) drug, as a part of a clinical trial commenced at the civic-run Shatabdi Hospital in Govandi, Mumbai, on Tuesday. The hospital is among the nine clinical trial sites across five states in the country that will together recruit 400 patients. Pretomanid is the newest anti-TB drug after bedaquiline and delamanid. The drug will be used as a part of three-drug regimen, which includes bedaquiline and another drug called linezolid. This regimen is known as the BPaL regimen. “A BPaL trial conducted in South Africa has shown promising results, and we believe that this regimen can be a game-changer for a city like Mumbai which has a high burden of drug-resistant cases,” said Dr Vikas Oswal, the principal investigator of the trial at Shatabdi Hospital. “In the current regimen, these patients take anywhere between 13 and 15 pills a day and the treatment course goes on for 18-24 months. In BPaL regimen, the patients effectively take three pills for a period of six months. We will be working with different dosages under the trial,” he said, adding that a patient –a 25-year-old man in the pre-XDR (extensively drug-resistant) phase – has also given consent and is likely to start the regimen in a day or two. Shatabdi Hospital will recruit 75 patients for the trial. These patients will be in the pre- XDR phase or in the multi-drug resistant (MDR) phase with failed drug outcomes. Other trial sites include Savoday Hospital in Ghatkopar, King George’s Medical University in Lucknow, SN Medical College in Agra, BJ Medical College in Ahmedabad, Government Medical College in Surat, National Institute of TB and Respiratory Diseases and Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis (RBIPMT), Delhi, and Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-tb-drug-trial-starts-in-shatabdi-hospital-in-mumbai-101634056638733.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||ED resorting to selective disclosure to media to malign me: Anil Deshmukh to Bombay HC||Former home minister Anil Deshmukh informed the Bombay high court (HC) that he wanted to dispel the impression that he was running away and was willing to cooperate with the probe, provided it is undertaken with “fairness and objectivity” which is not the case. Hence, he was seeking protection from coercive action as he apprehended that he would be arrested under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), when he responded in person. Deshmukh was arguing for the quashing of proceedings arising out of the summons issued to him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). He further submitted that the agency was making “selective disclosure” to the media to portray him in bad light before every court hearing so as to create a wrong public perception. A division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the petition filed by Deshmukh, was informed by senior advocate Vikram Choudhri that apart from showing haste in issuing summons, despite the Supreme Court granting liberty to exhaust his legal remedies, ED had been resorting to a smear campaign against his client.In the previous hearing on October 7, Choudhri had submitted that while the Apex court on July 30 had said that it would pass orders on Deshmukh’s petition seeking ‘no coercive action’ on August 3, ED had issued him a summons on the same evening and asked him to appear before it on August 2.While making the submissions on Tuesday, Choudhri added that soon after the Apex court said that Deshmukh could approach HC on August 16, ED had again issued him a summons on the same day, without giving him a chance to pursue his legal remedies.Choudhri further stated that ED could have only joined the probe under PMLA in connection with the first information report (FIR) filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on April 21, provided there was some recovery of property. However, though there was no recovery, ED had filed an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) and started summoning him.The bench was then informed that the agency was trying to malign his client by making selective disclosures to the media before every hearing to make it look as if he was running away. Choudhri added that ED was also using its Twitter handle to disclose such information, however, the fact was that he was willing to cooperate, provided there was a fair investigation which is monitored by the court and by persons not connected with the zonal Mumbai office of ED.Choudhri then argued that as ED kept on issuing summons without reciprocating to any of Deshmukh’s responses, which sought list of documents, request for appearing through an authorised representative or through the audio-visual mode, he had a valid ground to be apprehensive of being arrested under the relevant sections of the PMLA if he responded in person to the summons and hence sought protection.Due to paucity of time, Choudhri could not complete his arguments and the court adjourned hearing to Wednesday.Meanwhile, the state filed a petition against the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Tuesday in HC against the summons being issued to Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey asking them to appear before it this week. The petition is expected to be mentioned before the bench of justice Jamdar on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-resorting-to-selective-disclosure-to-media-to-malign-me-anil-deshmukh-to-bombay-hc-101634056518648.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||PIL in Bombay high court seeks removal of term ‘PM’, national flag and emblem from PM CARES fund||A public interest litigation (PIL) has been moved in the Bombay high court (HC), seeking directions for removal of the word ‘Prime Minister’, the national flag and the emblem from the name of the trust PM CARES (PM’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund) as it is a private trust and the amount collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India. The PIL stated that as the trust is a private entity, the use of the name, flag and emblem violate the laws and rules governing the said symbols and hence sought directions for removal of the same. HC has sought a response and posted the hearing to October 25.The division bench of justice AA Sayed and justice SG Dige, while hearing the PIL filed by Vikrant Chavan, Thane district president of the Congress, through advocate Sagar Joshi, was informed that the trust was formed on March 27, 2020, and though PM and various other ministers are its trustees, it is not a government body. The PIL further stated that as the trust had been soliciting funds and had collected ₹3,076.62 crore for relief work by using the name and photograph of PM as well as the national flag and emblem to solicit funds, there was a violation of provisions of laws and rules governing the symbols. The petition stated that relevant provisions of the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950, The Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Rules, 1982, The State Emblem of India (Prohibition of Improper use) Act, 2005, and The State Emblem of India (Regulation of Use) Rules, 2007, were being violated.“Respondent No 1 (trust) undisputedly does not discharge any regal, governmental or sovereign functions. The trust is not the offspring or the blood and bones or the voice and hands of the government of India. In fact it has been an admitted position that respondent No 1 is not government of India’s fund and the amount collected by it does not go to the Consolidated Fund of India (sic),” the petition stated.The PIL further stated that the conjoint reading of Act of 1950 with Rules of 1982 clearly indicates that use of names and emblems set out in the Schedule of the Act of 1950 is prohibited except in such cases and under such conditions prescribed by the Central government. An embargo has been put on the competent authority itself to register any company, firm or body of persons bearing any name set out in the Schedule of the Act of 1950.In light of the above, the PIL has sought removal of the name PM (pictorial depiction too), national emblem and flag from the site and name of the trust.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Central government sought time to file a reply, after which the court adjourned the hearing of PIL to October 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pil-in-bombay-high-court-seeks-removal-of-term-pm-national-flag-and-emblem-from-pm-cares-fund-101634056460748.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Poonch gunbattle: Sepoy Gajjan Singh felt deeply for farmers’ cause||Ropar Married eight months ago, 26-year-old Sepoy Gajjan Singh attained martyrdom fighting militants in Poonch sector of Jammu and Kashmir on Monday. A resident of Panchranda village of Nurpur Bedi in Ropar district, Gajjan had joined 23rd Sikh Regiment nine years ago. He tied the knot in February this year and his picture in wedding attire, holding a farmer union flag, was widely circulated on social media. Youngest of four brothers, Gajjan had visited his family two months ago to attend his brother’s wedding. He is survived by his wife Harpreet Kaur and parents, Charan Singh and Malkeet Kaur. “We never thought that such a day would come. We have lost everything,” his father Charan Singh said. Uncle Dilbagh Singh said the whole family is shattered beyond words. “The family owns 2.5 acres of agricultural land. He was very concerned about the ongoing farmer agitation. We were expecting him again in a few days,” he said. He said the body will reach on Wednesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poonch-gunbattle-sepoy-gajjan-singh-felt-deeply-for-farmers-cause-101634056459154.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Covid norms relaxed, most Mumbaiites head to Maldives: CSMIA data||Travellers across India seem to have showcased their preference for Maldives as a prominent international destination for leisure travel throughout the pandemic. With the reopening of the Maldivian borders in July post closure, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has recorded a significant uptick in passenger traffic throughout this period. According to data by CSMIA, this route has emerged as one of the top international destinations for Indians. The Mumbai-Male route witnessed a rise in passenger traffic to 31,051 via CSMIA in the past 60 days, since the reopening of the route. Since the commencement of flight operations last October, the route has witnessed a total of 111,283 passengers till date, travelling via CSMIA. With 46,008 of arrival and 65,275 of departure passengers, the figures, according to the city airport officials, point towards continued interest of the Indian travellers for Maldives as the preferred international destination. “With minimal travel restrictions in Maldives for tourists and travellers, the flight operations have observed a remarkable boost in the past two months since July 15. With a total of 31,051 passengers travelling to and from Male from July till date, August alone witnessed passenger traffic of around 24,780, the highest since the beginning of the commencement of the air bubble agreement with Maldives in October 2020,” a CSMIA spokesperson said. On this route, the airport said, that it operated four domestic carriers: Air India, IndiGo, GoFirst and SpiceJet that offered direct flights to and from Male. “IndiGo catered to the highest passenger traffic from the airport, handling a total of 12,995 passengers, with 9,213 handled by SpiceJet as a close second,” the spokesperson added.With countries across the globe easing down travel restrictions, August had witnessed an overall surge in the number of passengers travelling through CSMIA. Over 1.5 million passengers have flown in and out of CSMIA in the month of August, in comparison to 400,000 passengers who travelled in August 2020. Additionally, the airport flew to 184,787 international locations and 785,479 passengers arrived at CSMIA in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-norms-relaxed-most-mumbaiites-head-to-maldives-csmia-data-101634056398978.html
12-10-2021||Pune||Charity commissioner files FIR against lawyer for cheating builder in Pune||PUNE The charity commissioner’s office has lodged a cheating complaint against one person for starting a firm in the name of a charity helpline and portraying it as an official wing of the charity commissioner’s office, cheating Amar Builders to the tune of Rs5.33 crore.According to the Koregaon Park police where the complaint was lodged by a woman officer attached to the superintendent’s office of the joint charity commissioner’s office, the accused claimed to be a lawyer of the trustees and asked the builders to contribute towards the helpline. According to the police, the accused submitted a fake letter and misused the name of Charity commissioner’s officer for carrying out a fraud. PSI Shrikant Sawant said, “The accused is a lawyer who cheated Amar Builders and we have lodged a case against the lawyer named Parag Deshpande, and the crime took place on different days since August 2021.” The police have booked him under IPC 417 (cheating), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will) ,470 (forgery), 471 (fraudulently or dishonestly using as genuine any document or electronic record) and 472 (counterfeiting seal).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/charity-commissioner-files-fir-against-lawyer-for-cheating-builder-in-pune-101634056158659.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu to meet Venugopal, Rawat in Delhi tomorrow||Chandigarh Amid continued factional feud in the Punjab Congress, state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu will meet All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretaries Harish Rawat and KC Venugopal in Delhi on Thursday. Rawat, who is Punjab affairs in-charge, said Sidhu will meet him and AICC general secretary (organisation) Venugopal to discuss organisational matters. “Sh. Navjot Singh Sidhu, President Punjab Congress will be meeting me and Sh. Venugopal ji for discussion on certain organizational matters pertaining to Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee at Venugopal Ji’s office on 14th October at 6pm (sic.),” he tweeted on Tuesday. The two central leaders and Sidhu will meet two days before the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting in which the forthcoming assembly elections in five states, including Punjab, are on the agenda. The Congress has been in turmoil in Punjab for the past several months and the replacement of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, who had faced revolt by Sidhu and several other ministers and MLAs, has failed to put an end to factionalism. The PPCC chief is peeved with new chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi over two senior appointments and allocation of a few key portfolios and had announced his resignation from the state chief’s post on Twitter a fortnight ago with a terse resignation letter addressed to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. Though Sidhu and Channi had a meeting and agreed to a “consultation mechanism” to allow the former to have a say in important decisions, the two leaders are not the same page and their strained relations remain a worry for the party with just three months to go for the state polls. The Congress president has not taken any decision on his resignation. A state unit leader said the appointment of district chiefs and constitution of the state body has been pending for a long time and is likely to be discussed in the meeting. Sidhu had held a series of meetings with party leaders last month to discuss the names for the district chiefs and other posts. “We have done most of the work and the appointments are likely to be finalised in a week or two,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-to-meet-venugopal-rawat-in-delhi-tomorrow-101634055978871.html
12-10-2021||Pune||12 days of October: Pune city reports 92.1 mm excess rainfall||PUNE In just the first 12 days of October, Pune city has reported 92.1 mm excess rainfall, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Pune district has reported 96 percent excess rainfall during this time. This excess rainfall has been attributed to consecutive intense rainfall spells for the last two weeks. Maharashtra has also reported 41 per cent excess rainfall in October.Anupam Kashyapi, Head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said that monsoon withdrew from 50 per cent of the State.“Monsoon on Tuesday withdrew from entire Vidarbha, parts of Marathwada and central Maharashtra,” said Kashyapi.In the monsoon season, that is between June 1 and September 31, Pune district reported 41 per cent excess rainfall with 94.4 mm received against the expected normal rainfall of 48.1 mm.Pune city has reported less than normal rainfall in the monsoon season with a 96.1 mm deficiency as per IMD. However, with intense rainfall spells in October this deficiency was washed away. Drought prone Marathwada reported 63 per cent excess rainfall between October 1 and October 12. During the monsoon as well, rainfall reported in the region was 49 percent in excess.KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Mumbai, said that conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of southwest monsoon from some more parts of Maharashtra and Telangana and some parts of Karnataka now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/12-days-of-october-pune-city-reports-92-1-mm-excess-rainfall-101634055741001.html
12-10-2021||Pune||ABVP protest at Pune’s SP College over fee payments||PUNE Volunteer students of the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) staged a protest on Tuesday at SP College on Tilak road against the college administration for not allowing students to pay fees in instalments and over sport-quota admissions not being done properly. “We are protesting here because the college administration is not at all helping students in such tough times in terms of paying the fees. When all the other colleges are allowing students to pay fees in instalments, similarly SP College should allow students the same. All students have been told to pay the full fees in one instalment. Also, the sports quota admissions have been stopped due to which students with sports’ backgrounds are unable to get admission. We have repeatedly given letters to the college for our demands, but they didn’t listen and so we protested,” said Shubhankar Bachal, Pune city secretary of ABVP.More than 25 students shouted slogans against the college administration and also gheraoed the vehicle of college principal Savita Datar when she arrived on campus. Talking about the issue, Datar said, “We have got the demand letter from the ABVP students, and we are discussing the issue with our head office. Within two days a decision will be taken. About the sports quota related admissions, the protesting students have got some wrong information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/abvp-protest-at-pune-s-sp-college-over-fee-payments-101634055378612.html
12-10-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat polls: Migrants visiting home in festive season set to boost turnout||Bihar’s migrant population returning home during the festive season ahead of Chaath could ensure a higher turnout in rest of the phases of the ongoing panchayat polls than the average 60% recorded in the first three phases, according to officials of the State Election Commission ( SEC). As per data compiled by the SEC, voting percentage has varied from 50 to 55% in the first three phases in districts in Kosi and parts of north Bihar where migrant population from villages go to western states for work. For instance, in second phase, Saran recorded voting percentage of 43.44% while Khagaria recorded 53.24% and Madhepura recorded 47.50%. Other districts from where migrants go to other states for work, like Araria, Darbhanga , Sitamarhi and Madhubani in north Bihar, also recorded a poor turnout (50-52%) in the second phase.Another reason for a lower turnout could be the introduction of biometric system for verifying the identity of voters and to check bogus voting, say poll panel officials. State Election Commissioner Deepak Prasad said use of biometric machines for checking voter identity had led to a check on bogus voting “There were negligible complaints of electoral malpractices in the last three phases,” he said. However, social scientists attribute the low voter turnout to the absence of the large migrant population, especially in Kosi region and in north Bihar. “But I feel the voter turnout will be good in coming rounds in end of October and November as the migrant population would be returning home in the next few weeks,” said D M Diwakar, former director of A N Sinha Institute of Social Sciences, currently in his village in Madhuabni. “We did a study a few years back and found that voter turnout in elections held in October-November goes up by 5-6% because of migrants returning home,” he said.The total electorate in panchayat elections is 6.39 crore while migrant population from Bihar is around 20 lakh, as per official records. SEC secretary Mukesh Kumar Sinha said there could be some impact on the voter turnout as people living outside the state usually return home during the festive season. The 11-phase panchayat polls will conclude on December 12. The fourth to ninth round of polls will be held from October 20 to November 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-migrants-visiting-home-in-festive-season-set-to-boost-turnout-101634055332201.html
12-10-2021||Pune||Students demand hostels be allowed to reopen in Pune||PUNE As college campuses opened up on Tuesday, accommodation issues are now a concern for outstation students. Hostels within colleges and on the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) campus have not yet opened. Namdev Kharabe, a student from Jalna said, “I came to Pune last week. We are currently staying in a flat with five friends. The flat rent is ₹12,000 and we cannot afford it, so our demand is that university hostels be started immediately.”Another student Krishna Thakur from Nanded said, “We have a fixed monthly budget. Also we cannot work as it is my final year and I need to concentrate on my studies. Our major issue of accomodation needs to be resolved.”Prof N S Umrani, SPPU pro-vice-chancellor said, “The university hostels will certainly open and admissions for the same will happen for this academic year once we receive clear guidelines about opening up of hostels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-demand-hostels-be-allowed-to-reopen-in-pune-101634055139119.html
12-10-2021||Patna||Bihar by-polls: All eyes on Nitish, Lalu, Kanahiya||The bypolls for the two assembly seats in Bihar, though not crucial to the survival of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the state, has nevertheless become a battle of prestige for the ruling Janata Dal (United) and the main opposition party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD).The importance attached to the bypolls for Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan could be gauged from the fact that RJD has decided to field its chief Lalu Prasad for campaigning while the Congress has decided to use the services of newly inducted Kanahiya Kumar after talks with RJD to contest jointly failed.JD (U), which won both the seats in 2020 polls, would be banking heavily on chief minister Nitish Kumar. The party’s star campaigners also include present president Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Sing and union minister R C P Singh, besides former union minister Upendra Kushwaha. Top Bihar BJP leaders, including state unit president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, former deputy CM and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi and others will also campaign,” said a senior BJP leader. According to JD(U) functionary, CM Kumar would be addressing at least two meetings in each of the two constituencies. “The number of meetings will be increased if required,” he said. However, all eyes would be on RJD chief Lalu Prasad and Congress leader Kanahiya Kumar. “Lalu Prasad, who suffers from various ailments, would be campaigning after a long gap and this would be Kanahiya’s first election campaigning after Lok Sabha polls. Both are crowd pullers and it would be interesting to see how they communicate with the voters and their response,” said Gyanendra Yadav, associate professor of Sociology, College of Commerce, Patna.Nitish Kumar had already started mingling with the voters a month before the elections were announced. “The elections were announced in September last week and CM Kumar had taken a boat ride to Kusheshwar Sthan block in the last week of August,” Yadav said.What the bypolls meanResults wise, even if RJD wins both the seats, it is not going to affect the health of NDA government, which has 126 MLAs — BJP (74), JD-U (43) HAM-S (4), VIP (4), besides support of one independent MLA who is a minister. If JD(U) retains both seats, its tally increase to 45. The party won 43 seats in 2020 polls, after which but two MLAs, one from LJP and one from BSP, joined the JD(U). In the Opposition, the Mahaghathbandhan has 110 MLAs in the 243-member house. RJD has 75 members, Congress 19, CPI-ML 12 and CPI and CPM two each. Asaduddin Owaisi led-AIMIM has five MLAs. “Even if RJD wins both seats in bypolls an Owaisi’s party supports the RJD-led alliance, it would still be five be short of majority mark of 122. “The only gain, either for RJD or JD (U), will be a morale booster,” said Sanjay Sinha, professor of English in Patna University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-by-polls-all-eyes-on-nitish-lalu-kanahiya-101634055018748.html
12-10-2021||Pune||Confusion as few colleges reopen in Pune; many stay shut awaiting state govt guidelines||PUNE Barring some colleges, most in Pune remained closed on Tuesday, October 12, despite an order issued by the civic authorities permitting them to reopen for physical classes.Colleges said they are exercising caution and awaiting clear instructions from the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and the state government.Following an announcement by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) last week issued an order allowing physical classes in colleges with students and staffers who have been fully vaccinated.For those that opened their gates on Tuesday, it was after a perion of one year that students returned to class. Prominent institutions like Fergusson College and SP College started offline lectures, however, Modern College and all departments of the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) chose to remain shut, pending clear guidelines issued by the state higher education department.At Fergusson, the excitement among students was palpable, with group photos and selfies domiating the early action. Some student organisations also distributed chocolates to students coming in to college. “Coming back to college and studying in an acutal classroom is always better than online. Physically, a class experience is always different and we were eagerly waiting for it. I have not met most of my friends in the last 1.5 year. We were only talking on the phone or chatting, but the feeling of a college campus is always happening,” said Hariom Shinde, a first-year Master of Arts student at Fergusson College.Student Swamini Harshe, from Class 11 said, “When the Covid-19 pandemic began, I was in Class 9 and for the last two years it has been online studying at home. Me and my friends all were bored studying online. Many of us had a migraine problem because of sitting continuously in front of a screen. Now after a gap of two years we have come to the college campus which is most exciting for us.”The main criterion by the state government is that only studens who have taken both vaccination doses are allowed on campuses. “We have started all our undergraduate and postgraduate courses completely in offline mode now. None of the classes will be held online. We are following all the Covid protocols given by the state government. It will take a month for things to be streamline. On the first day, 80 classes, from Class 11 to postgraduate were held physically in classrooms,” said Prof Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College.According to Shamakant Deshmukh, vice-principal of Modern College, “The students will be called in a phase-wise manner, initially for practical classes and later on actual lectures will start. The offline lectures will start after Diwali and not immediately. The first preference will be given to third year students for offline classes.” At SPPU, there were no students on campus on Tuesday.State technical and higher education minister Uday Samant tweeted, “In next two days we will declare a date for college reopening across the state. We have sent the proposal to the relief and rehabilitation ministry and it will be then sent to the chief minister for final approval.”Principals from other colleges said they will reopen campuses once the government issues guidelines.“We are waiting for clear instructions from the state higher education department and Savitribai Phule Pune University, as most colleges are affiliated to it,” said Sudhakar Jadhavar, general secretary, Maharashtra State Principals Federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/confusion-as-few-colleges-reopen-in-pune-many-stay-shut-awaiting-state-govt-guidelines-101634054658606.html
12-10-2021||Pune||Demand to reopen all gardens, extend timings grows louder in Pune||PUNE: There is growing demand among citizens and people’s representatives that all gardens within the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits should be reopened and their timings extended beyond the current 7pm as most other utilities have resumed with extended timings following relaxations in Covid-19 norms. So far, only 110 out of the 204 gardens in the city have reopened after the civic body began relaxing restrictions. Also, the timings of these gardens are 6am to 10am and 4pm to 7pm which many want extended.Aditya Malave, a corporator from Shivajinagar and member of the tree committee, demanded during the PMC general body meeting on Tuesday that all gardens in the city should be reopened at the earliest as citizens are facing problems due to closure of these gardens. “Only 60% of the gardens have been reopened which makes no sense. Everything else has reopened in the city. There are many groups that indulge in fitness activities in these gardens. They are facing problems. I have submitted a written application to the mayor of Pune and also to the garden department to take action on this and reopen all gardens in the city,” said Malave. Prior to Covid restrictions, some gardens in the city were even open till 8 or 9pm. With gradual relaxation in Covid curbs, citizens have demanded that the operational hours of gardens be extended.PMC authorities said that the decision to reopen all gardens is under consideration and timings will be increased only after the state government issues instructions. “Small gardens where it is difficult to maintain social distancing have been kept closed. If the Covid situation continues to be under control, a decision related to the reopening of all these gardens will be taken. We have allowed children into the parks as schools have reopened. Also, senior citizens are being allowed as most of them are fully vaccinated. The timings are as per the orders issued by the government of Maharashtra,” said Ashok Ghorpade, head of PMC’s garden department.Meanwhile, office goers are finding it difficult to visit gardens due to the 7pm deadline. “I used to go for a walk in the garden near my house from 6.30 pm to 7.30 pm. But now it is closed after 7pm. Those who are attending office find it difficult to follow this deadline. Everything else is reopening in the city, including schools and colleges. The civic body should think of extending this deadline,” said Chitra Ingole, a resident of Karvenagar. With the vaccination having gathered pace and schools too reopening, senior citizens and children are allowed entry into the gardens. “I go to Sutar garden in Kothrud daily but the closing time in the evening is 7 pm which used to be 8 pm earlier. Hopefully, the timing will soon be extended,” said Arun Sahastrabuddhe, a senior citizen from Kothrud. “#Pune Restaurants now open till 11 pm..schools opening up... swimming pools opening up... ALL GOOD! But did someone forget about the public parks and gardens?? They are still closing at 7 pm?! (Normal closing time: 9 pm),” tweeted Amit Paranjape, Chairperson, IT & ITES Committee at MCCIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/demand-to-reopen-all-gardens-extend-timings-grows-louder-in-pune-101634054238685.html
12-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan roadways employees to go on strike on Oct 27||Rajasthan roadways employees will go on a one-day strike on October 27, to press for their demands like revision in pay and new recruitments. "Nearly 13,000 employees of the Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation (RSRTC) will be on a one-day strike on October 27 across the state in support of our long-pending 11 demands," M L Yadav, convener of the joint morcha of the employees' unions, said on Tuesday.The demands include revision in pay and pension as per the recommendations of Seventh Pay Commission from January 2016, one-time payment of pension benefits of 5,000 retired employees, payment of ex-gratia due for four years, new recruitment on 9,000 vacant posts, and purchase of 1,500 new buses, among others."We have been raising the demands repeatedly but there is no positive response from the government. When the Congress was in opposition, we were assured that the demands will be fulfilled when the party comes to power. The Congress came to power in 2018 but our demands are still unaddressed," he said.Yadav claimed that the strike will affect revenue collection of about ₹4 crore.The strike has been called on a day when the RAS recruitment exam (prelims), 2021, will be held and the state government has announced free travel to the candidates appearing in the exam.Yadav said the information of the strike was given to the state government and roadways management on October 6 in advance."When we gave notice to the state government, there was no announcement of free travel to the candidates of the competitive exam."It is the responsibility of the state government to take care of things. The government should fulfil our demands, which are long pending and justified," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-roadways-employees-to-go-on-strike-on-oct-27-101634051785525.html
12-10-2021||Pune||Class 8 Pune girl killed by stalker, 22, with sickle in front of her friends: Cop||PUNE: A 14-year-old girl at a south Pune playground was repeatedly attacked with a sickle by a 22-year-old man who had been stalking her on Tuesday evening, police said. The man was a relative who had stayed with the girl’s family but was told to leave after the family suspected his motives.The girl, a class 8 student, died within minutes of the brutal attack that took place in full view of the children present at the Bibwewadi playground. The girl and her friends were just about to start their first game of kabbadi when the prime suspect, Shubham Bhagwat aka Hrishikesh, reached there with his two accomplices on a bike.The man asked the girl to come aside since he wanted to speak with her. She did. Witnesses told the police that they appeared to have had an argument before the girl faced the bloody attack.Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) said the girl was at a playground where a local group holds kabaddi practice and fitness classes for children.The the attacker initially targeted her neck, then elsewhere on the body.“The attack was so brutal that the girl died on the spot,” Namrata Patil said.Sunil Zaware, senior police inspector, Bibwewadi police station, said Shubham was a relative.“Shubham had been stalking her for some time though after knowing about this, girl’s parents warned him to leave their house and he went to stay in another area of Chinchwad,” said Zaware.Police officers are still piecing together the exact sequence of events. An officer said a toy pistol recovered not far from where the girl died indicated that Shubham or his accomplices might have used it to scare others at the playground not to intervene.The two persons who accompanied the prime accused have been detained after hacking her to death, all three accused fled the spot though two suspects were apprehended up from Upper Indiranagar area.“We have detained two attackers who were with the main accused Shubham Bhagwat,” said Zaware, adding that police was trying to trace Bhagwat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-girl-hacked-to-death-in-pune-during-kabaddi-practice-101634053219471.html
12-10-2021||Other||BJP and NCP vote in favour of HCMTR realignment in Pune||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have together made changes to the HCMTR (High-Capacity Mass Transit Route) at some locations. Both parties denied a willingness to have a discussion on this proposal and approved it by a majority at a special general body meeting. Congress, Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Nav Nirman Sena (MNS) opposed it saying that by changing the alignment, BJP and NCP changed the reservation of more than 0.1 million square feet of land. The changes had been made at Kothrud, Karvengar, Gandhi lawns to Alankar chowky, Vadgaonsheri and Lohegaon. Even the BJP’s Srinath Bhimale suggested one change at Parvati, which also got approved. Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “The DPR of the HCMTR got approved earlier, but the ruling party keeps changing its alignment instead of starting it on the ground. Former Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis is aggressive, but BJP is wasting time making changes. “ The congress blamed BJP MP Kirit Somiya for objections on the Parvati land where the reservation is getting changed. Congress leader Arvind Shinde said, “The land which is objected to by the BJP’s leader is getting free by changing reservation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-and-ncp-vote-in-favour-of-hcmtr-realignment-in-pune-101634053158513.html
12-10-2021||Pune||PMC to install “garbage collection ATMs” in Pune; Re1 for plastic bottle, ₹3 for glass bottle||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation will install “garbage collection ATMs” in the city, to collect plastic bottles, glass bottles, metal cans and plastic wrappers.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “If citizens hand over empty plastic bottles, they will get Re1. If they hand over a glass bottle, they will get Rs3.”Rasne said that one of the start-up companies has submitted a proposal for the installation of the devices.A total of 40 such ATMs will be installed in the city in phases. Already such ATMs are operational in Delhi and Varanasi.All the transactions are online with citizens getting money in their bank accounts for which they will need to register their mobile numbers.Citizens will be informed about how to use it via a display on the devices.PMC will provide the land for these ATMs in public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-install-garbage-collection-atms-in-city-re1-for-plastic-bottle-rs-3-for-glass-bottle-101634052798898.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||300 Congress workers resign over new chief in Palghar||Around 300 Congress party workers from Palghar, Dahanu, Boisar and Wada have submitted their resignation to Rahul Gandhi and the All-India Congress Committee in charge of Maharashtra HK Patil, over the appointment of Praful Patil as the new Palghar district chief by MPCC(I) Nana Patole.The letter states that Patole was instrumental in appointing Patil as the new district chief without even consulting or discussing with office bearers at Palghar. It alleges that Patole has brought casteist colour to the party as they both belong to Kunbi caste. “Patil was earlier with Kunbi Sena and supported the Bharatiya Janata Party Lok Sabha candidate Vishwanath Patil in 2014. He later switched sides once Patole joined the Congress and Patil was given the prime post,” said a party worker. “We are paying the price of being loyal to the Congress party and it is up to Rahul Gandhi to decide whether the party needs loyalists or opportunists, who joined the Congress for their selfish needs,” he added. A copy of the letter has also been sent to senior Congress leader KC Venugopal.In the just-concluded Palghar zilla parishad and panchayat samiti bypoll, Congress was drubbed heavily and finished fourth with some candidates even losing their deposits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/300-congress-workers-resign-over-new-chief-in-palghar-101634052438580.html
12-10-2021||Pune||PMC to execute riverfront devp project; Sangam bridge to Yerawada first||PUNE Finally, after five years, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to execute its riverfront development project. Sangam bridge to Yerawada will be the stretch developed in the first phase. The total project cost is Rs2,619 crore.The same consultant that worked on the Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad will now advise the PMC.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said,”Like Gujarat’s Sabarmati development project, the Mula-Mutha riverfront, a total of 44km, will be developed.” This project wil require 768 hectares. Along the river there will be gardens, jogging tracks, and recreational areas. The state government has already cleared this project. Even environment clearance has been received. As PMC is executing this project, it will either get developed on a PPP (public private partnership) basis or by opting for finance.What is Pune River Development Project? Build Embankments for flood protection: The project proposes to protect low-lying areas along the river from flooding by building a variety of well-modulated embankments along the banks of Pune’s riversReduce impact of man-made obstructions on flow of water: The project’s first concern is to address the threat of flooding in city. The project first proposes to reduce the impact of indiscriminately built obstructions such as bridges, causeways, weirs, check dams on flow of water in Pune’s rivers by removing, streamlining, remodeling, or rebuilding them. Create public realm along the river: Having such a continuous public realm will ensure that unlike today, people will be able to move along the length of the river.Curb outflow of drainage and sewage: The project proposes to curb sewage flowing directly into the rivers by laying an interceptor sewer which will curb and divert the sewage to the nearest existing and proposed STPs along the river bank. Enhance connectivity: The project thus proposes to strengthen the existing street network by introducing bridges and access roads that will further enhance the connectivity to the river. Pedestrian and cycling routes will also be planned along the promenades of the riverfront.Integrate the river in the life of the city: Another objective is to create a network of gardens, open spaces, public promenades that will preserve the natural environment and turn the rivers into an important asset for the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-execute-riverfront-devp-project-sangam-bridge-to-yerawada-first-101634052318330.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body begins serosurvey as preparation for Covid third wave||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) started its first serosurvey as a part of its third wave preparation to find out how many people have developed antibodies to Covid in the city.The survey, which started on Tuesday, will be conducted for the next three weeks across the city. A total of 1,400 representative samples will be collected in the first stage. On the first day of the drive, samples were collected from health centres in Uthalsar, Naupada, Kopri and Pokhran Road. On Wednesday, samples will be collected from four other centres in Pokhran and Ghodbunder Road.“This survey will help identify people from varied age groups and areas who have developed antibodies. Moreover, we can find out how many have been vaccinated in various wards and also get details on the impact of the virus such that we can declare those areas as containment zones if need be,” said Naresh Mhaske, Mayor, Thane.Mhaske was the first to give blood samples.According to officials who were part of the drive, “We have four teams including a field officer and a technician. While the technician continues to take samples, the field officer will help the representatives to fill a form online through an application that helps understand the background of the sampler. Moreover, the testing will be done from age 12 years. They will be divided into five different age groups. People from different strata of society in each ward of the city will also be surveyed,” said a senior officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-begins-serosurvey-as-preparation-for-covid-third-wave-101634052019130.html
12-10-2021||Pune||PMPML to introduce e-cabs in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has initiated an online survey with the aim to soon launch e-cabs for the citizens of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. The e-cabs will be cheaper than auto-rickshaws as well as Uber and Ola services, officials said. This may be the first time the public sector transport agency is considering adding air-conditioned e-cabs to their existing fleet.Dattatreya Zende, traffic manager, PMPML, said, “This is a big project for us and as of now, we are conducting an online survey to find out what commuters’ needs are and how we can best fulfill them. A consultant from Ernst & Young is helping PMPML create this new service model.”The proposed model has 200 such e-cabs plying between the city’s main areas such as Shivajinagar, Deccan, Swargate, Camp and Pune railway station, with 150km to be covered daily.“We also plan to introduce a pink cab service dedicated to women. Once the model is approved, which should be in six months, we will introduce an app for booking. We are also going to have e-cab stands for on-the-spot booking for those who don’t have smartphones. The fares of these cabs will be pegged at Rs10 per kilometre which is cheaper compared to other private services as of now,” Zende said.The PMPML e-cabs will also offer daylong and Pune darshan (tourist spots) services.Meanwhile, regular commuters on PMPML buses and auto-rickshaws welcomed the idea.Ajit Paradkar, a professional, said, “I am a regular traveller on the PMPML bus from Aundh to Marketyard though I often wait for e-buses which are very comfortable to travel. I will be glad to use e-cabs if they are introduced. When we go out as a family, private cab services tend to be expensive especially during peak hours. If the PMPML offers the same comfort for less, we will definitely opt for the service.”Sakhiee Nagpure, for whom e-cabs may be a godsend, said, “I often use auto-rickshaws to visit the peths and that is harassment as drivers blatantly refuse to ferry you to your destination. If I am getting better service than them, I will gladly use e-cabs.”A commuter from Kalyani Nagar who has to frequently travel to Camp finds private cab services unreliable and expensive. “If the PMPML is offering a better deal and that too an air-conditioned cab, I will surely opt for that,” she said.Anjali Raju is very happy with the e-buses except when they break down. “I will be happy if they have a woman driver on the cabs because that way, we will be much more comfortable travelling from point to point in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-introduce-e-cabs-in-pune-pimprichinchwad-101634051658041.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Covid deaths: Diabetes, hypertension top co-morbidities in Mumbai||Sixty per cent patients who succumbed due to Covid-19 in Mumbai had diabetes and hypertension as underlying co-morbid conditions. Data obtained from the civic body on 16,149 deaths recorded till October 10 also showed that 36% patients did not have any underlying disease, while the remaining 4% deceased had conditions like tuberculosis, chronic kidney disease, ischemic heart disease, among others. According to the data, 6,336 or 39.2% deceased had diabetes, 3,311 or 20.5% had hypertension and 5,862 or 36.3% had no co-morbidity. “Not just Covid-19, diabetes and hypertension have been the leading co-morbidities when it comes to the worsening impact of other diseases as well,” said critical care specialist Dr Kedar Toraskar from Wockhardt Hospital, who is also a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “Covid-19 infection affects the pancreas. In addition to this, the treatment required for some patients may include steroids that are known to elevate blood sugar levels. All these factors together contribute to higher complications among patients,” he said. The pancreas is an organ that regulates blood sugar. Experts say Sars-CoV-2 either damages the pancreas through direct injury or through inflammation of the pancreas. Due to such injury, the organ’s ability to regulate blood sugar is impacted. Similarly, Covid-19 patients may have severe outcomes when they have high blood pressure, which is one of the leading causes of cardiovascular diseases. Medical experts say that hypertensive patients are more prone to suffer from a severe form of Covid-19, longer hospitalisation and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admission. A scientific brief published by the World Health Organization this June stated that the available evidence is consistent overall in suggesting that hypertension increases the risk of Covid-19, admission to intensive care units, severe disease and mortality. “Whether these increased risks were independent of other risk factors, however, has not been fully elucidated,” it said. Medical experts said that obesity was also among the factors of concern, even as the civic body does not list it as a co-morbidity while analysing the deaths. “In most cases, the Body Mass Index (BMI) of the patients is not captured which is a problem,” said Toraskar. “We have seen overweight and obese patients at more risk of severe Covid-19,” he said. He said that some patients with obesity may have been counted under the 36% patients with no co-morbidities, as they may not have any known underlying conditions. “Most patients without co-morbidities who have succumbed had developed the severe disease,” said Dr Avinash Supe, who heads the Covid-19 death audit committee. “It will be right to say that the disease killed them. Many of them went into a cytokine storm,” he said. Cytokine storm is a severe immune reaction that leads to organ damage. While experts say that some patients may have undiagnosed underlying diseases, some deaths may also be due to failure or inadequate health infrastructure at some level. An analysis by the death audit committee shown that nearly 60% patients have died within five days of hospitalisation, suggesting either delayed treatment or hospitalisation or rapid progress to severe disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-deaths-diabetes-hypertension-top-co-morbidities-in-mumbai-101634051478110.html
12-10-2021||Pune||PMC standing committee clears proposal to hire e-vehicles; but no drivers||PUNE The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Tuesday, cleared the proposal to hire 38 electric cars for eight years from a private contractor. As per the proposal, PMC will pay Rs23.28 crore to the contractor for the cars for a period of eight years. Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “We have given the nod to procure the cars from a private contractor, but we decided to cancel the drivers and PMC will use its own drivers.” The cost of th drivers was Rs28,000 percar per month, said Rasane. Though the ruling BJP voted in favor of it, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Shiv Sena opposed the proposal. Rasane said, “Recently, environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray announced that from April 2022, all the government officers would need to purchase or hire only electric vehicles in Maharashtra. These vehicles will be used by office bearers and the administration.” PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar moved this proposal as an “emergency”, without floating of tenders or inviting expressions of interest. Energy Efficiency Private Limited company will provide the vehicles to the PMC. After completion of eight years, the company will allow PMC to purchase the vehicles at five per cent of the cost. PMC also adopted a policy to purchase electric buses for public transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-standing-committee-clears-proposal-to-hire-e-vehicles-but-no-drivers-101634051298116.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Ramdas Kadam to be dropped from list of invitees for Shiv Sena Dussehra rally?||After the purported audio clips of Shiv Sena leader Ramdas Kadam went viral, the party is unlikely to invite the leader for the Dussehra rally on October 15 in Mumbai. With the party inviting only a limited number of leaders and functionaries at the indoor event at Shanmukhanand Hall, the former Sena environment minister is likely to be axed from the list of invitees.Party insiders said that the Sena chief was not happy with the audio clips where Kadam was heard expressing happiness over action against Sena minister Anil Parab by district authorities. The audio clips were put out by Maharashtra Navnirman Sena leader Vaibhav Khedekar alleging that the information against Parab was leaked by Kadam through Prasad Karve, the Right to Information (RTI) activist in Ratnagiri district.“We are inviting a limited number of people including ministers, leaders and functionaries in the hierarchy of the party. Since we have to follow Covid-19 protocols, it won’t be possible to accommodate everybody. Kadam may be dropped from the invited [leaders] along with some other party functionaries,” said a senior party functionary. Party insiders also added that former union minister and Sena leader Anant Geete may not be invited after he called Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar a “backstabber”.Sena chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant, “The gathering will be held at Shanmukhanad Hall with 50% capacity. Only a limited number of people will be asked to come there; around 1,300 people will be there... I am not sure if Ramdas Kadam is invited or not.”With around four months to go for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections, Sena chief, and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to speak on the party’s plan to keep control of the civic body. Interestingly, Kadam is a legislator who is elected to the state legislative council from the Mumbai local self-government bodies. Kadam’s term ends on January 1, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ramdas-kadam-to-be-dropped-from-list-of-invitees-for-shiv-sena-dussehra-rally-101634050818096.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka, other leaders take part in ‘antim ardas’, pay tribute to deceased farmers||LAKHIMPUR KHERI/LUCKNOW Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and other parts of Uttar Pradesh converged in UP’s Lakhimpur district for the ‘antim ardas’ (last prayers) of the four farmers and a journalist killed in the October 3 violence in Tikunia village here. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, UPCC chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Jayant Chaudhary and Samajwadi Party leaders including its district president Rampal Singh Yadav were among those who paid tribute to the deceased.Samyukta Kisan Morcha and BKU leaders, including Rakesh Tikait, Darshan Singh Pal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Dharmendra Malik besides local farm union leaders also arrived in the village to pay tributes to the deceased, who were allegedly mowed down by speeding vehicles on during a protest.The antim ardas was held amidst heavy police presence in a paddy field barely a kilometre away from the spot of violence in Tukunia on Oct 3.The deceased included four farmers, including Daljeet Singh and Gurvinder Singh of Bahraich district, Nachhattar Singh of Dhaurahra (Lakhimpur) and Lavpreet Singh of Pallia (Lakhimpur), a journalist Raman Kashyap of Nighasan (Lakhimpur), two BJP workers and a driver. The violence started when an SUV belonging to BJP minister Ajay Mishra Teni allegedly rammed into the protesting farmers.Farmers coming to attend the antim ardas were stopped at police pickets set up on the road to Tikunia and not allowed to proceed with their vehicles. But majority of them reached the spot on foot.The paddy field was cleared for the antim ardas and rugs were spread on the ground for people to sit. Family members of the deceased and farmer leaders sat on a raised platform while political leaders were not allowed to share the stage by the organisers.Paying homage to the deceased, farmer leaders reiterated their demand for the arrest of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra. His son Ashish Mishra was accused of killing the farmers by mowing them down in an SUV. He was arrested on Saturday by the police team investigating the matter.“Insaf tabhi hoga jab mantri giraftar hoga (Justice will be done only after the minister is arrested,” said a local farm leader at the venue. Family members of the deceased farmers also reiterated the same demand. “The police cannot conduct a fair investigation till minister Ajay Mishra resigns from his post and is arrested for criminal conspiracy that resulted in the violence,” said Gurjinder Singh, uncle of deceased farmer Gurvinder Singh.Preachers from the nearby Kodiyala Ghat Gurudwara offered prayers at the venue. More than 400 Sikh volunteers served water, helped with parking arrangements, directed movement of crowd and ran ‘langar’ (community kitchen ) at the paddy field.Units of the police, PAC and RAF were deputed near the venue to ensure law and order and avert any untoward incident. Senior police and administrative officials also camped in a nearby school and overlooked the proceedings while remaining in touch with farmers.“We are in touch with farmer leaders and organisers of the antim ardas. They have assured us that the event will be organised in a peaceful manner and they will cooperate with the administration to ensure law and order,” said SN Sabat, acting ADG.PRIYANKA, JAYANT STOPPEDCongress national general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who had left for Delhi late on Monday evening after the silent protest in Lucknow, landed in the state capital again on Tuesday morning to go to Lakhimpur Kheri to participate in the ‘antim ardas’. The Congress motorcade was stopped at the Sitapur toll plaza for a while but the police soon allowed it proceed to Lakhimpur.Similarly, RLD national president Jayant Chaudhary was briefly detained at the Bareilly airport. He had taken a flight from Delhi to Bareilly and was heading to Lakhimpur Kheri. He too reached Lakhimpur and participated in the ‘antim ardas’.Will begin stir if minister not sacked: Tikait Addressing the gathering during the ‘antim ardas’, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait reiterated his demand for the removal of MoS (home) Ajay Kumar Mishra, blaming him for the violence in Tikunia on October 3. He also warned of an agitation if the minister was not dismissed from his cabinet post.“If videos of Tikunia violence had not come into public domain, farmers would have been held responsible for the incident,” said Tikait. He said four farmers and a journalist killed in the Tikunia violence would be counted among those 600 farmers, who had laid down their lives opposing the three farm laws. Outlining the further course of agitation, Tikait said a ‘Kisan Shaheed Yatra’ with ‘asthi’ (mortal remains of the deceased) would be taken out across all states and districts. These urns would be religiously disposed in the respective districts and states.On Vijay Dashmi (October 15), effigies of BJP leaders would be burnt to mark the protest against the “anti-farmers policies of the BJP government,” he said.On October 18, a six-hour-long ‘Rail Roko’ movement would be launched from 10am to 4pm, followed by a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ in Lucknow on October 26, during which further course of action would be decided, added Tikait.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-other-leaders-take-part-in-antim-ardas-pay-tribute-to-deceased-farmers-101634050578209.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra bandh: BEST suffers loss; only 573,272 passengers take bus on Monday||As the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), alliance of the Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress, called for a statewide bandh over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Monday, the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) reported a loss of nearly ₹1.71 crore.Nearly 2.5 million passengers travel by BEST buses every day, however, on Monday only 573,272 passengers travelled by the BEST buses.The BEST on an average daily earns nearly ₹2 crore from passenger earnings. On Monday, the organisation earned nearly ₹29 lakhs.Buses operating in the city also had limited operations. Of the 3,333 buses with BEST, only 1,849 buses were operated on Monday.During the bandh, 11 buses were vandalised. The BEST administration had sought police protection for the operation of bus services in the city.“We are yet to determine the monetary loss on the damage of the buses on Monday,” said a senior BEST official.Apart from the BEST bus shutdown, autorickshaw and taxi services were also impacted in the city on Monday.Autorickshaws and taxi drivers that did ferry passengers reportedly charged a double fare to ferry passengers in the city.Local train and metro services functioned normally without any disruptions on Monday.“Demonstrations have been carried out by the protesters at Thane, Mulund and Vikhroli railway stations. Officers @grpmumbai counselled them not to enter the station premises or inconvenience commuters. They have moved to city are thereafter. @DGPMaharashtra” tweeted commissioner of police railways Quaisar Khalid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bandh-best-suffers-loss-only-573-272-passengers-take-bus-on-monday-101634050281045.html
12-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan constitutes transgender welfare fund||The Rajasthan government has set up a welfare fund, among the first such in the country, dedicated to the upliftment of the transgender community. The fund will be utilized for the social and financial upliftment of the community, and bring its members to the mainstream, officials said. In August 2016, Rajasthan constituted a Transgender Welfare Board with three members from the community with the social justice department minister as its chairman. The welfare fund is part of 2021-22 budget announcements. Welcoming the government’s decision, Member of Transgender Welfare Board, Pushpa Nai said, “Rajasthan is the first state in the country with a separate development fund for the community.” She said the transgender development fund will focus on skills, awareness, education, and infrastructure like the setting up of community halls. “A sum of ₹8.82 crore as annual allocation has been made by the government for the fund. The state has made provision of financial assistance for sex change, under which ₹2.5 lakh will be provided to the applicant,” said Pushpa. There are provisions of financial aid in one form or the other in very few states across the country. Tamil Nadu provided ₹4000 as financial aid to transgenders in light of the pandemic to start small businesses, while Karala also provides financial assistance for sex realignment surgeries for the members of the community. As per census 2011, the transgender population in Rajasthan was 16,500. Thereafter in joint mapping with the UNDP, it was found to be around 22,517. It is expected that the population has reached 75,000, said Pushpa. The guidelines of the welfare fund state that the money allocated will be utilized for ensuring financial assistance, housing, medical facilities, education, and employment to the transgender community. For self-employment and skill development, the transgender community between 21 and 50 years of age will be given 25% cost or a maximum of ₹50,000. The state government has also decided to organize festivals, cultural and traditional fairs, games and sports competitions for the community at the state and district level on National Transgender Day held on November 20 every year. For state-level programmes, ₹10 lakh is sanctioned and ₹1 lakh for district level. The state government will allocate two bigah land near Jaipur for state-level community hall and old age home along with counselling at all the seven divisional headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-constitutes-transgender-welfare-fund-101634050279556.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Garbage dumping on mangroves in Uran serious, Bombay HC pulls up municipal council||The Bombay high court (HC) has termed the dumping of garbage by the Uran Municipal Council on mangroves at Bori Pakhadi, across Mumbai harbour as “very serious”, and pulled up the civic body for non-compliance with its own promise to stop the dumping. The Hanuman Koliwada Macchimar Vikas Sanstha had moved the court in December 2018 seeking judicial intervention into the dumping of garbage on mangroves. The Uran Municipal Council advocate submitted to the court that an alternative site for the garbage has been identified. The council also promised the court that the civic body would not dump solid waste in the restricted area and sought time to file a detailed affidavit. The hearing had been adjourned to January 30, 2019. In the affidavit filed by the Raigad district collector on February 19, 2019, it was stated that land for solid waste dumping is yet to be identified and allotted, the court noted. When the case came for hearing on Friday, the petitioners’ counsel Meenaz Kakalia pointed out that the dumping continues and presented the latest photographs of the site where a JCB machine was seen spreading the garbage and the site on fire, billowing dark smoke. Justices SJ Kathawalla and Milind N Jadhav said in their order, “The fact remains that the statements made before this court and recorded by the court in its order dated December 19, 2018, has been breached.” This was also established from the photographs submitted by the advocate for the petitioner, the judges said. Terming the matter “very serious”, the judges directed the Uran Municipal Council to file a fresh affidavit by October 13. The hearing is fixed for the next day. NatConnect Foundation, which has also taken up the issue with the Prime Minister and the chief minister, said for 15 years locals and environmentalists have been literally banging their heads on walls with no respite to pollution, breathing problems and frequent sickness, apart from the damage to mangroves. Pointing out that the Swachh Bharat campaign has been thrown to winds in Uran, Kumar said “None of the authorities seems to respect mangroves as frontline soldiers against tidal attacks.” In response to a Right to Information (RTI) application, Uran Municipal Council informed NatConnect that it has requested the Raigad collector for a five-hectare plot at Jasai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/garbage-dumping-on-mangroves-in-uran-serious-bombay-hc-pulls-up-municipal-council-101634050158183.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Exact revenge for jawans killed in Jammu and Kashmir: Sena||A day after five army jawans were killed in an encounter with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), Shiv Sena on Tuesday said that revenge should be exacted five times the fatality of the soldier. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana added that after Article 370 was removed striping off the special status granted to Jammu and Kashmir, the extremists and Pakistan sympathisers have been emboldened.On Monday, five army personnel, including a junior commissioned officer (JCO), and two terrorists were killed in three encounters in various districts of Jammu and Kashmir. The soldiers were martyred in an encounter in the Surankote area of Poonch.“After stripping off all the special status granted to Jammu and Kashmir, the Pakistan sympathisers have been emboldened. The terrorists in Kashmir, who operate at the directions of Pakistan, have again created a perverse environment to not allow persons of any other religion to step foot in the valley. After killing a Kashmiri Pandit, a Sikh woman, the terrorists have dared to kill five army personnel. Before the blood of the five soldiers killed in the Surankote encounter dries, revenge must be exacted five times the soldiers killed,” the editorial said.The Sena mouthpiece likened the recent incidents to the 1990s when the terror incidents were at their peak. “The Indian minds will not get peace till the time terrorists who killed the five soldiers are pulverised... For how long will we have to suffer the killings of our jawans? The recent incidents of violence have reminded the decade in the 90s,” the editorial remarked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/exact-revenge-for-jawans-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-sena-101634049978031.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Still feel I am in Maharashtra CM’s chair, says Devendra Fadnavis; Congress slams remark||Former chief minister and leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis’s remarks that he feels like he is still the chief minister, invoked criticism from the ruling parties.In a programme in Navi Mumbai, Fadnavis said that he never felt, in the past two years, that he was not the CM of the state. “I never felt that I am not the chief minister (CM) of the state. I still feel that I am in the chair. It is because of the leaders like Manda Mhatre, Ganesh Naik, Narendra Patil, who keep supporting me, that I never felt that I am no more in the chair. The people of Maharashtra never let me realise that I am not the CM now. Whenever I get the blessings (to become CM again) I will first come to goddess Govardhani (deity of Navi Mumbai) to take blessings,” he said.Fadnavis said that in the past two years he has been working tirelessly for the people. “After all, it is not important which position you occupy, but the work you do talks for you. I have done a fabulous job as the leader of Opposition,” he said.His remarks invoked criticism from Congress which said that Fadnavis needs proper counselling.“The formation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government two years ago was an unexpected event for Devendraji Fadnavis. The mental shock may invoke such psychological symptoms. Sometimes even the reduction in the salt in the blood may lead to illusion. Fadnavis needs to see a doctor immediately as the period of two years is not less and the people in Maharashtra need him as the leader of Opposition,” said Maharashtra Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant.Another Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said that Fadnavis should stop daydreaming and accept the fact that he is the leader of Opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/still-feel-i-am-in-maharashtra-cm-s-chair-says-devendra-fadnavis-congress-slams-remark-101634049857879.html
12-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 497 new Covid cases, 6 deaths||Pune: As of Tuesday, Pune district has reported 497 new Covid cases and six deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.14 million of which 1.11 million have recovered, 19,874 deaths and 8,206 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 72,000 doses vaccinated on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 288 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 362,140 and the death toll stood at 6,845 as four more deaths were reported on the day. Pune city reported 121 new cases which took the progressive count to 519,067 and the death toll stood at 9,181 as two more deaths were reported on the day. PCMC reported 88 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 267,507 and the toll stood at 3,499 as no more deaths were reported. Pune also saw 73,628 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 11,298,486. Of which 7,476,341 are first doses and 3,822,145 are second doses. A total of 869 sites saw vaccination of which 671 were government centres and 198 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-497-new-covid-cases-6-deaths-101634048718029.html
12-10-2021||Other||Manipur CM launches a mega citizen engagement initiative ‘CM Da Haisi’||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Tuesday launched ‘CM Da Haisi,’ (let’s tell to CM) - a mega citizen engagement initiative for people of Manipur to directly connect with the chief minister via helpline number (95347 95347).Manipur agriculture and tourism minister O Lukhoi, deputy speaker K Robindro, MLAs P Sarat and H Dingo were present during the formal launching gathering at the CM’s official bungalow in Imphal.Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Biren Singh said, “This new initiative was taken up considering the necessity to address public grievances as the prevailing Covid-19 situation prevented the holding of the monthly public meeting called ‘Meeyamgi Numit’ (people’s day), etc, in the state.”The chief minister said that through this platform, every citizen of the state can directly connect with him and share their grievances and suggestions. “’CM Da Haisi’ aims to reach and engage with at least 50% households in Manipur in the next two months,” he said.To accomplish this, a dedicated task force has started functioning in a mission mode. The task force will record the problems and suggestions of the public and attempt to resolve them at the earliest, he said. The main objective of the campaign is to improve citizens’ participation and engagement by providing a platform, he added.Highlighting the important achievements of the government’s mission in the last four and half years, the CM observed that emotional integration and confidence-building among the people in the hill and valley in the state has improved after the introduction of the ‘Go to Hills’ mission.In ‘Meeyamgi Numit’ (people’s day), a routine monthly meeting with the public, the grievances of many families were addressed, he said. While celebrating 4 years of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led coalition government in the state in May this year, Biren Singh informed that it took the governance to people’s doorsteps covering around 2,691 villages in a year, besides reviving the government’s public transport system after a gap of 15 years.“Such types of people-centric initiatives bring a change in the state,” he said.Similarly, around 8 lakh people have benefitted from PM’s Ayushman Bharat and Chief Ministergi Hakselgi Tengbang, a state health scheme in the state, he added. More than 31,000 houses in the valley areas and more than 20,000 houses in the hill areas were also constructed under the government.At the same time, with the launch of a website named tengbang, nearly 40,000 stranded citizens of the state were provided with the financial assistance of ₹2,000 each apart from transporting them to the state during the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown.Chief minister Biren Singh also responded to the phone calls made by a few individuals through the new helpline number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-cm-launches-a-mega-citizen-engagement-initiative-cm-da-haisi-101634048240463.html
12-10-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Building climate action into every new construction design||The number of warmer days and nights is going up. Due to climate change, heatwaves and other extreme weather events are longer, more frequent, and more intense in India. In highly built-up urban areas, heat and light also reflect off and radiate from buildings and roads, creating heat islands. In addition, buildings in India are the second-largest consumer of electricity. By 2030, buildings will likely become the largest consumer of electricity. However, it is possible to design and construct energy-efficient buildings and avoid the urban heat island effect. In a business-as-usual scenario, without any additional building energy policies, the total final energy consumption in Indian buildings can double between 2010 and 2050, reaching 5000 TWh and emitting 3,543 million metric tonnes of CO2e emissions. However, there is a significant opportunity to avoid steep rises in energy consumption from the building sector – 50% of the buildings that will exist in 2030 are not yet constructed! Is low-carbon comfort possible?Can we have comfortable buildings without warming the planet (too much)? The genius of architects, developers, energy experts and the options available in designs, building materials and appliances is such that comfortable, well-lit, ventilated buildings that keep energy consumption and electricity bills down are already possible. Building energy codes are effective tools for ensuring energy efficiency in building design, construction, and operation. Estimates suggest that energy performance standards that require new buildings to incorporate energy efficiency designs can yield a 30 to 40 per cent reduction in energy use and yet be more comfortable. Building energy codes can catalyse changeAmong the most urbanised states in the country, Maharashtra has a crucial role in ensuring that new buildings are energy efficient. In addition, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) is by far one of the biggest real estate markets in the country.The architecture design and construction industries already have technologies for energy-efficient buildings. However, since Maharashtra does not have an institutional framework or system to integrate such measures in new buildings, these technologies have not been extensively deployed.The Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC), applicable to commercial buildings, prepared by the central government’s Bureau of Energy Efficiency, was released in 2007 and amended later in 2017, is available for states to adopt and implement. These building energy codes, if implemented, can result in substantial energy savings. So far, 18 states and two union territories (UTs) have notified ECBC 2007 and ECBC 2017. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh were among the first states, and Madhya Pradesh is the latest to do so.The Maharashtra Energy Development Authority (MEDA) is the state nodal agency to facilitate ECBC implementation. Notification of the ECBC by the Maharashtra government and its incorporation in building bye-laws for new commercial buildings can drive sector transformation.“By 2030, India will have added nearly one billion square meters of new commercial floor space — more than the land area of New York City and Washington DC combined. Building smart from the start is a real opportunity to reduce emissions, save energy and enhance prosperity. Gujarat and Maharashtra are key states in India’s transition to energy-efficient buildings. Successful implementation of the code in these two states will give a huge boost to India’s efforts on building energy savings,” says Prima Madan, lead consultant with Natural Resources Defence Council (NRDC) India Programme. Maharashtra has taken initial steps to draft a state amended code. It has identified the roles of different stakeholders and completed demonstration projects to showcase the actual energy savings of ECBC compliant buildings. In 2021, the state constituted a technical committee with officials of urban development and housing departments to fast-track notification. A simple process, backed by a pool of certified experts to support the real estate developers with compliance, will be important for a large state like Maharashtra to successfully implement ECBC.Conversations with some top developers reveal a positive attitude towards formalising the ECBC in Maharashtra, provided the permissions process can be kept simple. Some shared that green buildings help create a brand image, especially with potential overseas and multinational clients for office and commercial space.The state government has stated its commitment to climate action. The timely notification of the ECBC in Maharashtra will enable the building construction industry to play a significant role in avoiding future carbon emissions with more energy-efficient buildings.Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-building-climate-action-into-every-new-construction-design-101634047759846.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane forest department officer arrested for demanding bribe from subordinate||The Maharashtra Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), on Monday, arrested a Class I officer with the forest department for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of ₹5.30 lakh from his subordinate.According to ACB officials, the accused, Baliram Kolekar (57), is an assistant conservator of forests in charge of the Murbad and Thane range. The complainant is a Class II officer working under him, and looks after the Tokawade area in the Murbad taluka in Thane district.“The State government had sanctioned two tranches of funds for the complainant’s area for the last two financial years, and Kolekar was demanding a total of ₹6.22 lakh in exchange for releasing the funds,” an ACB officer said.The complainant approached the ACB last month to complain against Kolekar, and after verifying the complainant’s claims, the ACB set a trap. Kolekar was allegedly caught red handed while accepting ₹5.30 lakh from the complainant at his Naupada office on Monday. He was subsequently placed under arrest and charged under the Prevention of Corruption Act. “During a search of Kolekar’s office, we have found and seized an additional amount of ₹12.46 lakh in cash. Inquiries into this aspect are under way,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-forest-department-officer-arrested-for-demanding-bribe-from-subordinate-101634046754611.html
12-10-2021||Indore||Four Muslim men arrested at Garba program in Indore released on bond||Four Muslim men, arrested after activists of the Bajrang Dal objected to their presence at a Garba dance event organized at a private college here, were released on Tuesday after they furnished bonds, an official said. Their family members questioned the rationale behind the arrests. Two of them were students of the same college and serving as volunteers during the event, family members said. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Parag Jain ordered the release of Adnan Shah, Mohammad Umar, Abdul Qadir and Syed Saqib after they furnished bonds of ₹50,000 each, a district official said. The four were arrested on Sunday under section 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) from the campus of a college located in Gandhi Nagar. Abdul Hamid Shah, Adnan's father, told PTI that his son was a student of second year B.Com. "He was serving there as a volunteer and was handling light and sound system during the program,” Shah said. Displaying the identity card issued by the college and invitation to the program, he asked, “On what basis my son was sent to jail under CrPC 151? We feel it was done under political pressure.” Abdul Aleem, Qadir's elder brother, too said he was handling garba arrangements as a volunteer. But additional superintendent of police Prashant Choube said these men had a dispute with some others during the program, so they were arrested as a precautionary measure under section 151. Eyewitnesses said that Bajrang Dal activists had created a ruckus objecting to the presence of members of the Muslim community at the event, following which police took four persons to the police station. Bajrang Dal's local coordinator Tarun Devda in a complaint filed with Gandhi Nagar police station alleged that the district administration had given permission to the organizers to invite only 800 persons, but they turned it into a commercial event by selling tickets, and between 2,000 to 3,000 people were in attendance. Devda also claimed that by inviting a large number of Muslim youths to a Garba program organized during the holy festival of Navratra, the college was encouraging them to take part in such events. On Devda's complaint, a case under IPC section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) was also registered against Akshay Tiwari, a member of the college management, police said. Elsewhere, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Monday put up posters in Ratlam `prohibiting' the entry of "non-Hindus" at Garba dance pandals to avoid the repeat of "controversial incidents" of the last year. It had put up such posters in 56 pandals with the consent of respective organizers, said an office-bearer of the right-wing outfit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/four-muslim-men-arrested-at-garba-program-in-indore-released-on-bond-101634046331355.html
12-10-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand's first woman idol maker continues her late husband's business||Madhvi Pal, who is reportedly Jharkhand's first woman idol maker, carries forward her late husband's idol-making business in Ranchi after his death.Speaking to ANI, Madhvi said, "I started this in 2012 after my husband died. It was his business. I will continue doing this as long as I am alive."She further said that she faced many difficulties in continuing this business as she was the only bread-earner of the family after him."When he died, the environment at my house was very depressing because he was the only bread-earner of my family. I have two kids, so after him, the responsibility laid on me and then I decided to carry forward his business because I was left the only provider of my family," she added.Madhvi said that she always used to take care of the workers at her workplace. "When I decided to continue my husband's business, the workers did not trust me whether I will be able to manage it or pay them on time. But I always provided them bonus along with salary so that they can be happy," the lady idol maker said.She said that she sells these idols only in nearby villages like Tipudana, Ramgarh, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhands-first-woman-idol-maker-continues-her-late-husband-s-business-101634044538867.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||5 arrested for assaulting, threatening auto drivers in Monday’s bandh in Thane||The Thane Nagar police have registered a case against five Shiv Sena party workers for threatening auto rickshaw drivers and assaulting them during Monday’s bandh. All of them were arrested on Tuesday morning.The five arrested have been identified as Pawan Kadam, husband of deputy mayor of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), Pallavi Kadam, former corporator, Girish Raje, and party workers – Kiran Nakti, Prakash Payre and Mahendra Madhavi. The case has been registered after a video of all of the five slapping auto drivers went viral.Thane Nagar Police senior police inspector, R Somavanshi, said, “We have arrested all five of them under IPC Sections 146,188, 323 and 503 for allegedly assaulting rickshaw drivers on the street during Monday’s bandh.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5-arrested-for-assaulting-threatening-auto-drivers-in-monday-s-bandh-in-thane-101634045780409.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||‘It’s a great mix of fasting and feasting during Navratri’||Navratri and Durga Puja celebrations in the city are witnessing a big contrast in terms of consumption of food. While a large section of devotees observe fasts and abstain from non-vegetarian food for Bengalis this is the time to feast upon choices of delicacies with fish topping, the must-have list besides mutton and chicken dishes. Sonali Bhattacharya, a teacher, says, “Usually for four days we Bengalis only eat out. On Sashti (sixth day) womenfolk fast for their children and thereafter during daytime we savour the divine bhog at Pandals and then dinners of course with non-vegetarian delicacies. On 10th day after Sindoor Khela and visarjan people visit each other’s home where they are treated with payas (kheer) and fish.” At pandals it’s khichdi bhog that everyone looks forward to savour, says Shankar Bhowmik, bhog secretary of Bengali Club. Rakesh Pandey, general secretary of Utsav Jankipuram Sec-F Durga Puja, informed that due to Covid-19 protocols packed bhoj was distributed to devotees. However, at Ramakrishna Math bhog was given to one and all. President Swami Muktinathananda himself made an announcement that all devotees must have prasad before leaving the pandal. “Community feasting is an important aspect of Durga pujo and people eagerly wait for it,” he said. Chef Bhasker Mishra says at his Sassy Canteen he is getting a good mix of people coming for fasting thali and on the other hand Bengalis are driving the non-vegetarian business. “Those who are not fasting, but abstaining from non-vegetarian, are also trying for fast-wali-thaali for a change! It’s a great mix of fasting and feasting during Navratri. Personally, I don’t eat non-veg during Navratri. My mother is a Bengali so we prepare many varieties of sweets, different of khichdi and on Dussehra fish is a must. At my nani’s home on all days fish is savoured.” Restaurants too are banking on Bengali consumers to balance business for them. “Business during last Navratri was very poor but this time, though many are fasting or abstaining from non-veg food, the Bengalis drive up the sale. Interestingly, mutton is preferred over chicken delicacies,” says Arshi Jamal of Dastarkhwan. Youngster Souvik Mukherjee, who works in a private company, says, “During this period, I have bog during daytime, but dinner has to be a non-vegetarian delicacy. It’s a contrast that my friends are fasting or having satvik bhog, but I have promised them full-on non-veg treat on Dussehra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/its-a-great-mix-of-fasting-and-feasting-during-navratri-101634044457735.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh launches rath yatra from Kanpur, says BJP “crushed” farmers||KANPUR Launching his party’s Mission 2022 with a rath yatra, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday lashed out at the BJP, saying it had “crushed farmers,” and on return to power in Uttar Pradesh, would “crush the Constitution” as well.The composite culture (Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb) of UP was the identity of the people here and the Samajwadi Vijay Yatra was about saving this tehzeeb, said the former UP CM while kick-starting the Samajwadi Vijay Rath Yatra from Kanpur’s new Ganga bridge, which will cover all 403 Assembly segments ahead of the 2022 Assembly polls in the state.The SP chief will focus on farmers, youth and their problems during this journey, the first leg of which will end on October 13. The yatra will pass through Kanpur, Kanpur Dehat, Hamirpur and Jalaun in the first phase and promises to make people aware about the “corrupt, autocratic and suppressive” policies of the BJP government and establish “real democracy”.Buoyed by the enthusiasm of SP workers who rode boats in the Ganga, Akhilesh Yadav appeared on top of his motorized rath (a bus) with five-year-old Khazanchi, the child who was born in a queue outside a bank in Kanpur Dehat during demonetisation days. Waving the party flag, Khazanchi flagged off the Vijay Yatra, which halted at Hamirpur where a meeting was held.“The Samajwadi Vijay Rath will run from Ganga to Yamuna. We are starting this yatra with the blessings of Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav). We have come out to seek the cooperation and support of the public. The people of UP have been cheated by the BJP government…a change is inevitable,” he said.Attacking the ruling party, Yadav said: “The BJP has crushed farmers, and if they come back to power, they are all set to crush the Constitution. “Therefore, the Samajwadi Vijay Rath will go to people and throw the BJP out of power,” the former CM said in apparent reference to the mowing down of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri last Sunday.Yadav said UP was the land of farmers, but they were being oppressed. “They were promised double income but their income has been taken away.The farmers are not being given the price of their standing paddy crop,” he said.Yadav said the state should be rebuilt and put on the path of development. “The BJP government is selling everything – from airports to ports. It won’t be a surprise, if in days to come, the government is outsourced,” he said.Speaking in Ghatampur, the former CM said the Samajwadi Party would not hesitate in giving free power and water to people, if voted to power. Rath yatras have been an important part of the Samajwadi Party’s campaign since 2001. Akhilesh Yadav led the yatra in 2012 and the party was voted to power. He was sworn in as the chief minister.Now, Yadav is travelling in a Mercedes bus, which has been turned into a ‘rath’ having his posters displayed on one side and that of party founder Mulayam Singh Yadav on the other, besides a picture of party leader Mohammad Azam Khan. The bus is also adorned with pictures of SP leader Ram Gopal Yadav, party state president Naresh Uttam Patel, and an embossed slogan ‘Bado Ka Hath Yuva Ka Sath’ (the older generation blesses the new).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-launches-rath-yatra-from-kanpur-says-bjp-crushed-farmers-101634044217488.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh Police devises new strategy to track drug traffickers||With illicit drug trade on the rise, Himachal Pradesh Police has re-devised its strategy to catch smugglers and keep track of addicts. Also read: India allows domestic flights to operate at full capacity amid demand surgeThe police have added Register-29 in all police stations to track addicts and offenders booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. “At present, there is no mechanism to maintain the exact data of offenders booked under the NDPS Act. The station house officer (SHO) of the police station concerned will have to maintain the register that will create a database for analyses and better prevention of drug trafficking,” says state police chief Sanjay Kundu. Highest number of drug cases in Shimla The rise in narcotic trade in the state can be gauged from the number of NDPS cases registered under different police stations. In 2016, 919 cases were registered under the Act, while the number has now risen to 1,078. The highest number of 173 cases has been registered in Shimla followed by 164 in Kullu, 146 in Mandi and 121 in Kangra. Solan district that borders Haryana and includes the industrial township of Baddi and Barotiwala has registered 125 cases. Drug trafficking is negligent in Lahaul and Spiti district, where only two cases have been registered. The prevalence of drug addiction and trafficking is more among those aged between 26 and 35 years, who comprise 37% of the total number of cases registered under the NDPS Act. Charas use higher than national average According to a survey of the National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, the prevalence of the use of charas and ganja is 1.2% in the country, while it’s higher than the national average at 3.2 % in Himachal Pradesh. Similarly, the use of opioids is 2.8% in Punjab, 2.5% in Haryana, 2% in Delhi and 1.7% in Himachal Pradesh against the national average of 0.7%. Himachal Pradesh’s drug problem includes illicit cultivation of cannabis and opium and the production of chemical narcotic drugs. Kullu is infamous for illicit cannabis cultivation. The high-quality charas produced in the valley is sought after in international and domestic tourist destinations. The increase in the use of chitta and other synthetic drugs has raised concerns for the government. Recently, the Himachal Pradesh Police helped Punjab Police to unearth the illegal supply of Tramadol tablets manufactured in two factories in Sirmour district. After inspection, police registered FIRs against the pharma companies suspected of diverting tablets, capsules listed in psychotropic substances through fake marketing companies. The state police have sought help from the CBI-Interpol branch to arrest traffickers hailing from west African countries supplying drugs in Himachal. In the past five years, 69 foreigners, including 34 Nigerians, have been arrested in the state under the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-pradesh-police-devises-new-strategy-to-track-drug-traffickers-101634043257784.html
12-10-2021||Bhopal||23-year-old woman gang-raped in Bhopal, 4 arrested||A 23-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped by four men on the pretext of providing a job in Bhopal on Monday night, said police. Police arrested four accused- Sayed Yakub Ali Khan, 51, who runs an MP Online kiosk, Mohammad Abrar Khan, 31, who works as an employee at the kiosk, Sharique Khan, 29, a student and Mohammad Rehman, 40, who works as a teacher in a Madarsa - all residents of Arif Nagar Bhopal under section 376 d (gang rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) on Tuesday. Bhopal (north) superintendent of police, Vijay Khatri said, “The woman belongs to a very poor family and her parents are physically challenged. She is working as a maid but looking for a job. About 15 days ago, her uncle gave Yakub Khan’s contact number saying he will help her in getting a job.” “The woman contacted him on Monday evening. Yakub asked her to meet at his house in Islam Nagar, where he lives alone, to fix her job at his kiosk. When the woman reached, Yakub locked his house and raped her. Later, three others raped her,” he added. They tried to give her money to shut her up. They threatened her with dire consequences before allowing her to go. The woman reached at Eintkhedi police station on Tuesday morning and registered a case against the accused. After medical examination, police arrested all the four accused and produced them before the court. Police also sent the girl for counselling because she was in a state of shock after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/23yearold-woman-gang-raped-in-bhopal-4-arrested-101634042897978.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Local Shiv Sena leaders arrested for assaulting auto rickshaw drivers during bandh||Thane Nagar police on Tuesday arrested five local Shiv Sena leaders, accused of threatening and assaulting auto rickshaw drivers during Monday’s statewide shutdown, called by the coalition partners in Maharashtra government to protest against October 3 killing of farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri.The arrested accused include former corporators Pawan Kadam, who is also the husband of Thane Municipal Corporation’s deputy mayor, and Girish Raje apart from local Sena leaders Kiran Nakti, Prakash Payre and Mahendra Madhavi. The case was registered after a video of the accused, threatening and assaulting rickshaw drivers while asking them to get off the roads, went viral. Also Read: Hundreds detained in Thane district for vandalising property; protestors attempt to immolate in KalyanThane Nagar police senior police inspector R Somavanshi said that sections 146,188, 323 and 503 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) had been invoked in the FIR. A total of 177 protesters across the Thane commissionerate were detained on Monday for protesting and vandalising transport vehicles and properties.Several auto rickshaws were forced go off the road on Monday by Shiv Sena party workers that were seen enforcing the bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/local-shiv-sena-leaders-arrested-for-assaulting-auto-rickshaw-drivers-during-bandh-101634042237075.html
12-10-2021||Bangalore||No respite for Bengaluru as IMD forecasts ‘very, very heavy rainfall’ till October 17||After heavy rain lashed Bengaluru on Monday night, leading to severe waterlogging in several areas, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast “isolated heavy to very, very heavy rainfall” for the next five days over south interior Karnataka – where its capital city is located. Similar weather has been predicted for coastal Karnataka regions as well, while “isolated heavy rainfall” is very likely over north interior Karnataka in the next 24 hours.According to the latest IMD bulletin, heavy rainfall in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka is being triggered by a cyclonic circulation that currently lies over the east-central Arabian Sea. “It is very likely to persist during [the] next two days,” the IMD bulletin read. The weather department has already forecast heavy rainfall with thunderstorms and lightning in Bengaluru for Tuesday, according to ANI.Bengaluru, the IT hub of India, has been witnessing heavy rain since Sunday afternoon, however, intensive rainfall on Monday night led to waterlogging outside the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) as well. Soon, videos and images of people reaching the airport on tractors went viral on social media.However, the chief operating officer of KIA Jayaraj Shanmugam told news agency ANI that there was “no tractor at the airport; it was outside at Begur junction.” “The amount of rainfall was unprecedented so waterlogging occurred. [The] staff is ensuring that no inconvenience occurs to anyone. We are putting additional pumps,” he was quoted as saying.Also Read | After passengers forced take tractors to Bengaluru airport, official says they didn’t come inMeanwhile, the southwest monsoon that has already withdrawn from various parts of northwest India, including Gujarat and Maharashtra, and even eastern India, including Odisha, West Bengal, and Manipur, will “further withdraw” from some parts of Karnataka in the next two days. The IMB bulletin noted that conditions are presently favourable in the state for the withdrawal to take place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/very-very-heavy-rainfall-till-oct-17-in-bengaluru-parts-of-karnataka-imd-101634040329224.html
12-10-2021||Other||For Silchar’s sex workers, Durga Puja is celebration of womanhood||It is believed that the idol of Goddess Durga is made using soil from brothels. But the sex workers do not get a chance to participate in the festival in public places. In Assam’s Silchar, an unregistered brothel exists where 450 sex workers, mostly victims of human trafficking, live together with their children. Since they are not allowed to attend any Durga Puja pandal or temple, they have started conducting a Puja inside the red-light area. They said that it is a symbol of welcoming the goddess at their home during the festival and celebration of womanhood. On the eve of Maha Shasthi, when the goddess is believed to arrive at her father’s home, the religious celebration officially begins. On Monday, the sex workers were seen preparing to welcome goddess Durga at their temple located inside the redlight area. It is comparatively a small puja where no idols made of earth are used. They offer the puja before a large portrait of goddess Durga. A senior sex worker who has spent 50 years of her life in the Silchar redlight area said, “We are rejected individuals from society, we cannot take part in common celebration. But, in the end, we are human beings, we cannot just pass these four days without celebration. So, we welcome goddess Durga to our home because she is our mother too. We follow the rituals which also include Lakshmi puja after 4 days of Dussehra. We celebrate Kali Puja on a larger scale. All of them are women and we celebrate womanhood by offering Puja to Maa Durga, Lakshmi and Kali.”She also informed that around 70 kids are residing with their mothers. “They sometimes want to be outside and we make arrangements for this,” she said. Another old lady said, “We are not even allowed to worship Maa Durga or Maa Kali during the festive season in public areas. So, we have made our area of worship. This area has idols and pictures of many gods and goddesses. We are believed to be one of maa Durga roops, so we worship her in our temple.”The red light area located near the Premtala area of Silchar town is called ‘Chouddo Nombor Galli’ (Lane Number 14) and is one of the largest active brothels in North East India. Local historians say that the brothel in Silchar was established during the second world war. There was some army movement in this part of India during the war and the brothel was initially made for them. Silchar town was very small during that period. Later, it became the second-most important urban area of Assam after Guwahati because of the trade possibilities. Prostitution is not legal in India but everyone knows that this area near Premtala point of Silchar is an undeclared brothel.There are several cases of trafficking against the brothel and so many times, young women were recovered by police and NGOs from this place. Two Delhi-based bar dancers were recovered in 2019 based on a complaint lodged by an NGO. There were many such cases in past when girls from several parts of India and other countries like Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh, were rescued from this brothel.The ladies who ended up being here are victims of trafficking and several other issues, so it is quite natural that they couldn’t keep their documents along. When the first draft of NRC was released in 2018, more than 200 sex workers of the Silchar redlight area could not find their names in the list. Many of them got names enlisted in the final draft after they went home, met the families to find the family trees.Unlike Silchar, brothel inmates in various parts of the country, including Sonagachi brothel in Kolkata, have been given voter identity cards and Aadhaar cards by the government. There are several unions of sex workers in West Bengal and other states which are fighting for their rights and protection. But in Silchar, there is no such union that can raise demand for these sex workers. There is anger among locals about this redlight area in the middle of the town. In the past, several attempts were made to remove it but somehow the attempts were not successful. Sometimes, the women, especially the young ones, try to escape but they end up getting caught.Social activist and advocate Tuhina Sharma is one of the strongest voices of these ladies. With the help of Lions Club Silchar Central and other NGOs, she distributes sanitary pads, sanitizers, condoms and contraceptives among these sex workers. She also helps the inmates get voter identity cards and other documents so that their names get mentioned in the administrative records.She said, “These women are mostly victims of violence and injustice, they are vulnerable for various reasons. First, we need to ensure that they have a registered identity. After that comes hygiene and safety. As per the records, we know, around 450 women from this place have voting rights. We have heard that some candidates have come here to ask for the voting process. Both the Congress and BJP in their manifestos have said that ladies will get some financial benefits. I want to ask both the parties if these sex workers will get the advantage?”During the lockdown, the area was shut for almost a year. Various NGOs and some officers from Cachar police extended their support to these ladies. Food, sanitizer, mask, clothes and medicines were sent to these sex workers. Some NGOs, with the help of the health department, conduct monthly HIV test drives. Now, Covid-19 tests are being conducted regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-silchar-s-sex-workers-durga-puja-is-celebration-of-womanhood-101634039898413.html
12-10-2021||Bangalore||After passengers forced to take tractors to Bengaluru airport, official says they didn’t come in||A day after several passengers were seen taking tractors as roads leading to the Bengaluru airport were waterlogged amid heavy rain in the city, a senior official said on Tuesday they are doing everything to ease out the situation. Jayaraj Shanmugam, the chief operating officer of Bangalore International Airport Limited, said the water logging in and around the area was because of the “unprecedented” rain. “The amount of rainfall was unprecedented so waterlogging occurred. The staff is ensuring that no inconvenience occurs to anyone,” Shanmugam told news agency ANI. “There was no tractor at the airport, it was outside at Begur junction. We are putting in additional pumps,” Shanmugam added. Also watch | Bengaluru airport: How flyers took tractor rides to catch flights amid floodingIn video clips shared on social media, the roads outside the Kempegowda International Airport (KIAL) in Bengaluru were seen flooded and several passengers stranded after the city witnessed heavy rainfall, causing a flood-like situation. The waterlogging at the road to the airport made it difficult for the passengers to reach the airport and some of them were seen being ferried on a tractor outside the airport.ALso read | Bengaluru rain: Roads outside airport flooded, passengers take tractor rides to catch flightsThe News Minute reported citing an airport spokesperson as saying that at least 11 flights were rescheduled and 20 planes headed from Bengaluru to Chennai, Pune, Hyderabad, Mangaluru, Mumbai, Kochi and Panaji were delayed. The digital news platform said that a heavy spell of rain for around 15-30 minutes led to the waterlogging and that the Bengaluru airport recorded 178.3mm of rainfall over 24 hours ending 8.30am on Tuesday, according to the Meteorological Centre. Bengaluru city on the other hand received 32.6mm of rainfall and Bengaluru HAL recorded 20.8mm. Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted heavy rain, thunderstorm and lighting for the city.Also read | Arrival area of Delhi airport’s T3 floods, over 100 flights delayedLast month, Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport was flooded due to heavy rain which lashed the national capital. The intense rain on September 11 caused flooding in the arrival area in Terminal 3, as well as the area where aircraft are parked, even as more than 100 flights were delayed and five diverted. Officials said rainwater leaked into Terminal 3 from at least four spots on the roof. The Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), the airport operator, attributed the waterlogging inside the terminal to “a steep gradient” between Terminal 3 and National Highway 48 adjoining it. The airport’s forecourt flooded in October 2019 as well after an intense spell of rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/passengers-take-tractors-to-bengaluru-airport-official-says-they-didn-t-come-in-101634037005292.html
12-10-2021||Bangalore||Coal shortage: Bengaluru to face power cuts on October 12, 13. Check list of areas||As India faces a shortage of coal, which has impacted power generation in many states, the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (BESCOM) took to Twitter to inform that many areas in Bengaluru will face power cuts starting Tuesday, October 12. On Monday, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said he requested the Centre to increase the supply of coal to the state. "I have already stated that we have requested the Centre to increase the supply of coal by four racks," Bommai said.1) Power will be disrupted in Club Road Circle and surrounding areas, HSR Layout, KIMS College, Old Airport Road, Siddapura, Devarabisanahalli, Isro Layout, Uttarahalli among others on Tuesday.2) Similarly, RBI Layout, Srinidhi Layout, Chunchagatta village, Dodmane Industrial Area, Srinivasa Choultry Road, JP Nagar fifth phase, BTM Layout second stage and other areas will also face power outages from 10am to 5.30pm on Tuesday.3) Govindaraj Nagar, Kolimane Road, Subanna Garden, GKW Layout, Vinayaka Layout, Anubhava Nagara, Maruthi Nagara, and Gangondana Hally in the Rajajinagar division in the West Zone are headed for a power outage from 10.30am till 5.30pm on Tuesday.4) RBI Layout, Srinidhi Layout, Chunchagatta village, Dodmane Industrial Area, Srinivasa Choultry Road, JP Nagar fifth phase, BTM Layout second stage and other areas in Bengaluru will witness power cuts from 10am to 5.30pm on Tuesday.5) Power interruptions will be witnessed in Domlur Outer Ring Road and Krishna Reddy Layout from 10am to 11.30pm. Domlur Layout and CPWD Quarters will also face a power outage from 11.45am to 1.15pm on Tuesday.6) In the West Zone, Govindaraj Nagar, Kolimane Road, Subanna Garden, GKW Layout, Vinayaka Layout, Anubhava Nagara, Maruthi Nagara, and Gangondana Hally in Rajajinagar division will face a power outage from 10.30am to 5.30pm.7) HB Samaja Road and Ranganath Colony in the RR Nagara division will also see a power outage between 10am and 6pm. Similarly, there will be a power cut in Sirsi Circle from 10.30am to 12.30pm and in Dwarkanagar from 10am to 1pm.8) Bhoomika Layout, Patangiri and Krishna Garden in the Kengeri division will also witness disruption in power supply between 9am and 5pm on Tuesday.9) In the East Zone, power disruption will be witnessed in Hoysala Nagar, 11th Cross, and Meenakshi Temple Road in Indiranagar division from 10am to 4pm.10) Power cuts will also take place at Royal Enclave and Ponappa Layout in the Shivajinagar division between 10am and 5pm. Similarly, there will be a power cut in Bharath Nagar and Fathima Layout from 11am to 3pm and in parts of Doopanahalli from 2pm to 5pm.11) Likewise, Rajabhavan and Magadi Main Road in the Vidhanasoudha division will see an outage from 11am to 1.30pm. There will also be a disruption in the power supply on Cunningham Road and Mysore Road between 2.30pm and 5pm.12) Residents of Kogilu Layout, Agrahara and Thirumenahalli village in Hebbal division will face power outages from 9am to 5pm. Similarly, power disruptions are scheduled for Bagalur Cross between 10am and 5pm and MLA Layout between 11am and 5pm.13) On Wednesday, there will be a power disruption in the Rajajinagar, RR Nagar and Kengeri sections of West Circle. Likewise, Tumkur Circle will also witness power outage in Tumkur, Madhugiri, Kunigal and Tipatur sections.14) South Circle Jayanagar, Koramangala and HSR Layout sections will also face power outage. There will also be power disruptions in Ramanagar, Chandapur, Kanakapura and Magadi sections of Ramanagar Circle.15) Likewise, Malleswaram, Jalahalli, Hebbal and Peenya sections of the North Circle are also headed for a power outage on Wednesday.Power outages have also been announced in Bengaluru for October 14, BESCOM said.ಬೆಸ್ಕಾಂ ಗ್ರಾಹಕರ ಗಮನಕ್ಕೆ,ದಿನಾಂಕ 14.10.2021 ರಂದು ತುಮಕೂರು ವೃತ್ತದ ತುಮಕೂರು, ಮಧುಗಿರಿ, ಕುಣಿಗಲ್ ಮತ್ತು ತಿಪಟೂರು ವಿಭಾಗಗಳಲ್ಲಿ ಅಡಚಣೆ ಉಂಟಾಗಲಿದೆ.ವಿದ್ಯುತ್ ಅಡಚಣೆಗಾಗಿ ವಿಷಾದಿಸುತ್ತೇವೆ. ಹೆಚ್ಚಿನ ಮಾಹಿತಿ ಅಥವಾ ದೂರುಗಳಿಗೆ ಬೆಸ್ಕಾಂ ಸಹಾಯವಾಣಿ 1912 ಅಥವಾ https://t.co/ZvIS80aHNb ಸಂಪರ್ಕಿಸಿ. pic.twitter.com/L8fmmeJcywMeanwhile, many chief ministers have flagged the power crisis issue that might arise in their respective states due to coal shortage in power generation plants. These states include Delhi, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Punjab, and Chhattisgarh. Union home minister Amit Shah also called a meeting on Monday with Power Minister R K Singh and Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi to discuss the ongoing coal shortage in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/coal-shortage-bengaluru-to-face-power-cuts-on-october-12-13-check-list-of-areas-101634033868047.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Govt launches mega power project in Ayodhya, powerlines to go underground||The process of transforming Uttar Pradesh’s temple town, Ayodhya, into a religious tourist destination is underway and the launch of the third phase of the power project, which removes 989 kilometres of overhead cables and lays them underground, is being seen as a step towards the mega makeover, officials said.This ambitious ₹180 crore power project is part of the Centre and state government’s plan to transform Ayodhya by December 2023, when Ram Mandir is likely to come up in the temple town. Lallu Singh, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Ayodhya, launched the project on Sunday. The Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) has entrusted this responsibility to Larsen and Toubro. This project will be carried out under the integrated power development scheme (IDPs) of the Centre. Another proposal for a ₹1200 crore project from the Ayodhya administration for removing overhead power cables from the remaining parts of the city for laying them underground has also been forwarded to the state government.According to Lallu Singh, the state government will approve the project soon and another phase of the project will start in the next two months. As part of the ongoing power project in Ayodhya, around 135 transformers have been laid underground. In the third phase, 30 more transformers will be laid underground. “Transforming Ayodhya into a world-class tourist destination is on the priority list of the state government. This power project is also a part of this plan,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya (Sadar) constituency. The construction work of Ram Mandir has also been fast-tracked. The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has set a deadline of December 2023 to open the sanctum-sanctorum of the temple for devotees. After completing the foundation work of Ram Mandir, the Trust has started the second phase of construction of Ram Mandir. In this phase, the plinth of the temple is being constructed. According to the Trust, above the foundation, a one –and–half meter thick raft is being placed. Above this raft, the plinth is being constructed. For the construction of this plinth, Mirzapur stones granites are being used. “Placement work of stones for sanctum-sanctorum of Ram Mandir will start from January next year (2022),” said a member of the Trust. After the construction of the plinth, the placement work of stones for the sanctum-sanctorum of the Ram Mandir will start.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/govt-launches-mega-power-project-in-ayodhya-powerlines-to-go-underground-101634035276890.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||College campus buzzes back to life with vigour of youth||As I step on the podium, my hands itch to write the first words on the glossy surface of the blackboard. I turn around to face fresh and excited faces of youngsters for whom this day marks the beginning of a new chapter in their lives. After a hiatus of 18 months, the campus is now abuzz with the nervous first-year students look hither and thither for their classrooms and getting accustomed to the newly acquired time-table; the exuberant second year ones catching up with friends and loitering in the corridors to catch a whiff of the lost year; the complacent third year students with a notch higher experience thronging the cafeteria and other hotspots; the studious ones making a beeline for library counters; the adventurous jostling their way towards the offices of associations and clubs and the lovey-dovey ones looking for hideouts amid the bustling grounds. The cliché distance makes the heart grow fonder could not have sounded sweeter to my ears than now as my eyes fondly scan the faces of students whom I had previously seen only through the camera lens of the laptop. How lively and youthful these faces appear to me as compared to the forlorn ones seen during online classes! I’m amazed at my own reaction as I indulgently smile at the freshers clicking selfies at vantage points on the campus to post on their social media accounts with hashtags claiming ‘My First Day at College’ or ‘College Life is Fun’ or ‘Fun with Besties’. I remember prior to the lockdown, if ever I beheld such a scenario, I would frown upon their insolence and brazenness and at times would not hesitate to remind them that the place is an educational institute and not a tourist spot. The cackling laughter, the uneasy giggles, the boisterous guffaws, the screeching sounds of chairs being pulled in classrooms, the chatter of intellectual groups and the rustic hollering to mates are some of the sounds that infuse a youthful life force into the centurion structures of educational institutions and thus prevent them from crumbling under the external pressures of age and modernisation. It is the sap of youth rushing and gushing into the veins of ancient institutions that nourishes them and helps them sustain the vagaries of time and tide. I walk through the corridors and observe the youngsters, eager to learn and reach out to the skies and say a silent prayer for them. I pray for a safer and healthier future for them. May their future never again be marred by the ugly scars witnessed by the world amid the breakdown caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. May the world be wholesome again and may the college campus once again be blessed by the ebullience and exhilaration lent by the vigour of youth. sonrok15@gmail.com The writer is an Ambala-based college teacher||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/college-campus-buzzes-back-to-life-with-vigour-of-youth-101634033174739.html
12-10-2021||Pune||Electronic equipment stolen from sealed bungalow of jailed builder||Electronic equipment worth ₹6.95 lakh was stolen from a sealed bungalow of jailed builder DS Kulkarni, who is under Enforcement Directorate (ED)’s custody, on Pune’s Senapati Bapat Road, police said on Tuesday. The house was sealed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.Police said the report about the theft of eight TV sets, computers, cameras, a CD player, and other equipment was lodged on Monday.Rajkumar Wakchoure, a local police officer, said they received information about the theft from Kulkarni’s neighbours on Monday and carried out a preliminary investigation. “Some electronic equipment including TV sets have been stolen and an investigation is underway... The bungalow is sealed and there was no security guard present at the time of the incident.”Also Read: Pune-born cardiologist among 2 killed in California plane crashThe ED took possession of the 6,000 square feet bungalow in September 2019 as part of its investigation into a scam. It has attached Kulkarni’s immovable assets estimated to be worth ₹904 crore.Kulkarni is accused of fraud of over 2,043 crores. He allegedly floated nine companies to siphon funds collected from 33,000 investors, who were promised good returns on their fixed deposits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/electronic-equipment-stolen-from-sealed-bungalow-of-jailed-builder-101634032574656.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||'Blackout might happen in Delhi': Satyendar Jain points fingers at Centre||Delhi power minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday that the national capital may plunge into darkness if proper supply of coal is not restored to thermal power plants. The Delhi government has been raising concerns about shortage of coal at power plants, claiming that only a few days of supply has been left.Today, Jain pointed fingers at the Centre."There is no coal power plant in Delhi. We buy electricity from coal plants situated in other states. NTPC has capped production capacity of all its plants to half. There can be two reasons, first coal shortage or secondly Centre has told them to do it," said Jain."Blackout depends on them. Right now they are giving only half supply, if they stopped giving it then blackout might happen," the Delhi power minister added.Kejriwal had said on Monday that all efforts are being made to address the power crisis and his government does not want any "emergency situation"."The situation is very critical in the entire country. Several chief ministers have written to the Centre about it. All are trying together to improve the situation," Kejriwal said at a press conference.The chief ministers of Punjab and Chhnattisgarh have also flagged the power crisis that might arise in their respective states due to coal shortage in power generation plants.Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar was another chief minister who raised concern about power crisis.On Tuesday, the Centre directed the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) and DVC to supply as much power as available to Delhi's power distribution companies (discoms) keeping in view their declared capacity."This will ensure that distribution companies of Delhi will get as much power as requisitioned by them as per their demand," a press release by the central government said.This comes a day after Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a meeting with coal minister Pralhad Joshi and power minister RK Singh and asked them to maintain proper supply of coal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/blackout-might-happen-in-delhi-satyendar-jain-points-fingers-at-centre-101634023536854.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||‘Red light on, gaadi off' initiative to begin from Oct 18: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that the 'Red light on, gaadi off' initiative will begin in the Capital from October 18 as he asked commuters to practice this on their own right away in another attempt at reducing air pollution levels, which spike in the winter months. The campaign was first launched last year to save fuel and reduce air pollution in the city and was part of the number of measures by the Delhi government to tackle the annual pollution, which begins with an onset of winters in the city. The air quality further plunges into hazardous levels with festivals like Diwali and Dussehra due to the burning of firecrackers.In a virtual press briefing, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader noted that the pollution in the city has started "increasing over the last three to four days" due to the stubble burning in the nearby states. "We had started the 'Red Light on, Gaadi off' initiative last year... As soon as you stop at a red signal, turn down the engines of your vehicle," Kejriwal said.The chief minister also asked commuters to "not take out their vehicle at least once a week" and suggested to travel via Metro, bus, or share a vehicle with others" instead. This way, "pollution can be brought down and fuel can be saved," Kejriwal also said quoting experts. He also asked the city’s residents to download the 'Green Delhi' app, which enables people to register complaints about violations of anti-pollution norms. "If you see pollution anywhere in Delhi—a truck causing air pollution, any industry that's causing pollution, waste being burnt—you can complain through the app. Our team will reach the spot and stop the source of pollution," Kejriwal said.The app was launched in 2020 to combat air pollution.Meanwhile, the Delhi government has imposed a complete ban on the burning of firecrackers. The government-led by the AAP has also prohibited effigy burning ahead of the Dussehra festival on October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/red-light-on-gaadi-off-initiative-to-begin-from-oct-18-arvind-kejriwal-101634023631709.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Cinema halls, auditoriums to reopen in Maharashtra from Oct 22. Details here||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to reopen auditorium and cinema halls from October 22. In 2020, cinema operations came to a halt from mid-March due to the coronavirus pandemic, only to be restarted for a few months in October and November last year in different parts of the country.The Maharashtra government's decision on Monday came after the state reported 1,736 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest daily count in nearly 17 months, and 36 fresh fatalities, which took the infection tally to 65,79,608 and the toll to 1,39,578, according to state health department's bulletin.Check the latest guidelines here:1. The occupancy of the cinemas/theatres/multiplexes/auditorium shall not be more than 50 per cent of their total seating capacity.2. Aarogya Setu App showing safe status shall be mandatory for all visitors in cinema halls/theatres or in the alternative visitors can show final Covid vaccination certificate.3. All staff including those employed at food court/cleaning services must have received two doses of Covid-19 vaccine and 14 days must have elapsed since second dose.4. Staggered show timings for multiplexes to avoid crowding.5. Digital no-contact payment methods should be used for booking tickers, payment for food and beverages.6. Proper crowd management in parking lots, thermal screening of visitors, only asymptomatic people will be allowed. Restricted persons in elevators have been advised.7. Regular Covid-appropriate behaviour including masking, physical distancing, covering of face while coughing/sneezing, regular hand sanitization etc are also enforced.8. No food and beverages will be allowed inside the screening hall. Purchased packaged food and beverages will be allowed only outside the screening hall.There are specific SOPs for drama theatres:1. Only designated people shall be allowed to operate curtain, backstage property etc.2. It is recommended that the cast and crew should regularly have their medical check-ups.3. Daily fumigation of the sets and green rooms should be conducted.4. Strictly no guests allowed at the backstage/green rooms.5. Regular fumigation of the auditorium will be responsibility of the management.6. Child artists have to use Aarogya Setu App showing safe status. Their regular checkup has been recommended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-cinema-halls-auditoriums-to-reopen-from-oct-22-details-here-101634022250734.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||‘No such information’: Maharashtra home minister on NCB official Sameer Wankhede’s stalking claim||Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said on Tuesday he did not have any information about senior officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), including Mumbai zonal director of the agency Sameer Wankhede, being watched by the Mumbai Police. “I have no such information and no such orders have been issued," Dilip Walse Patil said on the reports that Wankhede, who is supervising the probe into the recent high-profile cruise ship drugs bust case, is being followed.Sameer Wankhede, a senior Indian Revenue Service (IRS) official, met Maharashtra director general of police Sanjay Pandey along with his senior officials in the bureau on Monday and complained that some people have been following him for the past few days. He has also filed a police complaint in Mumbai and given CCTV footage in support of his claim alleging two policemen were monitoring his movements, news agency PTI reported citing an NCB official on Monday. The NCB official told PTI that Wankhede regularly visits a cemetery in Oshiwara where his mother has been buried after her death in 2015. He added that two officials, reportedly from the Oshiwara police station, allegedly went to the cemetery and took CCTV footage to monitor Wankhede's movement.Also watch | NCB’s Sameer Wankhede claims he's being stalked, submits CCTV footageWankhede busted the high-profile cruise drug party on October 2 and arrested Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and his friend Arbaaz Merchant in connection with the case. The 2008 batch official has been dealing with high-profile drug-related cases since he took over as zonal director of the central agency and has been part of multiple high-profile raids. Wankhede also investigated the 2020 drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and several other matters related to narcotics involving high-profile people.Also read | Agency let off BJP leader’s kin after raid: NCP’s Nawab MalikUnder his leadership, the NCB has arrested more than 100 people, including actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother and many drug peddlers. Wankhede also arrested senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik’s son-in-law in a drug case in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-sameer-wankhede-s-stalking-claim-maharashtra-home-minister-reacts-101634022075962.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal byelections: Nominations of six candidates rejected after scrutiny||The state election department has rejected the nomination papers of six contestants, including four covering candidates, after scrutiny for the October 30 byelections in Mandi Lok Sabha constituency besides Arki, Jubbal-Kotkhai and Fatehpur assembly segments. Also read: 1 terrorist killed in Shopian encounter, police say operation going onAn election department spokesman said on Monday that the nominations of six candidates from Mandi parliamentary constituency were found valid. They are BJP candidate Brigadier Kushal Chand Thakur (retd), Congress nominee Pratibha Singh, Rashtriya Lokneeti Party candidate Ambika Shyam, Himachal Jan Kranti Party’s Munshi Ram Thakur and Independent candidates Anil Kumar and Subhash Mohan Snehi. The nomination papers of the Congress covering candidate Sunder Singh Thakur and BJP’s Priyanta Sharma were rejected. Papers of covering candidates rejected The nominations of Rattan Singh Pal of the BJP, Sanjay of the Congress and Independent candidate Jeet Ram were found valid from Arki assembly segment. The papers of Congress covering candidate Satish Kumar Kashyap were rejected. The nominations of five candidates were found valid in Fatehpur assembly constituency, including that of Baldev Thakur of the BJP, Bhawani Singh Pathania of the Congress, Pankaj Kumar Darshi of the Himachal Jan Kranti Party and Independent candidates Dr Ashok Kumar and Dr Rajan Sushant. The nomination of Congress covering candidate Jeet Kumar was automatically rejected, while the nomination of Independent candidate Prem Chand was rejected due to technical reasons. Chetan Bragta stays in Jubbal-Kothai race The nominations of four candidates were found valid in Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituency. These include Neelam Seraik of the BJP, Rohit Thakur of the Congress and Independent candidates Chetan Singh Bragta and Suman Kadam. The nomination of Independent candidate Kewal Ram Negi was rejected on technical grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-byelections-nominations-of-six-candidates-rejected-after-scrutiny-101634020753299.html
12-10-2021||Patna||13-year-old boy dies as bullet hits him amid celebratory firing in Bihar||A 13-year-old boy died when a bullet hit him amid celebratory firing during a procession that was taken out in Bihar’s Gaya district to mark the re-election of a village head late on Monday night even as such processions were banned after the panchayat elections. Police said a person in an inebriated condition resorted to the firing in the air.Police said the boy was standing outside his house when he was hit. They were waiting for a complaint to be filed before lodging a First Information Report. So far, no arrests have been made in the case.Also Read: Twelve cops among 32 injured in mob attack, lathicharge at Muz villageSenior police superintendent Aditya Kumar said he has issued a show-cause notice against the local police station in charge asking him to explain why the procession was taken out under his jurisdiction.On October 2, a 22-year-old man died during the victory procession of a village head in the Saharsa district.Bihar police chief S K Singhal has directed strict action against those indulging in celebratory firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/boy-dies-in-bihar-celebratory-firing-101634018292666.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Over 100 dengue cases reported in Delhi so far in October: Report||Delhi reported more than a hundred (139 to be exact) cases of dengue in the first nine days of October, according to a report by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC).In the month of September, the national capital had registered 217 cases of dengue, the highest for the same month in the last three years, according to government data.According to the same report, a total of 480 cases of dengue have been reported in the national capital so far this year. No dengue-related death has been reported as of now, according to the report.In 2020, the city recorded 266 cases from January to October. In the entire year, there were a total of 1,072 cases and one death, the report also stated.South Delhi Municipal Corporation is the nodal agency for tabulating data on vector-borne diseases in the city.With the onset of the monsoon every year, Delhi sees a dengue outbreak, which usually ends as the winter season arrives. This year, the city has seen a major uptick in cases. However, doctors say that despite the prevalence of serotype 2 dengue virus associated with a higher risk of severe disease, most people are not showing severe symptoms.Dengue Virus (DENV) causes fever and haemorrhagic symptoms. DENV-2 is associated with more severe diseases.Dengue infections are caused by four closely related viruses named DENV-1, DENV-2, DENV-3, and DENV-4. These four viruses are called serotypes because each has different interactions with the antibodies in the human blood serum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-100-dengue-cases-reported-in-delhi-so-far-in-october-report-101634013077511.html
12-10-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru rain: Roads outside airport flooded, passengers take tractor rides to catch flights||Roads leading to Bengaluru’s Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) were waterlogged as heavy rain lashed the city throughout Monday. Taxis and private vehicles, on their way to the airport, were left stranded, while passengers, too, were unable to enter or leave the terminals. Left with no choice, people were forced to take tractor rides to reach the airport to catch their flights. Videos, showing tractors ferrying passengers, have gone viral on social media. #WATCH | Karnataka: Heavy rainfall in Bengaluru causes waterlogging outside Kempegowda International Airport Bengaluru. Passengers were seen being ferried on a tractor outside the airport. Visuals from last night. pic.twitter.com/ylHL6KrZofMeanwhile, in Konappana Agrahara limits of the IT hub, a man lost his life due to short circuit in a house that was flooded, police said. “There were two people inside, the second person managed to escape,” Dr Sanjeev M Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Police, West Division, Bengaluru City, said.For Tuesday, the weather body has projected “heavy rain with lightning and thunderstorm” in Karnataka's capital city, news agency ANI reported. Karnataka: Roads outside Kempegowda International Airport (KIAL), Bengaluru waterlogged following heavy rainfall in the city. India Meteorological Department predicts 'heavy rain, thunderstorm and lighting' today for the city pic.twitter.com/mTqTZTttgO Karnataka is likely to receive widespread rainfall over the next four days due to a cyclonic circulation over the east Arabian Sea and a trough passing in between. Showers in Bengaluru are expected to be moderate to heavy. The rainfall is not expected to affect north interior parts of the state though a warning has been issued for the rest of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-rains-road-outside-airport-waterlogged-passengers-take-tractor-rides-to-catch-flights-101634006601718.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Impact of stubble fires in Delhi’s air to stay negligible this week||Delhi’s air quality on Tuesday morning stayed in the moderate category with a marginal improvement since Monday. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the hourly Air Quality Index (AQI) was 163 at 7am today, better than Monday’s overall AQI of 166 in the capital city.A senior scientist from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that while the direction of winds blowing into the capital had changed from easterly to north-westerly from October 6, coinciding with the withdrawal of monsoon , the impact of stubble fires was still negligible in Delhi’s air. “Currently, there is negligible impact of stubble fires in Delhi’s air. The wind speeds are also reasonably higher, which is helping disperse the pollutants. This is likely to remain the case through this week and because of this, the AQI is also expected to remain in the moderate zone,” the IMD scientist said. Also Read: Delhi BJP says will celebrate Chhath, but with Covid protocolsUnion ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring system, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said that on Monday, the predominant pollutant in Delhi’s air was PM 10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) or dust. “Delhi’s AQI is in the moderate category with PM10 as the main pollutant. Due to very dry conditions, local dust gets re-suspended leading to high PM10,” Safar’s air quality assessment said, and added, “This condition is leading to moderate AQI in Delhi, and will keep so for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/impact-of-stubble-fires-in-delhi-s-air-to-stay-negligible-this-week-101634008151521.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi BJP says will celebrate Chhath, but with Covid protocols||Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta on Monday said the party will celebrate Chhath puja in the Capital, while observing Covid safety protocols. He said the three municipal corporations will make necessary arrangements, and criticised Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for “insulting” the sentiments of the Purvanchal community.Addressing a joint press conference on Monday with Northeast Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari, Gupta said, “We, today declare that we together will celebrate Chhath in the entire city keeping in mind the corona safety guidelines. The preparations will be ensured through the municipal corporations. Our party workers will ensure that all arrangements are in place.”Northeast Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari has been critical of the Delhi government regarding the ban on Chhath puja while Dusshera, Ramlila and other public gatherings were allowed. He recently held a meeting with Chhath puja committees in the city and also started a rath yatra, visiting the areas where the Purvanchalis live in significant numbers.To be sure, the decision to ban Chhath puja celebrations was taken by Delhi Disaster Management Authority, and not the Delhi government. The LG is the chairperson of DDMA.The BJP has demanded that the AAP government should write to the DDMA, seeking permission to allow Chhath celebrations.In a statement, the Aam Aadmi Party said the health and lives of people are most important for us. We feel sad that BJP is playing dirty politics over it. BJP has no concern for the lives of the people.Tiwari, former Delhi BJP chief, said, “It’s a festival of faith and should not be politicised. We are meeting all chhath organisations to find out about their preparations. The government’s decision to ban festivities is rather beyond one’s understanding.”Last week, Kejriwal said that the decision has been taken for the welfare and safety of the people, and slammed the BJP for doing ‘dirty politics’. “I have said this earlier also that we want people to celebrate all the festivals. But in Chhath puja, people have to step into the water. If even one Covid infected person enters the water, then the entire water will get infected. It can result in fast spread of the infection. Due to this reason, we have taken this step. I’m sure people will understand this. They will also understand that the opposition is doing dirty politics,” Kejriwal had said.Chhath Puja, a three-day festival, will be celebrated between November 8-10 this year. It is most popular in states such as Bihar, eastern Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and parts of Madhya Pradesh. There is a significant presence of the Purvanchal community in Delhi.In the past decade, the community has become politically significant as it plays a major role in deciding the election result in several constituencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bjp-says-will-celebrate-chhath-but-with-covid-protocols-101634000177798.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The family of a labourer||Isn’t Rajesh a man’s name? Rajesh shrugs her shoulders. “My parents named me Rajesh, I don’t know why,” she says sombrely, admitting in a surprised tone that she never thought of asking them the reason.This afternoon Rajesh is assigned by her contractor for a repairing job on a central Delhi avenue. A labourer, she is helping renovate a damaged road divider. The lady always works with her husband in a two-member team. The stubbornly silent Mani Ram is carefully laying out the cement along the surface of the cracked divider, while Rajesh is bringing the cement to him from a pile kept on one side of the divider. She first fills the cement into a giant tray, pours a mug of water into it, and mixes the two into paste. Then she lifts the tray to her head, and walks towards the husband. The couple’s two children—Nandini and Kana—are standing idle near them. It’s afternoon and the sun is uncomfortably warm. The traffic is moderately busy.Rajesh waves towards a child sitting on a pavement across the road. “She’s Ruby, my other daughter.” There are six kids; the other three are in their UP village in Jhansi. “They live with my husband’s parents,” she says, as she hands over the cement tray to Mani Ram. He isn’t uttering a word.The couple lives under a flyover, nearby. They divide their year between Delhi and their village. “In Jhansi, each of us earns R200 daily for an assignment, and in Delhi it is ₹100 more for the same work.”Glancing towards son Kana, Rajesh shakes her head, saying that he hasn’t been enrolled in school yet. Same with Nandini and Ruby. Only her eldest child, a 10-year-old girl back home in the village, goes to school. “She has learnt to make rotis and helps her grandmother with the meals.”Meanwhile, little Nandini is trying to open a packet of biscuits.She blushes uncontrollably when asked about her favourite mithai, and offers the biscuits to her father. And now, a surprise. Mani Ram finally breaks his enigmatic silence, telling the girl, “it’s for you, beta.”The family is likely to stay at the road divider until the day’s end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-family-of-a-labourer-101633999530529.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Bandh evokes mixed response across Maharashtra||The Maharashtra bandh (shutdown) call by the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Monday evoked mixed response with shops and establishments in many districts remaining shut and the local bus services operated by urban bodies remaining unavailable; though local train services in Mumbai Metropolitan Region ran uninterrupted.The Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress jointly called for the shutdown to protest against the killing of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on October 3.Many trader associations in cities like Mumbai, Pune, Thane and Nashik announced their support to the bandh and retailers organisations such as the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association in Mumbai, Federation of Trade Association of Pune also extended their support to the shutdown.State transport services remained uninterrupted in the morning, though there were fewer passengers on board, an official said.However, many of the city transport buses remained shut as their employees’ union supported the bandh.Shiv Sena workers blocked national and state highways at Kolhapur and Solapur in the morning, following which some were detained by the police.“This is not a bandh called by the government, but by the ruling parties under Maha Vikas Aghadi. Whether to operate railway or BEST buses has to be decided by their administrations. We expect the people to participate in this on their own as it is in support of farmers and against the rule of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at the Centre,” NCP leader and state minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bandh-evokes-mixed-response-across-maharashtra-101633997893519.html
12-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand transport minister, son join Congress||Uttarakhand transport minister Yashpal Arya and his son Sanjeev on Monday quit the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to join the opposition Congress. Arya’s exit from the BJP, the party he joined in 2017 along with his son, comes months before polls are due in the state.“I have returned to my family...It’s my ghar wapsi (homecoming). There cannot be a happier day than today for me. I am feeling very relaxed,” said Arya, a six-time legislator and a prominent Dalit face in Uttarakhand.Yashpal Arya won the 2017 election on a BJP ticket from Bajpur constituency in US Nagar district while his son won from the neighbouring Nainital constituency.The two called on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at his residence before formally joining the party in the presence of several senior leaders including party national general secretary Harish Rawat and national spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala.Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said Arya’s switch was motivated by “personal interests”. “Nobody can stop anyone from going to the other side. But I want to make it clear that in the BJP, it is always nation first.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-transport-minister-son-join-congress-101633995405484.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir records lowest Covid cases in 8 months||Jammu and Kashmir recorded lowest Covid cases in eight months after just 53 persons tested positive for the virus on Monday. Also, for the fifth consecutive day, no death was reported due to the virus. Since the first week of February, when the first wave of the pandemic had hit bottom in Jammu and Kashmir and cases were occasionally running below 50, this is the lowest daily caseload in the UT after the second wave hit. The highest daily total in the pandemic so far was on May 7, 2021 when 5,443 cases were logged. Of the total Monday cases, 44 were reported in Kashmir while the Jammu division saw nine infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 95 with active cases reaching 1,049. The government’s daily health bulletin also said that seven districts of the UT — Rajouri, Poonch, Ramban, Samba, Anantnag, Shopian and Budgam — have managed to vaccinate 100% of its adult population with the first dose after more than 1.38 lakh doses were administered on Monday. Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 447 followed by Poonch and Budgam with 100 and 94, respectively. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,25,111, prompting the recovery rate to climb to 98.33%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have reached 3,30,586 and the death toll stands at 4,426.139 test +ve in HimachalHimachal, meanwhile, logged 139 fresh Covid cases on Monday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,20,618 while death toll mounted to 3,690 after two patients died of the infection. Among the fresh cases, 42 were reported from Kangra, 31 from Mandi, 26 from Hamirpur, 15 from Bilaspur, 11 from Shimla, eight from Una and three each from Kullu and Solan. The active case count has come down to 1,237 while recoveries reached 2,15,674 after 245 people recuperated. Kangra is still the worst-hit district with a total of 49,417 cases reported till date, followed by 31,208 in Mandi and 27,334 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-records-lowest-covid-cases-in-8-months-101633995969997.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||DK Boora takes over as Jammu frontier BSF chief||Senior BSF officer DK Boora, who has served in the Special Protection Group (SPG) that protects the country’s prime minister, on Monday took over as the Inspector General (IG) of the force’s Jammu frontier, officials said. Boora succeeds NS Jamwal, who was elevated to the rank of additional director general (ADG) of BSF Western Command, Chandigarh, said DIG SPS Sandhu, a spokesperson for the force.The officer has vast experience of serving in western and eastern command theatre, and before assuming charge here, he was posted as the IG BSF at eastern command, the spokesperson said. Boora has also served in the prestigious SPG which looks after the after security of the country’s prime minister, he said. In his 35 years of service, Boora has been decorated with the President’s Medal for Meritorious Service, Antrik Suraksha Seva Padak, and innumerable Directional General’s Commendation Rolls. He is an alumni of the BSF Academy Tekanpur. He joined the force in 1986. He also remained as the commando instructor in the BSF Academy, the PRO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dk-boora-takes-over-as-jammu-frontier-bsf-chief-101633995729958.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mehbooba: Central agencies targeting Aryan due to surname Khan||Former J&K chief minister and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti has come out in support of Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and termed his detention a “travesty of justice”. Mehbooba said that central agencies are after him because of his surname Khan. “It’s a travesty of justice that Muslims are targeted to satiate the sadistic wishes of the BJP’s core vote bank,” Mehbooba Mufti said. She is the first mainstream leader from J&K who has reacted on the arrest of Aryan Khan whose custody has been extended.Calls for united struggle to seek restoration of Article 370The PDP chief also called for a united struggle to seek the restoration of Article 370 and the resolution of the Kashmir issue to end the bloodshed in Jammu and Kashmir and said her voice is “weak” and she cannot do it alone. Mehbooba, who is on a five-day tour of the Chenab valley region, was addressing a party convention at Dak Banglow in Kishtwar, where she was accorded a warm welcome by the party activists and supporters. “I am confident that we will get back Article 370 with interest and also ensure the resolution of the Kashmir issue to end bloodshed in the region. However, I cannot do it single-handedly as my voice is weak and you need to lend your voice to support me,” she told the well-attended gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mehbooba-central-agencies-targeting-aryan-due-to-surname-khan-101633995610403.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Organic farming attracts Himachal fruit growers||With chemical-free produce selling for as high as ₹100/kg, fruit growers in Himachal Pradesh are increasingly switching to natural farming.  The fruit growers say the switch to natural farming has also brought down their input costs, thereby increasing the profit margin. Theog-based Shakuntala Sharma says, “A trader who saw the ‘natural product’ label on my produce at the local market at Dhamandri instantly bought all my fruits for ₹100 per kilogramme, which is much higher than what was being offered to other growers who had used pesticides on their fruit. Now, buyers turn up at my door. Not only do I sell my fruit for a high price, I also save ₹50,000- 60,000 that was ordinarily spent on pesticides.” Sharma is among the farmers using the Subash Palekar Natural Farming (SPNF) technique, under which cow’s dung, herbs, and local resources are used to increase fertility and keep away pests. Ravinder Chauhan, who grows apples on eight bighas of land, says apples grown through the natural farming technique had fetched him a whooping ₹ 4,200-4,500 per box this year. “The up and downs in the market do not affect me as much as buyers pay me a fixed rate in advance,” he said. The chemical free, low cost and climate resilient SPNF technique is being promoted for agriculture and horticulture crops in Himachal Pradesh through the Prakritik Kheti Khushal Kisan Yojna (PK3Y), launched in 2018. So far, 1,33,056 farmers, including over 12,000 apple farmers, have been practising natural farming in the hill-state over approximately 7,609 hectares of land. Surender Mehta, a fruit grower from Lalpani Dochi village in the Chopal subdivision said traders from Jaipur and Delhi had lifted the product from his orchard and also paid him 10-15% higher than in the local market. His pears sold for ₹150 per kilogramme. PK3Y executive director Dr Rajeshwar Singh Chandel said the state project implementing unit (SPIU) was looking for farmers with innovative marketing models. “This will help us to converge these successful farmer-market linkages with our programme,” he said. As per a government study, the natural farming technique has reduced the cost of apple cultivation by about 56.5%, while the profits are up by 27%. The apple crop grown by natural farming has also fewer occurrences of diseases like scab and marssonina blotch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/organic-farming-attracts-himachal-fruit-growers-101633995310098.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||‘Worsening’ J&K security situation has mainstream leaders worried||J&K mainstream leaders have raised concern over the worsening security situation in J&K, especially in Kashmir, in the backdrop of series of civilian killings and other security related incidents.PDP president and former J&K CM Mehbooba Mufti said the situation in J&K has gone from bad to worse. “My fears are compounded by the fact that instead of course correction, the central government will continue its muscular policy to reap political dividends in elections. Case in point being the upcoming UP polls. Ironically, GOI spreads canards that Kashmiri Muslims don’t stand up for minorities here. Truth is that this vicious hateful propaganda suits the BJP’s electoral and prospects.” She said until yesterday, the security grid was completely immersed in organising picnic tours and horseback riding for visiting ministers. “Perhaps these attacks could have been averted if their sole focus wasn’t these ministerial visits and normalcy acrobatics. Everyone here is living in an atmosphere of suppression and fear,” she added. PAGD spokesperson and CPI(M) general secretary MY Tarigami said the current situation is the result of the failure of the policies of the government that have brought J&K to this point. “The responsibility to create a conducive security environment lies with the government of India,” he added. People’s Conference spokesperson Adnan Ashraf said the current environment was a grim reminder of the “changelessness on the security front despite tall claims of the government”. “These are deliberate attempts by the militant organisations to push Kashmir into another cycle of violence and create mistrust between the communities,” he said, adding that there was a dire need to engage the people and those who have successfully dealt with such situations in the past. NC provincial president and former minister Nasir Aslam Wani said that the current situation in Kashmir has got worse security-wise. “Tall claims have been made about the security situation improving in Kashmir or J&K. These claims are completely wrong... The ground reality is completely different in the UT and there is no sense of security among people,” he added. ‘Spike in violence due to Pakistan’s desperation’ Tej Krishan Bhat, general secretary of All State Kashmiri Pandit Conference, said, “Everyone knows the reason behind this spike in selective killings. There is Islamic Jihad, which is on. They don’t want any non-Muslim to settle in Kashmir. And then, development and peace being ensured by the Centre were indigestible to Pakistan. That is the reason soft targets are being killed to create a fear psychosis and do the same what they did to us in 1990.” He said that abrogation of Articles 370 and 35A was one of the reasons as well. President of the J&K Congress, Ghulam Ahmad Mir, said, “The BJP had said everything will be fine after the abrogation of Article 370. Now, when everything is in direct control of home minister Amit Shah, then why the situation is deteriorating?” Mir said that wrong policies, including abrogation of Article 370 and unilateral decisions, were the factors responsible for spike in violence. ‘This government stands fully exposed’Panthers Party leader and former minister Harsh Dev Singh said, “The situation has certainly worsened. We didn’t see such kind of situation in the past. Now civilians are being killed, selective killings are on the rise. Security personnel are being eliminated. This government stands fully exposed.” Shafiq Mir, chairperson of All J&K Panchayat Conference and chairperson, Bufliaz BDC in Poonch, said, “The spike in civilian killings and militant attacks on security forces in the areas which were earlier declared militancy free till 2019 show the true picture. These civilian killings are a matter of great concern and we are worried about the security of panchayat leaders, who have always been soft target for militants in the past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/worsening-j-k-security-situation-has-mainstream-leaders-worried-101633995190004.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Security forces eliminate TRF militant in Jammu and Kashmir’s Bandipora||J&K Police on Monday claimed to have eliminated one of the TRF militants who was responsible for the killing of a taxi union president in Hajin Bandipora district.Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar had gone underground soon after the killing Mohammad Shafi Lone last week.The police had arrested four persons after the killing of Lone.A joint operation was launched by the police, army and CRPF at Gund Jahangir village on Monday morning in which Dar was killed, the police said.Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said Dar was affiliated with LeT (TRF). “He was involved in recent civilian killing at Shahgund,” he added. On Sunday, the police had said that they have unveiled the conspiracy behind Shahgund killing and arrested four militant associates who were involved in the conspiracy behind the killing of a Lone.A police spokesperson said a special team of Bandipora police was entrusted with the investigation of the case and after a thorough human and technical corroboration, the module was busted by arresting four persons associated of LeT (TRF).He had said that one of the terrorists involved in the killing was identified as Imtiyaz Ahmad Dar alias Kotru, who was absconding. The police said that during the course of investigation, it came to the fore that the killing was carried out at the behest and instruction of LeT (TRF) handler Lala Umar, a resident of Pakistan.Earlier, a militant was killed by the security forces in Verinag of Anantnag. The gunbattle started around 2.30am, according to a tweet from Kashmri Zone Police.A policeman was also injured in the Anantnag encounter.On Friday, an encounter had broken out between militants and security forces during a chance encounter at Natipora in which one Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant was killed in firing.The Valley has witnessed a series of civilian killings this month, due to which there is high security in the entire region. The security forces have already detained at least 500 people as a part of their investigation. Suspected members of banned outfits and organisations such as Jamaat-e-Islami have been interrogated to establish their roles in the murders.Seven people, including three from minority communities, have been killed in the Union Territory since October 3. Among them were two teachers — Satinder Kour and Deepak Chand. Before them, Makhan Lal Bindroo, a 68-year-old chemist, street vendor Virender Paswan from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, and Mohammad Shafi Lone, president of a local taxi union, were shot dead in Srinagar and Bandipora districts. Another encounter underway in Shopian Meanwhile, another encounter is underway at Imam Sahib Shopian. Officials said that militants are trapped in a house. The exchange of fire has started after militants rejected to surrender||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/security-forces-eliminate-trf-militant-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-bandipora-101633994471319.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mandi had high hopes from Jai Ram: Pratibha||Congress nominee Pratibha Singh on Monday struck an emotional chord with voters in Mandi and said that Mandi is home turf for the family. “Former chief minister Virbhadra Singh had been a Lok Sabha member four times from here and I represented this constituency twice,” she said while addressing the media. “Walking the path shown by Virbhadra Singh will be a real tribute to him,” she said during an election meeting in Nachan. “His death has not only created a deep void for the family members but the entire state,” she added, while flaying the central government on the farm laws and inflation. “Farmers are protesting against the farm bills for almost a year now but the government is not paying any heed tow their demands. The government is not ready to talk to the agitating farmers,” she added. Criticising the state government, Pratibha said the Mandi district had high hopes from Jai Ram as the chief minister. “State’s fiscal health is in doldrums. The double engine government has failed at all fronts that too despite the national BJP chief being from Himachal,” she said. Former president of state Congress committee Kaul Singh Thakur, vice-president Gagu Ram Musafir, Prakash Chaudhary, Tek Chand Dogra, Bamber Thakur, Neelmani Thakur, and Seema Chandel were among the leaders present during the meeting along with office-bearers of NSUI and heads of various panchayats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-had-high-hopes-from-jai-ram-pratibha-101633994289960.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP drug makers write to PM to save crisis-hit pharma industry||The drug manufacturers of Himachal Pradesh have asked the central government to form a “Pharmaceutical Raw and Packaging Material Task Force” to protect the MSME industry from the crisis due to soaring prices in raw and packaging material to avert any shortfall of medicine in the country.In a letter written to PM Narendra Modi, president of HP Drug Manufacturers Association Rajesh Gupta said the task force should comprise members of various ministries, including health, chemicals and fertilisers, commerce, and Niti Aayog.He said it should deliberate on the functioning of direct import and manufacturers’ cartels besides import impact in India, manufacturers of bulk drugs in India along with their issues and prices.Gupta said there are 8,500 MSMEs and 2,000 large pharma manufacturing industries which cater to the domestic and international market making India the ‘pharmacy of the world’.He said Himachal has more than 600 pharmaceutical units consisting of 80% of MSME and 20% large industry.Gupta said with the prices of various APIs, packaging materials increasing substantially in the recent times, the pharma industry is in deep crisis.He said the prices of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) have seen a hike of 25% to 300% since the Covid-19 outbreak.For example, he stated that paracetamol prices have gone up to up to ₹1,000/kg whereas during pre-Covid times it was just ₹300/kg. Gupta said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had raised the issue with the Centre in April last year after which the drug controller had sought extensive data from the manufacturers.Even as one year has passed since the data was submitted, Gupta said, no steps have been taken to resolve the issues facing the pharma industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-drug-makers-write-to-pm-to-save-crisis-hit-pharma-industry-101633993929790.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls: Jai Ram takes jibe at Navjot Sidhu||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday took a jibe at the Congress’ star campaigner list saying that the party does not trust its leaders from the state. “It’s strange that the Congress has included a person in the list of star campaigners who have been insulting army jawans,” he said while addressing a poll rally in Arki’s Darlaghat. He said that Congress’ star campaigner in Himachal, Navjot Singh Sidhu, inflicted insult on leader Rahul Gandhi and the party. The situation of the Congress turned worse after he took over reins of the party in Punjab, Jai Ram said. Jai Ram paid tributes to former MP late Ramswaroop Sharma, former MLAs Narendra Bragta from Jubbal-Kotkhai, Sujan Singh Pathania from Fatehpur and Virbhadra Singh from Arki.“Virbhadra Singh was a senior leader of Himachal. He had reached this stage by discharging the responsibilities of a CM, leader of the Opposition, Union minister and others. Last time, he reached the assembly after winning from Arki. Today he is not with us. A lot of development work needs to be done in the Arki assembly constituency. After becoming MLA from here, Virbhadra probably got less time to come here. The way you people expected, he could not come between you due to health,” Jai Ram said. He also praised BJP candidate from Arki Ratan Singh Pal. “People of Arki voted for Virbhadra Singh thinking that he would become the chief minister again, but it did not happen,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypolls-jai-ram-takes-jibe-at-navjot-sidhu-101633992789649.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bilaspur mandi supervisor booked for graft||A supervisor of Bilaspur grain market in Yamunanagar has been booked under prevention of corruption act for allegedly conspiring with other people to create a revenue loss to the government, police said on Monday.As per the complaint lodged by Suman Lata, secretary-cum-executive officer of the market committee, the supervisor Ashul Ratnam had given undue favours to a merchant, Ayush Gupta. “After hearing an audio recording provided by Gupta, I believe that Ashul hampered the crop procurement to benefit the merchant and himself. Thus, he used his position for illegal acts,” Lata told the police.However, it was not immediately clear how much loss this led to the government, as Lata remained unavailable for comments.On being asked about this, the station in-charge of Bilaspur police station, Balbir Singh, said, “This will come up in the investigation process further. She has submitted a pen drive that has been sealed and will be verified as per the process.”The case was lodged under Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act against Ashul Ratnam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bilaspur-mandi-supervisor-booked-for-graft-101633985888647.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two killed, four hurt in Karnal accident||Two people were killed while four sustained injuries after a tractor-trailer had a head-on collision with a mini-bus near Rajepur village of Karnal on Monday morning. The deceased were identified as Anil Kumar, 32, of Assandh and Prashant, 30, of Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh. The bus was carrying workers of a distillery factory in Chandraon village.The injured were rushed to a hospital, where Anil and Prashant were declared brought dead, while bus driver Dev Singh and a passenger Kuldeep were said to be critical.Sachin Kumar, in-charge of Indri police station, said the bodies have been handed over to the family members after post-mortem at KCGMC, Karnal. He said investigation is going on and an FIR will be registered as per the statement of the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-killed-four-hurt-in-karnal-accident-101633985648378.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress puts up united face ahead of Ellenabad bypolls||Haryana Congress unit presented a united face at a workers meeting called by party’s state affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal in Ellenabad on Monday, to discuss the strategy for bypoll scheduled for October 30. Former Haryana chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and party’s state president Kumari Selja, along with many MLAs, were present in the meeting.The meeting was crucial because only MLAs and other leaders loyal to Hooda had attended his Vipaksh Aapke Smaksh rally in Karnal on Sunday, with leaders from other factions giving the event a miss. Bansal asked the party workers to focus on grassroot-level campaigns and reach out to every voter in the Ellenabad constituency.“The BJP government has failed on all fronts. Common man is facing inflation, unemployment and a rise in crime. Everything is on sale in this country,” he added.Haryana Congress state chief Selja said, “BJP union minister of state’s son and his aides crushed innocent farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh. This BJP government wants to crusade every opposition voice. The Haryana government has failed to procure Bajra and paddy and farmers are paying huge prices for their policies. The youths are disgruntled due to paper leak cases,” she added.Leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the bypoll was necessitated due to Abhay Chautala’s resignation, that was only aimed at gaining political mileage.“We had brought a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government in the state assembly. Instead of standing against the coalition government, Chautala resigned to help them. He had resigned to get political mileage and everyone knows INLD had always helped BJP,” Hooda added.Bharat Singh Beniwal did not attend meetingFormer Darba Kalan MLA Bharat Singh Beniwal, who is upset with the party leadership after the party went with BJP rebel Pawan Beniwal instead of him for the Ellenabad bypoll, did not attend the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-puts-up-united-face-ahead-of-ellenabad-bypolls-101633985348539.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana seeks one-third reduction in its NCR area||Haryana government is pushing for a one-third reduction in its area under the national capital region (NCR). The NCR includes 14 (out of 22) Haryana districts, spread over 25,327 square kilometres. The state has the largest area share of 45.98% in the NCR. In comparison, Uttar Pradesh has 26.92% (eight districts) area share and Rajasthan has 24.41% (two districts). The national capital territory of Delhi accounts for 2.69%. The state government has asked the national capital region planning board (NCRPB) to consider the proposed decrease in its area. The matter will be taken up by chief minister (CM) Manohar Lal Khattar during a meeting with the board, headed by Union minister of state, housing and urban affairs, Hardeep Puri on Tuesday. ‘Inclusion of hinterland not serving any purpose’ Officials said the proposal to reduce the state’s area was prepared keeping in view that the inclusion of areas extending to even far-flung districts like Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendergarh, Jind and Karnal, was not serving any purpose in terms of reducing the urbanisation pressure on the national capital. “Also, the state government feels that restrictions applicable to NCR were difficult to implement in the hinterland included in the NCR,” said an official. ‘Make pollution provisions district specific rather NCR’In fact, CM Khattar had, on September 23, requested Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav to allow implementation of pollution-control provisions as district specified rather than entire NCR-specified because of the difficulties being faced while implementing these provisions. The CM had said that 57% area of Haryana falls under the NCR. Therefore, such provisions should not be implemented for the entire NCR in Haryana. Instead, they should be implemented within the 10-kilometre radius of the national capital territory of Delhi or within the 10-km radius of cities having 10 lakh population or as per the district specified, Khattar had told the union minister. The area reduction proposal The state government’s move to seek a reduction in its area under NCR comes in wake of a draft report prepared by the national capital region planning board (NCRPB) regarding revised delineation of NCR. The Haryana government in July this year proposed a reduction and submitted a different option considering the situation and urbanisation in Haryana for revised delineation of the NCR for approval of the NCR Planning Board. “As per this proposal, the extent of Haryana sub region is likely to be 8,281.60 square kms against the current area of 25,327 square km, subject to verification from revenue record,” said a July 29 communication by director, town and country planning KM Pandurang to NCRPB. Govt outlined new parameters for revised delineation of NCRThe state government’s communication said that for revised delineation of the NCR, the entire area of the state falling within the 50-kilometre buffer from Centre of NCT Delhi as well as the area covered between Kundli-Manesar- Palwal expressway and NCT Delhi (where the KMP Expressway extends beyond this buffer) be covered under NCR. Secondly, the extent of NCR along national highway or expressways be considered with one-kilometre-wide buffer on both sides within the existing NCR along with extension along national highways 44 and 9 up to counter magnet areas of Hisar and Ambala respectively. “As per the proposed parameters, the extent of NCR in Haryana will cover 17 districts and 48 development plans,” said the communication on the proposed reduction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-seeks-one-third-reduction-in-its-ncr-area-101633984808233.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Monetary dispute: Acid attack on elderly man in Raikot||A 66-year-old man was attacked with acid in Nurpura village of Raikot over a monetary dispute on Sunday. The victim suffered burns on his back and has been admitted to the Civil Hospital in Raikot. The accused are Pritam Singh, his son Jagjit Singh, and his grandsons Kali and Bhola. Pritam and Jagjit have been arrested.The victim, Charan Singh, said he was on his way to pay obeisance at a gurdwara on his cycle when the accused, Bhola and Jaggit, attacked him with acid. He tried to escape but they threw the vitriolic fluid on his back. At a little distance, Pritam and Kali, who waiting in ambush and also tried to burn him with acid, but he managed to escape the attack and reached home. His family members rushed him to hospital.Sub-inspector Gagandeep Singh said the dispute was over tractors. A case has been registered under sections of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monetary-dispute-acid-attack-on-elderly-man-in-raikot-101633984688401.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Payment delay worries paddy farmers in Haryana||Having sold 207 quintals of paddy to the government at an MSP of ₹1,960 per quintal, Munish Kumar, a young farmer from Kurukshetra’s Gurhi village, is still unable to clear the dues of his labourers. Reason: He is yet to get the payment from the government.Munish says that he had sold his produce, worth over ₹4 lakh, to the government on October 4. Apart from clearing the labourers’ dues, Munish also need the money urgently for purchasing seeds and fertilisers for the next crop—potato and mustard – but the delay on the end of the government is spelling trouble for him.Jashmer Singh of Kheri Dabdalan village of Kurukshetra also has a similar complaint. He too had sold his produce about a week ago, but there is still no sign of payment.The delay has given farmers and commission agents yet another reason to slam the government’s direct payment method. “Earlier, we used to get money from the arhtiya soon after selling the produce. But the direct payment method has created a problem for us,” says Rishi Pal, a farmer from Karnal’s Indri block. According to government officials, the disbursement of payment is based on a process as it requires verification and matching of gate passes, J-Forms, I Forms, H-Forms, and lifting of the produce from mandis.They claimed that the disbursement has already started and many farmers have already got their payments, adding that it will take some time for the government to clear the dues of the rest as out of the 10.71 lakh MT of paddy procured from farmers till October 1, only 3.87 lakh MT has been lifted.Rajneesh Choudhary, president of the Karnal Arhtiya Association, said thousands of farmers in the district are awaiting their dues against a total of 2.64 lakh MT paddy procured. Asked about the reasons for delay in disbursement of payments, additional chief secretary to Haryana food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department Anurag Rastogi said paddy was brought in much before the purchase started and this created a pressure on the system. He said the process to clear the payments has already been started and it will speed up soon.Last year too, farmers had complained about the delay in payments, prompting chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to intervene and issue strict directions to officials to ensure timely payment to farmers. He had also directed the headquarter-level officials to ensure that the generation of H-Form, J-Form, Gate Pass and I-Form should be made online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/payment-delay-worries-paddy-farmers-in-haryana-101633984269470.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Snatchers’ gang busted with arrest of four in Ludhiana||A gang of snatchers was busted with the arrest of four of its members on Monday. Twenty-one stolen mobile phones, two motorcycles and a sharp-edged weapon were recovered from their possession. The accused are Raju Bahadur of Janta Nagar, Ravi Kumar of Indra Colony, Mohammad Gulfan of Indra Colony and Gorav alias Mungi of Ambedkar Nagar. Additional deputy commissioner of police Pragya Jain said they were active in Dugri Phase-2 Market Main Double Road, Phullanwal Chowk, Pakhowal Road, Manakwal Road and Model Town. In another case, Chandan Kumar, was arrested with a gold earing stolen on October 6. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/snatchers-gang-busted-with-arrest-of-four-in-ludhiana-101633984268242.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Minor girl abducted from wedding in Ludhiana||A 15-year-old girl went missing from a marriage palace near the Jalandhar Bypass on Sunday. The teenager’s parents allege that she had been abducted on the pretext of marriage. A case was registered against Ritik Malhotra of Shingar Cinema Road. The victim’s father said their family had come to attend a wedding when their daughter went missing. Later, the security guard told them that he had seen their daughter leave with a bike-borne man. Assistant sub-inspector Kashmir Singh said the police had traced the registration number of the motorcycle and had lodged an FIR under Sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366A ( procuration of minor girl) of IPC . HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minor-girl-abducted-from-wedding-in-ludhiana-101633983969236.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad bypoll: Nominations of three candidates rejected||Nomination of three candidates, including INLD nominee Abhay Singh Chautala’s elder son Karan Chautala, were rejected on Monday during the scrutiny of documents for the Ellenabad bypoll slated on October 30. Karan was the covering candidate for Abhay and his nomination was rejected as his father will remain in fray on the party’s symbol. A total of 21 candidates are in the fray and the last date for withdrawing the nominations is October 16. The Ellenabad bypoll was necessitated after INLD’s lone MLA Abhay Singh Chautala resigned in support of farmers protesting against three farm laws on January 27. He is seeking re-election and is pitted against BJP’s Gobind Kanda and Pawan Beniwal of the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-bypoll-nominations-of-three-candidates-rejected-101633983968144.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Alleging harassment , IMA Punjab members threaten to quit health insurance scheme||Members of the Punjab chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) threatened to pull out of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojna (PM-JAY, Ayushman Bharat), citing rejection of claims and delay in settling claims by the insurance company concerned. This was discussed in an emergency meeting of IMA Punjab held in Ludhiana on Sunday, which was attended by more than 300 doctors from different parts of the state. Accusing the state government and SBI General Insurance company of depriving the public of quality medical services by reserving 194 treatments only for government hospitals, the members warned of ‘mass quitting’ the scheme.The members alleged SBI General Insurance was harassing the private medical facilities through different means — by delaying claim settlements, conducting inspections by BAMS/BDS/BHMS and then issuing show-cause notices, deducting or rejecting claims on “flimsy” grounds. Association’s honorary secretary Dr Ashish Ohri said there should be transparency in the scheme and if the government wants to reserve certain treatments for government hospitals, then the information should be shared with the public. “People accuse private hospitals of not giving benefits to them under the scheme. The government should not reserve any package/treatment so that everyone can have access to medical facilities at private hospitals,” he said. Patron and former Punjab IMA president Dr Manoj Sobti meetings were held with the state government and former health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in the past, but to no avail. “A delegation of IMA members is expected to have a meeting with deputy chief minister OP Soni on Tuesday and if the government fails to resolve the issues, we will be left with no other option but to go for quit the scheme en masse,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alleging-harassment-ima-punjab-members-threaten-to-quit-health-insurance-scheme-101633983495856.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two taxi drivers held with 1.25 kg heroin||A special task force arrested two taxi drivers and seized 1.25kg heroin from them on Saturday. The STF also seized the vehicle used to smuggle the drugs. The accused had an‘On Covid-19 duty, health department’ tag on the windshield of the vehicle to avoid police checking.The accused are Gurpreet Singh, 38, of Ramgarh Road and Harsewak Singh, 41, of Housing Board Colony. Both the accused are drug addicts themselves and indulged in the drug peddling to meet their need for drugs.Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge STF (Ludhiana Range) said tahy had installed a checkpoint on the Delhi national highway near Gurudwara Atarsar Sahib in Doraha where the accused were stopped and frisked. A case was registered under the NDPS Act at the STF Police Station in Mohali. The accused said they both work as taxi drivers and would purchase heroin from Delhi and supply it to their customers in Ludhiana and its nearby villages. Harsewak said that he had purchased his car with the help of a loan, but due to the reduction in earnings had not able to pay the instalments of the car. Gurpreet is also facing trial in a drug peddling cases. He was out on bail, but had started peddling again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-taxi-drivers-held-with-1-25-kg-heroin-101633983189152.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bajra procurement proving to be a double-edged sword for Haryana government||Encouraging farmers to cultivate Bajra, one of the crops at the heart of Haryana’s crop diversification drive, and procuring this kharif crop under the minimum support price (MSP) has started putting the Manohar Lal Khattar-led Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party government in a catch-22 situation. Last year, Haryana government paid ₹2,150 MSP per quintal and procured 7.66 lakh metric tonne (MT) bajra, up from 3.10 lakh MT in 2019 and over 1.18 lakh MT in 2018. As a result of this push to promote bajra in the last four years, the area under cultivation of this millet has increased manifold in the state. For example, from over 4 lakh hectare under bajra cultivation in 2018, the area under this crop has increased to around 5.70 lakh hectare this season. Similarly, Haryana produced about 13.50 lakh MT bajra last year against 12 lakh MT in 2019 and nearly nine lakh MT in 2018, according to official data. Haryana prides itself as the only state in the country where the government procures bajra under MSP. In his budget speech, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had set the target of procuring 7 lakh MT bajra, at an MSP of ₹2,250 per quintal, during the current procurement season that began on October 1 and will continue till November 15. Asked if the state government has fixed any target to procure bajra, Anurag Rastogi, additional chief secretary (ACS, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs), said: “No target has been fixed, but the purchase (by the government) will take place for price stability.” Bajra is grown in southern rain-fed parts of Haryana, and it is considered a good alternative of paddy. Groundwater table of Haryana has been dipping to alarming levels and paddy cultivation, among other reasons, is largely blamed for this. In a bid to persuade farmers to switch over to alternative crops in place of water-guzzler paddy, Haryana government has linked cultivation of more varieties of pulses and cereals with the financial-incentive driven crop-diversification drive. High input, low yield for govt Government sources say the push for Bajra cultivation and its procurement under MSP is turning out to be a double-edged weapon for the government. While the shelf life of bajra is short and it is susceptible to pest attack, its demand and consumption is limited within the state. And to clear the stocks, government included bajra in the public distribution system (PDS). Sources say of a total 7.66 lakh MT bajra was procured in the 2020 kharif season, about 1.50 lakh MT was distributed through PDS. “The government auctioned the procured bajra at a rate ranging from ₹1,250 to ₹1,350 despite procuring it at ₹2,150 per quintal,” an official said. As per rough estimates of the agriculture department, the government had to bear a loss of nearly ₹850 crore last year on account of distress sale of bajra, which is also used as feed in poultry farms, officials involved in Bajra procurement said. They said the rise in bajra production and the government’s decision to give assured price is turning out to be a drain on the state resources. Yet another problem is that of bajra being cultivated in Punjab and Rajasthan where it is not procured under MSP. “Due to the yet-to-be fixed loopholes in Meri Fasal Mera Bayora portal and e-kharid system, private traders from other states manage to sell bajra on MSP in Haryana with the help of local farmers, ahrtiyas and mandi officials and the production last year crossed the targets of the government,” said a senior official of the agriculture department. Why crop is part of Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana this timeIt is in this backdrop, sources say, that the state government opted to include bajra in the ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’ from this kharif season. The decision has come in for a lot of flak from the farmers and opposition parties. The Congress has dubbed the move as an excuse to invite private players, while apprehensive farmers are keeping their fingers crossed due to a dip in the price in open market. “The government is shying away from procuring bajra and wants to deprive farmers from their right of MSP. The Bhavantar Bharpayee policy has already failed to benefit vegetable growers. It’s not going to help Bajra growers,” Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader said. As farmers are complaining about fall in the prices up to ₹1,300 per quintal, the government says it will pay farmers the difference in price up to ₹600 per quintal on average of the yield. But this difference in price (average market price and MSP) of bajra will be paid after verification of crops of registered farmers on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal. If the given details are found correct, farmers will be given ₹600 per quintal on the average yield. In kharif season 2021, 2.71 lakh farmers have registered on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal for bajra. “Everybody knows the market prices are around ₹1,200 to ₹1,300 against ₹2,250 MSP. How will ₹600 per quintal compensate the difference of ₹1,000. This is a conspiracy to end the MSP,” said Randeep Singh Surjewala, AICC general secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bajra-procurement-proving-to-be-a-double-edged-sword-for-haryana-government-101633983188102.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali police yet to arrest Youth Akali Dal leader’s killers||Even two months after Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera, aka Vicky Middukhera, 33, was shot dead in Sector 71, the Mohali police have failed to arrest the assailants despite having identified them. On August 7, Middukhera was shot dead by two men while he was entering his SUV after visiting a property dealer in Sector 71. He had sustained 12 bullet injuries. The same day, the Davinder Bambiha gang had claimed responsibility for the murder through a Facebook post. On September 22, the police claimed to have identified the two assailants: Sajjan, alias Bholu, from Jhajjar, Haryana, and Anil Kumar from Dwarka in Delhi. They are among most-wanted gangsters in the region. Their involvement in the broad daylight murder was revealed by gangster Kaushal Chaudhary, who was brought on production warrants from the Karnal jail. According to police, Gaurav Patial, alias Lucky, who is running the Bambiha gang from Armenia, had conspired to kill Middukhera with the help of Chaudhary and Amit Dagar, who are both lodged in jails.Sajjan and Anil had orchestrated the crime on Dagar’s instructions, it was revealed.Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali, Navjot Singh Mahal said: “We are on it and hopeful of arresting the accused soon.” Another senior police officer said that teams have been dispatched for their arrest, following which the motive behind Middukhera’s murder will be revealed. The Mohali police are also yet to get production warrants of Dagar, who is lodged in the Mandoli Jail in Delhi. However, police have got the extended remand of Chaudhary.“The name of the person who gave the contract to Lucky to kill Middukhera will only be revealed once Dagar and Chaudhary are interrogated together,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-police-yet-to-arrest-youth-akali-dal-leader-s-killers-101633983015601.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Coal crisis: No power cuts planned in Chandigarh||After reviewing the electricity supply situation in Chandigarh, the UT administration on Monday said that there are no plans for scheduled power cuts.“We are carefully monitoring power situation in the city, and at present we have adequate supply for meeting the city’s demand,” said UT adviser Dharam Pal.As most of the city’s power comes from hydroelectricity plants, the administration doesn’t see any major disturbance due to the pan-India coal crisis. “However, in case the demand from other states creates issues at the central level, we will take remedial measures immediately. We will be reviewing the situation daily,” said Pal.The Centre had reduced the UT’s power allocation from 300 MW to 250 MW on October 8. However, UT officials have maintained that the supply is more than adequate to meet the present demand.On October 10, the peak demand was 226 MW and minimum demand was 166 MW. On October 9, the peak demand had reached 247 MW, still lower than the central allocation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coal-crisis-no-power-cuts-planned-in-chandigarh-101633983014489.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Private firms to maintain road dividers in Mohali||The Mohali municipal corporation has decided to hand over the maintenance of triangles at traffic lights and centre verges that divide roads to private companies. A letter in this regard was handed over to a firm by mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Monday. The mayor said various roundabouts in Mohali had already been allotted for maintenance to private companies, who in return get to place their advertisements. A set of rules had also been made in this regard. Sidhu said the condition of triangles in Mohali near traffic lights was deteriorating and there were some hurdles in their maintenance. Even contractors who take advertising contracts in Mohali do not maintain these locations. Similarly, due to the non-maintenance of centre verges, they have to be handed over to contractors at extra cost to the corporation. He said the company maintaining these centre verges and triangles would not be able to place advertisements larger than the prescribed size which would make uniform advertisements appear all over Mohali and would also enhance the beautification of the city. He said the municipal corporation was paying special attention to beautify the entry points to the city and the maintenance of the triangles and centre verges adjacent to the traffic lights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/private-firms-to-maintain-road-dividers-in-mohali-101633983013370.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali mayor, councillors’ allowance hike put on hold||The Punjab local bodies department has put the Mohali municipal corporation’s proposal for up to 75% hike in the mayor and councillors’ constituency allowance on the back burner. The department has approved all other agenda items passed in the House meeting on August 26 this year, but has not given its nod to the agenda pertaining to the hike, stating that it is a policy matter concerning all civic bodies.Constituency allowance is given to councillors in lieu of the amount spent by them on telephone and mobile bills, fuel and hospitality. The House had hiked the monthly allowance of the mayor from ₹30,000 to ₹48,000. For the senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor, the hike was from ₹24,000 to ₹40,000 and from ₹18,750 to ₹32,750, respectively. Councillors were to be paid ₹25,000 instead of ₹15,000.The mayor and his deputies are also paid an honorarium of ₹15,000 each, while councillors get ₹2,000 each. It is a voluntary payment given to a councillor for services delivered.Harjeet Singh, superintendent, local bodies department, who is dealing with the matter, said: “We cannot allow the hike for Mohali alone, as it is a policy matter. If it is taken up, it will be for entire Punjab.”While MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said that he has not received any communication in this regard from the local bodies department, mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said he will take up the matter with the authority concerned and push for the hike.“The decision was taken in the wake of price rise. It was a long-pending demand of councillors,” said the mayor, adding that the allowance had not been hiked since the MC was formed in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mayor-councillors-allowance-hike-put-on-hold-101633983012326.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||School student stabs youth to death in Ambala||A 21-year-old youth was stabbed to death, allegedly by a Class-10 student, outside a shop in Ambala City on Monday. Police said the suspect is a classmate of the victim’s younger sister, who studies in a government school in the city. The victim had reportedly rebuked the suspect after he had passed lewd comments at her.The victim’s name has been withheld to conceal the identity of his minor sister, while the assailant’s name has been withheld as he is suspected to be a juvenile.Police said that the victim, who worked at a garments shop, was standing outside a grocery store when the suspect started abusing him in the presence of his maternal uncle around 11:40 am.The uncle told police that the suspect, who was accompanied by a friend, stabbed his nephew thrice with a knife before fleeing. According to the witnesses, the assailant and his friend were in school uniform. CCTV footage of the incident shows the suspect attacking the youth with a knife as he was leaving the grocery store. “I followed the boys but could not find them. In the meanwhile, my nephew was taken to the civil hospital, from where he was referred to the PGIMER. We were on our way to Chandigarh when his health worsened and we took him to a private hospital on the highway, but he couldn’t survive,” the uncle told police.According to the FIR, the family was celebrating the girl’s birthday in August when her classmate had passed some lewd comments. The victim’s uncle said that the suspect was holding a grudge against his nephew after he had rebuked him.“The comment was passed on Facebook,” said sub-inspector Balbir Singh, who is investigating the case. “The matter was settled by the two families and did not reach police.” A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Baldev Nagar police station. “The matter is under investigation. Police teams are also checking CCTV footage of the area and the suspects will be nabbed soon,” said deputy superintendent of police Ram Kumar. Police also visited the suspect’s school, which is just metres away from the crime spot.“The victim’s autopsy was conducted at the civil hospital, after which his body was handed over to the family,” said the investigating officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/school-student-stabs-youth-to-death-in-ambala-101633983011049.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||After ₹39 lakh go missing, cash van driver commits suicide in Chandigarh||After being questioned in connection with a missing trunk carrying ₹39 lakh, a cash van driver committed suicide by jumping in front of a train on Monday morning. Aged 44, the victim was a resident of Sector 47. It was on his first day as a driver for a security firm, which transports money to be loaded in ATMs across the tricity, when a trunk went missing from his cash van on October 8.According to his wife, he along with other employees who were in the van were questioned throughout Friday night before being called back to join investigations the next day.On Monday morning, around 5, the wife found him missing from their room. The suicide came to light around 7 am when the Government Railway Police (GRP) got the information about a man being run over by a train near a gurdwara in Faidan village. The body was later identified. No suicide note was found at the spot, and the body was handed over to the family members after postmortem. The GRP have initiated inquest proceedings. Sources said the family told the GRP that the victim was stressed since the money went missing from his van.“He was questioned as part of investigations along with other employees attached to the cash van on October 8 itself, when the DDR was lodged,” said superintendent of police (SP, City), Chandigarh, Ketan Bansal. Police yet to make breakthrough Bhupinder Singh, who works as a custodian with the security firm based in Sector 47, had lodged a complaint regarding misplacement of a trunk carrying ₹39 lakh from the van. He told police that on October 8, he along his colleague Manish Chawla, gunman Balbir Singh and the driver had left office with ₹1.9 crore around 10 am. While ₹70 lakh were put in one bag, the remaining ₹39 lakh were in an iron trunk that was already sealed by the company. On their regular route, they went to load the money in ATMs at Sector 37, followed by Sector 38 and Nayagoan. It was at Nayagaon that Chawla pointed out that the trunk carrying ₹39 lakh was missing. They informed the company officials and even checked if they had forgotten the truck in the office. The company checked the vehicle’s location through CCTV cameras and GPS, but there was no unusual stoppage or deviation from the route. As the last location of the vehicle was in Nayagaon, Chandigarh Police after lodging a DDR had intimated the Mohali police. Finally, on October 10, a case was registered under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons at the police station in Sector 31, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-39-lakh-go-missing-cash-van-driver-commits-suicide-in-chandigarh-101633983009929.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity: Weekly Covid cases lowest since second wave||Showing a downward trend for the past three weeks, the tricity’s weekly Covid-19 caseload has dipped to the lowest since the second wave.Only 47 new cases were reported in the week ending October 10, with Chandigarh accounting for 32, Mohali for nine and Panchkula for just six. No one tested positive in Panchkula on three days and Mohali’s tally remained zero on two days.The second wave had peaked in May, when the tricity recorded 46,245 cases and 790 deaths in just one month. The curve started flattening thereon, and only 50 cases were recorded in the last week of July before there was a marginal rise. The weekly cases have been fluctuating since then but never crossed the 100 mark.Meanwhile, one death each was reported across the three areas between October 4 and 10. Health experts have warned residents against any complacency in view of the festive season and rising severity of the disease.According to Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, though the cases are dipping, the severity of the infection is rising. “In the past two weeks, the number of patients being admitted in serious condition has gone up from eight to 22,” he said.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “Even as new cases are surfacing daily in just single digits, if people fail to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, especially in this festival season, another surge can be witnessed.”No new case in Panchkula for third straight dayNo fresh Covid-19 infection was reported in Panchkula for the third consecutive day on Monday.The tricity area reported four cases on Monday: three from Mohali and one from Chandigarh. On Sunday, four people were tested positive in the tricity area.No virus-related death was recorded in the tricity for the sixth consecutive day.Meanwhile, tricity’s active cases dropped below 62 on Monday, of which 37 are in Chandigarh, 19 in Mohali and six in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,280 positive cases, of which 64,423 have been cured and 820 have died.In Mohali, total cases recorded to date are 68,759. Among these, 67,672 patients have recovered and 1,068 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,744 includes 30,360 recoveries and 378 casualties.Vaccination drive slows down in ChandigarhThe Covid vaccination drive in Chandigarh is gradually slowing down with weekly doses administered dipping by 42% in one month. The UT health department attributes it to the fact that 58% of the targeted population has already received both doses.On an average, around 4,535 people were vaccinated daily in the past one week. However, in the week ending on September 11, around 7,774 people were inoculated daily.Against the target of 8.4 lakh, the health department has administered the first dose to 9.14 lakh (108%), which include migrants, and both doses to 4.9 lakh (58%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-weekly-covid-cases-lowest-since-second-wave-101633983008728.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Improve facilities at Mohali ESI hospital: Lawyers’ body||Members of the all-India lawyers’ association in collaboration with the district bar association on Monday took up the issue of insured workers covered under the employees’ state insurance (ESI) scheme at the time of their treatment in ESI hospital/ dispensaries in Mohali. The ESI scheme is a social security scheme for providing medical healthcare facilities to insured persons and their families. While addressing mediapersons, Manpreet Singh Chahal, president, district bar association, Mohali, and Bhag Singh Suhag, president, district bar association, Chandigarh, said the ESI hospital and dispensaries were currently working for only 6 hours from 8 am to 2 pm. They demanded that it should run 24X7. They also demanded that insured workers might be referred only to empanelled hospitals under the ESI scheme for a cashless medical facility instead of referring them to the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, Mohali, GMCH-32, Government Hospital-16 or PGI, Chandigarh. They also asked for ensuring facilities of all laboratory tests, including an in-house ultrasound facility, at the ESI Hospital, Mohali. Vice-president of the all-India lawyers’ association, Jasbir Singh was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/improve-facilities-at-mohali-esi-hospital-lawyers-body-101633982949307.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||In briefs: Chandigarh Congress protests against Lakhimpur violence||The Chandigarh Congress led by national treasurer Pawan Kumar Bansal sat on a “maun vrat” (vow of silence) outside the Punjab Raj Bhawan for two hours on Monday. They were demanding resignation of minister of state for home Ajay Misra for his son’s alleged involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh. Local Congress chief Subhash Chawla and others said that monetary compensation would not alone be able to assuage the pain of victims’ families.Nights turn colder in ChandigarhAs per the India meteorological department (IMD), the minimum temperature in Chandigarh has started to fall. At 21.3°C, Monday had the lowest minimum temperature since June 12 when it had gone down to 21.2°C. As per officials, it’s part of the changing seasons and can fall down further to 20°C in the coming days. The maximum temperature stayed unchanged between Sunday and Monday at 36°C while the minimum temperature went down from 21.4°C on Sunday to 21.3°C on Monday. In the next three days, the maximum temperature will stay around 37°C while the minimum temperature will stay between 20°C and 21°C. UT admn to take call on crackers The Chandigarh Administration is likely to take a final call on Tuesday for allowing crackers during Diwali festivities in the city.The administration will take into consideration the advice of health and environment experts in view of a possibility of Covid-19 third wave. A high-level meeting is scheduled on the issue on Tuesday.The administration last year banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the city in the wake of the pandemic. Last year, during the festival season, the Covid-19 cases were on an upward curve, but lately the daily cases have dropped to single digits. Even in 2019, the administration had restricted the hours for bursting crackers in a bid to minimise air pollution.PU dean for college development resignsPanjab University professor Sanjay Kaushik, who was holding the additional charge of dean, college development council, resigned from the post on Monday. A faculty member at the University Business School, he said he took the decision to focus on academic activities. Panjab University students to protest The Students For Society (SFS) has condemned the Panjab University authorities’ decision to do away with reservations for the single girl child and students from rural and border areas, especially in engineering courses. The joint students’ action committee plans to hold protests against it in the coming days. Webinar on Covid challenges The department of microbiology, Panjab University, Chandigarh, organised a webinar on the topic ‘Continued challenges of Covid pandemic: Learning from experience’ on Monday. VR Sinha, dean, university instructions, Panjab University, Chandigarh, in his inaugural address accentuated the fact that though the pandemic created havoc throughout the country, it also had some underlying positive effects. It was only due to the emergence of the pandemic that the world recognised the power of Indian pharmaceuticals. Global education summit kicks off A two-day virtual global education summit is being organised by Chandigarh University on the theme “Social innovation for sustainable development through global academic partnerships” on Monday and Tuesday. While inaugurating the event, Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, minister of state for external affairs and education, spoke on the new education policy and the role it will play in making India an educational hub in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-briefs-chandigarh-congress-protests-against-lakhimpur-violence-101633982948249.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Poonch gunbattle: Naik Mandeep Singh left to join duty in J&K only a week ago after vacation||Nobody in the family imagined that it was the last goodbye from Naik Mandeep Singh, 30, when he was leaving to join his duty in Jammu and Kashmir around a week ago. On Monday, Mandeep made the supreme sacrifice fighting militants in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district. It came as a rude shock to the family and the residents of his native Chatha Seerha village in Gurdaspur district where he was with them till recently. Mandeep was home to meet his newborn second son. The news of his death was devastating to his wife Mandeep Kaur, who is still on bed rest since the delivery of the son, as well as his widowed mother Manjit Kaur. “Though my son has left this world, I am proud of him for sacrificing his life fighting for the country. Of course, it is an irreparable loss to our family...we were waiting for his birthday…but this happened,” said the mother, trying her best to look composed. As the news spread, Mandeep’s house was burgeoning with mourners gathered from far and near. His cousin brothers Gurmukh Singh and Gurwinder Singh said, “Mandeep was very good in football and basketball before he joined the army around 10 years ago. Amid a big loss, his supreme sacrifice has filled us with pride. His brother Jagroop Singh is also serving in the army, and another one works in Qatar.” “A few days ago, he made a video call when he was climbing some mountain. He said there was no memorial after a martyr in the village and it should be there. We did not know that we will have to build one in his memory,” they added. The body will reach the village on Tuesday for the funeral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poonch-gunbattle-naik-mandeep-singh-left-to-join-duty-in-j-k-only-a-week-ago-after-vacation-101633982888029.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Shutdown in Jagraon: Hindu groups seek arrest of chief editor of Punjabi daily||Seeking arrest of Jaspal Singh Heran, the chief editor of a Punjabi daily, for allegedly using objectionable language with respect to Hindu gods and goddesses on his social networking sites, different Hindu Organisations called for a shutdown in Jagraon on Monday and staged a protest. Members of different Hindu outfits and political parties gathered at Nalke Wala Chowk in the morning and carried out demonstrations throughout the city. They also asked shopkeepers to lower their shutters in solidarity and also blocked traffic in the area. Tension prevailed when protestors marched toward the office of senior superintendent of police (SSP, Ludhiana rural) Gurdial Singh and announced that they will gherao the officers and were lathicharged  by the cops. Later, the SSP met with 11 members of the organisations and assured them that the police will arrest the accused soon.The protesters have issued a two-day ultimatum to the police for arresting the accused and said they will intensify the stir if their demands were not met. A protester, Raj Bhardwaj, said, the accused was still using objectionable language against Hindu Gods on social networking sites. The Jagraon police had booked Jaspal Singh Heran, for hurting religious sentiments on Saturday.The FIR was lodged on the complaint of Amit Sharma, general secretary,Hindu Ekta Manch, Jagraon. In his statement Sharma said former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal had visited Mata Chintpurni temple in Himachal Pradesh and had paid obeisance during Navratri. However, the newspaper carried the news with derogatory language and used inappropriate words for the Goddess.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shutdown-in-jagraon-hindu-groups-seek-arrest-of-chief-editor-of-punjabi-daily-101633982708901.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||LK Yadav is acting chief director of Punjab vigilance bureau||The Punjab government on Monday gave additional charge of chief director of the state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau to additional director general of police (ADGP) LK Yadav after the incumbent, BK Uppal, proceeded on one-month leave. On Monday, Uppal accompanied Yadav, who is also heading the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing cases, to hand over charge at the VB headquarters in Mohali. A senior government official said Yadav had met chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi a few days back. The government also transferred special DGP Prabodh Kumar from the modernisation wing to the Lokpal. Prabodh, a 1987-batch IPS officer, had headed the SIT constituted by the Amarinder Singh government to probe the cases now being probed by the Yadav-led SIT. After Channi became CM, Prabodh had also written to him expressing his availability for central deputation. He was shifted to a low-key posting on the insistence of a minister, it is learnt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lk-yadav-is-acting-chief-director-of-punjab-vigilance-bureau-101633982288048.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Expect traffic snarls in festive season as plan for temporary parkings fails to take off in Ludhiana||With the plan to establish temporary parking sites in the city to deal with festive rush failing to see the light of the day, traffic chaos and congestion is expected to take a toll on residents during the festive season, which is round the corner.The administration had planned to establish at least 10 temporary parking spaces in the city to deal with the festive rush in markets, but failed to start the facility at vacant spaces that has been scouted out by the police department in association with the municipal corporation (MC), Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) and Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) officials.The call to set up the parkings had been taken during Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s meeting with administrative and police officials last month. Typically, heavy traffic jams are seen the city, especially in the main markets such as Model Town, Chaura Bazaar, Ghumar Mandi, Daresi, and Dugri market among other areas during the festive season. However, with Dussehra just round the corner, markets areas are already congested and the fairs across the city have added to the melee, especially at Daresi, and the Chandigarh Road. Punjab Road Safety Council member Rahul Verma said dealing with traffic was not just the duty of the traffic police, but also of the civic body and other developmental agencies. “So far, the GLADA and LIT have failed to step up. The sites were identified by the police and a drone survey was carried out for the purpose. However, now other departments need to make the facility functional. LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam said, “In-principle approval was given to the police department for using LIT’s vacant sites such as the complex on the Rani Jhansi Road and the parking space near Orient Cinema among others, for establishing temporary parking lots. The police department and administration is yet to take a decision regarding how to operate the lots and a decision will be taken in the coming days.”Verma said vacant sites had been identified in and around the busy markets in different parts of the city, including the vacant land of the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) opposite the mini secretariat, the BL Kapur Memorial hospital in Daresi, vacant GLADA land near Old Session Chowk, the site behind the civil hospital, vacant LIT land near Feroze Gandhi market, vacant land behind the bus stand, a vacant LIT complex on Rani Jhansi Road, the LIT parking near Orient Cinema, and vacant land near Mohini Resort on Chandigarh Road among others.Work to clear the land had also been initiated in mid-September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/expect-traffic-snarls-in-festive-season-as-plan-for-temporary-parkings-fails-to-take-off-in-ludhiana-101633982168196.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||In yet another setback, coal crisis saps Ludhiana industry’s energy in festive season||Already financially beleaguered due to back-to-back crises such as the coronavirus pandemic, frequent bandhs and the farmers’ rail-roko agitation, the industry is facing yet another setback in the form of a power crisis.The frequent power cuts, ranging from four to five hours, have interrupted factory operations in Ludhiana, the industrial hub of the state. The latest crisis has hit the industry at a time when the festive season, which is when most sales take place, is just around the corner. Industrialists say they will lose crores if the crisis worsens. Stakeholders say small industries, which had not quite recovered from the losses suffered during pandemic, will not be able to survive any more setbacks and may have to shut down for good. No lessons learnt from July: StakeholdersLambasting the Union and state governments, industrial representatives said the Union and state governments had failed to coordinate with each other and had learnt nothing from the power crisis witnessed in July. Federation of Punjab Small Industries Association (FOPSIA) president Badish Jindal said, “The Union government says there will be no shortage of coal supply, but the state government is unable to supply power. Unscheduled power cuts are already interrupting operations. Since the power cuts are unscheduled, the labourers sit idle and the factory owners have to pay them for their time.” “The steel and plastic units are worst affected as they need continuous power supply. We were hoping to recover losses during the festive season, but the crisis has hit us at an importunate time,” he said. The power supply had remained suspended for around 10 days due to the power crisis in July and the industry had to observe weekly offs. “The industry collectively suffers a daily loss of around ₹500 crore, if operations are suspended, but the government continues to adopt a lackadaisical approach towards the problems,” said Jindal, adding that if the power cuts continue the export business will be next to be hit. General Secretary of Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) Pankaj Sharma said the industry is already moving through a slump due to the pandemic, bandhs and shutdown calls given by various trade and non-trade groups along with disruptions in power supply. “Lack of government support in upgrading infrastructure and higher rates of bank interest has crippled the industry and around 25% of the MSME ( Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises) industry has shutdown in the last two years.”Members of the Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association led by president Jaswinder Thukral also met with Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) Ludhiana chief engineer Bhupinder Khosla on Monday and sought an immediate solution. Can’t run generators due to high price of diesel Ludhiana Woollen Manufacturers Association and Knitwear Club president Darshan Dawar said it was the peak season for the hosiery industry. “Last year, too, business had been affected due to Covid and now again an unprecedented crises looms over the industry. It is unviable for the industry to run its operations on generators due to skyrocketing prices of diesel,” said Dawar.United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) general secretary Manjinder Sachdeva said there was a need to shift from thermal energy to hydro, nuclear or wind energy. “The state government also needs to step up and provide an uninterrupted power supply. They could also purchase power from other states.” Resolve power issue within 3 days: Beopar Mandal issues ultimatum Taking issue with unscheduled power cuts, traders affiliated with the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal staged a protest against the PSPCL in the Chaura Bazar area on Monday and said they will gherao the homes of MPs and MLAs if the issue was not resolved within three days. State general secretary, Sunil Mehra criticised the state government for failing to inform the industry about the power crisis in advance. “It is anticipated that the industry and trade in the state will suffer a loss of around ₹50,000 crore on a daily basis due to the prolonged power cuts.” PSPCL, Ludhiana chief engineer Bhupinder Khosla said it is likely that the supply may remain affected for a few more days. “The Union and the state government are working to end the crisis. There is no problem with the distribution network, but the supply has reduced due to the nationwide crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-yet-another-setback-coal-crisis-saps-ludhiana-industry-s-energy-in-festive-season-101633981809363.html
12-10-2021||Other||Mission Kavach Kundal: All beneficiaries in Pune vaxed by Oct 14 with at least 1 dose||PUNE Under mission “Kavach Kundal” (translates loosely into a form of body armour), the Pune district aims to vaccinate its eligible population by October 14 with at least the first dose. A total of 75% beneficiaries will be fully vaccinated by that date under the plan. The district has recruited staff from the Gram Panchayat, revenue department, education and anganwadi departments as well. Mission “Kavach Kundal” aims to vaccinate the maximum number of people from both rural and urban areas before the festival of Dusserah ends. The administration has formed teams who would coordinate with the health department to vaccinate the beneficiaries. Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer said, “Pune aims to vaccinate the highest number of people and we have been setting records with our Covid-19 vaccination. With regards to mission ‘Kavach Kundal’ we have coordinated with different departments so that we can get maximum beneficiaries to vaccination centres. We will also arrange for a massive vaccination awareness drive to clear any vaccine hesitancy people might have.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mission-kavach-kundal-all-beneficiaries-in-pune-vaxed-by-oct-14-with-at-least-1-dose-101633981808064.html
12-10-2021||Other||5 million vax doses administered in Pune city||PUNE: The state government will felicitate the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for vaccinating the highest percentage of beneficiaries among all civic bodies in the state as over 5 million doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries.Of the over 3,480,035 eligible beneficiaries living in the city, 3,085,515 have got their first dose and 1,635,076 have been fully vaccinated namely, 88.66% have got their first dose and 46.98% have been fully vaccinated. This is the highest coverage with regard to Covid-19 vaccination for any city in the state in proportion to its population.Also on Sunday Pune district saw over 999,071 vaccinations, which is the highest for any district in the state for that day. As of Monday evening, Pune district reported over 11.2 million vaccinations; while Mumbai - which has the highest number of vaccinations reported – administered over 13.7 million vaccine doses.Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC immunisation officer, said, “In addition to donations from private players and the steady supply of vaccines from the state government, the PMC could inoculate the highest number of beneficiaries because of its effective planning. We ensured that we vaccinated as many beneficiaries as possible on the same day that the vaccine arrived and used the doses on the same day. Pune city has about 192 government and 248 private vaccination centres running and so, we could vaccinate at least 200 beneficiaries at one centre on one day.”Over 284,000 beneficiaries vaccinated through PMC special driveThe Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been able to inoculate over 284,000 beneficiaries through its special drive covering the homeless, slum dwellers, Olympic players, bedridden players, the specially-abled, senior citizens, the third gender and super spreaders such as hawkers, rickshaw drivers, and women working as maids. A total of 1,185 sessions have been organised and more than 284,198 beneficiaries have been vaccinated as of October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-million-vax-doses-administered-in-pune-city-101633981807346.html
12-10-2021||Other||Monsoon withdraws from east Vidarbha: IMD||PUNE The Southwest Monsoon’s withdrawal from east Vidarbha began on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Withdrawal from Pune and Mumbai has been forecast on October 14. On Monday, Pune city did not witness any rainfall. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune said that the other parts of the state may also see a withdrawal by October 14.Kashyapi added that rainfall activity is likely to reduce in Puhne from October 12 onwards.As per the weather department the southwest monsoon has further withdrawn from Jharkhand, Bihar, some parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and parts of Odisha and West Bengal.“Conditions are becoming favourable for further withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal; some more parts of Maharashtra, Odisha and some parts of northeast India till October 13,” said IMD officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-withdraws-from-east-vidarbha-imd-101633981748592.html
12-10-2021||Other||Pune district records 331 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths on Monday||PUNE As of Monday, Pune district reported 331 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths due to the infection, as per the state health department,This takes the progressive count to 1.14 million, of which 1.11 million have recovered. The death toll is 19,868 and 8,465 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw 72,502 vaccinations on the day. Pune rural reported 194 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 361,852. The death toll stands at 6,841 as 12 more deaths were reported on Monday. Pune city reported 85 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 518,946. The death toll stood at 9,179 as no more death were reported on the day. PCMC reported 52 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 267,419. The death toll stands at 3,499 as no deaths were reported on Monday.Pune also saw 72,502 vaccinations on the day as per CoWin dashboard on Monday.Of the total of 11,217,503 vaccines administers so far, 7,432,311 are first doses and 3,785,192 are second doses. A total of 797 sites saw vaccinations on Monday, of which 614 afre government centres and 183 are private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-records-331-new-covid-19-cases-and-12-deaths-on-monday-101633981747953.html
12-10-2021||Other||Fergusson College inspires Norway to conserve environment||PUNE: Fergusson college will take pride in being a campus free of single-use plastic once its students resume classes. And taking inspiration from one of Pune’s oldest institutions will be Hans Jacob Frydenlund, ambassador, Norwegian embassy, Delhi.Frydenlund, along with Erik Solheim, former under-secretary general of the United Nations and former executive director of UN Environment, was on a visit to Pune for an event to create awareness organised by TERRE Policy Centre, a Pune-based international organisation working for environment conservation, and Fergusson college.The event was held in the amphitheatre on campus to create awareness about the ‘single-use plastic free campus’ where a book of guidelines for campuses free of single-use plastic was unveiled by the guests Frydenlund and Solheim. Rajendra Shende, president, TERRE Policy Centre and Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson college were also present at the occasion.Fergusson college has already made changes to bring back copperware bottles and steel glasses for water. “We believe that if the administration makes the change, it won’t be long before the students follow. We will only allow students to bring their own water bottles that are re-usable; the same applies to plastic bags. We are in the process of training our staff and creating awareness about the problems associated with single-use plastic,” Pardeshi said.Frydenlund said, “We are here to draw inspiration because we need to see and be part of the local action against pollution which we can then follow. These guidelines about a campus free of single-use plastic will be followed at our Delhi embassy as well. Pollution due to plastic is increasing which is a threat to the environment and initiatives to reduce use of plastic are the need of the hour. A long-term strategy is necessary to take care of our oceans, for which Norway will work together with India to find solutions.”Solheim while addressing the students, said, “We need single-use plastic-free campuses to conserve nature for there is an ecological crisis on Earth. This is a mission where everyone can contribute every day by bringing a change in their lifestyle and using plastic to a minimum. The world is investing in green economy such as solar stations and electric vehicles that are the future.”The event also saw green warriors – TATA Motors and Sonali Deshpande, chairperson, Persistent foundation - being felicitated for their remarkable work in developing “oxygen parks” inside cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fergusson-college-inspires-norway-to-conserve-environment-101633981747359.html
12-10-2021||Pune||PMPML buses stay off the roads on Monday morning in Pune||PUNE For Meenakshi Jadhav, it was a hectic Monday, as she had to walk 7km to go to work in the morning. The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses did not run in the morning due to the Maharashtra bandh called by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), and supporting parties. “I stay in Warje and my office is on Karve road. There were autoricksaws on the road, but they were demanding high fares, so I walked. In the evening buses were running,” said Jadhav. A total of 1,400 bus operations are planned across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad daily, none of which took the roads on Monday morning. “Because of the bandh we had to be careful that no buses were damaged. It was decided to cancel all bus operations till 12 noon. Afterwards, in a phase-wise manner, buses were sent on routes,” said Dattatray Zende, PMPML traffic manager.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-buses-stay-off-the-roads-on-monday-morning-in-pune-101633981688975.html
12-10-2021||Other||Leopard or hyena? Calf killed in Mohammadwadi||PUNE A calf was killed in what is believed to be an attack by a wild animal in Mohammadwadi on Saturday night.“The calf is dead and we are yet to identify whether it was killed by a leopard or a hyena. Investigations are on,” said MJ Sanas, range forest officer.Sanas appealed to residents to not go out at night on to the farms in the area.“Mohammedwadi almost touches the main city, so wild animals don’t come here on a regular basis,” said Sanas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/leopard-or-hyena-calf-killed-in-mohammadwadi-101633981687308.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Navjot Sidhu gives Congress’ ‘maun vrat’ in Amritsar over Lakhimpur Kheri violence a miss||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Monday skipped the “maun vrat” (a fast of silence) observed by party leaders outside the Amritsar railway station in protest against the Centre and the UP government for their alleged ‘inaction’ against the accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. Party’s state working president Sukhwinder Singh Danny led the protest.The programme was reportedly planned by Sidhu and an invite to the media was also sent by his personal assistant. The invite mentioned that Sidhu will be leading the demonstration. However, the party leaders took part in the ‘maun vrat’. Those who took part in the ‘maun vrat’ were Sidhu’s loyalists, including Amritsar south MLA Inderbir Singh Bolaria, Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman Damandeep Singh Uppal and councillors from Amritsar (East) segment that the former cricketer represents in the assembly.The Congress leaders said Sidhu could not reach the city due to some reasons. He is on a trip to the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Jammu.“The brutality shown by the son of a Union minister of state has shaken soul of everyone. Today, the Congress leadership gave a call to observe “maun vrat” across the state outside the offices of central departments for three hours to awaken the deaf and blind government,” said Danny while interacting with mediapersons.Also present in the protest were Amritsar North MLA Sunil Dutti, district planning committee chairman Rajkanwalpreet Pal Singh Lucky, mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu and district Congress committee (urban) chief Jatinder Kaur Sonia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-sidhu-gives-congress-maun-vrat-in-amritsar-over-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-a-miss-101633981569841.html
12-10-2021||Dehradun||Our reply to BJP, says Uttarakhand Cong leader who piloted Yashpal Arya return||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s leader of opposition Pritam Singh, who is being credited with playing a crucial role in persuading Yashpal Arya and son Sanjeev to return to the Congress, said it was important to respond to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which recently inducted three legislators including one from the Congress.Yashpal Arya, 69, who crossed over to the BJP with his son ahead of the 2017 elections, rejoined the Congress on Monday at an event in national capital Delhi. As he thanked the Congress leadership for letting him return, Arya, a prominent Dalit leader in Uttarakhand politics, called it his ‘ghar wapsi’, or ‘homecoming’.“It was important to give a reply to the BJP after it had started the defection game in last few days by facilitating the joining of three MLAs including one of Congress,” said Pritam Singh.“We don’t promote this defection politics but the BJP started it and was boasting about it, so it was important to reply to them,” Singh added.Congress leaders, however, insisted that the talks between Yashpal Arya and some Congress leaders including Pritam Singh had been on for the last few months.Arya, a six-time lawmaker who led the Uttarakhand Congress between 2007 and 2014, had also been in touch with Rahul Gandhi.A Congress leader said Yashpal Arya, who was feeling stifled and ignored in the BJP, was apprehensive about how senior party leader Harish Rawat, with whom he had differences in the past and contributed to his decision to quit the party in 2017, would take to his return. He was repeatedly reassured that this would not present a problem.At the public event in Delhi, Congress general secretary and former chief minister Rawat said they felt pain when Arya left the Congress for some reason in 2017. He is today joining back at a time when the party is fighting several challenges, he said.People familiar with the development said the timing of Yashpal Arya’s induction was decided by the central leadership. On Monday, Harish Rawat and state unit president Ganesh Godiyal took the first flight to Delhi for the induction event.Congress leaders said Pritam Singh had reached out to a third BJP legislator from Dehradun district also and he was expected to join the Congress on Monday. But BJP Rajya Sabha member and party national media in-charge Anil Baluni heard about it and was able to persuade him to stay put in the BJP.Political commentator SMA Kazmi said Singh’s success in getting Arya back in the party is set to help him raise his stature in the party. “Singh, who was considered to be in the faction of the deceased former leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh, had become weak after her demise in front of Rawat against whom he had differences which are open to all,” Kazmi said.The BJP rejected suggestions that Arya had been sidelined in the party. “He was given all the respect in BJP...The evidence is the fact that he was made a cabinet minister in our government with several important departments. Even after that, if he had to leave, then the reason is only known to him,” said BJP Uttarakhand president Madan Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/our-reply-to-bjp-says-uttarakhand-cong-leader-who-piloted-yashpal-arya-return-101633981447858.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||6 years since Bargari sacrilege, SIT probe revolves around local dera followers, Ram Rahim yet to be grilled||Even as it has been six years since the Bargari sacrilege incident took place in Faridkot district, the probe of Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) has remained limited to the local Dera Sacha Sauda followers, who allegedly carried out the desecration, and it is still to question Sirsa-based sect head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. Torn pages of a bir (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib were found scattered at Bargari village on October 12, 2015. The accused men, who were purportedly in direct link with the sect headquarters for hatching the conspiracy, are either absconding or have died. An official privy to the investigation said that in the absence of evidence linking the “chain of command”, the questioning of the dera chief will not be really helpful as the go-between must be quizzed first to unravel the sequence of events. The three absconding members of the dera’s national committee —Pardeep Kler, Harsh Dhuri and Sandeep Breta— remain untraced after they were named as accused in 2018 in the Moga sacrilege case. The SIT claims that the instructions to execute sacrilege at Bargari, Moga and Gurusar were given by the three to the district dera committee members. On Monday (October 11), the SIT told the court that Kler, Dhuri and Breta have not been traced and no record of any property on their name was found. The main accused in the Bargari sacrilege case —Mohinder Pal Singh Bittu — was killed in the Nabha jail in 2019. The SIT probe claimed that Bittu was in a direct link with the dera headquarters and received instructions to carry out sacrilege from the sect. “But it will be difficult for the SIT to establish this link on the basis of his statements in the court after his death,” said a lawyer linked with the case. The then Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party (SAD-BJP) government had handed over the probe into the three sacrilege incidents to the CBI on October 26, 2015. In July 2019, the central agency filed a closure report in the three sacrilege cases but withdrew it later to reinvestigate the matter. The Congress government, led by Captain Amarinder Singh, however, challenged the CBI move and took back the cases and handed over the probe to the SIT-led by then inspector general of police (IGP) Ranbir Singh Khattra in April 2020. In July 2020, the Khatra-led SIT filed a chargesheet in the court naming dera head Ram Rahim Singh as an accused in a case of theft of a ‘bir’ from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015. The SIT claimed that Bittu in his statement confessed that the dera head had ordered execution of sacrilege. However, the proceedings were stayed by the Punjab and Haryana high court ordering the state government to appoint a new SIT head. The HC also directed the police to take into account evidence collected by the CBI and file a supplementary challan. IGP SPS Parmar was appointed the new chief of SIT in February this year. The Parmar-led SIT arrested six dera followers for Bargari sacrilege in May this year and filed a chargesheet against them, naming Kler, Dhuri and Breta, who have been declared proclaimed offenders, as conspirators. The SIT, which received documents from the CBI eight months ago, is yet to file a supplementary chargesheet in the bir theft case. Also, the chargesheets filed by by Parmar-led SIT says that the dera suggested carrying out of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib to avenge insult of the sect head. But the chargesheets filed in both the FIRs do not have any mention of the dera head’s role in the episode. Besides, the SIT has not visited the dera headquarters or questioned any top sect member yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6-years-since-bargari-sacrilege-sit-probe-revolves-around-local-dera-followers-ram-rahim-yet-to-be-grilled-101633981207865.html
12-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: LIP president visits kin of farmers allegedly killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence||Members of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), led by party president MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains, visited Bahraich district of Uttar Pradesh on Monday to participate in the final rites of farmer Gurvinder Singh, 18, who was allegedly killed in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.Bains also met the kin of other farmers, who were allegedly killed in the incident on October 3, and offered their condolences. He said that the union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra has been arrested, but the police should also book the minister under Section 120-B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code as it was an allegedly planned attack on the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-lip-president-visits-kin-of-farmers-allegedly-killed-in-lakhimpur-kheri-violence-101633981088160.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two men posing as sadhus dupe three women of jewellery, cash||: Three women were duped of their gold jewellery and cash on the pretext of bringing good luck to their families and ridding them of their problems by two persons at Vikas Nagar in Mauli Jagran on Sunday. In her complaint to the police, Meena, a resident of Mauli Jagran, said she and her neighbours, Parbha and Raj Kumari, were on their way to Raipur Kalan to feed flour to ants on Sunday. As part of the belief, people feed flour to ants for the fulfilment of their wishes. She said they were on their way to Raipur Kalan when they saw two men sitting under a tree and chanting mantras. The men tricked the women into believing that they had special powers by making a person unconscious, which the women thought had died, and then bringing him back to life. The duo told the women that they would perform a ritual to rid them of their problems and at the same time, it would bring good luck to their families. The men told them to keep their jewellery and purse under the tree and handed them a paper with something scribbled on it and asked the women to throw the same in the nearby forest. When the women came back, they found the accused had fled with their money and jewellery. A case under Section 420 of the IPC has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-men-posing-as-sadhus-dupe-three-women-of-jewellery-cash-101633981027919.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cuts in coal inventory cost Punjab power utility ₹250 crore in just 10 days||In a bid to save money by cutting down its coal inventory, the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has burnt a big hole in its own pocket as it ended up spending a whopping ₹250 crore in the first 10 days of October to buy electricity from the national grid to meet rising power demand. The average per unit rate of power purchased is ₹9.5 per, which is almost double the annual purchase cost. The average cost of power purchase per unit is ₹4.14 for the present fiscal. With the state going to the polls early next year, the Punjab government has asked the corporation to ensure maximum supplies of electricity and bring down power cuts.On Monday, the PSPCL procured 1,500 megawatt (MW) power at ₹14.46 per unit to cater to demand of the agriculture sector as farmer unions have started protests against the corporation for its failure to supply electricity for irrigating late-sown paddy verities like basmati. In October so far, the state purchased nearly 25 crore units with the purchase bill already touching ₹250 crore due to the PSPCL management’s failure to ensure coal stocks as per the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) guidelines.In May this year, the management had decided not to maintain coal stocks as per the previous years’ trends and brought down reserves to 23 days against the usual 35 days or more. This was done to save ₹40-50 crore. The private plants maintain minimum stock so as to save money on coal inventory. PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said the coal stocks are still critical as only 12 rakes of fuel were received on Sunday against daily requirement of 22 rakes. “Presently, all private coal-based plants in the state have less than 2 days of stock while the state-owned plants have below 4 days of reserves. The plants are still operating at 50% capacity. We hope that power availability will improve in the next couple of days as an additional 400 MW power is likely to be received. One more unit of the Ropar plant will start generating power from Tuesday,” he said. Moreover, 50MW generation also started Monday at the Anandpur Sahib hydel project and it will be increased to 100 MW shortly, the CMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cuts-in-coal-inventory-cost-punjab-power-utility-rs-250-crore-in-just-10-days-101633980789083.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pink bollworm infestation: Girdawri indicates 70-100% crop loss in Bathinda, Mansa||Special girdawari or harvest inspection of the south Malwa region states 70-100% damage of the cotton crop due to pink bollworm attack in Bathinda and Mansa districts.These two worst-hit districts comprise almost half of the total of 3.25 lakh hectares under cotton cultivation in Punjab this year.Bathinda has the largest area of 96,000 hectares of Punjab under the cash crop whereas cotton was sown on 65,000 hectares in Mansa. In 2020-21 kharif season, Punjab had produced about 50 lakh quintals of raw cotton and Bathinda had led with 14 lakh quintals. With 11.79 lakh quintals, Mansa was the third cotton-producing district. But the official assessment hints at a highly disappointing season for farmers this year with a drastic fall of production mainly in the two districts.District authorities are compiling detailed reports for submission to the state government for its consideration of announcing compensation to affected cotton growers.Mansa deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal said according to crop loss assessment dispatched on Monday evening, 76-100% cotton was found damaged in all three subdivisions.“Our teams extensively examined the fields to assess crop loss. Impact of pink bollworm was found severe in the entire district,” he said.Chief agriculture office of Bathinda Manjit Singh more than 70% ready-to-harvest was found damaged in the district.Bathinda DC Arvind Pal Sandhu said it will take another two days to submit a report to the state government.DC of Fazilka, another major cotton producer of Punjab, Babita Kaler said no input of the pink bollworm attack was reported in the district till Monday.Some pockets of villages in Lambi and Gidderbaha in Muktsar and parts of Sangrur district were also spotted with the pest.Cotton is an economic lifeline of the semi-arid region of southern Punjab where it is a traditional kharif crop.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ughrahan) is spearheading an agitation demanding a compensation of ₹60,000 per acre to cotton-growers and ₹30,000 to farm labourers as the pest attack has hit the rural economy of the cotton belt.Since October 5, they have been holding an indefinite dharna outside the residence of state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal at Muktsar’s Badal village.Farm experts say other major cotton growing states, such as Karnataka and Maharashtra, have been reporting PBW over large areas since 2015, it is for the first time that Punjab faced a pest attack of this magnitude.Officials of the state agriculture department said PBW attack was first spotted in Bathinda’s Jodhpur Romana village in 2018. Owing to poor farm practices, the unchecked population of the pest expanded in Bathinda and the adjoining district of Mansa.Also, the pest attack is attributed to PBW infestation in the adjoining state of Haryana where 9 cotton-growing districts faced attack this season.SK Verma, head of Sirsa-based Central Institute for Cotton Research, said stakeholders need to join hands ahead of the next sowing season to tackle the issues related to cotton production in a holistic way.“Cotton growers should ensure that fields are cleared of the residue and up to 20 pheromone traps should be set up in an acre to detect a population of the deadly pest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pink-bollworm-infestation-girdawri-indicates-70-100-crop-loss-in-bathinda-mansa-101633980787910.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||CCPCR holds run on International Day of Girl Child||The Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) celebrated International Day of Girl Child by organising a “run for rights” on Monday. As many as 300 girls from 50 schools under the Girl India Project participated in the event. The run started from the New Lake, Sector 42, Chandigarh, to the Sports Complex, Sector 42. It was addressed by Chandigarh mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, who was the chief guest on the occasion. A pledge on girl rights was taken and Anjum Moudgil, Olympic shooter, flagged off the run. The participants were led by child rights’ ambassador Mannat and participants were awarded by UT joint director, sports, Sunil Rayat. Harjinder Kaur, CCPCR chairperson, and other members spoke on the challenges girls face, their empowerment and the fulfilment of their rights. Girls form human chain for rights In another event, 550 girls from 14 schools of the city joined hands to promote the girls India project’s slogan of ‘demand and claim your rights’, by standing in a human chain with pink turbans on from DAV Model School, Sector 15A, to Gandhi Smarak Bhawan, Sector 16, Chandigarh. Puneesh Jindia, member secretary, Chandigarh state legal services authority, was the chief guest on the occasion. This was organised by the Peace Club of DAV Model School, Sector 15A, and NGO-Yuvsatta in collaboration with other schools, including Carmel Convent School and St John’s School.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ccpcr-holds-run-on-international-day-of-girl-child-101633980728943.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||IARI data shows spike in farm fires post monsoon in Punjab, Haryana; situation better than last year||Punjab and Haryana have recorded a significant increase in farm fires after the withdrawal of the monsoon from north India, though the situation so far is better than last year, data from the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) suggests.Between September 15 and October 10, Punjab has recorded 764 incidents of crop residue burning in 2021 compared to 2,586 in the corresponding period last year.Haryana has recorded 196 farm fires so far against 353 logged during the period last year.The IARI data shows the number of farm fires remained considerably low till October 6, when the southwest monsoon started withdrawing from northwest India.Punjab recorded only 63 stubble burning incidents from October 1 to October 5 as compared to 486 cases from October 6 to October 10.Similarly, Haryana recorded 17 such events from October 1 to October 5 compared to 172 cases from October 6 to October 10, the IARI data showed.Vinay Sehgal, a scientist at IARI, said the number of farm fires remained low till the first week of October because of the delayed paddy harvesting on account of an extended monsoon season.“Even the farmers who had harvested their produce could not burn the straw because it was wet,” he said, citing reports from the ground.Sehgal said the IARI expects that there will be lesser farm fires this season compared to last year.“Governments are more conscious about stubble management this time. Also, a large number of farmers had burnt paddy straw in protest (against farm laws) last year,” he said.Though stubble burning has increased since October 6, the daily number is still low as compared to 2020, Sehgal added.The IARI scientist said the states recorded a gradual decrease in paddy straw burning from 2016 to 2019 and the spike last year can be attributed to farmers’ protest.“We don’t expect to do better than 2019, but we hope the number will be less than last year,” he added.Punjab had recorded 1.02 lakh incidents of stubble burning in 2016. The number decreased to 67,079 in 2017; 59,684 in 2018 and 50,738 in 2019 from October 1 to November 30. The state logged 79,093 such incidents last year, according to the IARI.Haryana saw 15,686 farm fires in 2016; 13,085 in 2017; 9,225 in 2018; 6,364 in 2019 and 5,678 in 2020.Punjab and Haryana attract attention during the paddy harvesting season in October and November.Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/iari-data-shows-spike-in-farm-fires-post-monsoon-in-punjab-haryana-situation-better-than-last-year-101633980489073.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two PU institutes to open from October 18 with caveats||The University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) and Centre for System Biology and Bioinformatics (UIEAST), Panjab University (PU), will be opened from October 18 for eligible postgraduate students of final year.This was decided at the meeting of a committee constituted by the dean of university instructions (DUI) to discuss the reopening of PU.As per PU authorities, due to limited accommodation in hostels due to single accommodation rule as a part of Covid protocols, only a limited number of students will be allowed to stay on campus.The students will need consent from parents mentioning that their ward will follow all the SOPs/directions issued by the Government of India and PU from time to time. They will have to submit an undertaking through the chairperson of the department that if the situation demands, they will vacate the hostel.Students must have received both doses of vaccines with a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours before reporting to the hostel. While recommending the application for hostel seekers, for the time being single accommodation will be provided and when the situation improves, rooms will be allotted, as per previous practice, on merit basis.Only single-room accommodation will be provided to the students and facilities of shops (barber/beauty parlour, tailor, tuck-shops, laundry) in PU hostels will not be provided till further orders. Entry of guests and visitors will not be allowed.The authorities will look into the reopening of other PU departments after reviewing the situation in the next phase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-pu-institutes-to-open-from-october-18-with-caveats-101633980487912.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi launches ‘Mera Ghar Mere Naam’ scheme to give proprietary rights to those living in ‘lal dora’||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday announced the ‘Mera Ghar Mere Naam’ (my house in my name) scheme to give proprietary rights to people living in ‘lal dora’ of villages and towns for generations. The scheme, seen as populist as the state will go to the assembly elections in four months, is a rechristened version of the ‘Mission Lal Laqir’ , an extension of the central government’s Swamitav (Survey of villages and mapping with improvised technology in village areas) scheme. Earlier, dwellers inside the ‘lal dora’ did not have ownership rights and they could not sell these properties. The decision was taken in a cabinet meeting chaired by the CM. The scheme, an official said, will also be applicable to towns which were upgraded to notified area committees (nagar panchayats) and further to municipal councils, but still have the lal dora system. “We want to see results and have shortened the grievances redressal timeframe,” Channi told mediapersons after the meeting. Soon after taking charges as CM, Channi had ordered to include Ropar district, which includes his constituency Chamkaur Sahib, under the ‘Mission Lal Laqir’ scheme.Last year, the ‘Mission Lal Laqir’scheme was started in Gurdaspur district and is now will be extended to 5 more districts. So far, drone survey has been done in 350 villages of Gurdaspur and maps of 20 villages have been verified and sent to the Survey of India and the National Mapping Agency (NMA). The state revenue department has constituted a steering committee led by chief secretary with district-level monitoring panels headed by the deputy commissioners with sub-divisional magistrates as member for grievance redrassal. Other announcements The CM later announced that the government will soon bring a legislation in the Vidhan Sabha to protect properties owned by NRIs settled abroad. Girdawari (assessment) of agriculture land owned by NRIs would be done in their names to prevent fraudulent sale, he added. All consumers to get waiver of arrears of on power bills of up to 2KW load, the CM said, adding that out of 72 lakh consumers nearly 52 lakh would benefit from this. He said arrears in the last bill received by the consumer would be waived. Channi said he had taken up the coal shortage issue with the Union ministry of coal so that there is no power crisis. “My government won’t let the state to plunge into darkness despite scarcity of coal. No intentional power cuts would be imposed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabcm-channi-launches-mera-ghar-mere-naam-scheme-to-give-proprietary-rights-to-those-living-in-lal-dora-101633980431473.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||SC scholarship scam: Action initiated against five Punjab officials||The Punjab social justice and empowerment department has initiated action against five officials for alleged irregularities in the disbursal of funds under the Scheduled Caste Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme (PMS-SC). Social justice, empowerment and minorities minister Raj Kumar Verka said the department has decided to chargesheet five officials, including deputy director Parminder Singh Gill, deputy controller finance and administration Charanjit Singh, section officer Mukesh Bhatia, superintendent Rajinder Chopra and senior assistant Rakesh Arora, for serious lapses in fund disbursal. “I have ordered strict action against all the officials who were involved in irregular fund releases to colleges,” he told Hindustan Times. The minister said notices have also been issued to colleges for recovery of ₹100 crore, but they are still to deposit the funds. “If these funds are not refunded, FIRs will be registered against the colleges. I have already given orders to this effect to the department. No laxity with be tolerated,” he warned. The scam in PMS-SC, a centrally-funded scheme to provide financial assistance to SC students to complete their education, was detected in 2019. In August 2019, then additional chief secretary, social justice, Kripa Shankar Saro ha in a report to chief secretary Vini Mahajan raised serious questions about the role of then minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot in fund releases, pointing out the patronage provided to “handpicked” officials. However, Dharamsot was given a clean chit by a second probe by Mahajan and some other IAS officers. The irregularities are already being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-scholarship-scam-action-initiated-against-five-punjab-officials-101633980367783.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ram Darbar: Two youths held for pelting stones at PCR van||A police control room (PCR) vehicle, which had reached Ram Darbar following a complaint of a fight among neighbours, was damaged by two youths with stones.Assistant sub-inspector Pritam Singh posted in the PCR wing of the Chandigarh Police in his complaint said that on Sunday evening, they had received a complaint from Ram Darbar about a fight between a landlord and a tenant.Responding to the call when they reached Ram Darbar, the police saw two youths pelting stones so they tried to stop them. But instead, the accused started throwing stones at the PCR vehicle and broke the windshield.The PCR team arrested Shubham, 26, and Ritik, 22, both residents of Phase 1, Ram Darbar, and lodged a complaint. A case under Sections 353 and 427 of the IPC was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ram-darbar-two-youths-held-for-pelting-stones-at-pcr-van-101633980308912.html
12-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Now lodge complaints of cheating, fraud against travel agents at DBEE||Tightening the noose around the travel agents duping innocent people on the pretext of sending them abroad, the state has made the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises (DBEE) the nodal agency to register complaints against such frauds.Divulging further details, Ranjit Kaur, employment generation officer, said that DBEE has been designated as a nodal agency to deal with the complaints and ensure speedy action against the erring travel agents.She said that as soon as a cheating case gets registered against any travel agent, the copy of the FIR would be uploaded on the Ludhiana district administration’s website: www.Ludhiana.nic.in.“The DBEE has been made the nodal agency by the state government under the Punjab Prevention of Human Smuggling Act 2012/Punjab Travel Professional Regulation Act 2014 to register complaints against fraud related to foreign travel, foreign studies, and employment,” she said.A victim can submit a written complaint with the DBEE Office, Partap Chowk, Ludhiana, on any working day from 9 am to 5 pm. The complainant will have to carry along his identity card.“If any travel agent, working without a license or with an expired license or without registration, comes to our notice, an FIR will be registered against the accused at the police commissionerate,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-now-lodge-complaints-of-cheating-fraud-against-travel-agents-at-dbee-101633980307769.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sacrilege cases: HC confirms interim bail to two dera followers||The Punjab and Haryana high court has confirmed interim protection from arrest to two accused in the 2015 sacrilege cases.The order was passed by the high court bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh while disposing of pleas of Dera Sacha Sauda followers Shakti Singh and Sukhjinder Singh. The FIR in question is number-63 registered on June 2, 2015, at the Baja Khana police station of Faridkot for alleged theft of a “bir” of Guru Granth Sahib from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on June 1, 2015. They had approached for interim bail in August 2020 and were granted protection from arrest. The last year order has been confirmed now after state’s counsel submitted that the petitioners have joined the investigation and presently their custodial interrogation is not required.“However, if the petitioners’ custodial interrogation is required at any stage hereinafter, in the context of the FIR in question, they would be given 10 days notice before arrest, duly shown to be served upon them. Naturally, if the complainant is aggrieved in any manner, of lack of proper investigation, he would be always at liberty to avail of his remedy as per law,” the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sacrilege-cases-hc-confirms-interim-bail-to-two-dera-followers-101633980129081.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man who stabbed landlady, fellow tenant held||A man who stabbed his landlady after she asked him to pay rent before vacating the house in Kishangarh village has been arrested, the police said on Monday.The accused was identified as Suraj, 20, a resident of Rajeev Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula. His accomplice, a woman and a friend, are still at large. As per the police, Suraj works as a sanitation worker on contract in Panchkula.In her complaint, Chanda of Kishangarh village said that Suraj had been staying on rent in her house for the last few months. She said that on Sunday, when Suraj was vacating the house without paying rent, she stopped him and asked for the money. Irked over this, Suraj and his friend Kaku who was also present in the house started arguing with her and then attacked her with a knife.Pankaj, who stays on rent in the adjacent room, intervened but was also stabbed by the accused, who fled as Pankaj raised the alarm. Injured Chanda was rushed to GMSH where she was admitted.A case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-who-stabbed-landlady-fellow-tenant-held-101633980127792.html
12-10-2021||Other||19 cases in 48 hours take Ludhiana district’s dengue count to 327||In the last two days, 19 new cases of dengue have been detected in the district. With this, the total count of dengue cases in the district has reached 327.Out of these, 258 have been reported from the city, while others are from Payal Khanna, Sudhar, Sahnewal, among other areas. Meanwhile, 1,687 suspected cases have been detected in the district.Apart from these, 223 confirmed dengue patients from other districts/states are also admitted to district hospitals. No dengue death has been reported in the district this season, as per the health department officials. Director takes stock of the situationOP Gojra, director, health and family welfare, visited the Ludhiana civil surgeon’s office to take stock of steps being taken to prevent the spread of dengue in the district on Monday. While appealing to the residents to take precautions, he stated that different departments including health, along with MC, need to work together as a team to prevent the spread of the disease. 90% cases do not require hospitalisation: Medical expertsThe Ludhiana administration has joined hands with renowned medical specialists to dispel the myths and create awareness regarding dengue. On Monday, Dr Bishav Mohan from Dayanand Medical College interviewed a panel of medical specialists including, professor Dr Rajesh Mahajan from DMCH, professor Dr Mary John from Christian Medical College & Hospital (CMCH), assistant civil surgeon Dr Vivek Kataria, district epidemiologists Dr Prabhleen Kaur and Dr Sahil Verma, during a live session on the official Facebook page of DPRO, Ludhiana.The doctors said that people don’t need to panic as 90% of the dengue cases do not require hospitalisation.They added that when a patient’s platelets drop below 50,000, coupled with high fever, bleeding, vomiting, dizziness, black stool, severe headache, pain behind the eyes, muscles, one should immediately get admitted to the hospital. They said that these are basic warning signs, and one must not ignore them.They said that unnecessary panic among people leads to overcrowding in the hospitals. The experts further said that the patients must not indulge in self-medication, and those who have a mild fever can take a Crocin tablet, and ample fluids, for a few days. They said that strips of wet cloth can also be put on the forehead of the patient.The specialists said that platelet transfusion should only be done when the count is below 10,000 or the patient has active bleeding or other complications.Dengue fever is caused by the bite of the female Aedes aegypti mosquito, which usually bites during the daytime. The mosquito breeds in desert coolers, water storage containers, tyres, overhead tanks, etc. The doctors appealed to people to keep all water storage containers covered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/19-cases-in-48-hours-take-ludhiana-district-s-dengue-count-to-327-101633979950593.html
12-10-2021||Pune||4,500 police personnel ensure peaceful bandh in Pune||PUNE As many as 4,500 police personnel, including three platoons of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), were on duty on Monday ensuring that the bandh called given by the state government saw no untoward incident.Peaceful demonstrations were held across the city as workers of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena and Congress turned out in numbers.Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner (law and order) said, “ We co-ordinated with parties, organisers and associations in advance, so that the event went off peacefully. There was no law and order issue. At a few places demonstrations were held, but it did not disrupt the regular activity of citizens. Everything went off peacefully.”District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “The bandh was peaceful and all the organisers co-operated with the administration. Essential shops were open for the convenience of the citizens.” According to the Pune traffic police, due to the bandh, there were fewer vehicles on the roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4500-police-personnel-ensure-peaceful-bandh-in-pune-101633979949237.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU: Solar power project still to see light of day||Despite the recommendation of the varsity panel last year to expedite the installation of rooftop solar panels on campus, the implementation of the solar power project is still pending at Panjab University (PU).The panel formed to look into austerity measures had suggested curtailing spending amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Although the panel was formed last year to chalk out the modalities, project implementation is still pending on campus.In May 2016, the Chandigarh administration had also issued a notification making the installation of rooftop solar power plants mandatory for residential and non-residential buildings in the city.Last year, a PU panel had resolved that the capital expenditure (CAPEX) model will be used in the buildings of the University Institute of Engineering (UIET) initially and then at the dental college on south campus.The panel had also recommended that for other solar power projects, the renewable energy service company (RESCO) model be used in the remaining buildings of PU campus through approved vendors by SECI. However, no further action was taken after this.As per the budget estimates of 2021-22, the expenditure on electricity and water charges at PU are pegged at ₹9.96 crore.A new committee was formed this year for the implementation of a solar power project at PU. As per the notice issued by the varsity, a meeting was again fixed in August this year but it was not held. The meeting notice stated that the implementation of the solar power project was “over delayed” and the recommendation made by the previous committee did not give any information on the tentative cost of the project on CAPEX model for UIET and dental institute.It also stated that there should not be any further delay in the implementation of the project. University officials, however, did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-solar-power-project-still-to-see-light-of-day-101633979947815.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rama Atray memorial women’s cricket: Punjab oust UTCA to enter finals||Riding high on bowlers’, Palwinder (4 for 19) and Sunita Rani (3 for 21), performances, Punjab recorded a facile nine-wicket win over UT Cricket Association (UTCA) in a match played during the ongoing Rama Atray Memorial cricket tournament for women at Tau Devi Lal Cricket Stadium, Panchkula, on Monday.Batting first, UTCA were bowled out for 136 in 49 overs. Medium-pacer Palwinder rocked the UTCA top-order with her accurate bowling. Skipper Amanjot Kaur and Divya Sharma put on 41 runs for the third wicket to prop UCTA. Palwinder (4 for 19) and spinner Sunita Rani (3 for 21) were the principal wicket-takers for Punjab.Replying, Punjab achieved the target losing one wicket.Ridhima Aggarwal retired hurt after scoring a fruitful 55 off 87 balls. Parveen Khan made 43 off 92 balls. Palwinder of Punjab for her brilliant bowling performance was named player of the match.In the second match played at GMSSS, Sector 26, Himachal Pradesh beat Jammu and Kashmir by 10 wickets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rama-atray-memorial-women-s-cricket-punjab-oust-utca-to-enter-finals-101633979767815.html
12-10-2021||Other||GADVASU organises capacity building programme on immunohistochemistry||College of Animal Biotechnology, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (GADVASU), organised a five-day training programme on ‘Immunohistochemistry-diagnostic tool in molecular biology.’Under this programme, the college has initiated training series in the fields of molecular diagnostics, bioinformatics, animal cell culture, etc., for the postgraduate students of GADVASU. This event was the first training under this initiative.Yashpal Singh Malik, dean of the college, stated that there is a need for capacity building and hands-on training for strengthening the practical knowledge of the postgraduate and PhD students of the varsity.RS Sethi, course director and professor-cum-head, department of animal biotechnology, said that 10 students from various departments including, veterinary microbiology, veterinary pathology, veterinary parasitology, and veterinary anatomy, registered for the training.The participants were given hands-on practice in immunohistochemistry. They also learnt theoretical aspects including, tissue fixation, antigen retrieval, selection of antibodies, quantification of data, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gadvasu-organises-capacity-building-programme-on-immunohistochemistry-101633979657044.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal to visit Jalandhar on October 12||Ahead of Punjab assembly elections Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal will be visiting Punjab’s Jalandhar on Tuesday.The AAP leader will pay obeisance at the Devi Talab Mandir in Jalandhar in the evening. Kejriwal will first visit the house of AAP leader Sewa Singh Sekhwan, who recently passed away, in Gurdaspur, to offer his condolences. Then he will take part in a “jagran” at Devi Talab Mandir. Kejriwal will also hold a meeting with industrialists at a Jalandhar hotel on Wednesday.The assembly elections in Punjab are scheduled to be held early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-to-visit-jalandhar-on-october-12-101633979647782.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to see another year of low-key Dussehra||With Covid situation gradually improving, many organising committees are holding Ramlila this year. However, citing strict restrictions in place, a few organisations are either refraining from or holding a low-key Dussehra celebration.The Sector-46 Ramlila association has been using the mandi ground in Sector-46 for the celebrations every year. However, this year instead of holding any function, they will just put up a symbolic effigy of Ravana. General secretary of the association Sushil Kumar said, “We can’t restrict the total number of people to 300 here as per the administration’s instructions. Further, we were made to sign an undertaking to take responsibility in case of any breaches. Therefore, we won’t take any chance.”Members of the Panjab university Ramlila committee also cited the same problem and said they would not burn the effigies on Dussehra this time. One of the organisers of the committee, Deepak Kaushik, said, “The administration should be more flexible with restrictions when it comes to such celebrations. When it comes to political protests in the city, Covid norms are flouted.”Various Ramlila associations said due to the delay in getting permission for making effigies, now they were facing problems in finding artists. Ashok Choudhary, senior vice-president, Sector-20 Ramlila, said, “We’ve to pay artists more for designing effigies this year because of the delayed permission.”Tejinder Chauhan, an effigy maker from Barara, who had made the city’s tallest (221 ft) Ravana in 2019, will not come to the city this time.“It takes three to four months to design an effigy and the permission came late this time. I am making a small effigy in my hometown and hope to come to Chandigarh the next year after things improve,” he said.One of the artists, Hader Ali of Kalka, said they had taken only ₹1,000 in advance, but still were making effigies for the sake of the festival.The OCF Sanskritik Manch in Sector 29-C has not hired professional artists this time. Instead, four children from the locality have been making the effigies for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-see-another-year-of-low-key-dussehra-101633979468031.html
12-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana DC reiterates commitment for smooth, hassle-free paddy procurement||Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma reviewed the ongoing procurement of paddy in the district on Monday.He stated that the state government will lift every single grain of paddy in a smooth and hassle-free manner during the ongoing procurement season. He further said that the district administration had made elaborate arrangements to ensure that the farmers’ harvest is lifted from the grain markets promptly and that they don’t face any problem while selling their produce.All sub-divisional magistrates and chiefs of all procurement agencies have been asked to personally supervise the paddy procurement operations.Sharma said that that to date, a total of 90,996 metric tonnes (MT) paddy has arrived in the markets this procurement season, out of which 82,726 MT has already been procured by various agencies including, Pungrain, Markfed, Punsup, Punjab State Warehouse Corporation, and FCI.Payments worth ₹117.85 crore have been made to the farmers, he added.The DC said that around 17.53 lakh MT paddy is expected to arrive in the grain markets and that 17.28 lakh MT was procured in the district in the last procurement season.He also appealed to the farmers to restrain from burning paddy straw, which causes a major environmental hazard.District food, civil supplies, and controller (DFSC) west Surinder Kumar Beri, DFSC East Harveen Kaur, and district mandi officer Davinder Singh, were present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-dc-reiterates-commitment-for-smooth-hassle-free-paddy-procurement-101633979287771.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||55 fresh cases of dengue surface in Mohali||With 55 fresh positive cases of dengue surfacing in Mohali on Monday, the count has gone to 824 in the last two months.Also, nine deaths in the past two months have been reported. Of these, seven have been reported in just 10 days of October.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “We have an alarming situation at our hands for which anti-dengue drives have already been started. But we need the full cooperation of the residents. The number of anti-larvae teams has been increased as our primary aim is to check the spread of vector-borne diseases.”Dr Kaur said that the inspection, spray and awareness campaign by the teams of the district health department for the prevention of dengue fever has been going on continuously since the month of March across the district.She said that after the recent rise in dengue fever cases, the district health department had intensified its anti-larvae checking to curb the spread of the disease with a total of 13 anti-dengue teams.Dr Kaur and district epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra on Monday visited Phases 10, 11 and Fatehullapur village, and inspected the survey and checking drive and gave necessary instructions to the teams. Health officials inspected coolers, fridge trays, pots, empty tires etc in the houses.The civil surgeon said that larvae were found in five houses in Phase 10 and one in Phase 11, while larvae were also found in five houses in Fatehullapur. A total of six challans were issued to the violators while the first-time offenders were given stern warning.Dr Kaur appealed to the people to not let water stagnate anywhere, including water-filled containers and abandoned tires in and around households.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/55-fresh-cases-of-dengue-surface-in-mohali-101633979168514.html
12-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana Basketball Academy teams win state junior championship||Both girls’ and boys’ basketball teams of the Ludhiana Basketball Academy (LBA) won the 72nd Punjab State Junior Basketball Championship held in Khanna on Sunday.LBA teams are different than the Ludhiana district basketball teams.LBA boys’ team defeated Patiala by 86-63 points. LBA girls’ team beat Kapurthala by 50-27 points.While in the boys’ category, the Patiala team was the runner-up, Kapurthala secured the second spot in the girls’ category.Jalandhar boys’ team and Ludhiana district girls’ team bagged the third spot in their respective categories.Gurminder Singh Lally, chairman, Improvement Trust, and Uma Datt Sharma, principal, Senior Secondary School, Khanna, along with Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary of Punjab Basketball Association, distributed prizes.While congratulating the winners and all the participants, Yurinder Singh Hayer, IPS and senior vice president of PBA, appreciated the hard work of district-level coaches of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-basketball-academy-teams-win-state-junior-championship-101633979109069.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC elections: Parties begin shortlisting candidates||While waiting for the State Election Commission to notify the reserve wards, the political parties have started the process of identifying prospective candidates for the upcoming municipal corporation (MC) elections.While the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) claim to have shortlisted around 200 candidates for the 35 seats, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has started conducting surveys for the purpose.The MC elections are due in December, and election code of conduct is expected to be declared in mid-November. In the last MC elections, there were 26 wards, which have been increased to 35 owing to the addition of 13 new villages under the MC jurisdiction.Criticising the “delay” in the notification of the reserve wards, Congress city chief Subhash Chawla said, “The shortlisting of the candidates has been done after initial survey of the wards. Around 200 candidates have been shortlisted. But we can proceed with the final selection of candidates only when we know which wards are reserved for women and for candidates of the scheduled castes category.”The initial assessment of the candidates has been done by AAP too. Chander Mukhi Sharma, in-charge of the campaign committee, said, “For every seat we have five to six candidates shortlisted. But the final survey for the seat will commence only after the reserve wards are notified.”The BJP, though, is yet to prepare the list of candidates, the party surveys of wards have started. “The party will carry out surveys for the candidates at a later stage. But a survey of wards has started,” said Arun Sood, BJP state president.The suitable candidateLocked in a three-cornered fight for the MC House, parties realise the winning margins are likely to be narrower this time around, and the choice of candidate becomes even more crucial.Winnability, ideology, loyalty to party and past performance are some of the factors which all the parties are focusing on for selecting their candidates.For the ruling BJP party, the process of ticket allotment must go through several phases and levels. “Factors like popularity in the area, commitment to the party, and candidate’s character will be considered before the selection of candidates. The multiple surveys, conducted by local units and the national level on different aspects at the ground level, play a crucial role in the selection of the candidates,” said Sood.BJP has 20 councillors in the current MC House.Most of the current Congress councillors are likely to be retained. “In addition to the existing councillors, candidates who lost the last elections with narrow margins and have worked dedicatedly for the party are also frontrunners for getting the party ticket,” said Chawla.The Congress has five councilors in the current House of 26.“For around 15 seats we are planning to bring in fresh faces. These candidates can even be from outside the party. Army veterans, reputed people from other fields will also be considered for Congress ticket,” added Chawla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-elections-parties-begin-shortlisting-candidates-101633979047934.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 19 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Monday reports 19 fresh Covid cases taking the infection count to 6,01,894. With no Covid-related fatality reported, the death toll stood at 16,531, according to a medical bulletin. The positivity rate was 0.10 % in the state, it said. The number of active cases dipped to 229 in the state. Among fresh cases, Mohali reported three and Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar two each, the bulletin said. With 23 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,134, it said. A total of 1,48,41,452 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state out of which 19,792 were tested on Monday. As many as 1,14,208 doses of the vaccines were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-19-fresh-covid-cases-101633978869786.html
12-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Ramlila makes a comeback at Daresi Dussehra ground||After last year’s hiatus due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Ramlila has made a comeback at the Daresi Dussehra ground, which is among the most popular venues for the performance in the district.Unlike the previous year, residents are getting to enjoy the live performance on the ground. Last year, Ramlila Committee, Daresi ground, did not get permission to organise the same due to the outspread of Covid. Instead of burning the effigies of Khardushan, Kumbhkaran, Meghnath, and Ravana in chronological order on separate days, the committee had only set Ravana’s effigy on fire.This year, the residents will also get to see all four effigies burn on the designated days.“Ramlila has been held here in the same fashion for around hundreds of years. While three effigies are burnt together on the same day at other venues, we burn four of them in sequential order on separate days,” said Subhash Gupta, a member of Ramlila Committee, Daresi ground.He added that last year was a disappointment for the locals and the committee members as only Ravana’s effigy was burnt then.“As the pandemic is less dominant now, we have ordered the craftsmen to make the Ravana effigy of around 95-100 feet tall. Last time, we could only make a 30-feet tall effigy. The effigies will be burnt with remote control,” said Sandeep Sabharwal, another member of the committee.Meanwhile, the effigy of Khardushan was burnt during the Ramlila on Monday evening.Permission to take out processionThe committee even got permission to take out the Ramlila procession in the city. It was denied last year due to the pandemic.The procession on Monday commenced from Thakurdwara Nauhria and traversed the markets around Haridev Mandir, Mochpura, Lakkar Bazar, Kesar Ganj Road, Pratap Bazar and concluded at Daresi Ramlila ground, where the actors enacted the ‘Sita Haran’ scene from the Ramayana.Sabharwal stated that the usual hustle-bustle is back on the ground.“A huge rush was witnessed on the ground, especially on the weekend. Many people are turning up at the office of Ramlila committee here to get free passes for Dussehra,” he said.Another committee member, Sukhram Mahajan, said that proper Covid norms will be followed on the ground, and people won’t be allowed to visit without wearing masks.Gupta informed that a team of Muslim artists from Uttar Pradesh is preparing the effigies for the Hindu festival.“Epitomizing communal harmony and brotherhood, Muslim artists are preparing the Ramlila effigies with the utmost respect for our religion,” he added.“People, along with their families, can also enjoy other attractions, including swings, shopping stalls, and food stalls here,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-ramlila-makes-a-comeback-at-daresi-dussehra-ground-101633978809080.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran village ex-sarpanch, aide get 10-yr jail in drugs case||A local court has sentenced a former sarpanch and his associate to 10-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) in a drugs case. The court has also imposed a fine of ₹1 lakh each on the convicts. Sukhwinder Singh, alias Bittu, a former sarpanch of Lakhna village in Khemkaran constituency of Tarn Taran district, and his associate Twinklejit Singh of Amritsar were arrested with 1kg heroin and a pistol following a tip-off near the Amritsar railway station by state special operation cell (SSOC) wing of the Punjab Police in January 2017. Sukhwinder joined the Congress ahead of the 2017 assembly polls in the state. SSOC’s inspector Inderdeep Singh, who was investigation officer of the case, said: “The court of additional sessions judge Harjit Singh has convicted the duo under Section 25 of the NDPS Act. The court on Monday sentenced the duo to 10-year rigorous incarceration.”The case dates back to January 3, 2017 when a team of the SSOC led by inspector Inderdeep Singh apprehended the duo in a car. The police, in a first information report, had claimed that the accused were in contact with a Lahore-based heroin smuggler. It was also claimed that the accused had smuggled many consignments of heroin from Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-village-ex-sarpanch-aide-get-10-yr-jail-in-drugs-case-101633978748789.html
12-10-2021||Pune||MVA unites on streets of Pune to send farmers (and BJP) a message||PUNE Almost 18 months after coming to power, the three constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government –Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress - for the first time, put up a united front during Monday’s bandh in the city.The bandh was called to condemn the killing of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri and violence against farmers. On several previous occasions, coordination to get oin the same page in Pune has been a challenge for the three partners. This time, worked together to make the bandh successful, bridged gaps among party workers. A unity among the three parties was seen at state, city and ward levels. The leaders of the Maha Vikas Aghadi joined hands to make the bandh successful and conducted meetings jointly in the city to prepare for the protest by speaking to various unions. As a result, many establishments in Pune, including the wholesale vegetable market, shops in central parts of Pune and some auotrickshaws chose not to operate in the first half of the day. To show complete solidarity with Monday’s protest, leaders of the Sena, NCP and Congress also held a joint press conferences at the state and local level. Besides the three, various other political and social outfits too extended their support for the bandh. This included the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), CPM, Farmers bachav committee, Janata Dal, Hamal Panchyat, Rickshaw Panchyat, and the Chattrapati Shivaji Market Yard committee. On Monday afternoon, as the bandh began to peter out, Sena, Congress and NCP held a joint public meeting in front of the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar statue near the Collector’s office. Minister of state for agriculture Vishwajeet Kadam, Congress president Ramesh Bagwe and party leader Mohan Joshi, NCP president Prashant Jagtap and Shiv Sena president Sanjay More were present at the rally. The Rickshaw Panchayat’s Nitin Pawar, along with Mohan Joshi anchored the meeting. During the meeting, leaders attacked the BJP government at centre and its policies saying they are anti-farmer.Earlier, during the day, the party members roamed the city appealing to citizens to participate in the bandh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mva-unites-on-streets-of-pune-to-send-farmers-and-bjp-a-message-101633978689917.html
12-10-2021||Other||Two cops suspended for thrashing e-rickshaw driver to death in UP’s Bulandshahr||Two cops, including an S-I and a constable, were suspended for allegedly beating up a 40-year-old e-rickshaw driver at Chodhera village in Bulandshahr. The rickshaw driver died during treatment in a hospital on Monday morning. “Sub-inspector (S-I) Rameshwar Dayal Sharma and constable Ravinder Kumar of Chhatari police station have been suspended after the villagers accused both of beating e-rickshaw driver, Gaurishankar,40, a resident of Chodhera village,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP), Bulandshahr, SK Singh. Circle officer of Dibai area, Vandna, however, defended the cops and claimed that both only scolded him while he was trying to enter into a no vehicle zone in Chhatari area where a fair was in progress on the occasion of Navratri. “Cops didn’t beat him and what I came to know that he was a heart patient and might have come into shock after being scolded by cops on duty,” said the circle officer, adding that only postmortem report would reveal the actual cause of the death. However, villagers claimed that Gaurishankar was beaten by the policemen for entering into the no vehicle zone. His condition deteriorated and his family members admitted him to a hospital from where he was referred to another hospital in Aligarh on Sunday night. He died during the treatment on Monday morning. Angry over the death, villagers and family members blocked the road outside the village on Monday morning. Police and administrative officials along with public representatives reached the spot and persuaded the angry mob to open the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-cops-suspended-for-thrashing-e-rickshaw-driver-to-death-in-up-s-bulandshahr-101633978630052.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC gets one more judge, justice Rajan Gupta transferred||The Centre on Monday notified transfer of justice Rajan Gupta, the senior-most judge after the chief justice at Punjab and Haryana high court, to the Patna high court. Justice Sureshwar Thakur has been transferred to the Punjab and Haryana high court from the Himachal high court. Last week, the government had notified the transfer of justice Jaswant Singh, who was shifted to the Orissa high court. Two judges, justice Anoop Chitkara of the Himachal Pradesh high court and justice MSRSR Rao of the Telangana high court, were transferred to the Punjab and Haryana high court. With these transfers, the number of judges in the Punjab and Haryana high court has reached 46.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-hc-gets-one-more-judge-justice-rajan-gupta-transferred-101633978507745.html
12-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt to recall marriage registration Bill and re-examine||Rajasthan government has decided to recall the recently passed ‘Rajasthan Compulsory Marriage Registration (Amendment) Bill 2021’ and get it re-examined after objections were raised by the opposition Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP), non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and social activists.Governor Kalraj Mishra already put the bill on hold last week for further legal examination which had provision of mandatory registration of all marriages.“The Bill has been brought in the spirit of an order of the Supreme Court regarding compulsory registration of marriages. But misconception has been created regarding child marriage, then we will request the Governor to return the bill to the government,” said chief minister Ashok Gehlot.Addressing a state-level function on the occasion of International Girl Child Day, Gehlot said the controversy is going over the marriage registration bill passed in the state assembly. The Supreme Court stated that every marriage should be registered. In view of this, a law was passed in the assembly.“But controversy erupted that this law would encourage child marriage. We have decided that this is not a matter of prestige for us. We will get it examined again by the law department and urge the governor to resend the law passed,” he said.Recently, the Rajasthan assembly passed a Bill to amend the Rajasthan Compulsory Registration of Marriages Act, 2009, providing a mechanism for the registration of all marriages in the state, irrespective of the age of the bride and groom. The contentious amendment, which is yet to be notified, states that “if the bride is under 18 and the groom is under 21”, the parents or guardians must submit a memorandum for registration of marriage within 30 days from the date of marriage.Social activists and civil society members argued the new provision was retrograde because it effectively legalised child marriage.Commenting on the government’s decision, Kriti Bhati of Saarthi, an NGO working against child marriages in Rajasthan, said, “The CM had decided to recall the bill and I hope that the government will cancel it. This is a half victory for all those who have considered this Bill as a violation of the rights of children and women.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-to-recall-marriage-registration-bill-and-reexamine-101633978328814.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||Some people are following me: NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede||Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), along with his seniors in the bureau, on Monday met Maharashtra director-general of police Sanjay Pandey and complained that some people were following him since the past few days.The NCB officials are now checking relevant CCTV footage and will provide it as evidence to the police. Wankhede recently busted the high-profile cruise drug party and arrested Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan and his friend Arbaaz Merchant in the drug case. The raids against the drug suppliers and peddlers in the city are continued by NCB after the untimely death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput death and Wankhede has been at the forefront of these actions. NCB team has, under his leadership, arrested more than 100 people, including several high- profile individuals like actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother, and many drug peddlers.Wankhede had also arrested senior NCP leader Nawab Malik’s son-in-law in a drug case from Bandra in January this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/some-people-are-following-me-ncb-zonal-director-sameer-wankhede-101633978209053.html
12-10-2021||Other||2-dose criteria might reduce number of students returning to colleges on Oct 12||PUNE From Tuesday onwards, college and university campuses across the state will go ‘live’, with in-person lectures. As college administrations have geared up for the reopening, it is expected that fewer students might show up due to the “fully vaccinated” criteria. Students without both doses of the Covid vaccine will not be allowed on campus. The state higher education department has not issued clear guidelines about the reopening so there is some confusion in the city. “We have not yet received any guidelines or instructions from the state higher education department about the opening up of college campuses and we are still waiting. Once we get it, then immediately we will issue our circular to all the affiliated colleges in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. The colleges will open in phase-wise manner and cannot be started full-fledged, as there are certain limitations, safety-related issues and the criteria of two vaccination doses,” said Prof N S Umrani, SPPU pro-vice-chancellor. When asked about the reopening of hostels, he said, “Hostel admissions will happen once we receive clear guidelines about opening up of the hostels.” There are 1,200 colleges affiliated to SPPU in three districts and the admission process of the majority of the courses is completed. Currently, online classes are on. “I have taken the first dose of the vaccine last month and my second dose is scheduled next month now, but I want to desperately join college. This criterion needs to be changed and even one vaccine dose should be allowed,” said Mihir Kenjale a second-year commerce student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2dose-criteria-might-reduce-number-of-students-returning-to-colleges-on-oct-12-101633978207761.html
12-10-2021||Other||PCB begins fire audit of 400 shops in Camp||PUNE The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has begun electrical and fire department inspections ahead of issuing fire-audit certificates to 400 shops. These shops do not have a fire audit done. The certificate is mandatory for obtaining a trade licence in the PCB area. PCB fire officer Rohit Panpise said that the fire department officials have been visiting shops to ascertain safety norms. “Most fire incidents take place due to open wiring connections which cause short circuits. During the inspection, we focus on fire safety and suggest measures, if required. Fire audit is a very important document for obtaining a trading licence,” he said. Majority of shops in the Cantonment area are in decade-old buildings wherein electric supply circuits and lines have worn out. “We have asked the owners to change the old cables to prevent fire incidents due to short circuits “ Ranpise added. PCB officials are also focusing on details like whether the establishments have enough space for an emergency exit in case of any eventualities. Currently, 15 government authorised private fire safety agencies are carrying outthe fire safety audits. The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) in April decided to ask all hotels, trade and business establishments, coaching institutes and industrial units under its jurisdiction to get their fire audit and NOCs.The PCB general body had passed a resolution in the wake of the recent fire incidents at Fashion Street and Shivaji market in Camp. CEO Amit Kumar said, “ We are doing the fire audit as we don’t want a repeat of what happened at Fashion Street and Shivaji market. The standard operating procedure is being developed to ensure that fire incidents don’t take place in the business establishments and we are ready to face any kind of eventuality once we know the pros and cons after the fire audit of all the shops.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcb-begins-fire-audit-of-400-shops-in-camp-101633978207100.html
12-10-2021||Other||Redeveloped slum areas must form housing societies, corporators urge||PUNE The Pune municipal corporation’s (PMC) standing committee is not faced with a proposal from at least two corporators, asking that housing societed be formed in slum areas that have been re-developed.Siddharth Dhende of the RPI and Bapu Karne of the BJP, placed to proposal before the SC and issued a joint statement on Monday that read: “As per the JNNURM (Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission) norm it is decided that after getting slums developed, the concerned authorities should form housing societies, and ownership of the land should be handed over to the housing society.” Various slums in Pune have been developed under the Indira Gandh Awas Yojana, Walmiki Ambedkar Yojana, and Basic Services for Urban Poor schemes. At least 4,000 homes have been constructed under the JNNURM scheme on PMC-owned lands. Dhende appealed the municipal commissioner to appoint an officer to monitor it the formation of housing societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/redeveloped-slum-areas-must-form-housing-societies-corporators-urge-101633978147272.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||UP violence: Maharashtra bandh gets mixed response from Mumbaiites||Monday’s Maharashtra bandh, called by the three ruling parties in the state, received a mixed response from Mumbaiites, with many criticising the coalition for inconveniencing the common citizens, while some lauding the allies for taking a stand against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident in which farmers were mowed down when they were returning from protests. Monday morning did not seem like the start of a usual busy work-week for office goers, as BEST (Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport) buses did not ply in the city, resulting in overcrowded trains that accommodated the commuters. Animesh Vora, a Dahisar resident who travels to work to Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) daily, said, “BEST buses were not available on Monday morning due to which I could sense that local trains had unusual crowding. Also, after getting down at Bandra station, there were no buses to reach BKC.”Vora added, “There were private buses plying, which were jam-packed. I had to walk 500 metres to Kalanagar, from where I got an autorickshaw. A bandh called by a ruling party is equal to the government calling it. How will the administration act if ruling parties call for a bandh? Also, for common citizens, it just increases hardships for commute.”Sharing a photograph of an overcrowded train compartment on Twitter, one Mumbaiite wrote, “Never seen the trains this crowded...”Another Twitter user, Deepak Kumar Batra, stated, “Request to all political parties not to call bandhs, instead protest at specific sites. Bandh causes problems to common citizens, economy, and above all emergency services get hit.” Some social media users also came out in support of the state-wide bandh. Nirmal Kumar tweeted, “So happy that Maharashtra is showing solidarity with farmers over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.”While most shops across the city had downed their shutters on Monday, some chose to continue doing business. Jagdish Jain, a shopkeeper from Bandra’s Pali Naka, said, “We have kept our shop open as no one has forced to shut shops. We have full sympathy towards the issue of farmers but ultimately it all boils down to politics and the real issue takes the back seat.”Jain added, “Nonetheless, if there is a bandh called, it should be applicable for e-commerce websites too. Many have kept their shops shut but e-commerce websites are selling their goods. There should be same appeal for all.”Shops in Byculla were also open. A shopkeeper who did not wish to be identified, said, “We will not let our business get affected and have collectively decided to keep our shops open. Business was slow, but we did receive a few buyers throughout the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/up-violence-maharashtra-bandh-gets-mixed-response-from-mumbaiites-101633977967759.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Ensure uninterrupted power between 6pm and 7am, UP CM tells officials||LUCKNOW Amid the prevailing electricity crisis caused by coal shortage in thermal plants, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed energy department officials to ensure uninterrupted power supply in villages and cities between 6pm and 7am. “This is the festive period and it is necessary to provide uninterrupted power to people during night,” he said while holding a video conference with top energy department officials, divisional commissioners, DMs and ADGs here at his residence. The CM also directed the UPPCL chairman to intensively review the availability of coal in the thermal plants and act accordingly. Reviewing other related issues, Adityanath said though most consumers wanted to pay their electricity bills on time, incorrect bills often issued by the department caused harassment to them apart from adversely affecting revenue collection. “Act tough against private bill collection agencies and even lodge FIRs against them and forfeit their security deposit, if they are found to issue incorrect bills to consumers,” the CM told officials. Yogi Adityanath also directed UPPCL officials to bring a one-time settlement scheme (OTS) for consumers to pay their arrears in easy installments without having to pay interest on the principal amount. He said damaged transformers must be replaced within 48 hours in villages and 24 hours in cities. He also directed officials to act quickly on the issue of providing subsidy to farmers and tube connections, for which farmers had applied, must be released in a time-bound manner without any delay. Expressing concern over high line losses, the CM asked discom MDs to take appropriate steps to control losses to make distribution companies financially viable. He told them to fix feeder-wise accountability of the staff in this regard. He also asked the UPPC chairman to ensure daily review of line losses and power supply at his level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-uninterrupted-power-between-6pm-and-7am-up-cm-tells-officials-101633977907967.html
12-10-2021||Other||BJP MLA shown black flags in Meerut village||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Satyavir Tyagi, who represents the Kithore assembly constituency in Meerut district, was shown black flags by a group of farmers in Paswara village on Sunday. Tyagi had gone to inaugurate an athletic competition in the village. A group of farmers gathered on the way to his cavalcade and showed him black flags. They also shouted slogans like ‘kisan ekta zindabad’ and ‘arrest the killers of farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri’. Manoj Malik, former village head of Paswara village, confirmed that a group of farmers shouted slogans and showed black flags to the MLA when he came to inaugurate a competition in the village. However, the MLA didn’t respond to telephone calls despite several attempts to know his reaction. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Naresh Tikait had warned BJP MLAs and MPs to avoid participating or convening programmes in villages because of ongoing farmers’ protests. During an emergency panchayat convened at BKU’s headquarter in Sisauli after the incident of Lakhimpur, Tikait had said, “We will not be responsible if any incident occurs with them (BJP MLAs) in villages. It is better they keep themselves away from villages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-mla-shown-black-flags-in-meerut-village-101633977547646.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||UP govt worked in a planned way to improve healthcare system: CM||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday said with the enhancement of medical resources and expansion of health infrastructure, Uttar Pradesh was fast working to realize Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision and every district in the state would soon have a medical college to provide accessible healthcare facilities to people.He was speaking in a programme to distribute Ayushman cards to Antyoday card holders under the Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan. “The state government has worked in a planned and phased manner to improve the existing healthcare system, expand health infrastructure in the state and provide proper healthcare facilities to every needy in the state,” he said.The CM said between 1947 and 2016, there were only 15 medical colleges in the state. Soon, UP would have 49 medical colleges, of which 16 had been built on the PPP model. “On completion of five years of the government, every district will have a medical college,” he added. With teamwork and sustained efforts, the state has emerged successful in fighting against diseases like Japanese Encephalitis and Covid-19. The government controlled the diseases with the launch of cleanliness, sanitization drives, supply of pure drinking water and hygiene.During the event, the CM handed over Ayushman health cards to 15 beneficiaries under the Mukhyamantri Jan Arogya Abhiyan in a symbolic manner and simultaneously, 1,00,000 beneficiaries received Ayushman cards across the state, through public representatives. Ayushman cards will be distributed to over 40.79 lakh Antyoday ration card holder families in various districts of the state. Under this, over 1.30 crore people will be provided a health cover of ₹5 lakh per family each year.Medical education minister Suresh Kumar Khanna, medical health and family welfare minister Jai Pratap Singh, member of NITI Aayog Dr Vinod Paul and minister of state for medical and health and family welfare Atul Garg were present in the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-worked-in-a-planned-way-to-improve-healthcare-system-cm-101633977428558.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Two wanted for several cases of robbery, snatching held after encounter in Delhi||Two suspected criminals, allegedly wanted in several cases of robbery and snatching, were arrested from near Dwarka’s Sector 14 Metro station following an encounter with the police in which one of them suffered a gunshot wound to the leg on Sunday night.At least five bullets were exchanged between the police and the two men. The suspects fired one bullet in the air and two at the policemen, who survived the attack. One of the two bullets fired by the police hit 30-year-old suspect, Rahul Kumar, in the leg. The other suspect was identified as Sarvana Kumar alias Anna,25.A case of attempt to murder, obstructing public servant in discharge of duty and assault was registered against the two under the Indian Penal Code’s sections 307, 186 and 353 at the Dwarka North police station.Since no senior officer, who is authorised to speak to the media, was available for sharing information about the encounter, it was not immediately known how many robbery and snatching cases the arrested men were allegedly involved in or wanted for.As per the contents of the FIR registered in connection with the encounter, at least a dozen police personnel from the anti-auto theft squad (AATS) of Dwarka district were present near Kakrola drain police picket on Sunday night. Around 9pm, a police informer told them about two criminals who were expected to reach near Dwarka’s Sector 14 Metro station on a bike to commit a robbery.The police reached the place and waited for the suspects, who arrived around 10.30pm on an Apache bike. When they were signalled to surrender, they tried to speed away. However, two policemen caught hold of the bike and the men fell off the two-wheeler. The suspects then took out their firearms and started shooting at the policemen. It was Rahul Kumar, who first fired a shot in the air after threatening the policemen.When the police personnel did not move back, Anna asked Rahul to shoot and kill the policemen else they would be arrested. Rahul aimed at the two policemen and fired two shots but the bullets missed their targets. One of the policemen retaliated and fired two shots at Rahul’s legs. One bullet hit Rahul’s right leg after which he fell to the ground and was overpowered by the policemen. Anna was also caught by the other police personnel, the police said.The injured suspect was admitted to a nearby hospital for medical attention. Two firearms were seized from the encounter spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-wanted-for-several-cases-of-robbery-snatching-held-after-encounter-indelhi-101633977427496.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s new curriculum helps seed business ideas in students||When Class 12 student Tulika Gupta learnt that several of her women relatives, including her mother, used cloth instead of sanitary napkins, she decided to build a career around the issue of menstrual hygiene. Gupta and seven of her classmates said it was a “dream come true” when they got an opportunity to develop a business model to provide low-cost sanitary napkins to women from marginalised communities.“We plan to source these napkins from a non-government organisation at lower rates and offer them to women from marginalised communities at minimal profit. The idea is to create awareness among women and young girls so that they switch to sanitary napkins and also learn how to use them,” said Gupta, who studies at Janki Devi Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Mayur Vihar Phase 1.Gupta’s business idea came after the Delhi government announced the Business Blasters programme last month under the entrepreneurship mindset curriculum (EMC). Under this, students of classes 11 and 12 are to receive seed money of ₹2,000 per student to develop a business idea for profit or to create social impact in their communities.Gupta, who is part of the team called “silence breakers”, also plans to hold street plays and rallies, and make posters to raise awareness on menstrual hygiene in low-income neighbourhoods such as Chilla Khadar in east Delhi.Her batchmate Palak plans to use her seed money to develop a no-profit educational camp to apprise students and their parents about the government welfare schemes.“Not everyone knows how to avail of these schemes. I like working with children and so I decided to set up educational camps for children and their parents which could work as a one-stop centre that imparts relevant information through games and competitions,” she said.Hundreds of students in classes 11 and 12 of Delhi government schools are currently engaged in developing such projects with the help of their EMC teachers and business coaches. These coaches can be students pursuing their business degrees, or even entrepreneurs/alumni who volunteer to help children with their ideas.Students are slated to receive the seed money by next week and will begin their market research in the coming days. All projects have to be completed by November 15.Students can also pool their money by collaborating on a project. Following a presentation on the project, the peer-review model allows their classmates to give their comments on the feasibility of the project.On Monday, several such student groups presented their ideas to classmates including Shivya Antwadia, another Class 12 student at the school, who is working on a business model to market “air purifying plants” ahead of the winter pollution in Delhi.“The product has been designed keeping in mind the environmental concerns of our times. We will recycle broken mugs and plastic bottles for plants and mount them on a circular discs with a rotating motor beneath them. We have also been working on a drip irrigation system so that our consumers would just have to flick a switch and not worry about taking care of plants. There is a huge market for such plants,” she said.When asked by fellow students why someone would buy plants from them instead of the market, Antwadia said, “The USP of our product would be the decorative features we will add. We also plan to use decorative lights so that people can put these pots in their living rooms.” The five-member group will invest 50% of their seed money initially and later expand the project based on responses from customers.Another group – Cookie Monsters – will be working on developing healthier alternatives to biscuits with their motto “health with taste.” Team leader Jayati Chaudhary said they would focus on preparing their biscuits with macronutrients after a thorough market study, conducted via various bakeries in their neighbourhood.“Along with fruit cookies, we will develop moulds of superhero and cartoon characters to cater to the younger consumers. Our mothers have also offered help us with our projects. However, my father was initially sceptical about involving ourselves in this project when our board examinations are only a month away,” said Chaudhary, who is set to appear for her pre-board exams later this month.Several students said their parents were concerned that the Delhi government announced the Business Blasters programme barely two months before their board examinations. This year, CBSE introduced a two-term board examination with a revised paper pattern for class 10 and 12 students slated to begin in November.Ajay Veer Yadav, general secretary of government school teachers’ association (GSTA), also criticised the decision to implement the project at the last minute.“Covid-19 has already affected classes. In addition to that, there are several initiatives including this Business Blasters programme which extend beyond the school. Teachers should be allowed to hold remedial classes and prepare students for the new pattern of board examination involving objective type questions instead of engaging in these initiatives,” he said.However, Ashok Tiwari, a mentor teacher engaged in EMC classes, said these classes allow students to de-stress. “There was no other slot in the academic cycle to implement this. But children are excited about the project as they don’t have to study all the time. This initiative would allow them to take a break from studies and all engagements with the project will come to an end by November 15.”EMC coordinator Nivedita Kohli, who teaches Science at the Mayur Vihar school to class 9 and 10 students, also said the EMC classes have been helping students connect with their peers. “Socio-emotional learning had been hit by the prolonged closure of schools. With these activities, students are getting excited and more focused, which help in their academics as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-new-curriculum-helps-seed-business-ideas-in-students-101633977307809.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: No takers for turning the Chandni Chowk town hall into a heritage hotel||North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s plan to lease out the Town Hall in Chandni Chowk for running a ‘heritage hotel’ has found no takers, a senior municipal official overseeing the process said.The official said the civic body invited expression of interests from hotel operators to lease out the 150-year-old building for a period of 33 years with a minimum reserved price of ₹1.92 crore per month. Tenders were issued in mid-June, almost three years after the proposal was cleared by the civic body, and the technical bids were initially expected to be opened in August.“We have not received response from interested parties for taking the lease of the hotel and it now seems unlikely that we can move ahead with the project before the municipal elections,” the north corporation official said.The imposing building that is located in the centre of Chandni Chowk, the Town Hall served as the headquarters of the erstwhile unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi. The construction of the Town hall started in 1860 and was completed in 1863. The building was initially known as ‘Lawrence Institute, and it housed Delhi College of Higher Studies, before it was bought by the then municipality for Rs1,35,457 in 1866.Besides government offices, the building also had a library and a European club. After the municipality shifted its headquarters to the high-rise Civic Centre on Jawaharlal Nehru Marg between 2011-12, the Town Hall has been lying vacant.The total area under the possession of North corporation is 13,735 sqm all of which has been on offer under this re-development project. “the complex can be divided under three sections--main building, courtyard and the press building. Since the Victorian era building uses the construction material like stones, lime plaster, burnt bricks and timber, it requires refurbishing,” official explained.The project document states that the objective of current redevelopment project will be to provide “a complete and wholesome family experience at Town Hall” and to develop it into an attractive tourist destination.“The complex may be used for hotel, museums, library, children’s activity rooms, auditoriums for cultural activities with historical significance, demonstration room, light and sound programme, fine dining areas, street food of India etc. It is proposed to launch it as a unique and complete family experience for citizens of Delhi and tourists so that they can become familiar with history and culture of Delhi at one place with multifarious activities. The hotel will be the most exciting experience for those who want to be part of the history and culture of Delhi as a living experience,” the document states.Jogi Ram Jain, the standing committee chairman of north civic body said the corporation was planning to generate revenue through this project, but due to Covid pandemic the financial conditions of the prospective bidders is also very bad. “No bids were received because the condition of market is very bad. Running a museum may not be financially viable. We will explore this project afresh,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhino-takers-for-turning-the-chandni-chowk-town-hall-into-a-heritage-hotel-101633977247857.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi court summons Vijender Gupta in defamation case by Kailash Gahlot||A Delhi court on Monday summoned BJP leader Vijender Gupta as accused in a criminal defamation case filed by city transport minister Kailash Gahlot for alleged remarks over the procurement of 1,000 low-floor buses by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC).Additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM) Ravindra Kumar Pandey said on the basis of the submissions and evidences, prima facie the offence has been committed by Gupta. In his complaint, Gahlot has alleged that Gupta “intentionally and for malafide purposes” defamed him and tarnished his reputation to gain political mileage by alleging irregularities in the procurement of buses for DTC.He said Gupta levelled “defamatory, scandalous, mischievous, false and scurrilous allegations” verbally as well as in writing. The complaint further alleged that Gupta posted defamatory statements and other materials against Gahlot on Twitter, Facebook and other social media sites.The court, while issuing summons to Gupta, gave him time till November 16 to respond to the suit.“The order of summoning me has been passed after the pre-summoning stage which is a very routine procedure. My side is yet to be heard,” Gupta said.Gahlot filed separate civil and criminal defamation suits against Gupta in August, seeking ₹5 crore in damages and sought removal of media posts by the BJP legislator regarding alleged irregularities in procurement of public buses. The Union government has recommended a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the purchase of 1,000 buses by the Delhi government, and a maintenance contract for them. On August 20, Gupta tweeted about the CBI inquiry. “CBI investigation started in DTC bus purchase scam. Dismiss transport minister Kailash Gahlot and arrest him. The Kejriwal government has tried its best to suppress the corruption of ₹5000 crore. Why did the Aam Aadmi Party leaders remain silent in the bus purchase scam?”, he tweeted. He posted the same on his Facebook account.On August 28, the Delhi high court declined to grant ex parte interim relief to Gahlot in his civil defamation plea. HT reported on July 11 that the LG-appointed panel gave a clean chit to the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) in the tendering and procurement of the buses, although it found some “procedural lapses” arising out of “a bona fide decision making”. On July 12, Gupta wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal demanding a CBI probe into the alleged irregularities in procurement of buses. A three-member committee that probed the matter recommended scrapping the tender of the AMC (annual maintenance contract) of buses after finding various “lapses”, Gupta said. There has been “irrefutable evidence of irregularities and violations in the AMC bid”, he stated, while also alleging “criminal conspiracy and connivance” in the whole process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-summons-vijender-gupta-in-defamation-case-by-kailash-gahlot-101633977068618.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt says rejection of doorstep ration delivery scheme discriminatory||New Delhi: The Delhi government has asked the Centre to withdraw a letter dated October 8 in which the latter refused to approve the doorstep delivery of ration scheme in the national capital, and added that similar schemes have already been implemented by other state governments. Delhi food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain on Monday wrote to the Union minister of consumer affairs, food and public distribution, Piyush Goyal. He said that Delhi government was being meted out “discriminatory treatment”.“I wonder why Delhi is being singled out for discriminatory treatment and objections are being raised to prevent the implementation of a scheme which is undeniably and irrefutably in public interest and will subserve the needs of the most downtrodden and marginalised sections of the society. Several other states such as Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana have already rolled out home delivery of ration. It has repeatedly been pointed out in our letters in the past and it is once again reiterated that the scheme is completely in accord with the relevant provisions of the NFSA (National Food Security Act),” Hussain said.In a letter to the Delhi government’s food and supply department on October 8, the Centre said, “The alleged proposal under consideration with the Delhi government for home delivery does not fulfil the norms of NFSA and therefore, is not permissible in its current form by the government of India.”Last week, the Delhi government sent the file on doorstep delivery of ration to the LG for approval once again. This came after the Delhi high court on September 27 allowed the government to curtail supplies to the Fixed Price Shops commensurate to number of customers who have opted for doorstep delivery of ration. Hussain said that it was unfortunate that the petitioner, Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh (DSRDS), was trying to overreach the court’s order, and doing so amounts to “committing contempt of court”. “We, therefore, request you to withdraw the letter under reply, lest an impression be created that the central government is party to the attempt of the petitioner to obstruct and overreach orders passed by the High Court,” Hussain said.The doorstep delivery of the ration scheme has been stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre. The scheme was to be launched on March 25. But the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 objecting to the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for the scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). The Centre also said that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-says-rejection-of-doorstep-ration-delivery-scheme-discriminatory-101633977007548.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC bans cross-gender massages, no new centres in residential areas||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has banned cross-gender massage while also restricting the operation timings of spa/massage centres between 9 am and 9pm, as the civic body implemented new licence guidelines for such establishments.The official order for the policy, which has been in making from last two years, was issued by the municipal health officer of SDMC on Thursday October 7. The policy, which has been approved by the lieutenant governor, states that no new spa centres will be allowed in residential areas.Inderjeet Sehrawat, the leader of the house in the south corporation, said the new policy has been reviewed and approved by LG Anil Baijal. “The new provisions will be applicable on all the establishments. The basic intent behind the policy is to weed out the illegal activities taking place in the garb of massage parlours,” he added.Explaining the new policy, a senior public health department official said several new conditions have been added to the existing rules pertaining to hygiene and sanitation. “All these units will have to operate separate sections for men and women that should be clearly demarcated. The police verification of the owner/spa manager will also be mandatory. Similarly, the centre will have to maintain the record of IDs and phone numbers of all its customers in a register,” the official said.Before the onset of Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020, there were more than 300 spa/massage centres across SDMC areas such as Mohan Garden, Rajouri Garden, Dwarka Mor, Uttam Nagar, Dwarka. The office order states that new permissions will be granted only in commercial and mixed land use areas.“All establishments, which have more than 10 employees, will be required to constitute a sexual harassment complaints committee. There should be CCTV cameras in common areas, and there shall be no latchet or bolt inside the chambers,” the policy states.On August 2, the Delhi government also laid out strict guidelines to regulate the operations of spas and massage centres in the city, including mandatorily obtaining a police clearance for all employees and limiting operational hours from 9am to 9pm, to ensure security of clients and the employees, and also to prevent sexual abuse, trafficking, and cross-gender massage.Earlier, the east corporation had issued similar guidelines for spa/massage centres on September 22, 2021 and the north body is also expected to follow its counterparts soon.Spa owners, however, said the new regulations were “regressive”.Pooja Chaterjee, the president of Delhi Wellness Spa Association said that they oppose the regressive changes incorporated in the new policy. “We have already challenged the policy in the Delhi high court, and we have faith that court will grant us relief. These changes will completely destroy the trade. The policymakers are acting like children by banning cross-gender massage. Don’t we allow male and female doctors to work in hospitals?,” she asked.Chaterjee said that many provisions in the policy are completely impractical and unimplementable. “So many people will lose employment because many provision cannot be fulfilled. Who will modify the structures to make separate entries and sections?”Vikram Soni, the secretary of the DWSA who runs a spa centre in Patel Nagar, said the civic body should not have issued guidelines when the matter is already pending in court.“You can forcefully implement a policy. It violates the rights of thousands of employees in this trade. They are taking away the employment from the workers. We should have a pan-India uniform policy,” Soni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisdmc-bans-cross-gender-massages-no-new-centres-in-residential-areas-101633976828085.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s power crisis not over, plants left with coal only for 2-3 days: Minister||Despite assurances from the central government that fears of a power crisis in India are overblown as the country has sufficient coal reserves to produce electricity, Delhi power minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said the power situation in the national capital is yet to normalise and most coal-fired power plants are functioning at up to 55% of their capacity. He said most plants currently have coal stocks left only for 2-3 days more.Jain said even though the power distribution companies in Delhi are meeting the daily electricity demand, several areas in the city continued to face outages, some of which lasted up to four hours. According to the load shedding reports, seen by Hindustan Times, areas such as Sarita Vihar, Gautampuri, Rohini, Burari, Laxmi Nagar, Shakarpur, Malviya Nagar and GTB Nagar, among others, saw power cuts ranging from one to four hours. “The power demand is being met, but it is also being met through rotational load shedding,” a senior official from the state power department said, asking not to be named.Jain said ideally, no power plant should have a coal stock of less than 15 days. “But right now, most plants have stock for two or three days. This is after the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) reduced power generation at all its plants to 50-55% plant capacity to ensure optimal use and equitable distribution of whatever coal is available,” he said. “The central government should explain why the country is still facing a coal crunch,despite the reduction in overall generation capacity of plants,” Jain said. The Delhi minister explained that the power demand of the city is currently low, ranging between 3,300MW and 4,800MW. Delhi’s peak demand during the summer usually crosses 7,000MW, but that is mostly only on a few days. Delhi’s peak power demand on Monday was 4,745 MW and on Sunday, it was 4,562 MW.When asked how Delhi’s electricity demand is being met currently, Jain said the balance power (after NTPC supply) is being procured on the spot at higher costs of ₹17-20 per kW and also through gas-based power plants in Bawana and Pragati-I. The production at these plants has been ramped up with the Centre providing more APM gas (domestic gas supply) to these stations.“If the Central government is saying there is no power crisis, then why did Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath also write a letter to the central government? It is obvious that the letter was written because the problem exists. The Delhi government has maximum power purchase agreements (PPAs) with NTPC, but they have cut power production at their plants by 50-55%,” Jain said. “According to the PPAs, for 85% of the year, NTPC has to provide full supply and the remaining 15%, it can be up to 55%. But this cannot be done for all plants at the same time. Usually, NTPC gives about 4,000MW electricity to Delhi, but as of today (Monday), it is not able to supply even half of that,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-power-crisis-not-over-plants-left-with-coal-only-for-2-3-days-satyendar-jain-101633976767579.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||29,000 apply under DU’s second cut-off list, amid over-admissions concerns||The Delhi University has received over 29,000 applications from aspirants under its second cutoff list, of which 2,103 aspirants have paid the fee and 2,593 approvals were accorded by principals by Monday evening, even as colleges remained concerned about over-admissions to several courses due to the DU’s policy of granting admissions to all students who meet the published cutoff percentage.Chandrachur Singh, who teaches political science at Hindu College, which admitted nearly twice its sanctioned strength of around 930 seats, said, “The university needs to come up with a system to create a level playing field for all students. Entrance examination will lead to another problem of only those with access to coaching centres getting admissions to DU. Premier institutions should put in place robust mechanisms to reward merit while taking into account the diversity quotient. The need is for a robust inclusive policy and, perhaps, an algorithm to best express the policy.”The political science course at his college – which announced 100% cutoff this year – has admitted over 140 students under the first cutoff list, of which 130 have got the perfect score and all but one are from the Kerala state board.Referring to high marks in Kerala boards controversy, one that erupted after a DU professor coined a communally sensitive and derogatory term -- “marks jihad” -- to contend that students from the southern state were being given higher marks in Class 12 so that they could systematically take over the country’s top higher education institutes, Singh said the students are not at fault and this has been the pattern for the past few years.“This has been happening for the past few years. Of the students admitted to my course last year, around 80% are from Kerala. In the current third-year batch, 60% of students are from that state. This only points towards the need for DU to bring in domain experts and revise its existing admission policies rewarding merit and promoting diversity,” he said.Most colleges with 100% cutoffs – including Hansraj College, Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), Ramjas College, and Hindu College – have noted that they are receiving a large number of applications from Kerala state board graduates.For instance, at SRCC, of the 134 students admitted in BCom (Honours) – which had 100% cutoff – 55 are from Kerala state board and 63 are from Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). “This is still a big number because most of these students have scored 100%. Now when admissions have started under second cutoff, fewer students have taken admission from the Kerala state board. This means most students from the board are getting 100% which is a dangerous precedent. The curriculum in the state is also different and it becomes difficult to bring these students on a par with other students,” said a teacher from college, requesting anonymity. The teacher added that this pattern is now being emulated by other state boards as well.Several teachers and admissions conveners HT spoke to explained that a policy oversight has led to an increase in the number of students from the Kerala board this year.“Unlike CBSE which gave weightage to marks obtained in classes 10 to 12, while compiling the Class 12 results, the Kerala state board mark-sheets contain marks from classes 11 and 12. The DU policy dictates that Class 12 scores are to be taken into account for admission. Most students from Kerala state board scored in the range of 90% for their Class 11 whereas, in Class 12, most of them have scored 100%. This has led to a flood of applications from those who cleared the Kerala state board,” said an admissions convener, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/29000-apply-under-du-s-second-cut-off-list-amid-over-admissions-concerns-101633976647664.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Govt plans new housing complex for employees in south Delhi’s Ghitorni||The Centre is planning to develop a new residential and commercial complex with over 7,000 dwelling units in south Delhi’s Ghitorni for government employees, said a senior official of the ministry of housing and urban affairs (HUA). The central public works department (CPWD), the Union government’s construction arm, will construct the residential portion, while the commercial component will be developed and sold by the National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC India). Although the project has been in the pipeline for a long time, its details are now being finalised, said a senior CPWD official in the know of the developments. The CPWD is also working on a detailed traffic and road infrastructure improvement plan to streamline vehicular movement in and around the proposed complex. “The planning work is in the advanced stages. The project cost will be recovered from the sale of commercial space. Once the details are finalised, the proposal will be sent to the Union cabinet for approval,” said a senior HUA ministry official aware of the development, who asked not to be named. Spread over 240 acres, the complex will have Type II to Type V flats under the general pool residential accommodation (GPRA). A senior CPWD official said on condition of anonymity, “The land parcel was allotted to the CPWD in the 80s for a brick kiln, and it has been lying vacant for all these years. The project has been in the pipeline for some time. But now, we are almost ready with the plan.” This is the third GPRA project in Delhi where the cost of the project will be recovered from the sale of commercial space that will be developed as part of the project. East Kidwai Nagar, work on which started in 2014, was the first government residential colony where commercial units were developed for monetisation. In all, the government is currently redeveloping seven more government residential colonies in south Delhi — Sarojini Nagar, Srinivaspuri, Kasturba Nagar, Netaji Nagar, Mohammadpur, Thyagraj Nagar and Nauroji Nagar— and the cost of the project in Nauroji Nagar will be recovered from the sale of the state-of-the-art commercial hub planned at the complex. A senior NBCC India official said on condition of anonymity, “We will develop the commercial complex which will have space for offices, retail and recreation. The cost of the project will be recovered from the sale of commercial and office spaces.” Imbibing lessons from past experiences, the CPWD is working on a traffic circulation plan for the Ghitorni project to ensure that the new development doesn’t cause any congestion in the area.The East Kidwai Nagar redevelopment project had come under fire for no traffic assessment study being carried out before the construction work was undertaken. Later, in a report submitted to the Delhi high court on the matter, the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, had said the increased traffic load caused by the project could result in congestion on Ring Road and Aurobindo Road.In the case of the Ghitorni project, the proposed development will be connected to the Delhi Metro, officials said, as the project is located near the Mehrauli-Gurgaon Road, which is well connected to Delhi Metro’s Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre in Gurugram). The senior CPWD official quoted above said, “A detailed traffic plan with flyovers and underpasses is being worked out so that there is no congestion in the area once the project is complete.” To handle the increased vehicular traffic around the eight government group housing colonies, including the one at East Kidwai Nagar, the CPWD had to come up with a plan to construct a 14km long elevated corridor. The ₹5,000 crore corridor was approved by the apex traffic and transportation body in Delhi, UTTIPEC (Unified Traffic and Transportation Infrastructure (Planning & Engineering) Centre), earlier this year. The CPWD has started work on preparing a detailed drawing of the proposed corridor, HT reported on September 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-plans-new-housing-complex-for-employees-in-south-delhi-s-ghitorni-101633976587598.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Fewer stubble fires so far, but likely to flare up, say experts||Between September 1 and October 10, there were fewer cases of stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana than in the corresponding period last year, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA) satellite data has shown. But experts say this may not be a good indicator of the things to come as the late withdrawal of the monsoon from northwest India may just have delayed the fires.NASA data shows that farm fires were spotted in Punjab around September 15, with around 10-15 showing up on satellite data. The numbers started picking up around September 27, when the count reached 40.Data also shows that while September largely saw inconsistent fires in some districts, there has been a steady rise in stubble fires since October 7, a day after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) officially announced the withdrawal of monsoon from Delhi and other parts of northwest India.Between October 7 and October 10, 80-170 fires have been reported daily.In Haryana, apart from one or two fires in September, stubble fires started from October 1. On October 8, 32 such fires were noticed in the state, which rose to around 80 on October 9 and 170 on October 10.“So far, fires are low in number as compared to last year. But this is not indicative of how the season is going to be. We will have to wait and assess,” said Pawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association, Washington DC.Every year, as winter sets in, Delhi’s air quality nosedives, with pollution levels deteriorating to emergency levels on certain days. The annual air emergency begins around mid-October, as farmers from the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana start setting their fields on fire to get rid of crop stubble and prepare their fields for the next crop season. The change in wind patterns after the withdrawal of monsoon facilitates plumes of thick smoke to travel into the capital from these agrarian states, impacting Delhi’s air.NASA’s data shows that last year in Punjab, stubble burning started by September 17. On September 25, around 180 fires were reported. Between October 1 and October 10, over 200 fires were being reported daily in different districts in Punjab. Haryana on the other hand, reported 30-70 daily stubble fires last year in the same period.Weather forecasters and environmentalists warned that the fires are likely to pick up in the coming week.“Monsoon withdrawal was later than usual this year. And another anomaly was that September was also unusually wet this time; farms cannot be set on fire when it’s wet. Fires are likely to pick up in the coming week and as temperatures in Delhi start falling, the impact of these fires will also be more visible in our AQI (air quality index),” said a senior IMD scientist.Experts also pointed out that apart from the late monsoon withdrawal, the delay in paddy procurement by the Centre could also have resulted in the delay in harvest. The food ministry had said on Thursday that the procurement of paddy in Punjab and Haryana was pushed back to October 11 due to heavy rain recently.“Many factors can delay the onset of burning. Key burning trigger, though, is harvest, and in 2021, I think, the harvest has been delayed due to MSP (minimum support price) procurement date shift from the end of September to October 11, two weeks or so later than 2020,” said Robert Berry, professor emeritus at Aston University, United Kingdom.The original procurement date of paddy at MSP for the 2021-2022 Kharif marketing season was October 1 in Punjab and September 25 in Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fewer-stubble-fires-so-far-but-likely-to-flare-up-say-experts-101633976408087.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Ensure that no illegal hawkers are allowed in CP: HC tells NDMC, Delhi Police||Taking strong exception to illegal squatters in the Connaught Place area, the Delhi high court on Monday directed the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and the city police to ensure that no unauthorized vendor is allowed there.The court also ordered the NDMC chairman and the area deputy commissioner of police to be present in the court on the next date of hearing on November 8.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the municipal body is doing “mere paper exercise” as the situation on ground remains the same. The court said that the authorities are not actively pursuing the matter and not monitoring the unauthorised vendors.The court asked the police and the NDMC to file status reports, highlighting the steps taken to ensure that the vendors do not hawk illegally.The court’s order came on a plea by the New Delhi Traders Association (NDTA), alleging failure on the part of the NDMC to ensure that the Connaught place area remains a no-hawking, no-vending zone.Appearing for the association, senior advocate Sanjeev Ralli told the court that the civic body notified a scheme, Urban Street Vendors, according to which areas of Connaught Place and Connaught Circus are “no-Hawking/ no vending areas”. He argued that the scheme, that was brought in 2007 and approved by the Supreme Court, was not being enforced.He gave photographs to the court showing the existing state of affairs in the area to show the extent of illegal hawking and vending in as much as unauthorized hawkers and squatters who illegally encroach and squat on the spaces meant as pedestrians pathway by illegally operating in front of market shops and also from other prohibited areas of Connaught Place and Connaught Circus.Advocate Harsha Peechara, counsel for the civic body, said they keep removing the vendors, but they keep returning to the area. He said NDMC had written to the city police seeking their assistance because it is the question of enforcement while ensuring the court that regular drives are being conducted to remove the unauthorized vendors.He also said that around 70-80 vendors have been protected by earlier court orders.Appearing for the city police, advocate Rishikesh Kumar, told the court that they provide regular assistance and force to NDMC, as and when the civic body asks. He ensured the court that in future also, if NDMC seeks assistance, it would be provided.When the NDMC counsel said that the vendors come after 6.30pm, when the shift of the municipal employees is over, the court said that the authorities cannot raise their hand in the air and have to co-ordinate among themselves to see that the area is made a no-hawking zone.The bench also said that in case more force is required, it should be brought in to check on the unauthorized vending. The court also took note of the pictures given to it and said that hawking was highly unregulated in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ensure-that-no-illegal-hawkers-are-allowed-in-cp-hc-tells-ndmc-delhi-police-101633976107778.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Child rights body pushes for in-person classes for all||Ahead of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting scheduled to take place after festive season to discuss phase-wise reopening of schools for junior classes, the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Monday asked Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to allow in-person classes for students from nursery to Class 8 at least twice a week.Last month, Baijal, who is the chairperson of DDMA, had said they will consider allowing schools in the city to resume in-person classes for students of classes 6 to 8 after the festive season.In a letter sent to Baijal on Friday, DCPCR chairperson Anurag Kundu said the authorities must reopen schools as it was causing learning loss among children; impacting their social, physical, and mental health; and adversely affecting the economy. Pointed out that nearly all sectors had opened up, including offices, cinema halls, malls, markets, and parks, Kundu, in his letter, advocated for reopening of classes nursery to 8 for at least twice a week in staggered form.“Clearly children not attending schools cannot keep them safe since the adults are moving about and returning home. As it is, children are visible everywhere in public places. There appears to be little evidence about how school closures can benefit the children when all the sectors are open,” Kundu said in his letter, adding that experts have said “it was highly unlikely that the third wave will predominantly or exclusively affect children.”The commission highlighted the learning loss faced by children due to the prolonged closure of schools during the Covid-19 pandemic.“Seventeen percent more Class 1 students could not read letters in 2020-21 compared to 2019-20 according to the Annual Status of Education report 2021 by Pratham Education Foundation… 80% of children aged 14-18 years report lower learning levels compared to when schools were open… A nation where children cannot read is doomed to fail, setting its children up for dropouts,” said the letter.The commission also highlighted that online classes, as an alternative to in-person sessions, was severely limiting. DCPCR also quoted a UNICEF study which claimed that nearly one-third parents reported deterioration of the social and emotional health of their children.“The World Bank states that this generation of students stand to lose an estimated 10 trillion dollars in earnings or almost 10% of the global GDP. This will drive the country further back in its pursuit of achieving reduction in poverty levels,” said the letter, adding that several states such as Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and Rajasthan had opened its schools.Kundu also argued for the reopening of anganwadis, claiming that if affected routine immunisation of children, posed a risk of increasing malnutrition in the city, and hampered the early childhood education to aid the cognitive development of children.“Anganwadis to open at least once a week for all children in staggered form and random testing of students/children and school/anganwadi staff to ensure the infection spread, if any, is immediately identified and contained,” said Kundu in his letter to Baijal.Spokespersons from the LG office did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-child-rights-body-pushes-for-in-person-classes-for-all-101633975569109.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM launches ‘Desh Ke Mentors’ programme||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday launched the ‘Desh Ke Mentors’ programme under which the nine lakh students of classes 9 to 12 in Delhi government schools will be connected with noteworthy citizens who will offer them career and general guidance. Actor Sonu Sood had been appointed as the brand ambassador for the programme on August 27.Kejriwal said that through this program, “children will get an elder brother, friend or sister with whom they can share everything”. “In our families we see elder brothers and sisters guide their younger siblings. If we replicate the same model on the national level, this whole country will become a big family. People will start seeing beyond the fault lines of caste and creed, they won’t see the religion of the person they are talking to. All these walls that have divided our society will completely fall down and unite the country,” he said during the launch of the event on Monday.The mentors will engage with students over the phone for 10-15 minutes daily to guide them on various aspects of life, the government said in a statement. Interested citizens from across the country can become mentors by registering on the Desh ke Mentors app.The app, which was developed by a team from Delhi Technological University (DTU), will connect students and mentors based on how their profile and interests align.“Under the ‘Desh Ke Mentor’ programme, nine lakh students studying in classes 9 to 12 will be able to search for a career. To help guide these students, the Delhi government aims to create a movement of youth volunteers who will act as guides for them,” the government said in a statement.The programme includes a two-month mandatory mentoring module and another optional four-month module. “Mentors from various professional and academic backgrounds, between the ages of 18-35, will guide and support 2-5 students studying in Delhi government schools. They will help the students in their overall development and personality development by sharing their knowledge, skills and expertise in various fields,” the statement added.The Delhi government said the programme would help in fulfilling the emotional needs of children as well as guide them on their career path from experienced citizens. Kejriwal said, “As a child grows up, they feel a variety of pressures from peers, family, siblings, and others. It is very difficult to deal with all of it as a child. This is why cases of depression and suicide are so high in the age group. We want these children to get a non-judgemental helping hand… Desh Ke Mentors will also be able to properly guide and counsel the children on their careers.”Kejriwal also urged people to join the initiative as it would be their contribution towards nation-building: “I appeal to all the people of the country, please join this initiative and help build this country...I am not asking anyone to help a group of children, just take the responsibility of one child and help them grow.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, said the programme will address the problems faced by students of classes 9 to 12 while deciding their careers. “If someone wants to join the police force, someone should be there to guide them and let them know of the process and research for them as a mentor. If the parents are confused on how to help their child choose their career, there should be a mentor to guide and help the students into taking the right decision. It is usually problematic in Indian households where professions are chosen by generational patterns and it often restricts the child in following his/her interests. The mentor’s work is to provide help, guidance, and ideas, and the child’s responsibility is to do hard work, smart work, and putting in consistent efforts and talent,” he said.The CM also said that the number of students in Delhi government schools had increased from 16 lakh in previous years to 18.70 lakh this year. “..The way 2.70 lakh students left private education for government schools, it speaks lengths about the standard of education we offer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-launches-desh-ke-mentors-programme-101633975509671.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC judgment on challenge to top cop Rakesh Asthana’s appointment today||The Delhi high court will on Tuesday pronounce judgment on a plea challenging the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as the city police commissioner, according to the list of matters posted by the court’s registry.On August 25, the Supreme Court asked the high court to decide within two weeks the plea pending before it against the appointment of the senior IPS officer Delhi’s top cop, and a bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh reserved its order on September 27.A plea by lawyer Sadre Alam sought for quashing of the July 27 order issued by the Union home ministry appointing Asthana as the Delhi Police commissioner, and the order granting inter-cadre deputation and extension of service to him.The plea contended that a high-powered committee comprising the Chief Justice of India, Prime Minister, and the Leader of Opposition, in a meeting held on May 24, 2021, rejected the appointment of Asthana as CBI director due to procedural lapses, and that the same rules should apply in the appointment of Delhi Police commissioner.Apart from Alam, an intervention application by the NGO Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL), was also filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, challenging the appointment. The petition was earlier filed in the apex court, which asked Bhushan to approach the high court.Bhushan, during the proceedings, contended that Alam’s petition was a “copy-paste” of his plea.Justifying Asthana’s appointment, the Centre told the court that most of the appropriate level of officers of AGMUT (cadre of IPS officers for Union territories) did not have the sufficient balance of experience and policing in for appointment as a top cop of the city.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union home ministry, contended that filing Public Interest Litigation (PIL) has spawned into an industry of vested litigation. Asthana, in his affidavit, told the court that there was a sustained social media campaign against him, and the legal challenge to his appointment was an abuse of process of law arising from vendetta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-judgment-on-challenge-to-top-cop-rakesh-asthana-s-appointment-today-101633975447411.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Fire at paper factory in east Delhi, none injured||A fire broke out at a paper factory in east Delhi’s Mandoli area on Monday morning. Fire officials said that nobody was injured in the incident.A fire official said the fire control room received an alert around 3.30am about the fire at the paper factory opposite Mandoli Industrial Area, and 16 fire tenders were immediately pressed into service. The fire was doused in a couple of hours, the Delhi Fire Services said.The Delhi Fire Service chief Atul Garg said the fire ate through the paper roles in the godowns quickly spread to a shed. In no time, the inferno had engulfed an area of about 600 to 750 square yards, he said.A senior DFS official said that nobody was injured in the incident, even though a part of the building collapsed. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-at-paper-factory-in-east-delhi-none-injured-101633975148902.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Gangster’s associate murdered in Rohini, cops suspect fallout of Gogi’s killing||A suspected accomplice of jailed gangster Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuriya was shot dead allegedly by two unidentified men in outer Delhi’s Rohini Sector 15 on Monday night, prompting the police to suspect that the murder may be a fallout of the killing of Tillu’s arch-rival Jitender Maan aka Gogi during a shoot-out at Rohini court 17 days ago.The incident was captured in CCTV cameras installed around the crime scene. Apart from the two alleged killers at least one more suspect was present there, the police said. The deceased was identified as Deepak alias Radhey.Deepak had five criminal cases registered against him, including one of murder in 2013, police said.A case of murder was registered and several teams were formed to identify and nab the killers. Apart from the local police, teams of the special cell and crime branch have also launched their parallel operation to nab the killers, who could be the sympathisers of Gogi.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said murder took place around 8.30pm near the dividing road of Sector-15 and Sector-16, Rohini. Deepak was waiting for someone on the roadside and was seated on his bike.“Two men approached Deepak, and had a brief chat with him. Soon, they fired at Deepak, who suffered one bullet wound in his back and another in the thigh. The suspects ran away after the firing. The CCTV cameras captured the duo fleeing on a bike on which a third person was waiting for them some distance away from the crime spot,” said Tayal.Police said Deepak was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Their preliminary enquiry revealed that Deepak was previously arrested along with one of Tillu’s associates, Sandeep alias Dhillu in a case.“Since Deepak was associated with Tillu, we are not ruling out the possibility of the involvement of the members of Gogi gang, who have been looking for opportunities to take revenge,” said a police officer, who asked not to be named.On September 24, Gogi was produced in court number 207 in Rohini court complex from Tihar jail by a 10-member team from Delhi Police’s 3rd battalion for hearing in a 10-year-old attempt to murder case registered at Alipur police station. Nearly 15 personnel from the special cell were also present at the courtoom, when two men dressed as lawyers whipped out their firearms and rained bullets at Gogi, killing him on the spot. Three policemen responded and killed the two assailants on the spot. The judge was seated in the courtroom when the shooting happened.The next day, the special cell arrested two suspects, who had accompanied the two killers -- Rahul aka KK and Jagdeep alias Jagga -- to the court premises. Their interrogation revaled that the Gogi’s murder conspiracy was hatched by his rival, Tillu Tajpuriya, who despite lodged in Mandoli jail had been allegedly getting live updates through internet video calling from the court premises during the shootout.The police have arrested and interrogated Tillu and two other jailed gangsters, including his associate, Naveen Bali, in the case so far. They have not been able to recover the mobile phone that Tillu allegedly used in the jail to get the Live updates.Anticipating a fallout of Gogi’s killing, several teams have been tasked to gather information regarding the revenge planning of his gang members. Four members of Gogi gang were arrested within a week after his murder. They were planning to hit back on Tillu’s gang members, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangsters-associate-murdered-in-rohini-cops-suspect-fallout-of-gogi-s-killing-101633975087609.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Man arrested for killing blind man with a brick in Delhi||A 22-year-old carpenter was arrested for allegedly killing a blind man with a brick after a row over the suspect falling onto him on the footpath in outer Delhi’s Sultanpuri area, police said.Police said the suspect allegedly threw a brick at the victim’s head, following which he started bleeding profusely and died on the way to the hospital last Wednesday.Police said that on Wednesday night, they received a PCR call claiming that a blind man, identified as Radhe Shyam, was attacked with a brick, following which a team rushed to the spot and found him lying bleeding on the footpath. According to police, Shyam was transferred to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital and was later declared brought dead. Police said they registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, based on the statement of an eyewitness.During investigation, it was found that the suspect fled from the spot after attacking Shyam and seeing him bleeding.“The police team checked numerous CCTV footage of the area, developed local intelligence and questioned them to identify the culprit. Finally, the accused was arrested and was identified as Imran,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh.During questioning, Imran allegedly said that he recently got addicted to drugs and on Wednesday night, he got down at Sultan Puri bus terminal and was passing through the spot where the incident took place when he fell over on the road after colliding with Shyam.He allegedly claimed that he hurled abuses at Shyam and another blind woman present near the spot. When they objected to his curses, he allegedly picked up a brick and thew it at Shyam’s forehead.Police said that Imran has no previous criminal record and has been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-arrested-for-killing-blind-man-with-a-brick-in-delhi-101633974907485.html
12-10-2021||Delhi||Maneka Gandhi writes to Baijal, urges govt to arm, strengthen forest officials||Lok Sabha MP and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi has written a letter to Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal urging him to equip the city’s forest department with arms and vehicles to help them discharge their duties. The letter comes in the wake of an attack on forest guards at south Delhi’s Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary by alleged liquor smugglers. In the letter date October 8, Gandhi referred to the September 23 attack and said that considering the city’s forest department officials have to face the dangers of illegal activities in forest areas regularly, they need to be ‘amply equipped and strengthened’ in order to discharge their duties. “There has been a gruesome and pre-planned attack on forest officials inside the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary in Delhi while discharging their duties. This issue is extremely serious and requires action at the highest levels to ensure that there is no loss of life,” Gandhi wrote. She added, “Since Delhi is known to for illegal wildlife smuggling activities, it is important that the forest department is strengthened and appropriate measures are taken for equipping them with necessary arms, vehicles and other such provisions for their safety and effective discharge of their duties.” HT reported how four forest officials were beaten up during night patrolling by suspected alcohol smugglers. The men carrying knives and rods beat up the officials and damaged their vehicles. The officials were admitted to the Batra Hospital. Senior forest officials said that the attack was in retaliation to the department’s crackdown against alcohol smugglers, who were using the forest routes to smuggle alcohol from Haryana to Delhi. This activity had intensified especially after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out last year and the supply of liquor was hit in Delhi for several months. While the LG on September 23, the same day when the officials were attacked, notified a uniform code for the forest department, it has only equipped forest officials with batons and lathis to face smugglers, encroachers and timber mafia. Gandhi said, “I request you to kindly give appropriate directions to the government of Delhi to take urgent steps in this regard.” Spokesperson from the LG office did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/maneka-gandhi-writes-to-delhi-l-g-urges-govt-to-arm-strengthen-forest-officials-101633974727383.html
12-10-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur realtor case: Two policemen sent to judicial custody||GORAKHPUR Two policemen, JN Singh and Akshay Mishra who were arrested in connection of Kanpur realtor Manish Gupta death case, were sent to judicial custody by a local court late on Sunday night, hours after quizzing by the Kanpur SIT, said police. “The arrested accused have been handed over to the SIT,” said SSP Vipin Tada. JN Singh, former SHO (Ramgarh Tal police station) and Akshay Mishra, chowki in charge of Phal Mandi post, were arrested from Gorakhpur when they were planning to surrender in court as several teams of Kanpur SIT and police tightened the noose around them. The duo was on the run since September 27 night, when Manish Gupta was allegedly murdered during midnight police checking at a hotel here. After their arrest, Singh and Mishra were quizzed by the SIT following which they were produced before the ACJM court, which sent them to judicial custody. During interrogation, the two accused reportedly denied charges of killing Manish and claimed that the realtor was drunk and died due to injuries caused after falling on the floor in an inebriated state. Meanwhile, the SIT continued to conduct raids at multiple locations in Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Ghazipur to arrest the rest of the cops, including S-I Vijay Yadav, wanted in the Manish Gupta case. Security was tightened on the Indo-Nepal border to prevent the accused cops from fleeing to Nepal. Yadav was reportedly planning to surrender in court. On the intervening night of September 27 and 28, six policemen led by JN Singh and Akshay Mishra visited Hotel Krishna palace around 12.30 and checked room no 512, where Manish was staying with his two friends Hardeep Singh Chauhan and Pradeep Singh Chauhan, brothers from Gurgaon, and asked them to show their ID proofs as part of an ongoing checking drive against criminals and suspects. While the Chauhan brothers were quick to show their IDs, Manish objected to the midnight checking, leading to arguments which eventually made Singh and Mishra angry who then allegedly started beating him brutally. Chauhan brothers had told media that Manish was beaten up in the closed room after they were pushed out by cops. When the door opened, they saw the cops dragging Manish in an unconscious state. They said the policemen took Manish to a nearby private hospital from where he was referred to the BRD Medical College, where he was declared brought dead due to excessive bleeding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-realtor-case-two-arrested-cops-sent-to-judicial-custody-101633969927048.html
12-10-2021||Chandigarh||₹50 lakh ex gratia relief, job for kin of fallen Punjab soldiers: Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday announced ex gratia grant of ₹50 lakh and a government job to a member of the bereaved families of three armymen who laid their lives at Poonch, Jammu and Kashmir, on Monday. Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh, Naik Mandeep Singh and Sepoy Gajjan Singh, lost their lives in a gunfight with the terrorists. Channi extended sympathies with the bereaved families and said that their dedication to defend country’s unity would always inspire the fellow soldiers. Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh hailed from Mana Talwandi village in Kapurthala and is survived by his wife Raj Kaur and daughter Samarjit Kaur. Naik Mandeep Singh was from Chhatha Shira village in Gurdaspur and he is survived by wife Mandeep Kaur and two sons, 3 and 2-month-old. Sepoy Gajjan Singh from Pachranda village in Rupnagar was married four months ago and is survived by wife Harpreet Kaur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-relief-job-for-kin-of-fallen-punjab-soldiers-cm-101633969326252.html
12-10-2021||Mumbai||No flat for Maharashtrian in ‘Gujaratis only’ building in Mira Road||The Naya Nagar police on Monday booked Rinku Sangoi Dedhia and Rahul Dedhia for allegedly refusing to sell a 1-BHK flat in Shantinagar in Mira Road to Govardhan Deshmukh, 37, allegedly because the latter was a Marathi-speaking man and the four-storey building was exclusively for Gujaratis, Marwaris and Jains. Angered at the denial, Deshmukh filed a complaint against the two. No arrests have been made so far. Deshmukh, a stockbroker lives in Mira Road, and was looking to buy a 1-BHK flat near Mira Road railway station. On October 4, he came across a post related to the flat on social media which stated one condition – the flat will be sold only to Gujaratis, Marwaris or Jains and Christians and other community buyers will not be entertained, he claimed in the complaint. “I called up Dedhia. He asked my name and immediately rejected my deal. Without an explanation, he rudely disconnected my call. We live in Maharashtra and any citizen has the right to purchase property anywhere in India,” he said. Jitendra Vankoti, senior inspector, Naya Nagar police station, said, “A case has been registered under section 153(a) (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code. Though no arrests have been made yet, we have given them a notice to appear before the Thane court once the charge sheet is filed. The duo has been told not to leave the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-flat-for-marathi-speaking-man-in-gujaratis-only-building-in-mira-road-101633966566782.html
12-10-2021||Kolkata||Tight security in Kolkata amid terror alert during Durga Puja||With Durga Puja festivities in full swing, the Kolkata Police have tightened security and deployed commandos of its special forces in the city in view of a possible terror alert, news agency PTI reported on Monday. “All forms of precautionary measures have been taken in view of prevailing threats from divisive and terrorist groups to destabilise peace and harmony during the festivities,” a senior police official told the news agency.The official said that the Kolkata Police have decided to deploy commandos of its combat battalion and special striking force at 38 points in the city. The official added that 31 rapid patrolling teams have also been engaged. "There would be a three-tier security arrangement in and around the city during the Durga Puja festival this year. In three divisions in the south and southwest part of the city, we will have at least 18 patrolling teams, and the remaining groups will be in north and central Kolkata. At least 13 quick response teams have also been deployed,” the Indian Police Service (IPS) officer said.The West Bengal government has put the police on alert in wake of the possible terror attacks in the city during Durga Puja. While 13 special Heavy Radio Flying Squads (HRFS) have been engaged at important crossings in the city such as Gariahat, Golpark, Rashbehari and New Alipore, police control rooms (PCRs) have been given the charge at 26 points across the city. Tight security is also in place at public areas such as Metro stations, marketplaces, shopping malls, popular monuments and important government offices.Meanwhile, the administration has asked all community puja committees to engage an adequate number of volunteers in the pandals to keep a check on the movement of suspicious persons and inform the police in case of any emergency. CCTV cameras and watchtowers have been made mandatory for large Durga Puja pandals, the police officer also told PTI.Durga puja is celebrated annually to pay homage to goddess Maa Durga. The 5-day festival is celebarted with great vigour in West Bengal as it holds special significance for the Bengali community. This year, the festival is being celebrated from October 11 till October 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tight-security-in-kolkata-amid-terror-alert-during-durga-puja-101633953754470.html
