13-10-2021||Chandigarh||UP man booked for raping 28-year-old on pretext of marriage||The police have booked a man hailing from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh for raping a 28-year-old on the pretext of marriage.The victim in her complaint said that she had come in contact with the accused, identified as Ashish Kumar, in May 2018.She alleged that the accused had taken her to a hotel in Sector 17 where he had offered her a drink laced with intoxicants. She alleged being raped there by the accused, who had later promised to marry her.She further alleged that based on that promise, the accused had made physical relations with her on multiple occasions, but was now refusing to marry her.After seeking legal opinion, the police have registered a case under Sections 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code. However, no arrests have been made thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-man-booked-for-raping-28-year-old-on-pretext-of-marriage-101634149721589.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC fines ₹65 lakh from 72 entities for violation of pollution norms||New Delhi: In a crackdown against violators of pollution norms issued by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), the building department of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has fined nearly ₹65 lakh from 72 companies, builders and owners, civic officials said.Among them are projects carried out by the National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) which was fined ₹5 lakh , said an SDMC spokesperson who asked not to be named.“Further, few projects within the premises of IIT Delhi were also found violating the DPCC guidelines, following which we imposed a total fine of ₹20 lakh on the institute. Another project near the Safdarjung Hospital has also been imposed a fine of ₹5 lakh. Challans have also been issued against some private builders and owners, after they were found violating the DPCC norms,” he said. IIT-Delhi director Prof V Ramgopal Rao said he was not aware of the any action. “They may have fined the contractors, not IIT. We don’t violate any norms,” he said.Meanwhile, Rai further said many hot spots are being kept under constant surveillance and higher officials of the building department are monitoring them. “The measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap), as issued by the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority, are also being enforced in this connection. The officials are also keeping strict vigil on all such under-construction sites,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisdmcfines-65-lakh-from-72-entities-for-violation-of-pollution-norms-101634149544394.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Special corner for senior citizens at Sector-17 Plaza||The Chandigarh branch of the Indian Red Cross Society has created a specialised corner for senior citizens called Plaza Baithak at the Sector-17 Plaza city centre, which was inaugurated by UT adviser Dharam Pal here on Wednesday.“A dedicated space was required in the city where the elderly from diverse backgrounds could meet and interact comfortably. The main idea behind setting up this special corner at the Plaza city centre is to make the elders feel important and give them a special place to relax,” said a UT spokesperson.The Plaza Baithak is a makeshift arrangement to seat around 20-25 people. Along with provision of daily newspapers, few magazines and some indoor games like chess and carrom, some physiotherapy modalities, too, are available to the seniors.The timings to use the space will be between 11am and 7pm, which has been decided to align with timings of the Sector-17 market.“This is a space where the seniors can spend some quality time with their peer group and socialize in an eco-friendly environment. They can sit, read and enjoy the vibrant and pleasant atmosphere of the popular Sector-17 market and at the same time interact with each other. This project will create an awareness among the youth of City Beautiful about their responsibilities towards our elders, who may come up with better ideas to reverse the segregation of seniors from the younger population,” said the spokesperson.Deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said, “The facility was to be started last year, but because of the pandemic we had to postpone it. If we get a good response to this initiative, more such facilities will be created across the city. We could have a ‘Lake Baithak’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-corner-for-senior-citizens-at-sector-17-plaza-101634149421536.html
13-10-2021||Noida||Bus falls off flyover in UP's Ghaziabad, 1 killed, 4 injured||A private chartered bus ferrying employees of a Noida company to Ghaziabad fell off the Bhatia Morh flyover on Wednesday night, police said. One person was killed and four passengers of the bus were injured, police said, adding they could not ascertain the reason of the accident immediately.According to witnesses, the bus fell from a height of about 15-20 feet.According to the police, the incident took place around 9pm when the private bus was on its way from Gautam Budh Nagar to Ghaziabad.“While the bus was descending the flyover, its driver somehow lost control of the vehicle and the bus fell down. Several passengers were injured and have been rushed to hospital for treatment,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1).“The bus hit a man on a motorcycle. The bus driver seemed to lose control of the vehicle, which careened to the other side of the road, breaking the central verge, and fell off the flyover. It fell from a height of about 20 feet. Locals rushed the injured to hospitals for treatment,” said Amit Kumar, who witnessed the accident.The police said that the bus hit two two-wheelers during the accident, but could not confirm whether the driver lost control of the vehicle after hitting one of the two-wheelers or before.“The bus was ferrying employees of an electronics company in Noida. There is one casualty, who is probably the rider of one of the two two-wheelers. Overall, four persons have sustained injuries. Ambulances and police vehicles have been roped in to shift the injured to hospitals,” said Pawan Kumar, senior superintendent of police.The police also roped in cranes to pull out and lift the bus away from the accident site.The Bhatia Morh flyover is located over the GT Road stretch near Rakesh Marg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bus-falls-off-flyover-in-up-s-ghaziabad-1-killed-4-injured-101634148370824.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||UP power engineers suspend stir till Oct 19||Uttar Pradesh’s power engineers on Wednesday announced deferment of their continuing agitation till October 19 to ensure smooth power supply during Dussehra and other festivals but threatened that they would resume their stir from October 20 if the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) management did meet their demands by then.“We have decided to suspend the nine-day old agitation so that power supply is not disrupted during coming festivals like Durga Puja, Vijaya Dashmi, Valmiki Jayanti and Sharad Purnima,” UP Rajya Vidyut Abhiyanta Sangh general secretary Prabhat Singh said in a written statement.“The agitation will continue as per the pre-declared programme from October 20 if the UPPCL management does stop harassment of engineers and does meet various other demands,” he warned.Earlier, UPPCL chairman M Devraj on Sunday appealed to engineers to call off their stir and larger public interest and seek solution to their grievances through negotiations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-power-engineers-suspend-stir-till-oct-19-101634148881543.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Ramlila associations upset over cracker ban this Dussehra||The UT administration’s decision to ban crackers this Dussehra and Diwali has invited resentment from the Ramlila organising committees, who believe that burning effigies without crackers will make an already low-key festival even more drab.Decision to ban crackers on Diwali was taken on October 12 in continuation with last year’s practice. The order, issued by UT adviser Dharam Pal, came into force with immediate effect and will remain in force until further orders. Any violation can invite up to two-year imprisonment. Burning of effigies on Dussehra, however, will be allowed.Senior vice-president of the Sector-20 Ramlila, Ashok Choudhary, said, “Cracker ban has come just two days before the festival when all arrangements have been made. Our association has placed orders for effigies worth over ₹3 lakh and crackers have already been fitted in them. The administration should have at least given permission to Ramlila associations to use crackers as the ban will only result in huge financial losses for the organisers.”Choudhary further added that people specially visited the Dussehra ground to watch the pomp and show and without crackers, the audience will not like it.The organisers of the Sector-20 Ramlila also met UT home secretary Nitin Yadav on Wednesday and requested him to give some relaxations in the orders.Director of the Ordnance Cable Factory (OCF) Sanskritik Manch, Jyoti Swaroop Bhardwaj, which stages Ramlila in Sector 29, said, “Ramlila associations will definitely abide by the administration’s rules, but we will suffer financial problems due to the cracker ban. Instead of putting a complete ban on the sale and purchase of crackers, the administration must give some relaxations in the orders like limiting the quantity.”“We can use green-crackers to limit the pollution. This way, people will enjoy the festivals and organisers will be able to cope up with the losses, which they are facing since the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added.An effigy artiste, Hader Ali of Kalka, said, “Since the pandemic, this is the first time that Dussehra is being celebrated. Last year, too, we had made small effigies and we will have to bear financial losses yet again this year because effigies with crackers have already been made.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-ramlila-associations-upset-over-cracker-ban-this-dussehra-101634148823511.html
13-10-2021||Other||Ghaziabad: Bus falls off flyover; 1 killed, 4 injured||A private chartered bus ferrying employees of a Noida company to Ghaziabad fell off the Bhatia Morh flyover on Wednesday night, police said. One person was killed and four passengers of the bus were injured, police said, adding they could not ascertain the reason of the accident immediately. According to witnesses, the bus fell from a height of about 15-20 feet.According to the police, the incident took place around 9pm when the private bus was on its way from Gautam Budh Nagar to Ghaziabad.“While the bus was descending the flyover, its driver somehow lost control of the vehicle and the bus fell down. Several passengers were injured and have been rushed to hospital for treatment,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1).“The bus hit a man on a motorcycle. The bus driver seemed to lose control of the vehicle, which careened to the other side of the road, breaking the central verge, and fell off the flyover. It fell from a height of about 20 feet. Locals rushed the injured to hospitals for treatment,” said Amit Kumar, who witnessed the accident.The police said that the bus hit two two-wheelers during the accident, but could not confirm whether the driver lost control of the vehicle after hitting one of the two-wheelers or before.“The bus was ferrying employees of an electronics company in Noida. One person died, who was probably the rider of one of the two two-wheelers. Overall, four persons have sustained injuries. Ambulances and police vehicles have been roped in to shift the injured to hospitals,” said Pawan Kumar, senior superintendent of police.The police also roped in cranes to pull out and lift the bus away from the accident site.The Bhatia Morh flyover is located over the GT Road stretch near Rakesh Marg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghaziabad-bus-falls-off-flyover-1-killed-4-injured-101634148761616.html
13-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: In a first, buyers to deliver housing project as builder fails||The homebuyers of Sampada Livia, a stuck housing project in Greater Noida, on Wednesday started work on the project and said that four towers will be delivered in the next two years. The development comes more than one year after the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) handed over the project in Sector Chi-5 to the homebuyers’ association to finish construction and deliver the flats.Officials of the UP-Rera said that it is for the first time in the state that homebuyers will finish a project after the real estate developer failed to deliver it. On September 30, 2019, the regulator put the developer -- PSA Impex Private Limited -- into defaulters’ category and cancelled the registration of the project. On June 6, 2020, it allowed the homebuyers’ association to take over the project. The UP-Rera will assist and monitor the work of this project, the officials said, adding that the move gives hope to other buyers who have failed to get their flats in stuck housing projects. Office bearers of Sampada Livia buyers welfare association said that PSA Impex had challenged the UP-Rera’s order in the Allahabad high court that rejected its petition in March this year. “We are so happy that finally we have got the opportunity to deliver the flats to all aggrieved homebuyers. We have hired a contractor for the job, and will deliver four towers in the next two years,” said Dr Akanksha Aggarwal, president of the association.PSA Impex had launched the project on 5 acres of land in 2011 with assurances that the flats would be delivered in 2014-15. It had planned for 10 towers with 24 floors each and a total of 726 units. When the developer failed to deliver, completing only 10% of the project, homebuyers under the banner of Sampada Livia buyers’ welfare association filed a plea in the UP-Rera in June 2018. The same year, real estate firm’s chief executive officer Diwakar Sharma, who was booked in several cases for cheating and fraud, among others, was jailed.According to an audit by the Greater Noida authority, the developer had sold 355 of the 726 units. It estimated that the unsold flats would go for ₹233.50 crore and unsold commercial space could rake in ₹6.4 crore, said an authority official.KN Mishra from buyers’ legal team said, “We are likely to rope in a marketing agency that will be engaged in selling off remaining units and commercial space to raise funds for the construction.”The UP-Rera officials said that this project will inspire other buyers to take that route in stuck projects, where realtors have deserted them.“The homebuyers successfully took over the project after a long legal battle. Now, they have restarted the project. It will inspire other buyers to come forward and use this legal route to finish the stuck projects. There are at least 13 such cases, where buyers can take up the project after going through the legal route,” said Balvinder Kumar, member of UP-Rera. Representatives of PSA Impex were unavailable for comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-in-a-first-buyers-to-deliver-housing-project-as-builder-fails-101634148581896.html
13-10-2021||Noida||Man fakes robbery to embezzle ₹55 lakh from employer; 3 arrested||A 28-year-old driver and his two accomplices were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly faking a robbery so they could embezzle ₹55 lakh from his employer in Greater Noida on Tuesday evening. The suspects were identified as Rajesh Kumar, 28, the driver, his brother Amit Kumar, 32, and Rakam Singh, 35, all residents of Astauli village in Dankaur, Greater Noida. Rajesh Kumar worked as a driver for businessman Vishnu Gupta, 45, in Sector Pi 4 in Greater Noida. Gupta said that he was in the process of buying commercial space for a warehouse. “I talked to a property dealer in Defence Colony in New Delhi and fixed a deal. On Tuesday 4.30pm, I sent Rajesh in a Mahindra XUV with ₹55 lakh to pay the property dealer in Delhi,” he said. Gupta said soon he received a call from the property dealer informing that he was not available on Tuesday. Gupta asked Rajesh to return to Greater Noida with the cash. “At 6pm, I again called Rajesh and he said he was stuck i a n traffic jam. I waited for him until 7.30pm, but he did not return. I kept calling him repeatedly but he did not pick up. I was worried because he was carrying a huge amount of cash,” Gupta said. Rajesh had been working for Gupta for the last four months, while his brother Amit had been supplying milk to his house for the last seven years. Gupta called Amit and asked him to check on his brother’s whereabouts. “At 9pm, Amit informed me that some persons in a Ford EcoSport car overtook Rajesh and snatched the cash near Sector 143 Metro station in Noida,” Gupta said. Gupta informed the police and also reached the spot. “I found Rajesh lying on the front seat with his hands tied behind his back. He started crying and saying some criminals robbed him when he was on his back,” he said. Soon, a police team reached the spot and launched an investigation. A case was registered against unknown suspects under Section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in robbery) of the Indian Penal Code at Surajpur police station,” he said.Ankur Agarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), Noida Central, said the police questioned Rajesh and found his statements were not consistent. “He was not able to state how his brother found out about the robbery as they did not exchange any phone call during that time. We scanned Rajesh’s call details and found he was also in touch with a local, Rakam Singh. The three persons were questioned thoroughly and they admitted to have faked the robbery,” he said. The police found the stolen cash at Rakam Singh’s place. “We have arrested the three suspects. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said the ADCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-fakes-robbery-to-embezzle-55-lakh-from-employer-3-arrested-101634148461589.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||Special poster cover on Malihabadi Dussehri mangoes released||As part of the ongoing postal week, the postal department in the state capital released a special postal cover for world famous Malihabadi Dussehri mangoes on Wednesday.Chief postmaster general, UP circle, Kaushalendra Kumar Sinha along with the Padma Shri Haji Kalimullah Khan, a horticulturist known for his accomplishments in breeding mangoes and other fruits in Malihabad, unveiled the first cover at a function held at GPO, Lucknow. Other senior officials including postmaster general, Lucknow zone, Vivek Kumar Daksh and many philatelists from the city attended the event.Malihabadi mangoes, which have received a GI (geographical indicator) tag, were popularised by the varieties developed by Haji Kalimullah Khan who is also famous as “Mango Man”. “The heritage of Malihabadi mangoes has been preserved forever. I want such efforts should be made for our other heritage too,” said Khan while speaking on the occasion. He also emphasised the need of water conservation for a better future.Kaushalendra Kumar Sinha, chief postmaster general, UP circle, urged all philatelists to visit a postal exhibition organised at GPO, Lucknow. “Philately is the king of hobbies. Stamps are a great source of information. I would congratulate all philatelists for pursuing this wonderful hobby,” Sinha said in his address.Alisba Siddiqui, an eighth standard girl student of CMS, was felicitated for standing second in the letter writing competition organised by the postal department. The chief postmaster general gave Alisba a certificate and a cheque of ₹10,000. The theme for the competition was “My experience during Covid-19”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/special-poster-cover-on-malihabadi-dussehri-mangoes-released-101634148401646.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government backs reservation in promotions for VJ, NT, and Special Backward Classes||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday decided to take back the reservation in promotion for Vimukti Jati (VJ) and Nomadic Tribes (B, C & D) and Special Backward Classes (SBC) categories in the state and file an additional affidavit in the Supreme Court (SC) with regards to the ongoing petitions challenging the reservation in promotion. The government, according to ministers, will use powers under the Constitution to provide the reservation, citing “inadequate” representation of the VJ, NT and SBC in the government jobs at higher posts. The decision came after the state filed an affidavit in the Apex court stating that the only Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe’s reservations in the promotion are as per the Constitution. The affidavit meant that the state had said that the reservation provided to VJ, NT and SBC categories in the state in 2004, as per the Maharashtra Reservation Act 2001, was unconstitutional. The affidavit filed by the state government drew ire from communities and held protests against it recently. On Wednesday, the issue of reservation in promotion was discussed in the state cabinet by senior Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) ministers raising objections on the state’s stand in Supreme Court on the issue. The ministers questioned how the administration filed an affidavit without the consent of the social justice minister. “The SC, ST are already provided reservations. We have decided today to appoint a special counsel [in the matter] and file an additional affidavit citing inadequate representation of VJ, NT and SBC categories,” said Vijay Wadettiwar, a cabinet minister.A statement from the state secretariat said that a report of the committee headed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte showed that like the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, the VJ, NT and SBC classes have inadequate representation in promotions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-backs-reservation-in-promotions-for-vj-nt-and-special-backward-classes-101634148342830.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Woman intelligence officer in Pune on training dies by suicide: police||PUNE An intelligence officer of the rank of lieutenant colonel was found dead in her room at the Military Intelligence Training School (MITS) in Pune on Wednesday morning, police officials said. The deceased, 43, was at MITS for a six-month course and had completed three months of the programme, according to deputy commissioner of police (Zone V), Namrata Patil. Patil further added that the intelligence officer had filed a divorce petition. “She took the extreme step hanging herself from the ceiling. The matter came to light when the early morning tea provider entered her room and found her dead,” DCP Patil said. A case of accidental death has been lodged at Wanowrie police station In a statement issued by the defence spokesperson, Army authorities have said that “An incident of likely suicide by an officer has occurred on the premises of the Military Intelligence Training School and Depot, Pune. The officer was undergoing a course in the Military Intelligence Training School and Depot, Pune. A case with the civil police has been registered and the matter is under investigation.”Pune-based NGO - Connecting - works towards providing support to those in emotional distress using the philosophy of mindfulness based active listening, thereby preventing suicide. Helpline numbers: 1800-209-4353 (toll free) and 9922001122 all days, 12 pm to 8 pm. Walk-in facility: 12 pm to 5 pm, Monday – Saturday. Email: connectingngo@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-intelligence-officer-in-pune-on-training-dies-by-suicide-police-101634148341413.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Engineering courses: PU allows reservation for single girl child, border area students||A day after a Panjab University (PU) panel recommended retaining reservation for additional seats for single girl children and students of rural and border areas, the varsity on Wednesday allowed for the quota to continue for admission to engineering courses for the 2021-22 academic session.The matter was taken into consideration after students had condemned the move. The recommendations of the seven-member panel, headed by dean research SK Tomar, were approved by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Wednesday.The admission process at PU’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) and University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICET) is currently underway. But additional seats for single girl children and students from rural and border areas were not available as per this year’s handbook of information (admissions).According to the proceedings, the panel observed that the students were being admitted against the additional seats from 2016 till 2020-21, and the seats had been approved by the PU governing body. “If the seats are left vacant this year, it may be a loss to these categories,” the panel observed.The panel also said that any deviation/change in such provisions could not be implemented without the prior approval of the syndicate/senate and they had unanimously resolved that the seat allocation approved till 2020-21 academic session, which were duly approved by the governing bodies, may be allowed to continue for the session 2021-22.Students may apply afresh over seven daysIt was recommended that at least seven days’ time be given to the candidates to apply afresh in these categories and those who have already applied may be allowed to change their categories accordingly.“We congratulate students that our demand to scrap the decision of doing away with seats of reserved categories has been met with,” said Sandeep of Students For Society (SFS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/engineering-courses-pu-allows-reservation-for-single-girl-child-border-area-students-101634148281490.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Bharosa Cell of Pune Police successfully implements ‘Didi-kaka’ concept||During the nine days of Navratri festival, Radio One, the radio partner of Hindustan Times, is bringing out stories of Pune Police officials who exemplify strength and courage in the form of ‘Extra Ordi-narris of Pune’The officers of Pune police who helped female victims of various crimes have been narrating their experience and aim to bring awareness and a sense of agency among women in Pune.Assistant police inspector Archana Katke who works at Bharosa Cell of Pune Police narrated her experience and said, “Through community policing, we have successfully implemented ‘police didi’ and ‘police kaka’ concept under the guidance of the Pune police commissioner.”“In every school, we appoint ‘police didi’ and ‘police kaka’ who act as nodal officers for concerned and resolve issues related to ragging, molestation and other crimes against children. Some days ago, a schoolgirl had some issues and she could neither speak to the principal nor the teacher. However, she narrated her story to “police didi” and the police took up the matter with school authorities and the issue was resolved. The children must call the dedicated helpline 1091 whenever in distress where their issues can get resolved,” she said.Over the nine days of Navrati festival, RJ Meenal of Radio One is bringing out more such stories of goodwill and courage for Punekars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bharosa-cell-of-pune-police-successfully-implements-didi-kaka-concept-101634148221720.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Third Covid wave: 2 Chandigarh private hospitals to install oxygen plants||Two private hospitals of Chandigarh are ready to install pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen generation plants in preparation for a possible third Covid wave.Meanwhile three other private facilities are also expected to follow suit, the UT administration said on Wednesday.PSA is a process to generate enriched oxygen gas from ambient air.The central government had requested those private hospitals or clinical establishments with a capacity of more than 50 beds to install an oxygen plant. The move came after several states and UTs had complained of oxygen shortage in government and private hospitals during the peak of the second Covid wave.In regard to this, UT health secretary Yashpal Garg on Wednesday convened a meeting with private hospitals to review their response.“Eden Hospital has already placed an order for installation of a PSA oxygen plant, which is expected to be made functional by the end of October this year. Also, Shri Dhanwantry Hospital is in the advanced stages of finalising purchase of 250 LPM plant,” Garg said, adding that Land Mark Hospital, Healing Hospital and Mukat Hospital are in advanced stages of negotiation with the manufacturer or supplier of the plant and the authorities will submit the final plan by October 31.Meanwhile, Chaitanya Hospital and Santokh Hospital are installing liquid oxygen tankers and have procured some oxygen concentrators, to be used in the case of emergency. Chandigarh’s Cloud Nine Hospital and Chandigarh City Hospital, too, have procured oxygen concentrators.So far, four oxygen generation plants are installed at Chandigarh’s four government health institutes with a cumulative capacity to generate 3,600 litres of medical oxygen per minute (LPM). Besides, four more oxygen plants are being set up at various government hospitals in UT, with the help of donations from non-governmental organisations. Once operational, 2,000 LPM oxygen will be added to the UT’s in-house generation capacity.During the second wave, the demand for oxygen had suddenly peaked with the increase in patient load, and the UT administration had to request the Centre to raise its oxygen quota from 20MT to 35MT. The UT health department had wisely distributed the 20MT oxygen among government and private hospitals during the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/third-covid-wave-2-chandigarh-private-hospitals-to-install-oxygen-plants-101634148041493.html
13-10-2021||Gurugram||H-Rera imposes ₹3 cr fine for advertising housing projects without registry||The Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (H-Rera) imposed a penalty of ₹ 3 crore on real estate developer M3M for allegedly advertising and marketing two of its projects without registering them with the authority, which is a legal requirement as per the Rera norms.In a statement issued on Wednesday, the H-Rera, Gurugram said that it has taken suo motu cognisance of the issues and a bench, headed by H-Rera chairman KK Khandelwal and members Samir Kumar and Vijay Kumar Goyal, imposed the penalty.The authority said that a penalty of ₹2.59 crore was imposed on the developer for advertising boutique floors at a project titled City of Dreams in Sector 89 of Gurugram, while a penalty of ₹50 lakh was imposed on M3M, Smart World Developers and Suposhaa Realcon Private Limited with regard to the Smart World Floors project in Sector 61. The developer, M3M, however, declined to comment on the matter.H-Rera, Gurugram, also observed that a “malicious trend” of advertising real estate projects without prior registration is being observed among real estate promoters. “It is found that promoters are getting advertised their unregistered projects either directly or through their channel partner/real estate agents. The Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 makes it mandatory to register all commercial or residential projects before its launch, to promote transparency in real estate sector. It is noticed that promoters are not getting their projects registered but getting them advertised in the market luring the investors to invest,” it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hrera-imposes-3-cr-fine-for-advertising-housing-projects-without-registry-101634147742655.html
13-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG crackdown on illegal street vendors to start with survey||In a crackdown on illegal street vendors, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to undertake a survey of all 148 vending zones from the next week and initiate action against those operating without licences or on licences issued to other vendors.A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of MCG’s Town Vending Committee (TVC) held at the civic body’s Sector 34 office on Wednesday.The MCG’s street vending zones have been under scrutiny since November last year, when it was discovered that they were operating at only 53% capacity. The MCG had issued a work order for incorporating 3,452 street vendors into its street vending zones, but managed to bring in only 1,620 vendors.In April, deputy municipal commissioner (DMC) Vijaypal Yadav, who oversees the project, submitted a report to senior MCG officials, disclosing that of the 1,620 street vendors, around 300 were found to be illegal as their original owners had either leased the carts to others or transferred the ownership to them.“Many unauthorised vendors are reported to be working in these (148) vending zones. There is a need for separate enforcement/monitoring team to check such type of illegal vendors so that only approved vendors may be rehabilitated in the approved vending zones and action taken against illegal vendors,” stated the MCG’s agenda in the meeting.After deliberation, officials approved the formation of an enforcement team to check illegal vendors.“An enforcement team of 10-15 officials will be formed to check for illegal vendors in all the vending zones. Besides taking action against them, they will also have the responsibility to check if the licences of the approved vendors are up to date, otherwise, direct them to get them renewed,” Yadav said.Officials also disclosed that a Delhi-based consultant was hired to assess if all vending zones are adhering to the norms of the Haryana Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Scheme, 2020. According to the scheme, the right of way (ROW) of the road near the vending zone should be less than 10 metres, the vending zones must not be located on footpaths and they should not be located near schools.According to Yadav, the consultant has assessed 58 vending zones but has been directed to resurvey the zones to identify vacant spaces.“The TVC realised that the consultant can also check for vacant areas which can be used as parking spaces for vehicles near all the vending zones. This will ensure there is no traffic congestion near any of the vending zones,” Yadav said.Yadav said that the consultant has been directed to check if 45% of the total space of a vending zone has been reserved for vendors, while the remaining 55% is left for parking, drinking water facility, mobile toilets, benches, bins and streetlights, among other amenities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-crackdown-on-illegal-street-vendors-to-start-with-survey-101634147683827.html
13-10-2021||Gurugram||Heliport for Gurugram in the works: CM Manohar Lal Khattar||The Haryana government will submit a proposal for building a heliport in Gurugram to the civil aviation ministry soon, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Wednesday, after meeting with the union aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia in Delhi.Khattar said that the heliport will boost intercity and intracity transport by helicopters and might also reduce the pressure on IGI Airport. “Land will be identified soon and proposal submitted to civil aviation ministry for setting up a helicopter hub in Gurugram,” Khattar said during an interaction with media persons.A helicopter hub or heliport is a small airport meant for helicopters and other vertical aircraft. It has one or more touchdown and lift-off areas, with facilities for refuelling and hangars for parking.Khattar met Scindia to discuss civil aviation projects coming up in different parts of the state. The CM said that it was also decided to reduce the value-added tax (VAT) rates on air turbine fuel from 20% to 1% in the state.Setting up a civil aviation university, a school for drones, a satellite centre in the state, an integrated aviation hub at Hisar, airstrips at Karnal and Ambala, and pilot training schools in Bhiwani and Narnaul, besides adding air services routes in the state, were also discussed, government officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/heliport-for-gurugram-in-the-works-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-101634147682631.html
13-10-2021||Gurugram||Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway: NHAI asked to redesign median at Sirhaul border||To reduce congestion at the Sirhaul toll, especially on the Gurugram-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, traffic police asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to realign the median near Ambience Mall the underpass and update signage.According to the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) of the Gurugram traffic police, Ravinder Singh Tomar, the median located between the Ambience Mall underpass and Rajokri flyover has a heavy bend, which extends the road width on the Delhi-Gurugram carriageway and narrows it on the opposite direction.The directions were issued following a joint visit by the Gurugram traffic police, Delhi traffic police and NHAI officials at the Sirhaul toll on Tuesday afternoon, to survey ways through which congestion at the border could be reduced. Tomar said that NHAI has been asked to realign the median and ensure both carriageways have similar road widths.“Due to the bend, the road width on the carriageway carrying traffic from Delhi to Gurugram is so much that vehicles tend to not access three of the rightmost lanes. Instead, we have asked NHAI to straighten the bend and align it in such a manner that at least two more lanes are added on the opposite carriageway. We anticipate that the changes will reduce travelling time by at least 10 minutes during peak traffic hours,” Tomar said.According to a mobility plan of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), around 300,000 vehicles cross the Sirhaul toll every day. The toll is, by far, the most congested stretch in the city, and, at times, takes take around 25-40 minutes to cross it during peak traffic hours.Tomar said that NHAI was also directed to update signage on the Gurugram-Delhi carriageway, depicting the direction and distance for terminals one and three of the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport.“We observed that a large number of vehicles were driving on the leftmost lane of the Gurugram-Delhi carriageway just after crossing the toll. Upon inquiring, we realised that most vehicles were heading towards the airport and were unaware of the distance to each of the terminals, and their respective exits. We have asked the NHAI to update signage along the stretch accordingly,” Tomar said.Tomar said that the updated signage will also reduce “zigzag” driving, which was leading to congestion and ensure lane driving is maintained. He said that the NHAI was also asked to put up signage at all foot overbridges falling between Kherki Daula toll and Sirhaul toll, stating that heavy vehicles must drive on the leftmost lane.“We have asked the Gurugram traffic police to submit all recommendations in writing so that we can take up all matters with our concessionaire formally. Each of the recommendations will be individually examined and its technical feasibility assessed before proceeding further,” Nirman Jambulkar, project director, NHAI, said.Last month, Gurugram traffic police launched a dedicated drive to check the movement of heavy vehicles on the leftmost carriageway of National Highway 48 and penalised over 3,000 drivers for violations between September 3 and 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/delhigurgaon-expressway-nhai-asked-to-redesign-median-at-sirhaul-border-101634147681282.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Railways to convert local trains on Mumbai suburban network to AC trains||The railways have planned to convert all local trains on Mumbai’s suburban train network to air-conditioned (AC) trains.The decision was taken by the Railway Board; the apex body of all zonal railways, after consulting Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation(MRVC), Central and Western Railway officials on Tuesday. The fares of the local trains are also likely to be reduced and will be based on the fare structure of metros. The railway ministry has also put the plans to run semi-AC local trains (in which a few AC coaches were to be attached to local trains in addition to current first and second class coaches) on hold, according to information.“We will be procuring all fully AC local trains for the Mumbai suburban railway network under the Mumbai Urban Transport Projects (MUTP),” said Ravi Agarwal, Chairman and Managing Director (CMD), MRVC.The MRVC will be buying 283 new AC local trains in the coming days. The Railways ministry has given its approval for the procurement of AC local trains but the time-frame for the same is not decided yet, said Railway officials.Currently, Mumbai has nine AC trains running on a suburban network. However, the response from the commuters is lukewarm due to fare which is higher even than first-class coaches and poor frequency of trains. Railway authorities had planned semi-AC trains comprising first, second and AC coaches to tide over the problem of poor frequency. However, the Railway Board is now planning to covert the entire fleet of trains into AC trains. “The time-frame for the same has not been decided but it has been decided that every new local train that is bought now for Mumbai suburban train network would be an AC train,” said a senior railway official.In the case of the fare of these trains, the Railway Board is looking at the fare structure of metros run in Delhi and Mumbai.“The fare structure of the suburban AC local trains will be based on metro fare structure by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority(MMRDA) or the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC). The MRVC had suggested the fare structure of AC local trains on par with metro fares in Mumbai and Delhi,” said the official.The semi AC local train plan of the railways has also reportedly been put on hold. “The implementation of the semi AC local trains involves a lot of technicalities and there are chances that it cannot be feasible. There was a discussion with the railway ministry and the project was put on hold.” said a senior official who was a part of the meeting.The Central and Western Railway has recently undertaken a passenger survey on the AC local trains and had submitted the response from commuters to the railway ministry. Passengers had asked for a reduction in the fares of the AC local train.The first suburban AC local train was operated on the Western Railway on December 25, 2017. The train service is operational between Churchgate and Virar railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-to-convert-local-trains-on-mumbai-suburban-network-to-ac-trains-101634147621475.html
13-10-2021||Pune||40 garbage ATMs to be installed in Pune city in 3 years||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will be setting up ten garbage ATMs in the city following the footsteps of New Delhi and Varanasi.A private agency Ecomax Go, a startup based in Delhi, has approached the PMC to set up these ATMs.“The company will install 40 such ATMs in the city in the next three years and right now they plan to provide ten machines,” said Hemant Rasne, chairman of the standing committee.“PMC has been approached by a private company to install the waste collection units across Pune city where these plastic and glass bottles will be accepted. A person will be paid ₹1 per plastic bottle while ₹3 per glass bottle,” he said.Shedding further light on the ATMs, Anukrati Khera, finance head, Ecomax Go, said, “These ATM kiosks which are worth ₹6 lakh each are set up in 6x4 space which will be put up in locations where there is maximum footfall and publicly accessible. We are still doing recce for the locations in the city.”These kiosks will also accept plastic wrappers and cans for which ( ₹2 for cans and 20 paise for wrappers will be deposited in the account).All this money will be credited into the depositor’s bank account directly.According to PMC solid waste management officials, these ATMs will mostly be installed at places like JM road, Shaniwarwada, Senapati Bapat road, Fergusson College road and Pune station in the first phase and work for installation has begun.Earlier too PMC had taken an initiative for plastic bottle collection units which failed to take off.The PMC had proposed to open 200 such centres in the city where individual households can give their recyclable/non-recyclable waste. They had PET bottle-crushing machines have already installed at 20 locations having high pedestrian footfalls but later were changed to multi-utility kiosks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/40-garbage-atms-to-be-installed-in-pune-city-in-3-years-101634147561519.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC standing committee continues virtual meeting; BJP, Cong-NCP and SP cry foul||A week after Bombay high court (HC) ordered Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s standing committee to permit members to physically attend the standing committee meeting, the BMC continued with a virtual meeting on Wednesday. However, the BMC’s standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav, a Shiv Sena corporator, cited the direction by state’s urban development department responsible for virtual meetings.On the other hand, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has cried foul and threatened to go to court over contempt order. Along with the BJP, Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) have joined together demanding a physical meeting for the standing committee.The Bombay high court had directed the chairman of the BMC’s standing committee to permit members to physically attend the standing committee meeting.However, the state government on Tuesday wrote to the BMC over following its earlier order of June 28 to have a virtual meeting considering a final decision is pending on the same.The BJP alleged that the Shiv Sena was purposely trying to host the meetings online so that the other members are not able to point out any wrongdoings, which are likely to get passed.Bhalchandra Shirsat, BJP corporator and standing committee member said, “We will move to the court on Thursday. This is a clear contempt of the court’s order.” SP leader and MLA Rais Shaikh said, “This is the murder of democracy as a meeting which needs voting on several issues cannot continue to be held online at a time when most Covid-related restrictions have been eased.”Ravi Raja, leader of Opposition and Congress corporator along with NCP’s group leader in the BMC Rakhi Jadhav have also demanded a physical meeting. Javed Juneja, Congress corporator and standing committee member in the BMC said he has written to the municipal commissioner and the mayor to resume physical meetings.Shiv Sena corporator and standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav said that he was simply following an order of the urban development department which states that they are still to decide upon allowing physical meetings. Jadhav said, “While physical meetings may be desired by all, we need to follow orders from the state government too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-standing-committee-continues-virtual-meeting-bjp-cong-ncp-and-sp-cry-foul-101634147501295.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||Salary hike for 215 employees of Hussainabad Trust||Restructuring the salaries of class three and four employees of Hussainabad and Allied Trust (HAT) on the basis of minimum wage scale, the district magistrate, Lucknow, who is the custodian of the Trust, increased their wages on Wednesday.The district administration’s long-awaited decision would benefit around 215 lowly paid employees associated with the Trust. These employees have welcomed the decision. They are serving as guides, electricians, muezzin, “sipahis”, “jamadars” and “darogas” among others.The move came after a city-based social activist raised the issue and approached chief minister and pursued the matter with the district magistrate.“We have decided to increase the salary of class three and four employees of HAT and from now onwards, the salary would be paid on the basis of minimum wage scale,” said Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash. The DM said the salary hike would increase the expenses of the Trust by ₹7 lakh monthly.In 2019, a city-based social activist S Mohammed Haider first raised the issue and gave a representation to the CM, with copy with other officials, including the DM, demanding salary hike for the guides and other employees of the Trust.“I am thankful to the district administration for considering my plea and for showing generosity towards the class three and four lowly paid employees of the HAT,” said Haider, a heritage activist and corporate lawyer.“Pandemic was tough for all and our profession was no exception. I am thankful to the administration for considering our long pending plea. I am also thankful to Haider Sahib for taking up our issue with the CM and the administration,” said Athar Hussain, one of the oldest guides who has completed 20 years in service.Presently, Hussain said the guides are getting around ₹4,500 per month which is even lower than the prescribed minimum wage limit. However, he said now he was now expecting a decent salary. The Trust that was formed by Muhammad Ali Shah, the third king of Awadh in 1839, at a cost of ₹12 lakh to carry out religious practices during Muharram and other occasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/salary-hike-for-215-employees-of-hussainabad-trust-101634147323376.html
13-10-2021||Pune||SPPU to start internship programme for commerce students||The students studying in the last year of Bachelor of Commerce (B Com) will now get hands-on training in the last semester. The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) from this academic year has started a 60 hours compulsory internship programme for students studying in the last semester and has tied up with the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) for the same.At least 20,000 students will benefit from the internship and will get a monthly stipend of ₹2,500.“This would be a 60-hour internship programme in which every student in his/her last semester will work at the chartered accountant firm for 15 days up to three months. Through this outcome-based education system, students will get practical work knowledge apart from theoretical studies. The work office should be around 2 to 4 km away from the house of the student and accordingly, we have tied up with the CA firms in three districts - Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar,” said Parag Kalkar, SPPU dean - faculty of commerce and management studies.Earlier this year SPPU had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with ICAI in this regard.“Later from next year, we are planning to make the internship compulsory for around six months, not only with the CA firms but also with the Institute of Cost Accountants of India (ICWA) and Company Secretary (CS) firms. Already we are in talks with the organisational bodies,” he said.“Currently, there are around 57,000 commerce students in SPPU affiliated colleges out of which 20,000 students are in last year. Through this practical internship work they would study tally, excel sheet, Goods and Services Tax (GST) payments and income tax-related works actually at the firm office,” added Kalkar.Chandrasekhar Chitale, ICAI Central Council member CA, said, “The commerce branch has a great response from the students. However, they lack practical knowledge. With the help of chartered accountants, these students will get practical knowledge and work experience.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-to-start-internship-programme-for-commerce-students-101634147322525.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Now, helicopter services between Pune and Mumbai||PUNE: With commercial airline operations at Pune airport grinding to a halt between October 16 and 29 owing to runway closure, private air carrier Blade are planning to ferry fliers between Pune and Mumbai via helicopter in 40 minutes during the festive season.Helicopter services will be available every day between Kharadi and Juhu, and the cost will be Rs15,000 per person. Helicopters will depart from Kharadi and Juhu every day at 9.30am and 4.30pm, respectively. Blade announced helicopter services after aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia declared a helicopter corridor for Pune last week. Effectively, Blade will be the only air service from Pune that will save five hours of road travel between Pune and Mumbai.Aviation analyst and former Air India Pune station in-charge, Dhairyashil Vandekar, said, “It will be a very good option for fliers. The helicopter service will be a boon for industrialists as it will save a lot of time. For a city like Pune which is expanding with the number of people plying between Pune and Mumbai increasing, such a service is critical.”Sadanand Disha said, “We have a meeting next week in Mumbai so having this service will help our company.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/now-helicopter-services-between-pune-and-mumbai-101634147321381.html
13-10-2021||Noida||Stubble burning increases in Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, officials promise action||Even as Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts prepare action plans to combat the spike in air pollution during the approaching winter season, instances of crop residue burning are now increasing.HT, during a spot visit, found crop residue burning in a field at Nahal in Dasna near the Delhi Meerut Expressway on Wednesday.Both district authorities have put together a slew of measures in their respective winter action plans to keep sources of air pollution in check, including instances of crop residue burning.According to official statistics from the Consortium for Research on Agroecosystem Monitoring and Modelling from Space (CREAMS) Laboratory of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Gautam Budh Nagar reported five instances of crop residue burning from September 15 to October 12 this year, while Ghaziabad reported two instances during the same period.During the same period in 2020, both districts reported only one instance each.“The instances will continue to rise as disposing of the crop residue is a costly affair for poor and marginal farmers. So, they resort to burning it. More awareness should be spread, and farmers should be incentivised with affordable equipment for the safe disposal of crop residue,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and lawyer.“If the instances are being reported, it indicates that there is lack of monitoring,” he added.According to CREAMS reports, a total of 2,954, 1,506, and 1,559 instances were reported from Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh from October 1 to October 12 in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.“We are properly monitoring crop residue burning in Dasna and our teams cover the urban areas of the town. Rural belts in Dasna are monitored by teams of the revenue department. Once we get the information, we act on it and also take legal action. Last year too, we lodged several FIRs in connection with the crop residue burning incidents,” said Manoj Kumar, executive officer of Dasna Nagar Palika in Ghaziabad.Suhas LY, the district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, said that he has taken different measures to keep in check the instance of crop residue burning.“Recently, four incidents of crop residue burning were reported in one day, and we took punitive action against the erring persons and fined them. We also issued show-cause notices against the local staff and against the agricultural department staff. Also, the staff of agriculture and revenue departments has been sensitising locals against any burning activity,” the DM added.“In all, five incidents have been reported in the district so far,” he added.On Wednesday, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration also said that they will impose a fine of ₹2,500 per instance in case the land is smaller than two acres; ₹5,000 in case the land is two acres to five acres, and ₹15,000 in case the land is over five acres.Officials said that the farmers can avail the waste decomposer facility, which is available free of cost with the agriculture department, and this can help in convert the waste crop residue to manure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/stubble-burning-increases-in-ghaziabad-gautam-budh-nagar-officials-promise-action-101634147262928.html
13-10-2021||Noida||Two workers die while cleaning tank in Greater Noida chemical factory||Two workers died after inhaling poisonous gases in a tank they were trying to clean in a chemical factory in Site V industrial area, Greater Noida, around 9.30pm on Tuesday. The victims’ kin alleged negligence on the part of the contractor and the factory owner. The deceased were identified as Rambhes, 26, and Pankaj, 22, (known by their first names only) from Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh. They lived in a slum in Site V area. Ravindra, Pankaj’s cousin, said that on Tuesday night, a contractor Hemant visited him and said that he needed some workers to clean a large tank in a chemical factory. “Hemant offered us ₹6,000 for the work. Four of us, including Rambhes, Pankaj and another man Ramesh, agreed to clean the tank. We reached the factory at night and found a large underground chemical tank. We entered the tank and realised the strong smell of chemicals was making it difficult to breathe,” Ravindra said. He said that the workers informed the contractor that it was unsafe to work without any safety gear. “The contractor said that he had got this work done several times in the past and there was no need to worry,” he said in the complaint. Ravindra said that soon Rambhes and Pankaj fainted in the tank. “We somehow pulled them out of the tank and rushed them to a private hospital in Greater Noida where doctors declared them dead on arrival. They died after inhaling poisonous gases just because the contractor forced us to work without a safety mask and gear,” he said. Sudhir Kumar, station house officer, Kasna police station, said a case had been registered against contractor Hemant and the factory owner under sections 304-A (death due to negligence) and 284 (negligent conduct with respect to poisonous substance) of the Indian Penal Code. “We have detained the contractor in this case. The factory owner has given ₹8.77 lakh compensation to the kin of each deceased victim. It is not clear if the factory owner was directly involved in engaging workers to clean the tank. We are investigating the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-workers-die-while-cleaning-tank-in-greater-noida-chemical-factory-101634147261549.html
13-10-2021||Noida||Expert panel clears use of Covaxin for ages 2-18, 900k to benefit from jab||A day after an expert group looking at Covid-19 vaccine approvals recommended the use of Covaxin for children aged 2-18 years, officials of the Ghaziabad district health department said that the move will benefit an estimated 900,000 children. According to official estimates, the district has a population of about 3,900,000. Nearly 878,250 beneficiaries are over the age of 45, while about 1,880,276 are in the 18-44 age group. “Of the remaining approximately 1,140,000, nearly 200,000 are estimated to be in the age group 0-2 years. So, this leaves us with roughly 900,000 children who could benefit from the vaccination coverage. However, the government estimates and guidelines regarding the vaccination of children will provide us with the accurate population estimate,” said Dr GP Mathuria, nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination. On Tuesday, the Subject Expert Committee, an expert group looking at vaccine approvals, recommended the use of Covaxin for the age group 2-18 years. The move raised the possibility that children could soon begin to receive Covid-19 vaccine doses across the country. The Subject Expert Committee’s recommendation will need to be accepted by the Drugs Controller of India – which is expected within days – and has to be followed by a formal inclusion in the Centre’s Covid-19 immunisation campaign. “Once we receive the guidelines to administer Covid-19 vaccine to children, we will seek their numbers from the rolls of schools and educational institutions,” Dr Mathuria added. Parents’ association members said that the move will make parents consider sending their children to schools. “Children have been attending online classes for over one-and-a-half years. Once the required guidelines come in, vaccination for children should start so that they can attend schools from the next academic session,” said Vivek Tyagi, spokesperson of Ghaziabad parents’ association. “Till then, online mode should continue. No Covid-19 vaccine for children was a major reason for parents not sending their children to schools,” he added. According to statistics from the district health department, about 853 children in the age group 0-10 were infected during the first wave, from March 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021. These include two deaths as well. About 1,865 children were infected in the age group 11-20 years during the same period, but there was no casualty within this age group. During the second wave, from April 1, 2021 to June 18, 2021, about 764 children in the age group 0-10 were infected. About 1,991 in the age group 11-20 years were infected during the same period. There was no casualty reported in either age group during the second wave. According to academicians, once the vaccination process starts, there might be some initial hesitancy. “When the vaccine arrived for adults, there was initial hesitancy. Not many countries have data regarding the effect of vaccination on children, and it is always an issue of concern for parents. Younger children will not be able to detect the effects on their bodies. So, it would be advisable to start with higher age groups like 16-18, 14-16 etc, and then progress to vaccinating younger children,” said Jyoti Gupta, director of Delhi Public School, Sahibabad. “Children should be vaccinated in a phased manner so that we have enough data and evidence on how it is affecting them. Initially, I do not foresee much euphoria, but acceptability will increase once encouraging results start coming out. Once this trend is observed, schools will also start with advocacy campaigns,” she added. Health experts said that after the required approvals, vaccination for children will start. “There were apprehensions that children will be most-affected during a possible third wave. Since they form a major part of our population and are not protected so far, they must get the vaccine at the earliest to get maximum protection against Covid-19,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/expert-panel-clears-use-of-covaxin-for-ages-2-18-900k-to-benefit-from-jab-101634147201552.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Passengers suffer as AC stops working in Pune-Delhi flight||Passengers on a Pune-Delhi Air India flight, AI 852, on Wednesday took to Twitter to vent their frustration and anger at having to endure a flight with no air conditioning. Air India’s corporate team did not respond to Hindustan Times despite multiple requests for a comment. The AC on board the flight failed shortly after take off on Wednesday morning and stayed off until the plane landed in Delhi. “When the flight took off, the air conditioning was working. It a problem happened after take off, we dont know the actual reason,” said an official from the Lohegaon airport in Pune, requesting anonymity. Saloni Hasija who was on the flight tweeted: “No air conditioning plus suffocation plus no punctuality plus bad services equals to Air India flight. Pune to Delhi flight turned out to be a nightmare.” Vikas Gupta also tweeted: “One of the official from Pune airport confirmed that same problem occurred on flight AI 852 on October 9 I am on-borded in Aircraft AI852 at 9.10 AM at Pune Airport but no cooling after multiple reminders to cabin crew. On take-off Captain announced that auxiliary conked off, could not be fixed at Pune. AC was on during take-off.” Customers are also complaining about being unable to reach the air line. Atharva Gore, a resident of Kothtrud said, “I have been trying their customer care number since last 5 days they are less bothered about receiving call or replying to email.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/passengers-suffer-as-ac-stops-working-in-pune-delhi-flight-101634147141481.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||Shivpal: Alliance with Samajwadi Party first priority||Agra Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party president Shivpal Yadav on Wednesday said that his first priority was to form an alliance with the Samajwadi Party in the upcoming UP assembly polls but he did not rule out the possibility of a tie-up with other “secular” parties. Shivpal Yadav, whose ‘samajik parivartan yatra’ had a halt in city on Tuesday night, interacted with journalists on Wednesday morning before moving on to Firozabad. “Our ‘samajik parivartan yatra’ has begun from Mathura, the birthplace of Lord Krishna and would end in Ayodha, the birthplace of Lord Rama. The yatra will move across all 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh before ending at Ayodhya,” said Shivpal Yadav. “We are open to alliance with like-minded political parties with secular values. At present our top priority is to have an alliance with Samajwadi Party (SP). It would be good if this alliance between SP and PSP happens,” said Shivpal who had earlier parted ways with the Samajwadi Party and formed his own party in 2018 after a feud with his nephew and former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Akhilesh Yadav. When asked about separate inaugurations of ‘yatra’ by SP and PSP from different cities, Shivpal Yadav said that even if the alliance occurred, then also two parties got together with their own existence continuing. Replying to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) performance in the state and at the centre, Shivpal said that both the governments failed to fulfill the promises they made to the masses. “The BJP promised to end corruption in 100 days, bring back black money, double the income of farmers, provide 15 lakh to every citizen and get released land occupied by China but failed to fulfill any of these promises. The slogan ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas’ has fallen flat,” alleged Shivpal.. “We will now reach the masses through ‘samajik parivartan yatra’ and highlight failures of the BJP in keeping its promises. We will seek support of the masses so that PSP forms government and lodges war against ‘bhookh’ (hunger), ‘bhaya’ (fear) and ‘bhrashtachar’ (corruption),” said the PSP president. “Farmers, youth and poor are facing difficulties during the present BJP rule and change is needed for which ‘samajik parivartan yatra’ will pave the way,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shivpal-alliance-with-samajwadi-party-first-priority-101634147022491.html
13-10-2021||Noida||Jewar gang rape: Prime suspect arrested||Three days after a 55-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped by four persons in Jewar, police on Wednesday arrested the prime suspect in the case. Police said that Mahender, 28, was arrested from Nangla village.“We have arrested the prime suspect. The woman had named Mahender from her village and three other men as the perpetrators,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety). According to police, Mahender had fled to Khurja and then Delhi after committing the crime. Police had arrested Devdutt alias Devu, 36, in connection with the case on Monday.“We are interrogating Mahender. He has not revealed how many people were involved in the rape incident. The victim speaks very little (to cops), and we are waiting for the forensic reports in this case,” the DCP said. “We are also conducting searches to arrest two other suspects,” Shukla said, adding that police will recommend a fast track court for swift delivery of justice in this case. The victim, who lives with her husband and five children in a Jewar village, had gone to trim grass in the field when four persons allegedly gang-raped her on October 10. A case was registered against four persons under sections 376-D (gang rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of the SC/ST Act.The victim’s family said that they are satisfied with the swift action in this case. “Police have arrested two persons and two others are still at large. We demand police to arrest them soon. The family has also got ₹2.5 lakh compensation as first instalment,” said a nephew of the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jewar-gang-rape-prime-suspect-arrested-101634146905359.html
13-10-2021||Noida||Noida authority inducts women guards, plans pink vending zones||The Noida authority on Wednesday announced multiple measures aimed at women empowerment in the city. Deployment of 26 women guards at its offices, vending zones for women and separate funds for women centric schemes are among the steps that the authority has decided to take up.During an event at the Indira Gandhi Kala Kendra in Sector 6, the authority on Wednesday inducted 26 women guards who will be deployed at its different offices in sectors 6, 5, 18 and 39, where they will assist the women visitors in need. All of these employees have been hired via a private agency, officials said, adding that the measures were taken under ‘Mission Shakti’, a UP government’s programme that aims to provide safety and job opportunities to women.The authority also decided to appoint four women employees, who will work as ‘swachhta doot’ (cleanliness messenger) to help keep the city clean. “Apart from these guards and cleanliness workers, we have also decided to allocate separate funds for women centric schemes. We will also come up with a plan to provide vending space only for women,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority. The vending zones, where only women can set up stalls/shops, will be called ‘Pink Vending Zones’, the officials said.“The move is to encourage women to become self-reliant economically. The authority will support those women who want to start their own business and need government support,” said Praveen Mishra, additional chief executive officer, Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-inducts-women-guards-plans-pink-vending-zones-101634146903871.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar bought Jarandeshwar sugar mill with help from shell companies, alleges Kirit Somaiya||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar bought the Jarandeshwar sugar mill with the help of shell companies, alleged Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya.Somaiya, who was in the city on Wednesday, provided documents and tried to establish that Pawar owns the sugar mill, which was earlier a cooperative factory and erected various layers in the transactions.“Sparkling Soil Private Limited company had 90.5 per cent shares in the Jarandeshwar factory and the company was established by Pawar and his wife Sunetra Pawar,” he alleged.“The income tax raids are underway at Pawar’s properties from last seven days and they will continue,” he said.“The Sparkling Soil Company has invested in Ambalika Sugar Private Limited, Nine Elements Developers Private Limited, Vikram Kakade construction private limited, Puturn Trading Private Limited, Nanded City Developers and Construction private limited,” he said.“When the income tax raids were underway at Pawar’s properties, he blamed the BJP. But while checking the documents, it was found that Pawar had purchased the factory in the name of Mohan Patil, who is the husband of Pawar’s sister Vijaya Patil,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-bought-jarandeshwar-sugar-mill-with-help-from-shell-companies-alleges-kirit-somaiya-101634146842723.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||Increased screen time causing multiple eye problems: Experts||Increased screen time in the past one-and-half-year due to the pandemic has given rise to multiple eye problems primarily dry eyes, say doctors.Sharing details of the issues faced by students using computer for online classes, Dr Arum Sharma, ophthalmology department, King George’s Medical University (KGMU) said, “Students who wear specs have greater chance of facing eye problem such as dry eyes while those not using specs or not having any eye problem too suffer with the problem. So, the risk is there with both the groups.”“Students regular on online classes should make sure they look away and blink eyes for a few seconds after at least every half-an-hour,” he advised.Moreover, doctors say the habit of watching movies or shows on cell phones during night has gone up particularly after switching off the lights and during such sessions the body posture remains relaxed but incorrect. “The screen should be at chest level and not at the level of the eyes,” said Dr Sharma, head of the community eye bank at KGMU.“Not just children or young but even elderly people have started using smartphones to kill lockdown boredom and excessive use of screen has resulted in eye problem. Many older people got the number for their specs revised as their vision got disturbed due to cell phones,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.Dr Shobhit Chawla, medical director and chief vitreoretinal consultant at Prakash Netra Kendra, Lucknow, said, “China and India together account for 49% of the world’s total burden of blindness and vision impairment with vision loss. In my clinical observation, we see about 30-35% retinal disease patients, 15% glaucoma patients and 50% cataract patients in a month. The key across all three conditions is timely diagnosis and treatment. Without timely treatment, the condition is allowed to progress and can result in irreversible vision loss.”“In the out-patient department (OPD), number of patients coming with problems like dry eyes has gone up,” said Dr Siddharth of the department of ophthalmology at KGMU.World Sight Day-2021, to be celebrated on Thursday (October 14), marks an opportunity to raise awareness about retinal diseases. Early detection is vital to prevent vision loss. There are various treatment options available that can limit disease progression and consulting an ophthalmologist is a key step to understanding options that can be beneficial.Tips for keeping eyes safe*Give the eyes break at every half-an-hour when watching screen continuously*Keep laptop or mobile preferably at the chest level*Get eyes checked every year if wearing specs*Even if no problem, one should get eyes checked once if using screen for long||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/increased-screen-time-causing-multiple-eye-problems-experts-101634146841416.html
13-10-2021||Jaipur||Ashok Gehlot’s upcoming Delhi visit sparks speculation of cabinet rejig in Rajasthan||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s expected visit to New Delhi for a Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting has once again sparked speculation of a cabinet rejig and political appointment in the state. The CWC meeting has been called on October 16 to discuss the current political situation, forthcoming assembly and organizational polls. A cabinet rejig and appointments had taken a backseat after the announcement of dates for assembly bypolls to be held on October 30. Leaders familiar with the development said after meetings between AICC general secretary Ajay Maken, Sachin Pilot and the party leadership that a rejig may happen soon. Their expectations, however, were reinforced with the appointment of health minister Raghu Sharma as in-charge for Gujarat on October 7, but thereafter nothing much happened. Now Gehlot’s likely visit to Delhi to attend the CWC meeting has sparked fresh speculation. This will be Gehlot’s second visit to the national capital this year after February. A senior leader familiar with developments said Gehlot is not part of the CWC but in most meetings held so far, the chief ministers of Congress ruled states had been attendees. “It is believed that Gehlot will meet AICC chief Sonia Gandhi, discuss a possible cabinet rejig and appointments and get her approval,” he said. He continued that a cabinet reshuffle and appointments are long awaited and it is now believed that it will happen with the Rajasthan CM’s visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ashok-gehlot-s-upcoming-delhi-visit-sparks-speculation-of-cabinet-rejig-in-rajasthan-101634146721377.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Katraj-Dehu road bypass: PWD commits to making “safety arrangements”||PUNE: With service road works underway on both sides of the Katraj to Dehu road bypass highway and demarcation between the highway and service road unclear at several spots, especially along the Katraj to Navale bridge chowk stretch, thousands of commuters who use this route daily are facing a risk to their lives.A senior official from the state public works department (PWD) said, “The service road work has been awarded to a private contractor and it is that contractor’s duty to put up barricades and maintain the safety of vehicles and commuters. Still we will once again review the risky spots and make necessary safety arrangements.”The seriousness of the issue once again came to the fore on October 4 when a youth, 37, died on-the-spot on this fatal stretch where the bypass highway suddenly becomes narrow even as a slope goes down to the service road on the side.Also along the stretch near Potdar International school, there are no barricades where the service road work is underway. The highway suddenly becomes narrow so one cannot differentiate between the highway and the service road which has been dug up with JCB machines operating on site. It is especially difficult at night to distinguish between the highway and the open service road as there are no reflectors, signage boards or barricades at the spot.Ramesh Khutwad who lives nearby said, “I travel daily along the bypass highway and it is getting riskier due to the ongoing service road work. Stones and mud are strewn over the highway and there are no proper barricades to separate the construction site from the highway. Many a time, we get confused as vehicles are speeding and the road suddenly becomes narrow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/katrajdehu-road-bypass-pwd-commits-to-making-safety-arrangements-101634146661720.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 519 new Covid cases, one death||On Wednesday, Pune district has reported 519 new Covid-19 cases and one death due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.14 million of which 1.12 million have recovered, 19,875 deaths and 8,281 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 57,000 doses vaccinated on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 273 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 362,413 and the death toll stood at 6,846 as one more death was reported on the day. Pune city reported 146 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 519,213 and the death toll stood at 9,181 as no more deaths were reported on the day. PCMC reported 100 new cases and the progressive count went up to 267,607 and the toll stood at 3,499 as no more deaths were reported. Pune also saw 57,612 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 11,360,287. Out of which 7,511,042 are first doses and 3,849,245 are second doses. A total of 839 sites saw vaccination of which 646 were government centres and 193 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-519-new-covid-cases-one-death-101634146602684.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||Ahead of 2022 UP polls, BJP unveils its ‘Jatav’ face against BSP||LUCKNOW: Nearly 34 days after she quit as Uttarakhand governor in September, two years ahead of the scheduled closure of her five-year gubernatorial stint, Baby Rani Maurya, the dalit woman leader from Agra arrived in Lucknow with hoardings prominently showcasing her dalit subcaste: Jatav. “Yes, I am a ‘dalit ki beti’ (daughter of a dalit),” she said soon after her arrival, while admitting that in the run up to the 2022 Uttar Pradesh (UP) elections, she would seek to rally the Jatavs – considered to be the mainstay of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and staunch backers of party chief Mayawati who too is a Jatav. Maurya, whose father was a Congress councillor in Agra and who edged closer to the BJP after her marriage, arrived in Lucknow on Tuesday for a felicitation function organised by the party’s Scheduled Caste wing. “With ‘Jatav’ prominently written in the backdrop, Maurya was presented with a memento of ‘Ram Darbar’ to symbolically represent RSS’s desire to unite Hindus,” a party leader who was present at the felicitation function at Lucknow’s Vishweshwaraiya Hall, explained. During the function, Maurya invoked Bhimrao Ambedkar reminding the predominantly dalit audience of Ambedkar’s three main things. “He wanted the community to be educated, to stay united and to fight against evil practices and BJP is the only party treading the path shown by Ambedkar,” she said to applause. The BJP had decided to get Maurya to hold rallies all over the state, with special focus on districts with sizeable dalit population, party leaders admitted. So far, despite cutting into BSP’s dalit vote, the BJP had largely preferred to woo non-Jatav dalits but having found a woman dalit leader in Baby Rani, the party was now seeking to aggressively woo the Jatavs too, party leaders confirmed. Of the nearly 21 per cent dalit vote bank in UP, Jatavs form a sizeable chunk, about 11 per cent and Maurya said she would try to win over the community. Hoardings put up across the state projected her as a Jatav leader and Maurya, who is now BJP’s national vice president, said she didn’t find anything wrong with it. “I was born into this caste. My family was and still is into leather and footwear work. For nearly three decades I have been with the BJP as a Jatav,” she said when asked if the focus on ‘Jatav’ was deliberate. Asked if she was confident of delivering the Jatav vote to the BJP, Maurya said, while the extent of breach in Maya’s vote bank remained to be seen, the community’s poor would ultimately side with a party that assured them education, growth and prosperity. “Can’t say much about the (shift of) cadre base vote (of BSP) but it is a fact that we would want them to (Jatavs) align with the BJP and for a good reason. After all, those who want good education for their children or employment will definitely go somewhere and we would surely want them over to our side on the basis of the good work that our governments have been doing,” she said. “So far the party lacked a Jatav woman leader and obviously now, the party leadership feels that Baby Rani having loyally served the party through its ups and downs in the state, appears to be a perfect choice to take on Mayawati and her party,” a party leader said. On her part, Baby refrained from making any direct attack on Mayawati even as the BJP’s SC cell chose to put up a hoarding prominently showcasing Baby’s face and her ‘Jatav’ caste close to Mayawati’s Mall Avenue residence. There has been no reaction from the BSP camp so far over the BJP projecting its own Jatav dalit woman face in the run up to 2022 UP polls. Mayawati, however, had recently revealed the intent to play up ‘soft Hindutva’ ahead of the UP polls, stating that if elected to power, her government would continue with development projects started by the BJP in Hindu holy cities of Ayodhya, Mathura and Varanasi. “This means that while the BJP is eyeing Maya’s base vote, the feisty BSP leader is looking to get even by playing up soft Hindutva,” said Irshad Ilmi, veteran political leader. Maurya said in BJP, there was no discrimination on caste lines and her rise was proof. “The BJP has acknowledged my work over the years, from being Agra’s first woman mayor, to member of women’s commission, governor and now national vice president. This is enough to show that in BJP, there is no discrimination and merit is promoted,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ahead-of-2022-up-polls-bjp-unveils-its-jatav-face-against-bsp-101634146601467.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune ZP to buy 50,000+ rapid antigen kits to avoid shortage||To avoid any possible shortage of rapid antigen kits in view of the upcoming festivities, the Pune zilla parishad is set to buy more than 50,000 such kits. A proposal has been drafted for the same and disaster management funds are being used to buy the kits. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the Pune zilla parishad, said, “Back in April when the second wave was at its peak, we had to face shortage of rapid antigen kits. Although the number of new Covid-19 cases is falling, the zilla parishad will buy over 50,000 rapid antigen kits to avoid any shortage in future. In April, Covid care centres (CCCs) faced rising demand for rapid antigen kits from the district’s Covid-19 hotspots. To bridge the gap, the district hospital had to supply kits from their own stock.”Justifying the purchase, Prasad said this is a long-term plan so as to not repeat the April 2021 situation at the peak of the second wave. “We need to keep testing more people. We do not want to bring down the testing numbers just because the number of new cases has gone down. This is part of our advanced planning and if we do not buy now, there is likely to be a shortage in the near future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-zp-to-buy-50-000-rapid-antigen-kits-to-avoid-shortage-101634146361300.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hero Women’s Pro Golf: Fiery Amandeep Drall takes leads after first round||Amandeep Drall lived up to her top billing with a flawless 4-under 68 that put her on top of the leaderboard at the end of the first round of the 10th leg of the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour at the Chandigarh Golf Club on Wednesday.The Panchkula golfer leads the combined Hero Order of Merit for 2020-21 despite missing out on the last few legs of the Tour because of being busy with events in Europe. After day one, she was one shot ahead of the highly rated amateur Avani Prashanth (69), who had four birdies against one bogey.Both Amandeep and Avani had a bogey-free 3-under 33 each on the back nine at the greens. They also had a birdie each on the front nine, but Avani also dropped a shot on the ninth, while Amandeep stayed error-free.Avani was the winner of the third leg and runner-up in the seventh leg in 2021. Amandeep is yet to taste a win in 2021, though she has two from 2020. She was runners-up to Avani in the third leg, so she has a score to settle with the youngster.Seher Atwal and Jahanvi Bakshi also carded under par rounds of 1-under 71 each to be tied-third. Seher and Jahanvi had contrasting rounds producing similar scores. Seher had two birdies on the front nine, while Jahanvi had two bogeys. However on the back nine, Seher had two birdies against three bogeys, while Jahanvi had three birdies and no bogeys.Vani Kapoor, with three birdies between ninth and 13th against three bogeys, two of them in the last three holes, shot 72. Amateur Puneet K Bajwa, who landed the day’s only eagle on the Par-3 16th, also had a 72 with an eventful run from 13th to 17trh, where she had no pars, but three bogeys with a birdie and an eagle in between.Gaurika Bishnoi started with a birdie on second but form deserted her thereafter. She had four bogeys in a space of five holes between fifth and ninth and on the back nine she had two each of birdies and bogeys.Pranavi Urs, Rhea Saravanan and Hitaashee Bakshi were also Tied-seventh with Gaurika at 3-over 75.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hero-women-s-pro-golf-fiery-amandeep-drall-takes-leads-after-first-round-101634146242961.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||Kheri violence: Two more held, minister’s son denied bail||Former Union minister the late Akhilesh Das’s nephew Ankit Das, whose name had surfaced during the investigation of the case related to the alleged mowing down of four farmers that led to violence in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Tikunia on October 3, and his private gunner Latif alias Kaale were arrested by police on Wednesday, said senior police officials.Meanwhile, a court in Lakhimpur Kheri denied bail to the main accused, Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister Ajay Mishra. Senior prosecution officer SP Yadav told PTI that Ashish Mishra and his alleged accomplice Ashish Pandey moved bail applications on Wednesday but they were rejected by chief judicial magistrate Chinta Ram.The officials said Das, said to be a close friend of Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra who is the main accused in the case, along with his gunner was present with Mishra at the violence site when Mishra’s car allegedly mowed down the four farmers.Four others, including journalist Raman Kashyap, Ashish Mishra’s driver Hari Om Mishra and two BJP workers Shyam Sunder and Shubham Mishra, were also killed during the violence broke out after mowing down of the farmers.The court of Lakhimpur Kheri chief judicial magistrate sent the duo to 14-day judicial custody. According The court later granted three-day police custody remand of Das, his gunner Latif alias Kaale and his driver Shekhar Bharti, who was arrested on Tuesday, from Thursday morning, said a press note issued by Lakhimpur Kheri police.The police had sought their custody saying their presence was required for the recreation of the sequence of incident at the violence site.A police official privy to the investigation said Ankit Das was arrested after multiple hours of questioning by the investigation committee led by deputy inspector general Upendra Agarwal after he appeared before it on Wednesday morning.He said Ankit Das, who had applied for surrender in a local court on Tuesday, appeared before the committee only a few hours after a notice directing his appearance before the police.Before Das’s arrest, his lawyer Razi Ahmad told reporters that Das had appeared before the investigation committee after receiving the notice regarding the case. He said why one would come without being asked for it. Das’s bodyguard Latif alias Kaale had also come. “We have not come here to surrender but to cooperate in the investigation,” Ahmad said while talking to reporters in Lakhimpur Kheri.Das’s driver Shekhar Bharati who reportedly was driving the black car behind Mishra’s car that allegedly mowed down four farmers that led to the violence was arrested earlier on Tuesday.So far, the police have arrested six accused, including the Union MoS’s son, his two accomplices Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey, in connection with the case. The police claimed that three other accused, including Mishra’s driver and two BJP workers, were killed during the violence.Ashish Mishra was named in an FIR following allegations that he was in one of the vehicles that mowed down four farmers protesting over UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit to Kheri on October 3. Ashish Mishra, 35, looks after the political activities of his father in his Kheri parliamentary constituency and was also vying for party ticket from Kheri’s Nighasan assembly seat to contest polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kheri-violence-two-more-held-minister-s-son-denied-bail-101634146241694.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Pune’s weekly Covid positivity rate continues to stay above state average||Even months after the second Covid-19 ebbed, at 3.7% Pune district’s weekly Covid-19 positivity rate continues to stay above the state weekly positivity of 2.0%.In the week between October 5 and October 11, the district reported 10,4571 Covid-19 tests out of which 3,855 new cases were reported which took the weekly combined positivity rate up to 3.7%.Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, a civil surgeon said, “We have been directed by the district collector that even though the situation appears to be much stable now keeping in view the situation in neighbouring districts and other districts the number of tests conducted needs to be increased. Even though the positivity may go up, the important thing is that the case fatality rate remains low due to Covid-19. Due to the high vaccination rate in the district, the severity among newer cases is much lower.”Meanwhile, new districts of concern have come up in the state in addition to the earlier districts like Ahmednagar, Ratnagiri, the new districts of concern are Nashik, Osmanabad, Palghar, Satara and Sindhudurg.The highest positivity rate as of between October 5 and October 11 is in Sindhudurg which is now witnessing a positivity rate of over 6.9%.Some of the newer districts have started reporting a spike in the number of new cases namely in Nashik (3.4%), Palghar (3.2%) and Sindhudurg at 6.9% which currently is reporting the highest positivity rate as 6,624 tests reported 459 new Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-weekly-covid-positivity-rate-continues-to-stay-above-state-average-101634146121320.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Ajit Pawar owns 57 companies, investment in deals through shell company: Somaiya||While Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar claim that the income-tax raids for the past six days have nothing to do with politics and family businesses, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya alleged that two of Pawar’s nieces and husband of one of them are directors/shareholders in companies owned by Ajit Pawar. Somaiya in a press conference on Wednesday alleged that Ajit Pawar owns 57 firms directly or indirectly (benami) and also has involvement in deals through a shell company called Yash V Jewels Limited. He also alleged that three leaders or ministers in Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government have dealt through Yash V Jewels, which was announced a shell company by SEBI in April 2009. NCP chief Sharad Pawar in his press conference on Wednesday said, “The raids on my three nieces are on for the sixth day in a row. The I-T teams have not found anything in the raids and the officers want to wind up the operation, but their ‘bosses’ from Delhi have instructed them to continue the raids. Three of my nieces are apolitical personalities and have nothing to do with the sugar mills or other businesses facing action.” “After the I-T raids on three sisters of Ajit Pawar last week, the deputy chief minister drew emotive card and said that his sisters had nothing to do with the companies. I am producing the documents today to show that Vijaya Patil and her husband and Nita Patil are the owners or shareholders in Jarandeshwar Sugar factory. The family including Ajit Pawar, his wife Sunetra and sisters hold ownership to the tune of 90.5% through their company Sparkling Soil Private Limited. The sugar factory was leased out to the family for 45 years, although there were 22 other bidders who backed out after showing interest. The Pawars created 27 layers to hide the fact related to the ownership,” Somaiya alleged. “The I-T raids are one of the biggest raids in the country so far. The I-T authorities have found many important documents hid in servants’ quarters, parking areas, inside the walls during these raids.” Ajit Pawar was not available for comment, while his office said that he will speak at an appropriate time. “The allegations are baseless,” said minority welfare minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ajit-pawar-owns-57-companies-investment-in-deals-through-shell-company-somaiya-101634146062840.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Dabholkar murder case: Prosecution submits list of 32 witnesses before UAPA court||PUNE: The prosecution on Wednesday submitted a list of 32 witnesses to be examined during the trial before the special Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) court in the Dr Narendra Dabholkar murder case.Special public prosecutor (SPP) Prakash Suryawanshi submitted the list in court and said that more witnesses may be added as required. Additional sessions judge S R Navandar accepted the list of witnesses and posted the matter for hearing on October 29, when the much awaited trial is likely to begin. The court said that two witnesses related to the inquest panchnama and search of Dabholkar’s house in Pune would be examined on the next day of hearing. The court also directed the prosecution and defense to schedule the dates for examination of witnesses. The judge said that after October 29, more witnesses would be examined during the subsequent hearings on November 13, 20 and 27; and December 4, 11, 18, 19 and 25.Advocate Suvarna Avhad, who represents the accused, submitted an application before the court seeking details such as the recording of the post-mortem of Dabholkar’s body, and photographs and X-ray reports of the dead body from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).During the earlier hearing, SPP Suryawanshi argued that the accused had committed an act of terrorism and sought an order from the special UAPA court for framing of charges against them under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), Arms Act, and UAPA. The prosecution and defense in the case are expected to begin their arguments on framing of charges against the five accused. Of the five accused, three (Dr Virendrasinh Sharadchandra Tawade, Sachin Prakashrao Andure and Sharad Bhausaheb Kalaskar) have been imprisoned under sections 302 (murder), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention) of the IPC along with section 3(25) of the Arms Act. The case also includes sections of the UAPA.The CBI, which took over the probe from Pune city police in 2014, has till now charge sheeted five accused, all of them allegedly having links to the right-wing Hindutva outfit, Sanatan Sanstha. The five are ear-nose-throat surgeon Dr Tawade; Sachin Andure and Sharad Kalaskar (the two alleged assailants); Mumbai-based lawyer Sanjeev Punalekar; and his aide Vikram Bhave; all of whom were arrested at different times between 2016 and 2019. Of the five, Tawade, Andure and Kalaskar are currently in jail while Punalekar and Bhave are out on bail.Dabholkar, 67, veteran rationalist and founder of the Maharashtra Andhashraddha Nirmoolan Samiti (MANS), was shot dead by two unidentified assailants while he was on a morning walk along the V R Shinde bridge near Omkareshwar temple in Pune on August 20, 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dabholkar-murder-case-prosecution-submits-list-of-32-witnesses-before-uapa-court-101634146061232.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Chorus grows louder to allow 100% occupancy at theatres, auditoriums||Theatres and auditoriums are set to reopen in Pune city and state from October 22 at 50% seating capacity. But members from the entertainment industry have appealed to the state government to reconsider the decision and allow 100% occupancy.Amol Kolhe, Member of Parliament from Pune district and an actor, has written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and requested him to reconsider the decision.“Considering the revenue model of the entertainment industry the 50% seating capacity norm must be reconsidered,” he said.“Movies and plays are watched with family and loved ones. Many would rethink before going to watch a drama with family members. Also, fully vaccinated citizens have been allowed in public transport, crowded places, and malls. The condition of 50% capacity at theatres would cause an immense financial loss to the entertainment industry which is already struggling with huge losses,” he said.“While allowing the theatres to operate at 100% capacity there is a need to exclude fully vaccinated individuals from the seating arrangements as per the current SOPs. They should be allowed to sit together,” he said.Strategists and planners from the film industry pointed out that several films are ready and haven’t yet been released because of norms and with 50% restrictions producers would refrain from releasing the films.“There are many films in line to be released. But with 50% norm no good film would be released as it is not viable for parties involved,” said Vinod Satav, founder of Lead Media, strategists and marketing firm for Marathi films.“Earlier when we had met CM, we specifically had requested him to reopen the theatres with full capacity. The decision should be taken immediately,” said Sunil Mahajan, president, Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Natya Parishad, Kothrud Branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chorus-grows-louder-to-allow-100-occupancy-at-theatres-auditoriums-101634145821379.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt announces ₹10,000 crore compensation for flood-affected farmers||Under fire from the opposition and the farmers’ organisations, the state government announced the package of ₹10,000 crore for the compensation to the farmers for the damages to the crops on 55 lakh hectares of land this monsoon since June. The package, however, includes the amount already announced for the agricultural losses due to the downpour in Konkan, western Maharashtra and other parts of the state in July. Eight districts of central Maharashtra, many districts in Vidarbha and north Maharashtra suffered heavy losses of lives, livestock and the crops in last week of September. More than 1.2 million (mn) hectares under cultivation were damaged, more than 20 people had died in eight districts of central Maharashtra in September while the total damage suffered since June 1 was more than 2.5mn hectares. Opposition and farmers organisations had demanded to announce wet drought so that the farmers were adequately compensated. The agricultural crop losses in central Maharashtra alone is estimated to be ₹1,796 crore since June this year. The state cabinet on Wednesday gave a nod to the package of ₹10,000 crore towards the compensation to the farmers whose crops were damaged this monsoon. The compensation has been announced at additional rates keeping the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) norms aside. “The cabinet has decided to extend the compensation of ₹10,000 a hectare for the crop losses on non-irrigated land; ₹15,000 per hectare for the losses of crops on irrigated land and ₹25,000 a hectare for the losses of perineal crops. The NDRF norms with the compensation rate ranging between ₹6,800 and ₹18000 have been increased and the state government will bear the burden,” said agriculture minister Dada Bhuse. The compensation, however, includes the package of ₹11,500 crore announced towards the losses suffered in the downpour in Konkan, Western Maharashtra and other parts in the last week of July. “Around ₹1,500 crore of it was towards the compensation to the damages of agricultural damages, and ₹365 crore of it has already been disbursed. Around ₹554 crore towards the compensation for the non-agricultural losses has been disbursed so far. The package announced today is for the crop losses suffered across the state since the outset of the monsoon on June 1,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department. The state government has submitted a memorandum of ₹1,659 crore to the Central government for the relief package as per the NDRF norms for the losses in the July downpour. The officer said that the spot assessment of the losses in September flooding is yet to be completed and the funds will be released as and when the reports are finalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-announces-10-000-crore-compensation-for-flood-affected-farmers-101634145642724.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Pune’s Mula-Mutha riverfront development project: no more red, blue flood lines||PUNE The Mula-Mutha riverfront development project, ready to now be undertaken by the Pune municipal corporation (PMC), will see bring the concept of “red” and “blue” lines (flood lines) to an end. The river channel itsel will now be the flood line. Speaking anonymously, PMC officials, on Wednesday, confirmed that Pune’s river will developed along the lines of the Sabaramati riverfront in Ahmedabad – where there are no red and blue flood lines.The PMC’s standing committee, on Tuesday, cleared the riverfront project, with the Sangam bridge to Yerwada section of the river to be developed in the first phase.While all parties have approved the project, the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) MP Vandana Chavan raised concerns about the rivers. Chavan said, “A river cannot be considered in phases and it is one unit. The Irrigation department as well as the Central Water and Power Research Institute (CWPRS), also raised concerns about this project. Though the municipal administration claims that the CWPRS had given the nod, it’s not 100 per cent true.”Chavan added, “Irrigation department clearly said that the crosssection of the river shoukd not be altered. In spite of this, the municipal corporation decided to go ahead, without addressing these concerns. Citizens must think about it and before executing this mega project.”With the municipal elections due early next year, many elected members have raised eyebrows about the project getting cleared. The state government had asked for a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to be formed to execute this project. Pune’s Mayor Murlidhar Mohol who is the president of the SPV said, “After lot of follow ups, this project is moving ahead. It is a mega project and we will ensure that rest of the phases start very soon.”Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasane said, “The same consultant that prepared the DPR for Ahmedabad will do so for PMC.” Total cost of the project is Rs2,619 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-mula-mutha-riverfront-development-project-no-more-red-blue-flood-lines-101634145641226.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Murder of 14-year-old girl in Pune: Main suspect arrested; 4 in custody||PUNE The police have arrested four persons for the violent murder of a 14-year-old girl in Bibwewadi on Tuesday. While two minors were detained late on Tuesday, the main suspect, 22-year-old Hrishikesh, alias Shubham Bhagwat, was apprehended from the Bibwewadi area where he was trying to hide, a police official said on Wednesday. Bhagwat, who was stalking the victim, and two of his accomplices, allegedly hacked the Class 8 student to death with a sickle at a playground where she was practicisng kabaddi on Tuesday. “We have arrested four persons which include three juveniles in conflict with the law who were detained last night,” said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has asked the police to ensure the suspects are given the harshest punishment for the crime, which according to him was an, “indication of the overall deterioration of social values”. “The incident is extremely serious. I have asked the police to take all possible efforts and ensure that the suspects are awarded the harshest punishment,” said Pawar. Police officers said that Bhagwat, a relative of the victim, was allegedly stalking her for months, and reached the playground along with two other friends on Tuesday evening. He then took the girl aside. An argument ensued and Bhagwat pulled out a sickle from his bag and hacked her to death. “The girl was at a playground where local groups hold kabaddi practices and fitness classes for children. Three people, including a 22-year-old man, came on a bike and attacked the girl with a sharp weapon. The attack was so brutal that the girl died on the spot,” DCP Patil had said after the incident. The other two, according to police, were also carrying sharp weapons and assaulted the girl. Police said the attack unfolded in front of the victim’s friends and others who came for an evening walk.Police also recovered a toy pistol from the spot, which was allegedly used to scare off the victim’s friends. Police said Shubham was staying at the victim’s house with her family in the Bibwewadi area, when he began stalking her. “Shubham was stalking her for some time though after knowing about this, the girl’s parents had warned him to leave their house and he went to stay in another area at Chinchwad,” said Sunil Zaware, senior police inspector, Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/murder-of-14-year-old-girl-in-pune-main-suspect-arrested-4-in-custody-101634145281549.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||Ravana cut down to size in Lucknow, courtesy inflation, Covid-19||Gone are the days when Lucknowites used to see giant Ravana effigies — some as tall as 121ft — being burnt on Dussehra at Aishbagh along with huge effigies of Kumbhkarn and Meghnad.Rising inflation and the pandemic has taken a toll on Ravan effigies, while the effigies of Kumbhkarna and Meghnad have altogether disappeared.Now, even the oldest Ramleela of the city in Aishbagh has only an 80-feet-tall Ravan effigy, while the effigy in Mausambagh Ramleela is just 40 feet tall. In Rajajipuram, the effigy of Ravan is about 35 feet tall.Aditya Dwivedi, secretary, Aishbagh Ramleela committee, said, “Though the Covid-19 restrictions have eased, we are still not fully out of the pandemic. Protocols are still in place to avoid the third wave of the pandemic. The market is still dull so the contribution from people is not that great. The budget for the Ramleela has been increasing every year because everything is becoming costly. Inflation is on the rise so the height of the Ravan effigy had to be reduced while we decided to do away with the effigies of Kumbhkarna and Meghnad.”Ghanshyam Agarwal of Mausamganj Ramleela Committee said everything has become twice as expensive compared to last year. “With our limited budget and scare of Coronavirus we can only manage a 40-feet-tall effigy of Ravan,” he said.Artisan Ashok Kumar, who has been making effigies of Ravana for the last 20 years said, “The cost of Ravan has almost doubled compared to last year. While the price of paper and bamboo have risen, we have to also use eco-friendly crackers which don’t create pollution. All this only adds to the cost. However, to reduce the cost many Ramleela committees have reduced the size of their effigies.”He said, “In the past, many private housing societies used to order Ravan effigies of 20 feet. They are now ordering just 5 to 10-feet-tall Ravan effigy. Effigies of Kumbhkarn and Meghnad have not been ordered this year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ravana-cut-down-to-size-in-lucknow-courtesy-inflation-covid19-101634144921275.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Mishra must resign over Lakhimpur Kheri: Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Wednesday trained his guns on the Narendra Modi-led Union government over what he termed as “misuse of central agencies” and the killing of eight persons, including four farmers, in Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh on October 3. Pawar also commented on the October 7 Income Tax department searches on the premises of three of his nieces, saying, “Guests should not overstay their welcome.” The 80-year-old politician was addressing a press conference at party’s office in Mumbai, where he demanded the resignation of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra, whose son Ashish was allegedly driving one of the three cars that ran over a group of protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri. Ashish was denied bail by a local court on Wednesday. Pawar said Mishra’s resignation was necessary to maintain people’s faith in the system. “Despite the gruesome killing, the ruling party in the Uttar Pradesh and Central government tried to shrug off the responsibility,” he said. “Ashish Mishra was arrested only after the Supreme Court pulled up the government. To ensure faith of the people in the system, the minister needs to resign from the post.”Pawar alleged that central agencies such as Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Income Tax (I-T) Department, Enforcement Directorate (ED), and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are being misused by the Centre, adding that the IT raids against his nieces in Pune were the result of his statement that the Lakhimpur Kheri incident was similar to the Jallianwala Bagh massacre of April 1919. He said some Central ministers told him that this comparison “was taken very seriously by the ‘central leadership’.” “The raids on my three nieces are on for a sixth day in a row. The I-T teams have not found anything in the raids and the officers want to wind up the operation, but their ‘bosses’ from Delhi have instructed them to continue. Three of my nieces are apolitical personalities and have nothing to do with the sugar mills or other businesses facing action. Large, 18-member teams are raiding my nieces who live small houses. We are not against the action, but it should not cross limits.”Pawar also questioned NCB’s action during the raids on a cruise party in Mumbai and agency’s association with people that face criminal charges. Aryan, the 23-year-old son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, was among those arrested for possession and consumption of narcotics. “I have heard many stories about NCB’s zonal chief during his tenure at Mumbai airport, but I will not speak about it as I have no specific information. However, there are questions over the agency’s association with the people such as Kiran Gosavi who himself faces criminal cases and is shown as absconding in police records. He is NCB’s independent witness in the case. It raises the question over the integrity of the central agency. The agency appears to take action only for the sake of publicity and to show to their bosses in Delhi and to oblige them. The seizures by Maharashtra’s anti-narcotics cell is much more than what NCB could achieve in last few years,” he said. Pawar questioned why Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders stood in NCB’s support after the allegations levelled by NCP leader Nawab Malik. Pawar criticised former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis who had taunted the Congress-NCP government over the Maval firing on farmers 10 years ago. Pawar said that the Maval firing was done to disperse a mob that had gone out of control. He also alleged that the farmers in Maval were instigated by the local BJP leaders. BJP’s Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis hit back at Pawar, saying, “Pawar saheb said the Maval firing was not done by the state government, but it was the act of the police. He should also remember that the Jallianwala Bagh firing, too, was not done by the governor general but it was ordered by him and done by the police. Pawar saheb should be worried about the sensational information which is coming out to the fore from raids conducted by the central agencies. He should ask his government to curb the rampant corruption.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mishra-must-resign-over-lakhimpur-kheri-sharad-pawar-101634144861276.html
13-10-2021||Other||Woman, daughter killed by armed men in Prayagraj; husband injured||PRAYAGRAJ: Unidentified miscreants brutally killed a woman, her daughter with sharp-edged weapons and seriously injured husband of the woman at Miya-Ka-Pura village under Industrial area police station in trans-Yamuna region of the district late Tuesday night, police said. Villagers came to know about the incident when the couple’s six-year-old granddaughter came out of the house on Wednesday morning and informed villagers that her grandparents and aunt were lying motionless, they said. Senior police officials reached the spot with dog squad and forensic team for investigation after getting information about the incident from the villagers. The injured aged man was immediately admitted to the hospital while the bodies of the two women were sent for a postmortem examination, they added. According to reports, Bajrang Bahadur aka Nachkau, 60, his wife Prema Devi, 56, daughter Tanu, 18 and granddaughter Anshika, 6, were asleep at their house at Miya-ka-Pura village on Tuesday night. Late in the night, some unidentified miscreants barged into their house and attacked them with sharp-edged weapons. However, they did not harm Anshika. On Wednesday morning, Anshika came out crying from her home and called villagers. Locals were shocked when they saw the family members lying in pool of blood and immediately called police. Bajrang Bahadur was rushed to the hospital after he was found alive. Investigations revealed that bodies of Prema Devi and Tanu had multiple injuries on their bodies including on the neck. Miscreants had also broken locks of an almirah and trunks. However, details of missing valuables would be available only after arrival of Prema Devi’s elder daughter, police said. During investigations by field unit and dog squad, a pair of shoes and a blood-stained wooden club, were found at the back of the house. The enraged locals staged a protest against the incident and were pacified by senior police officials. SP (trans-Yamuna) Saurabh Dixit said locals were being questioned and all angles were under investigation. “The aged man injured in the assault may give vital clues about the miscreants and he will be questioned once his condition is better. A hunt has been launched for suspects in the surrounding areas,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-daughter-killed-by-armed-men-in-prayagraj-husband-injured-101634144741168.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Cycle track around Powai Lake flouts DCR’||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) clarification on the Powai Lake cycle track dispute issued earlier this week has come under fire from environmentalists who have pointed out that the project contravenes the BMC’s own development control regulations (DCR). The BMC had said: “Statutorily, Powai Lake reservoir is demarcated as a Natural Area (NA) in the Development Plan for Greater Mumbai (2034). The repairs, remodeling and extension works around Powai Lake are in line with part VII of Regulation 3.7 of the DPR”. It states that board walks, trekking facilities, public sanitary conveniences for visitors and sewage pumping stations are permissible within eco-sensitive areas with requisite permissions, which the MCGM has obtained from the Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee (MHCC) which is the Apex Statutory State Body of Government of Maharashtra, and MHCC has accorded its approval. Environmentalists have pointed to a provision in the BMC’s development plan which bars any construction work in close proximity of the lake. “The BMC has said a lot in their own press release, but they haven’t said anything about the fact that BMC’s own DCR does not allow ‘any construction whatsover’ in the 100m zone of the periphery of Powai Lake. Only the south part of the lake has a promenade sanctioned in the DP Plan. The rest of the periphery does not have any such development sanctioned,” said environmentalist Zoru Bhatena. Others campaigning to have the project revoked have expressed concern that work to construct the cycle track has been going on in full swing, despite the MCGM’s assurance that an expert committee will first evaluate the project and suggest mitigation measures to protect the area’s ecology and wildlife, which includes several Indian marsh crocodiles, a species protected under the Wildlife Protection Act (1972). The BMC earlier this week instated “a committee, comprising environmental experts... to discuss the site development and carry out any mitigation measures required to not just alleviate, but also enhance the Lake and its surroundings.” The committee is working on a detailed project analysis to handhold MCGM for sustainable construction during and after the project. The committee includes leading professionals in the field of environmental science, aquatic ecologies, herpetology, and a hydraulics expert with the MCGM. “There is no sign yet of the committee’s report, and there has been no news of any site visits by the committee to ascertain the ground situation,” said Amrita Bhattacharjee, another environmentalist who has been following the issue. The BMC, however, said that the committee has “deliberated in detail the environmental issues of Powai Lake, assessed various technologies and upon weighing their respective pros and cons, considers the gabion wall technology as the most adaptable method of construction, one which will be least intrusive to the natural environment of the lake.” HT reached out to committee members Dr Rakesh Kumar of NEERI and Dr Deepak Apte, formerly of the Bombay Natural History Society, for a comment on their deliberations but did not receive a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cycle-track-around-powai-lake-flouts-dcr-101634144381576.html
13-10-2021||Other||Over 73% construction work of Bundelkhand Expressway completed: UPEIDA CEO||Lucknow: The construction of Bundelkhand Expressway is going on at a fast pace as more than 73% physical work of the project has been completed, said chief executive officer (CEO), UP Expressway Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), Awanish Kumar Awasthi. A meeting to review the progress of the project’s construction was held through video conferencing under the chairmanship of Awasthi on Wednesday. The officers of the construction companies as well as the senior officers of UPEIDA were present in the meeting. Awasthi said, “The construction of bridges on rivers Yamuna and Betwa, falling on the expressway, was going on at a fast pace. Instructions have been issued to expedite the work of railway over-bridges and other structures on the expressway. The officers of the construction companies have also been asked to speed up the construction of toll plazas and toilet blocks. The remaining earthwork would be completed expeditiously.” Till Wednesday, the 100% clearing, grubbing work and 96% of soil work had been completed on the expressway. Out of the 882 structures, the work on 749 structures, which is more than 85% of the total work, has also been completed. The 93.43% of sub grade level work, 92.17% GSB level work and 86.65% WMM work, besides the work on all 1,465 piles for the construction of long bridges have also been completed. The work on all 14 long bridges and four railway over-bridges of the project and the construction of 19 flyovers are also in progress. The total length of Bundelkhand Expressway Project is 296.07 km.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-73-construction-work-of-bundelkhand-expressway-completed-upeida-ceo-101634144141093.html
13-10-2021||Other||Covid-19 vaccination must for inbound migrant workers: Lucknow DM||LUCKNOW: Anticipating big homecoming of migrant workers this festive season, Lucknow district administration has made Covid-19 vaccination mandatory for all inbound migrant workers coming from Kerala, Tamil Nādu, Andhra Pradesh and other northern states. Besides, the administration has directed Nigrani Samitis and village heads to keep a track on the workers and ensure they are vaccinated. “We are expecting homecoming of the migrant workers, in large number, who may further act as Covid-19 spreaders. Hence, it is mandatory for us to ensure that all migrant labourers returning from Covid-19 hit states get vaccinated, if they have not been jabbed yet,” stated a recent order of district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Prakash. The DM also ordered Nigrani Samitis and village heads to ensure that migrant workers get vaccinated if they were still not inoculated. “Nigrani Samitis and village heads have a major role to play this festive season. They have to maintain a record of the migrant workers visiting their villages and to ensure whether they are vaccinated or not. If not, they should inform the administration and get them vaccinated,” he said. In addition, the administration has launched two mobile vaccination vans in the rural pockets and made it mandatory for them to vaccinate at least 1000 people in a day. Also, the administration has directed the medical teams to carry out random sampling and testing in the rural areas as well. The DM has appealed to the people in the city areas that they ensure that their near and dear ones are fully vaccinated. Also, he constituted a task force to make it sure the Covid protocols are followed during this festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-vaccination-must-for-inbound-migrant-workers-lucknow-dm-101634143481081.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Over 1,000 govt offices sent phishing email; prompt action by cyber police restricts impact||Maharashtra cyber police, which is probing the Mumbai cyber police station email account compromise matter, has found that the suspicious email was sent to over 1,000 government offices and private persons. A preliminary probe indicated that the unidentified attackers intended to steal confidential information. However, prompt suo-motto action by the state cyber police restricted the impact of the attack. The officers contacted the email recipients and asked them to change their passwords. “We detected the attack during our regular surveillance and by contacting as many as recipients through calls, emails and other media we managed to reduce the impact of the attack to the minimum by advising them to change the passwords of their email accounts,” said Sanjay Shintre, Superintendent of police, state cyber. “Attackers may have done this by temporarily hacking the cyber cell email account,” an officer said. The email was sent from the email ID belonging to the east region cyber police station, and it is in the name of senior inspector Rajesh Shivajirao Nagawade. Nagawade didn’t respond to phone calls. “It would not be completely correct to say that the cyber police station’s account has been hacked, as they didn’t lose access to it, but email was sent by using their e-mail ID, said a state cyber police officer. Targeted recipients received suspicious emails under the subject “Terrorists behind JK attacks gunned down in Mumbai.” The email had an attached PDF document named “Report Intelligence.” On clicking the document, the users were directed to a website and their email account got compromised, said a police officer. Thousands of police offices, government officers and private individuals from Maharashtra, Delhi and other parts of the country had received the phishing email. “Preliminary inquiry has revealed that the email was sent from Rawalpindi, Punjab province of Pakistan. But we are not sure if the email, in reality, was sent from Pakistan, or the cybercriminals used other methods to show it that it is sent from the servers in Pakistan. It is learnt that an individual from UP was behind creating the PDF document, but nothing much can be shared at this stage. The investigation is on,” an officer said requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-1-000-govt-offices-sent-phishing-email-prompt-action-by-cyber-police-restricts-impact-101634142461229.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Covid killed more senior citizens in Mumbai than any other age group: Study||On October 4, a 63-year-old retired businessman from Borivli, who spent eight days at the Seven Hills Hospital in Marol battling Covid-19, went into cardiac arrest. The businessman had hypertension and heart disease for which he was soon to undergo an angioplasty. He had taken the first shot of the vaccine in July and the second one was due this month when Covid-19 struck. He is one among the 10,387 senior citizens who have succumbed to Sars-CoV-2 since the start of the pandemic, and according to data provided to Hindustan Times by the civic body, also part of the age group that has seen the highest mortality.In Mumbai, over half the Covid-19 deaths have been reported in senior citizens. According to data provided by the civic body, 51% of all deaths recorded from the start of the pandemic till October 10, 2021, have been in the age group of 61 to 80 years. While 13.3% of the deaths were seen among those above the age of 80, nearly 37% of deaths were recorded among people between 20-60 years, which is largely the working age group. An analysis carried out by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on mortality figures shows that senior citizens have remained the most vulnerable group throughout both waves of the pandemic. Of the 16,149 deaths recorded in the city till October 10, the most number of deaths were seen in the 61 to 70 years age group (27.4%). The 71-80 age group recorded 23.6% of all deaths. Together, these two groups contributed to 51% of the city’s deaths. “The advanced age and comorbid conditions are the main reasons why senior citizens have remained susceptible,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, intensive care specialist at Fortis Hospital and member of the state’s Covid-19 task force. The civic data showed that a majority of the deceased across all age groups had diabetes and hypertension which led to severe symptoms of Covid-19 and made recovery difficult. Underlying diseases have also been linked to prolonged hospitalisation and oxygen requirement and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) admissions according to doctors who have been treating Covid patients throughout the pandemic. The civic body did not record the vaccination status of those who have died due to Covid-19, as the national vaccination programme began only at the start of this year, and was opened out to cover senior citizens starting March 1. Since then, Mumbai has achieved nearly 75% full vaccination coverage in senior citizens – the city has an estimated 1.10 million people who are above 60 years. “But we must remember that Covid-19 has not gone. The infection is still lurking. While vaccination will provide a certain degree of protection, Covid appropriate behaviour is a must,” said Pandit. “Those who are vaccinated must not let their guards down.” While the second wave has been receding and the daily number of infections in the city has been steady, medical experts have expressed concern about breakthrough infections and re-infections. Breakthrough infections are those that occur among people two weeks after completing the mandated full vaccination schedule. While many hospitals are individually collecting data, there is still limited data available on the overall incidence of breakthroughs and re-infections seen in Mumbai. “Senior citizens and people with comorbidities may not have the same degree of protection from the vaccine compared to others,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Tanu Singhal from Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital. “If one has symptoms, it’s best to immediately seek medical help and get tested even if they are fully vaccinated. New treatment options like the monoclonal antibodies can prevent severe disease if patients seek timely help,” she said. Effect on childrenMortality figures among children have remained the lowest through the pandemic: 0.1% among those below 10 years, and 0.3% among 11- to 20-year-olds. Experts said that these figures indicated that the decision to open schools was accurate. “Parents should not be reluctant to send their children to schools,” said Singhal. “Adults are stepping out. Children are stepping out to play and going out with the adults. Thus, going to school will not present any additional risk. People must ensure that adults at home, mainly grandparents are vaccinated. Only children who have severe comorbid conditions should continue to stay at home [to stay safe],” she said. Experts said the stay-at-home orders during the pandemic have resulted in mental health issues among children, and many are even reluctant to get back to a schedule. “They have to be gradually brought back into the schedule,” said Singhal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-killed-more-senior-citizens-in-mumbai-than-any-other-age-group-study-101634142280902.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan chatted about drugs in bulk quantity with a foreigner: NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), while opposing the bail application of Aryan Khan, model Munmun Dhamecha and actor Arbaaz Merchant, told the court that they have written to the Ministry of External Affairs, seeking help to arrest a foreign national who has allegedly chatted with the accused and is a suspected peddler. The agency told the court that Khan has chatted with peddlers about drugs in bulk quantity, and used to procure drugs through Merchant.Additional solicitor general, Anil Singh, who appeared for the NCB and opposed the bail applications of the three, told the court that bail applications are heard day in and out, but it is not like they have to be decided on the same day. NCB is a credible agency dealing with drug trafficking. Consumption of drugs by youngsters is affecting the whole nation, not only economically but also otherwise. The agency is concerned about the gangs involved and efforts are made to trace them.“They have been arguing Aryan Khan was invited to the cruise ship however who invited and when invited nothing is shown on record. It’s not a simple case that you were invited and you have only consumed drugs. After the third remand application we have applied section 29 of the Narcotics and Psychotropic Substance Act (NDPS) Act that is for abetment and criminal conspiracy. There are twenty accused, out of which four are drug peddlers. We have evidence in the form of WhatsApp chats that Khan and Merchant were in touch with them.”ASG further told the court, “There are chats which mention about commercial quantities or bulk quantities. There are chats with foreign nationals in reference to hard drugs. Somebody won’t order bulk quantities for consumption. There is something more. We have spoken to the Ministry of External Affairs and are trying to locate the foreign national.”“It’s a chain and all are connected. If they are given bail it will hamper our further investigations. The contraband was with Arbaaz for consumption of both, both were aware about it. Whatever may be the quantity, if section 29 of NDPS is applied, the punishment will be the same for all due to conspiracy. The person who is charged with the offence will be punished with the same offence as the conspirator.”The counsels for Khan have also argued that he has retracted his statement. They did the same on October 3, however, we have also recorded his statement on October 4, which is not retracted.“You have the right to retract, but when are you saying that you have retracted. You have not retracted your second statement, which talks about your consumption.”Earlier senior counsel Amit Desai, who argued for Khan’s bail application, told the court.“They are not drug peddlers or drug traffickers, but young kids. They have learnt their lessons, let us not penalise them.”The NDPS act itself was reformed and punishment for consumption was brought down. Reformation is the way. Even Cannabis was removed from the dangerous drugs schedule. Something has to be done, but this is not the way to do it. In many countries, this substance is legal. They have suffered enough.“Nothing was found on Aryan Khan. Whatever was found was from Merchant, that too 6g of Charas, the agency has been relying on his statement and claiming that both of them used to consume it. This has a one-year punishment, the involvement in consumption, no substance for sale, and there is no money, so no purchase.”Desai told the court that Aryan had no money so there was no question of purchase.The agency has said in its remand application the accused are “inextricably connected with each other” and “it is not possible to dissect the role, involvement of one accused from that of the other.”“Don’t they say this in every case, they said they wanted to inquire about international drug trafficking on October 4, we are now on October 13. They are saying that they have connection and nexus, whom are they talking of. Khan and Merchant know each other, that’s a fact.”The allegations levelled against Khan by the agency of illicit drug trafficking are frightening, very serious allegations they have dumped upon him. There is no material found on him, they are talking about cultivation, sale, purchase of drugs there is nothing against him and is this a responsible agency?Khan has not been arrested for conspiracy; other persons arrested are in separate punchnama; how can they all be linked.Senior counsel Taraq Sayyad, who argued for Merchant, told the court, “It’s a clear case of consumption. The court should immediately grant bail; there is even no need for prosecution. Both were together and they have already accepted the fact; they don’t know anybody else. They have already spent time in jail so should be granted bail.”Ali Kashif Khan, who argued for Dhamecha, told the court, “I am a fashion model who had gone to do a ramp walk on the cruise. They recovered drugs from my room but there were two more people in the same room. I had just reached the cruise when the raid happened.”Additional sessions judge, VV Patil, after hearing both the sides, adjourned the matter to Thursday as ASG Anil Singh wanted to further argue in the matter.A metropolitan magistrate has rejected the bail applications of Khan, Dhamecha and Merchant, saying that they were not maintainable before it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-chatted-about-drugs-in-bulk-quantity-with-a-foreigner-ncb-101634141741262.html
13-10-2021||Patna||Patna: Man shot dead, woman injured||A man was shot dead while a woman was injured after two criminals opened fire at her in two separate incidents in Patna on Tuesday night. No arrest has been made in either case so far.The first incident occurred around 2 am Wednesday when two unidentified assailants shot dead Bablo Choudhary (25), a real estate dealer, near Jallan School under Chowk police station. “The assailants opened fire at Babloo as he left the puja pandal for the house. They fired twice at Babloo, who he died on the spot,” said Gaurishankar Gupta, station house officer of Chowk police station.In the second incident, Arti Devi alias Mona (36), a model by profession, was shot at by two assailants at Ramnagri under Rajiv Nagar police station. The incident occurred around 10 pm when she returned home with her 11-year-old daughter after visiting Puja pandals. “The criminals fired at Arti from the back when she was parking her Scooty at her house. Hearing screams of her daughter and gunshots, people rushed out of their houses and immediately took her to a private hospital. She had participated in ‘Miss Bihar’ 2020,” said Saroj Kumar, SHO of Rajiv Nagar police stationHe said a case was lodged on a statement by Arti’s husband Suman Kumar against unidentified criminals. “The police are looking into the matter. Arti is out of danger,” he said.Father, son drownSanjay Kumar (40) and his 15-year-old- son Krissh Kumar drowned at Pirdamaria ghat while trying to collect soil and water for “Asthami” Puja on Wednesday morning. A team of state disaster relief force was trying to retrieve their bodies, police said. Kumar’s wife Sandhya Devi said, “Sanjay and Krissh left house around 5 am to collect soil and water for ‘Asthami’ worship. Krissh fell into river Ganga. To rescue him, Sanjay jumped into water but both drowned,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-man-shot-dead-woman-injured-101634141384472.html
13-10-2021||Patna||Delhi arrest turns lens on Bihar terror links again||The arrest of Pakistani national Mohammad Ashraf alias Ali, who was nabbed from Laxmi Nagar in New Delhi by the Delhi Police, has again turned the spotlight on Bihar after it was found that he managed to get an Indian identity through a village in the state’s eastern region.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell of Delhi Police) Pramod Kushwaha said on Tuesday that Ali is learnt to have managed his Indian identity proof through a sarpanch (village arbitrator) from a district in Bihar, which was shown as his permanent address on passport.“He established his Indian identity from a village in Bihar after his marriage. Later, he made ID cards on other addresses and on the basis of those documents, he got his passport made in 2014. He has a permanent address of Bihar and has different addresses on other IDs,” said another officer of Delhi Police. Sources in Bihar government said he managed to get a residential certificate with the help of sarpanch but refused to divulge the name of the district.Additional director general of Bihar Police (headquarters), Jitendra Singh Gangwar, said the state’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) was in touch with its Delhi counterparts. “If Delhi Police team comes to Bihar, we will extend all cooperation. So far, there is no official contact in this regard,” he said.Notorious pastTerror links being traced to Bihar is not new, be it Dubai-based terrorist Aftab Ansari alias Farhan Mallik, whose passport was made at a Nalanda address or LTTE chief Prabhakaran, whose driving licence was traced to Dhanbad in early 1990s when the coal town was part of undivided Bihar.In the past, several terror suspects have been picked up from Madhubani, Darbhanga, Samastipur and Purnea districts. Intelligence agencies had claimed to have stumbled upon incriminating evidence in Darbhanga in the aftermath of blasts at the 2014 rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Patna.In 2014, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) nabbed Indian Mujahideen (IM) co-founder Yasin Bhatkal and his aide Asadullah from the Indo-Nepal border. Bhatkal used to work in Bihar in the guise of an Ayurvedic physician, identifying himself as “Dr Imran”. In 2009, a Nepal-based Lashkar operative, Mohammad Omar Madni, who hailed from Madhubani, was arrested by a Delhi Police team. In 2006, Kamaluddin and Khalid Sheikh were arrested from Madhubani’s Basobpatti area in connection with Mumbai train blasts.Bihar’s revenue and land reforms minister Ram Surat Kumar, who is from BJP, had earlier alleged that infiltration in Seemanchal districts has been happening with cooperation from the locals, who help them buy land, build houses and start their businesses on the basis of fake documents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/delhi-arrest-turns-lens-on-bihar-terror-links-again-101634141383402.html
13-10-2021||Other||Tiger found dead in VTR||Forest officials in Bihar’s West Champaran district found a tiger’s carcass in Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) on Wednesday.This is the fourth death of a big cat in VTR since a report released in August 2018 put their number at 32, excluding nine cubs. With the latest death, the number of tigers in the VTR is down to 28. “Prima facie, it appears that the death occurred due to the injuries sustained in a fight with other wild animal,” said HK Rai, the wildlife conservator and field director, VTR. “Viscera will be sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) at Bareilly and Wildlife Institute of India (WWI) at Dehradun for forensic tests,” Rai said, ruling out the possibility of poaching as the cause of the death. Incidents of poaching are not unheard of in VTR. In January 2019, forest officials had rescued a wild bear from the trap and later released it in the forest.In August 2019, a man was arrested with over five kilograms of flesh of deer from a village in VTR. In 2018, a bear was found dead. In 2014-15, two bears were poached in Haranatand forest areas of the tiger reserve.Spread over 900 square kilometres, VTR is broadly divided into two divisions and has 150-km-long perimeter with 120 villages, It is home to a number of wild animals, including tigers, leopards, bears and rhinoceros.Past deathsOn February 19, 2021, a tigress captured from VTR after it killed three villagers in West Champaran died at a zoo in Patna. On January 30, 2021, a tiger’s carcass was recovered in VTR. On January 1, 2020, a tigress was found dead in the Raghiya forest range of VTR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tiger-found-dead-in-vtr-101634141382208.html
13-10-2021||Patna||IIT-P signs MoU with UK varsity for research work||The Indian Institute of Technology, Patna (IIT-P) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with United Kingdom-based University of Newcastle for carrying out research projects, said officials aware of the matter on Wednesday.As per IIT-P, the agreement will last for a period of three years.Elaborating on the details of the agreement, IIT-P’s public relation in-charge Rajendra Pramanick, said, “This collaboration will promote exchange of research programs where students and faculties would be benefited through the latest developments in various disciplines. We will also look to facilitate students exchange, joint research activities, teaching and discussions, joint conferences and symposia on subjects of mutual interest.”Japanese start-up offers internship opportunitiesA Japanese start-up, namely I’mbesideyou, specialising in online communication through AI analytics, has offered internship and job opportunities to students of IIT-P graduates, said officials. Kripa Shankar Singh, training and placement officer at IIT-P, said, “The delegates of Japanese start-up have given consent for extending internship and full-time hiring opportunities to our students. Considering Covid-19 situation, the recruitment process will be conducted in virtual mode.”The start-up has also ventured in developing AI enabled learning products for online education to boost students’ performance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/iitp-signs-mou-with-uk-varsity-for-research-work-101634141380979.html
13-10-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: Kanhaiya, Hardik, Jignesh to join Cong campaign from Oct 22||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) president Kanhaiya Kumar, who recently switched to Congress from Communist Party of India (CPI), will campaign for his party from October 22 for the bypolls in Bihar for two assembly seats to be held on October 30, party leaders said.Kanhaiya will also be joined by working president of Gujarat Congress Hardik Patel and Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani, who has announced his decision to join the Congress in the future.Congress has fielded Atirek Kumar and Rajesh Mishra for the bypolls in Kusheshwar Asthan in Darbhanga and Tarapur in Munger, respectively.Kadwa MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan, who is also a JNU alumnus, said the three leaders would stay put in Bihar till the last day of campaigning, October 28, and address election meetings in both the constituencies. “Several other youth leaders, who are in different parties, are also likely to support the party’s bid to wrest the two seats,” Khan said. Kanhaiya Kumar, Patel and Mevani have already been included in the Congress list of star campaigners for the two seats. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) president Madan Mohan Jha said two dedicated teams led by Akhilesh Prasad Singh, chairman of Congress campaign committee and Rajya Sabha member, and working president and MLC Sameer Kumar Singh have already been working in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur. Congress ally Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in also in the fray for the two seats, as is the ruling Janata Dal (United), which had won the two seats in 2020 assembly elections.Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said the bypolls would see a direct contest between the ruling alliance and his party. “It is unfortunate that RJD did not follow coalition dharma and tried to queer the pitch for secular forces in their fight against the JD(U)-led dispensation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-kanhaiya-hardik-jignesh-to-join-cong-campaign-from-oct-22-101634141321103.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane Municipal Corporation gives vaccination against Covid to 6,789 people under special category||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has vaccinated 6,789 persons in the special category out of the total 15,13,145 beneficiaries vaccinated. This constitutes around 0.45% vaccinations from among the overall population.The special category includes transgenders, leprosy patients, pregnant women, lactating women, bedridden and people without identification cards. Overall, the city has vaccinated 83.33% of the eligible population with at least the first dose till now.“We have our mobile vaccination facility and the door-to-door vaccinations that cater to all strata of the society. As part of our initiative to vaccinate the entire population, we have ensured to inoculate those without valid identification cards. We are also conducting vaccination drives for the inmates of jail and mental hospital,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.Till now, 247 transgenders, 400 leprosy patients and 58 bedridden have been vaccinated. Around 4,256 people without identification cards and 1,451 pregnant and 377 lactating women have been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-municipal-corporation-gives-vaccination-against-covid-to-6-789-people-under-special-category-101634138203230.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cruise drug case: Top cop orders inquiry into Sameer Wankhede’s allegations||Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale has ordered an inquiry into the allegations made by Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) that some people have been following him regularly.Nagrale confirmed that a written complaint is received by him and he has ordered an additional commissioner of police to probe and submit the report. Wankhede along with the senior IPS officer of NCB met the Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey on Monday and submitted a written complaint claiming that some persons had been following him for the past few days.Wankhede has been investigating the cruise drug case and arrested a total of 20 people including actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and other high profile people, drug suppliers and foreign nationals involved in the case in the past 10 days.After the cruise drug bust, the senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik, in a press conference on October 6, claimed that the arrest was a conspiracy involving the NCB and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to defame Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray-led coalition government and the film industry. Malik claimed that two private persons were involved in the raid, one of them is Manish Bhanushali who claims to be a BJP office-bearer and the other is KP Gosawi, who claims to be a private detective. In a press conference, Malik played two widely-circulated video clips of Aryan Khan and Arbaaz Merchant. In the first, Gosawi can be seen bringing Aryan to the NCB office and in the second, Bhanushali is seen bringing Merchant to the NCB office. However, the charge is promptly denied by the NCB and BJP. NCB claimed that both Bhanushali and Gosavi were independent witnesses in the case. Wankhede had earlier also arrested Malik’s son-in-law in a drug case from Bandra this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cruise-drug-case-top-cop-orders-inquiry-into-sameer-wankhede-s-allegations-101634138080685.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Crime branch seeks Sachin Vaze’s custody in Goregaon extortion case||The Mumbai crime branch on Wednesday approached the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court for the custody of dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, arrested in the Antilia explosive scare and Mansukh Hiran murder case. The crime branch wants to question Vaze in an extortion case registered with the Goregaon police station, in which former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has been also named as an accused. In August, the Goregaon police had registered a case against Singh, Vaze and civilians — Sumeet Singh, Alpesh Patel, Vijay Singh and Riyaz Bhati for extortion. The complainant hotelier Bimal Agarwal has alleged that the accused extorted ₹11.92 lakhs from him and had threatened of registering cases against Boho Restaurant and BCB Bar, owned by him. The special NIA court judge AT Wankhede allowed the crime branch to question another former police officer Sunil Mane who is lodged in jail, also arrested in the twin cases. The court has posted the agency’s plea for Vaze’s custody for hearing on October 22, after calling for a reply from the prison’s department on his health condition. When Vaze’s counsel Raunak Naik tried to oppose the plea, the court told him that a metropolitan magistrate had already issued a warrant for his production and that he should have objected before the magistrate court. According to crime branch officials, Vaze is the main accused in the case. The police have already arrested Sumeet Singh, who had allegedly collected extortion money for Vaze. Meanwhile, former encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma has filed a default bail application, which is also posted for hearing on October 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/crime-branch-seeks-sachin-vaze-s-custody-in-goregaon-extortion-case-101634137960765.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Row erupts as Centre widens BSF jurisdiction from 15km to 50km in Punjab||With the Centre increasing the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab for seizure, search and arrest up to 50km from the international border with Pakistan, a row has erupted in the border districts. Farmers, politicians and the Punjab Police officials have criticised the Centre’s move, many terming it a ‘direct attack’ on the federal structure of the country. Six border districts in Punjab—Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Ferozepur and Fazilka—will be affected by the BSF’s wider jurisdiction for raids and arrests under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the Indian Passports Act. “Instead of increasing the BSF’s jurisdiction inside the Indian territory, the Centre should focus on making the border foolproof against flow of drugs, arms and ammunition from Pakistan. Even drones from across the border hover around without problem as the BSF lacks technology and manpower,” said Kabal Singh Muhawa, an active member of Punjab Border Area Kisan Welfare Society (PBAKWS) in Amritsar. The society’s vice-president Surjit Singh Bhura said, “Farmers whose land is situated across the barbed fence face difficulties as the BSF lacks adequate manpower. Instead of increasing the BSF’s jurisdiction, the Centre should first provide adequate manpower to the force.”A senior police official, who is posted in a border district, requesting anonymity, said, “Punjab Police are capable of dealing with any kind of situation. The decision is unfortunate. Punjab Police have already been seizing arms, ammunition and drugs even from across the barbed fence.”He further said the decision will also have many complications during the trials in cases where the BSF will be involved. “Most BSF personnel get transferred within two or three years. It will be a task to produce the BSF personnel concerned in local courts in cases of seizures and arrests,” he said.Another police official posted in the border area said, “Punjab Police are even capable of guarding the border. The decision should be revoked immediately.”Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) spokesperson and Tarn Taran district president Virsa Singh Valtoha said, “It is an attack on our federal structure. The Centre is working in collusion with the state government.”The decision of the Centre comes a day after BSF’s director general (DG) Pankaj Kumar visited various border outposts (BoPs) in Punjab and reviewed the ‘domination and operational preparedness’ on the ground.On October 5, Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had met Union home minister Amit Shah and sought his ‘personal intervention’ to seal the border for breaking the supply chain of drugs and arms from across the border. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Rajya Sabha member from Amritsar Shwait Malki, however, hailed the decision. “The BSF is more capable than the Punjab Police. The decision is for the security and safety of the country and its citizens. Even, former CM Captain Amarinder Singh had repeatedly requested the Centre to protect the border area from the nefarious designs of Pakistan. There should be no politics on the issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-erupts-as-centre-widens-bsf-jurisdiction-from-15km-to-50km-in-punjab-101634137900829.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC plans to generate electricity by putting up solar panels along Mumbai coastal road||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned to generate electricity from the 10-km-long stretch of the Mumbai coastal road project by setting up solar panels.State environment minister and Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray has asked the BMC to identify space for installing solar panels on the coastal road between Nariman Point and Worli, which has been under construction since October 2018. According to the plan, the civic body will have to identify space on the cycle track or median (divider) that will be constructed as part of the ongoing coastal road project. The plan was revealed by Thackeray last week at the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MOU) relating to climate change along with BMC officials.Thackeray said, “The coastal road will have more than 90 hectares of green space. We want to have carbon sequestration using multiple measures. The first and foremost is we would be having a global call for design for landscape and trees to have dense urban forest, enough for carbon capture. There is already a cycle track and walking pathway, along with a huge promenade towards the sea, and I have asked the BMC to explore the idea to have solar panels either over the cycle track, or the median to see if we can generate solar energy.”Thackeray added, “However, none of the open space would be encroached on by the solar panels. For Mumbai- Nagpur, I have pitched for solar farms along the highway alignment, because of which, we would have the potential of 250 MW generated. This is different; we may give the electricity to the grid as well.”Similarly, the Maharashtra State Development Corporation (MSRDC), which is constructing the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway, has proposed to install solar panels on the expressway which is expected to be thrown open fully next year. The plan to install solar panels was mooted by the MSRDC in July 2016. Mumbai Coastal Road might be the first intra-city road to have solar panels generating electricity for public consumption. A month ago, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) also signed the MoU with Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL) to conduct feasibility studies of the establishment of solar power projects on the available vacant land parcels with NHAI and rooftops of NHAI buildings/ structures at a toll plaza and other NHAI owned buildings/ structures.In Mumbai, the coastal road will be the first intra-city road to get solar panels and later other arterial roads also might be considered. However, currently, the BMC’s focus, when it comes to the 2,000-km-long road network it handles in the city, is to concretise around 80% of the total road network in the next six to seven years to bring down the menace of potholes. Mumbai-based architect Rahul Kadri of IMK Architects, who is working with the BMC on the Malabar Hill walkway project said, “It is a good idea to have solar panels on the cycle track, medians, on top of the tunnels or the entrance of the tunnel. This will also go with the design. However, the solar panels should not be installed on green space considering that space will not be usable later.”The construction work of the ₹12,700 crore coastal road was started in October 2018, and since then the project has been in the news for environmental issues. In July 2019, the Bombay high court (HC) put a stay on the project citing that it needed to have environmental clearances. The coastal road project measuring around 10km between Princess Street flyover and Worli-end of Bandra-Worli sea link was earlier expected to be ready by July 2023. However, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, which initially delayed the delivery of the tunnel boring machine (TBM) from China. Also, the BMC had to tweak its plan to not use Chinese experts for the assembling of the TBM in the backdrop of border tensions between India and China.Currently, the BMC has completed over 40% of the civil works for the coastal road project and over 1-km tunnel works out of the total 1.9-km tunnelling is completed. The BMC recently also appointed the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) for carrying out a comprehensive scientific survey to scrutinise the loss of lives of the fishing communities due to the ongoing coastal road project.Meanwhile, the coastal road project was originally planned between Nariman Point and Kandivli, claiming it will ease traffic for those travelling between north and south Mumbai. However, now there is a question of whether there should be a coastal road or a sea link beyond Versova to connect to the suburbs. The state is yet to take a call on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-to-generate-electricity-by-putting-up-solar-panels-along-mumbai-coastal-road-101634137840736.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Questioning suspect is our right, says ED; HC reserves order on Anil Deshmukh’s plea||The Enforcement Directorate (ED), while opposing the petition of former home minister Anil Deshmukh which sought quashing of proceedings arising out of the summons being issued to him by ED, argued that the high court (HC) petition was not maintainable as the agency was only exercising its right to investigate and had summoned Deshmukh only to question him with regards to the material seized from him. The ED argued that the fact that though it had only issued summons for questioning, Deshmukh’s reluctance to come in person indicated that he was aware that he could be arrested. The ED also submitted that it had a right to question the suspect at the place and time it deemed fit and not the other way round, hence no reliefs should be granted as the investigation was just at the initial stage and the court’s interference would indict the entire process. The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the petition of Deshmukh was informed by senior counsel Aman Lekhi for the ED that the entire premise of the petition was misconceived. Lekhi submitted that the agency had only issued summons to Deshmukh in the exercise of section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), which requires a suspect to attend the ED office in person. However, Deshmukh was jumping to the conclusion that he would be arrested under section 19 of the same Act when he went in person, which indicated that he had some guilt and something to hide, he added. “This is the initial stage of the investigation and interrogation of a suspect is the right of the agency. However, the petitioner has been avoiding the summons and approached the court which indicates that he wants to stifle and interdict the investigation,” submitted Lekhi. He further referred to past judgements of the Supreme Court and also the order passed in the petition filed by Deshmukh before approaching the HC and said that none of them provided any protection to the suspect as the court realised that without interrogation, details of the crime being investigated would not come to the fore, hence the current bench should also not interfere. Lekhi further argued that that the submission that documents were being sought from the petitioner without giving him the ECIR also was not valid as the summons were intended to question the suspect regarding the recoveries made during his house search. Lekhi submitted that the HC had no reason to interfere and should not grant the reliefs sought by the petitioner. Thereafter, the bench said it had concluded hearing the arguments of both sides and reserved its order, which is expected to be passed in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/questioning-suspect-is-our-right-says-ed-hc-reserves-order-on-anil-deshmukh-s-plea-101634137720776.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Prices of CNG, piped cooking gas hiked for second time in 10 days||The prices of compressed natural gas (CNG) and domestic piped natural gas (PNG) hiked in the city for the second time in nearly 10 days. The Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL) on Wednesday announced the increase in prices of CNG and PNG from Thursday. The price of CNG will be increased by ₹2.30 per kg and will be priced at ₹57.54 per kg from October 14. The domestic PNG will increase by ₹1.11 standard cubic meter (SCM) and will be available at ₹33.93/SCM in slab 1 and ₹39.53 /SCM in slab 2, respectively. Earlier on October 5, the prices of CNG and domestic PNG were hiked and were priced at ₹54.57/kg, while PNG was available at ₹32.67/SCM in slab 1 and ₹36.00 /SCM in slab 2. “Being a customer-focused company, MGL has always tried to maintain price stability for its CNG and domestic PNG customers. However, since there has been an increase in gas prices, MGL has decided to progressively recover from such an increase in gas cost. Accordingly, MGL is constrained to further increase the basic price of CNG by ₹2.30/kg and PNG by ₹1.11/ SCM in and around Mumbai,” said a statement from MGL. The prices of CNG and domestic PNG were last hiked in the city in July. CNG was available at ₹51.98/kg, while PNG was available at ₹30.40/ SCM in slab 1 and ₹36.00 /SCM in slab 2 respectively. Before that CNG was priced at ₹49.40 per kg in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-prices-of-cng-piped-cooking-gas-hiked-for-second-time-in-10-days-101634137600635.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura, Behbal Kalan police firing: Six years on, investigations look inconclusive amid legal setbacks||Even six years after police firing incidents at Faridkot district’s Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan, the investigations done by different special investigation teams (SIT) appear to be inconclusive. Setbacks on the legal front — quashing of charge sheets in Kotkapura case by high court and stay on investigation against former Punjab director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini — have left the probe teams at the crossroads. On October 14, 2015, police had opened fire at people protesting at the above-mentioned locations against the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib in Faridkot’s Bargari village. Two Sikh protesters — Gurjeet Singh of Sarawan village and Krishan Bhagwan Singh of Niamiwala village in Faridkot district— were killed in the firing at Behbal Kalan. In April this year, the high court had quashed all the reports related to Kotkapura firing filed by the previous SIT headed by the inspector general of police (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. Acting on the HC orders, the state government constituted a new three-member SIT headed by ADGP LK Yadav, who is being assisted by IG Rakesh Agrawal and DIG Surjit Singh. The new SIT was directed to complete the investigation within six months. SIT consulting legal experts on KotkapuraMore than five months after starting the probe into Kotkapura firing case, the SIT led by ADGP LK Yadav is yet to file a fresh charge sheet against the accused in the court. The probe team is in a fix over filing the charge sheet in the light of high court’s staying till February 2022 investigations in cases pending against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini. An officer privy to the investigation said the SIT was consulting legal experts whether they should file the first charge sheet against the accused, excluding Saini, or wait until February. “Another option before the state government is to challenge the high court order. Saini has a very significant role in this case, so without him, a key link will be missing,” the official added. Even the newly appointed special public prosecutor senior advocate Rajwinder Singh Bains has also suggested that the state government should immediately challenge the high court order staying probe against Saini to ensure speedy justice in the cases. Yadav-led SIT is also waiting for a date from Gandhinagar-based forensic science laboratory (FSL) for conducting a lie-detection test on suspended inspector general (IG) Paramraj Singh Umranangal even as the permission for the test was granted three months ago. When contacted DIG Surjit Singh, who is a member of the SIT, refused to comment stating that the high court has barred them from talking to the media about the case.Charges yet to be framed in Behbal Kalan case A trial court in Faridkot is yet to start the hearing on arguments for framing of charges against the accused in Behbal Kalan firing case after which the trial will start. Further, the court has exempted Saini from personal appearance following the HC order. So, this may delay the proceedings of the trial court further. “SIT investigation says that Saini’s role was the centre point in the case. All the key links need to be there,” said a lawyer. The Kunwar Vijay Pratap-led SIT had filed charge sheet against seven accused, including five cops, in the Behbal Kalan firing case. The SIT claimed that the cops opened fire at peaceful protesters at the direction of Umranangal, who got instructions from Saini, and later conspired to fabricate the evidence to cover up the incidents. The first charge sheet was filed against former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma in April 2019. Later, the SIT filed charge sheet against four accused, including SP Bikramjit Singh in October 2020. The charge sheets against Umranangal and Saini were filed in January. After Kunwar Vijay took voluntary retirement, the government formed a three-member SIT headed by IG Naunihal Singh to probe the Behbal Kalan firing case in May. However, the SIT head is yet to visit the Faridkot district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-behbal-kalan-police-firing-six-years-on-investigations-look-inconclusive-amid-legal-setbacks-101634137420729.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||3 forest officials from Thane arrested for bribery after trap set in Vashi||A day after a Class I officer with the forest department from Thane was arrested by Anti-Corruption Bureau in a graft case for accepting a bribe of ₹5.30 lakh from his subordinate, three more forest officials from Thane have been booked in another bribery case.The three arrested on Tuesday, have been identified as Sanjay Manohar Pawar (55), a forester from Thane range and forest guards, Deepak Prakash Verma (35) and Amit Mohan Rane (39) from Thane range.The complainant, a supervisor at a construction site in Vashi who was looking after demolition at plot No. 18 sector 19D in Vashi, was told by the forest officials that it was an Eco Sensitive Zone. The accused told the supervisor that the site was just 10km from Thane Creek Flamingo National Sanctuary Boundary and a notice was issued to them stating that permission for the work had not been sought from the National Wildlife Board at Thane and the Forest Department.Following the notice, the trio had demanded a bribe of ₹5 lakh from the complainant for not taking action on him. Of the ₹5 lakh demanded, ₹3.5 lakh was being received by Pawar when the ACB laid a trap and nabbed them, said superintendent of police, Panjabrao Ugale, ACB, Thane range.The complainant had also alleged that apart from the said amount, he was also asked to pay ₹25,000 per month for the next six months. The trap was laid at Sector 17, Vashi, wherein Pawar and Verma, came in a car and accepted a bribe of ₹3.5 lakh from the complainant. “The trio has been remanded to police custody till October 16,” Ugale said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-forest-officials-from-thane-arrested-for-bribery-after-trap-set-in-vashi-101634137240450.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Colleges in Maharashtra to reopen from October 20||Amid the sustained decline in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the state, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced that colleges in the state will reopen from October 20. Physical classes will, however, reopen only for students who have received both doses of the vaccine against Covid-19, the government order stated.Earlier this month, the state government reopened schools in urban and rural areas. In rural areas, classes 5 to 12 started from October 4, while in urban areas, classes 8 to 12 were reopened. “For the past week, I was saying that the time has come for colleges to reopen. Today, we discussed the issue with the chief minister, deputy chief minister and the senior officials and decided to reopen colleges from October 20... The colleges that come under the Higher and Technical Education [department], including UGC, PG, engineering colleges, etc. will reopen from October 20,” said Uday Samant, Maharashtra’s higher and technical education minister.The government resolution (GR) issued by the government on Wednesday stated that colleges and universities must set up vaccination camps for students. “The students must be fully vaccinated and those should be asked to attend classes in priority. If the students are not vaccinated then universities and colleges must take the initiative to set up a vaccination camp for students on the campus, after discussion with the local administration. Such instructions have been given to all universities and college managements,” Samant said.The minister said that the department will send a proposal to the chief secretary to allow college students in Mumbai to travel by local trains. Currently, only fully vaccinated citizens are allowed to use Mumbai suburban local train services.Samant added that the teaching and non-teaching staff in the universities and colleges must be fully vaccinated. While starting physical classes in the universities and colleges, the management must engage with the local district administration on whether to start it with 50% capacity or more, he added. He further appealed to guardians, parents and students, including those who are fully vaccinated, to ensure all precautions while attending college.Some districts in Maharashtra continue to have more Covid-19 cases than other parts. For such districts, the universities and college management can decide on reopening, depending on the situation in conjunction with the local district administration.“Nobody knows that if and when the third wave of Covid infections will come. If it happens, universities and colleges must coordinate with the local administration to prepare a dedicated guideline for the district. Some districts currently have a high number of cases... for example Sindhudurg, Satara, Ahmednagar still have a high number of cases. Such districts can discuss with the local administration and take a decision [on reopening colleges],” the minister said.The universities or colleges are also mandated to set up online classes for those students who cannot attend the lectures. Some students may be staying back in their villages since hostels are still not operational, they have can attend classes online, the minister said. He said, “We are planning to reopen hostels in a graded manner. The department will survey the hostels and they will be reopened gradually.”Meanwhile, principals and school staff are concerned about preparations that need to be in place, while students are excited to be able to attend classes after almost two years of online sessions.“This has come as a relief as we were wondering if we would have to continue with online sessions this year as well. We were looking forwards for the fun of meeting classmates and attending physical sessions, which helps us understand concepts better,” said Anvita Joshi, 19, student of Ruia CollegePrincipals are busy chalking out plans to set up a hybrid model of teaching. Most colleges have exams around the same time, making it difficult to shift to offline sessions immediately. “We have our exams beginning from October 20 so we will have to delay reopening, however, in the meantime we are preparing a hybrid model of teaching. Our priority at reopening would be students that have practical sessions to attend. Classes for final year students of graduation and post graduation will begin first,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal, KC College. Moreover, the concern for most is commuting as many are not due for the second dose yet. Reaching college for staff and students without access to local trains would be difficult. “The government should permit those with identification cards access to local trains even if they have only taken one dose of vaccination. This should include non teaching staff as well. Most travel from various locations within Mumbai,” said TA Shiware, chairman of Mumbai Association of non-government colleges.“I have to travel from Thane till Ville Parle on a regular basis if college reopens. I am keen on attending offline sessions, but my second dose of vaccine is due only next month. Without access to local trains I will not be able to attend,” said Viraj Desai, 20, student of Mithibai College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/colleges-in-maharashtra-to-reopen-from-october-20-101634135982467.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||35-year-old murders father over property dispute in Murbad, on the run||A 35-year-old man allegedly murdered his father over property issues in Murbad on Wednesday morning. The accused has fled the spot after committing the crime. Murbad police are on the lookout for him. The deceased was found in a pool of blood by neighbours, who informed the police.The incident occurred at Donagar Navale village of Murbad. The accused has been identified as Ravi Shelake and deceased, Mangal Shelake, 50. Ravi is the son from the deceased’s first marriage. The deceased married a second time a few years ago and had a huge quarrel with his son over property issues.A police officer said, “Mangal was residing with both wives and the son for the past few years. He had frequent fights with the accused over property. Ravi was furious with his father for marrying a second time and he had to share the property with his second mother. Recently, after a similar fight, Mangal asked him to leave the house. On Tuesday, Ravi, still enraged with his father, went home and stabbed him. We are yet to arrest him. A case has been registered under IPC 302.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/35yearold-murders-father-over-property-dispute-in-murbad-on-the-run-101634135800389.html
13-10-2021||Dehradun||‘Not without an apology’: Harish Rawat raises the bar for ex-Congress leaders to return||Dehradun: Former Congress leaders who crossed over to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in 2016 and want to return will have to give a public apology before being allowed back to the party, former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat said on Wednesday.The senior Congress leader’s assertion comes against the backdrop of speculation that labour minister Harak Singh Rawat could be looking at the possibility of exiting the ruling BJP ahead of Uttarakhand state elections in early 2022. To be sure, Harak Singh Rawat has rebutted suggestions that he was reviewing his options and insisted that he intended to stay in the BJP.“Those who were involved in the horse-trading episode to bring down my government (in 2016), committed a felony. They won’t be allowed to return unless they offer an apology for their actions in public. That apology should be made to our leaders, Sonia and Rahul Gandhi, the Uttarakhand public and even to their gods,” said Harish Rawat, a reference to the nine Congress legislators who crossed over to the BJP in 2016. Labour minister Harak Singh Rawat, a six-time legislator, was among the nine.Much of the buzz around minister Harak Singh Rawat’s next move started with his unscheduled meeting with Uttarakhand BJP president Madan Kaushik on Tuesday, just a day after the BJP’s Yashpal Arya announced his resignation from Pushkar Singh Dhami-led government and the party. He rejoined the Congress on Monday along with his son Sanjiv, also a legislator.A video where he is heard vowing not to fight the assembly election fuelled the speculation.Harak Singh Rawat told reporters in Dehradun that he was not keen on contesting the 2022 assembly elections but stressed that the video, which was being circulated, was from 2012. He didn’t keep his 2012 pledge and did contest the election. “There was some situation during that time that I had to contest. But for the 2022 elections, I am not very much interested in contesting,” he said.On his meeting with state BJP chief on Tuesday, Harak Singh said he was on his way to Dehradun from Kotdwar when he got a call from Madan Kaushik. The meeting lasted an hour, he said, adding that it was focused on preparations for the upcoming elections. “That’s it,” he said. Kaushik made the same point and rejected suggestions that it was aimed at mollifying Harak Singh. “There was nothing extraordinary discussed in the meeting. We both have meetings at regular intervals as Rawat is one of our senior leaders in the state. It’s election time and there are many issues to discuss related to it,” he said.Political observers indicated that they do not take these statements at their face value.“Definitely all eyes are now on (Harak Singh) Rawat considering the developments in the last few weeks pertaining to him. On many occasions, he has made statements which suggest that despite being a cabinet minister in the BJP government, he is not happy there,” said political commentator Jai Singh Rawat. Congress general secretary Harish Rawat, who insisted on a public apology by legislators who had rebelled against his leadership, said Yashpal Arya didn’t have to give such an apology because his case was “different”.“Arya didn’t leave the party with the intention of taking down my government like the others. His reasons were different which were personal with me. His return to the Congress would help to make it stronger,” Harish Rawat explained.Senior political analyst SMA Kazmi said Harish Rawat will not want Harak Singh to return “as he was one of the main leaders whose defection brought down his government” but his statement has led to a dilemma for the Congress.“The party leadership will want to welcome him (Harak Singh Rawat) considering that he is a stalwart and his return will definitely boost the organisation...But Harish won’t allow it,” said Kazmi.He added that both parties are likely to try to get lawmakers and leaders from the other side to defect.Leader of opposition in the assembly Pritam Singh, who is being credited with engineering Arya’s return to the Congress, said, the “party’s door is open to anyone willing to come.”“We won’t refuse anyone willing to come to the party. However, we will first analyse their utility in the party. Only then we will welcome them. Of course, it will be done with the approval of the national leadership like in Arya’s case,” Pritam Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/not-without-an-apology-harish-rawat-raises-the-bar-for-ex-congress-leaders-to-return-101634135380802.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi government to induct 140 electric AC buses to check air pollution||The Delhi Transport Department on Wednesday floated tenders for inducting 140 low floor, air-conditioned electric buses, to strengthen the public transport fleet and check air pollution in the city.The request for qualification and proposal has been issued for operation of the 140 electric buses under the cluster scheme of the Delhi government, said a Transport department notice.Earlier this month, tenders were floated by the department for 190 low floor, air-conditioned buses under the cluster scheme.The Delhi government has undertaken a programme to establish an environmentally, socially and financially sustainable network of public transport for Delhi and potentially some adjoining areas of the National Capital Region, to encourage commuters to shift to public transport, said official documents.Over 3,000 CNG buses have been inducted so far under the cluster scheme and now, the focus is on bringing in more electric buses that will help reduce vehicular pollution, said a senior Transport department officer.The Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) runs around 3,600 low floor buses in the city. Together, the DTC and cluster scheme comprise the public transport bus fleet in the national capital.The new buses will also be equipped with latest features like GPS, panic buttons, CCTV cameras and are expected to roll out on the city roads by mid-2022, if the bids are successfully carried out, officials of the department said.According to estimates, Delhi requires at least 11,000 buses to fulfill public transport needs of the people. Delhi government has been making efforts to add more buses.The DTC too had floated tenders for 300 electric buses recently that are expected to roll out from November this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-to-induct-140-electric-ac-buses-to-check-air-pollution-101634131990887.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar has this to say on Devendra Fadnavis' ‘still feel like Maha CM’ comment||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) supremo Sharad Pawar on Wednesday took a jibe at former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis for his remarks on people’s continued love and support making him feel like he was still governing the state.Pawar, whose party is a stakeholder along with the Shiv Sena and Congress in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA), congratulated Fadnavis for feeling like he was still the chief minister of Maharashtra after holding the post for only a single term of five years, even though the former did not even remember that he was at the helm for as many as four times.Also Read: Pawar hits out at govt over ‘misuse’ of central agencies, violence in Lakhimpur"It's good that the BJP leader still considers himself as the chief minister. I congratulate him. After being the chief minister for five years, Fadnavis still feels he is holding the post. I lacked this trait. I have served as chief minister (of Maharashtra) four times. But I don't even remember," Pawar said at a press conference on Wednesday.Speaking to reporters in Navi Mumbai on Tuesday, Fadnavis said the love and affection of people for him had not yet receded even after two years of his moving on from the CM’s role. "I still feel that I am chief minister as I have been roaming in the state over the last two years. The love and affection of people have not receded,” he said on Tuesday.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader had served as the chief minister from 2014-2019. He had to give up the post after the 2019 assembly election when the BJP’s decades-old ally, the Shiv Sena, parted ways over leadership issues.While he did retain his office for three days by forming a coalition with a breakaway group of NCP led by Pawar’s nephew Ajit Pawar, his government fell after Pawar rescinded his support, paving way for the MVA government to take over with Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray as the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-has-this-to-say-on-devendra-fadnavis-still-feel-like-maha-cm-comment-101634128995089.html
13-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Okhla Bird Sanctuary gets new wooden bridge||The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department has built a new bridge over a small stream at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary that will connect a part of the sanctuary with the two watchtowers and the grassland area, officials said on Wednesday. The 115-foot-long wooden bridge has been built after dismantling a 20 years old bamboo bridge which had broken earlier this year. The birders had been demanding for a new bridge for the past several months.“Visitors had been facing issues due to the broken bridge. The new bridge is stronger and aesthetically beautiful. It has an iron base with wooden framework. The wooden bridge is three foot wide, while the older bridge was two feet wide. It has been constructed at a cost of around ₹7 lakh and has a life of at least 20 years,” said PK Srivastav, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. The officials also said that they have proposed a new development project for the Surajpur wetland and reserve forest.“We have proposed it to the higher officials. We aim to enhance facilities in the Surajpur wetland to attract more visitors and birders. We want to construct some eco-huts, infrastructure for public convenience and also a phytoremediation pond to clean the drain that comes in,” Srivastava said.The officials said that the drain that passes through several villages falls into the wetland, thereby polluting it.“We want to treat the drain naturally. For this, a small pond will be dug where we will have treatment and advance oxidation plants. The drain water will fall in the Surajpur lake only by passing through the treatment pond,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-okhla-bird-sanctuary-gets-new-wooden-bridge-101634128539382.html
13-10-2021||Bhopal||Student, teacher allegedly beaten up for raising ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ slogans in Madhya Pradesh||A student and a teacher were allegedly beaten up over a dispute regarding chanting “Bharat Mata ki Jai'' at a private school in Barod town of Madhya Pradesh's Agar Malwa district, about 175 km from state capital of Bhopal, the police said on Wednesday. A case was registered against around 20 people.According to a police official, after the morning prayer at the school, students sing the national anthem and end it with the chant "Bharat Mata Ki Jai". However, there was an argument between two groups of students over raising the slogan in the school. Later, after leaving the school premises, some of them allegedly thrashed the boys on the other side.Students from various communities, including Hindu and Muslim, study in the school, Agar Malwa's Superintendent of Police Rakesh Sagar told PTI over phone. However, when a few Muslim children were not chanting "Bharat Mata Ki Jai", Class 12 student Bharat Singh Rajput (19) objected to it, the police said.Rajput later complained to police that he and a teacher were intercepted by the boys when they were returning home after school on Tuesday, and allegedly assaulted. He stated that the accused abused him and others, saying who were they to make them raise the slogan and hit them with sticks. When the teacher started recording the incident on his mobile phone, the accused hit him too and broke his phone, the complainant alleged.Meanwhile, SP Rakesh Sagar said, “It is more an issue of proper counselling and guidance than a legal offence as all those involved are students. The school teachers and principal should impart moral lessons to students."“A case under Indian Penal Code sections for assault and rioting, and provisions of the SC-ST Act has been registered following a complaint over the dispute," he said.Initially, the police booked nine people and eight to ten other unidentified persons, another official said. Some people were detained for questioning and further legal steps will be taken following an investigation into the case, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/student-teacher-allegedly-beaten-up-for-raising-bharat-mata-ki-jai-slogans-in-madhya-pradesh-101634123270962.html
13-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka Congress takes action against 2 leaders over remarks on Shivakumar||The Karnataka Congress on Wednesday acted against two of its functionaries for allegedly making objectionable remarks against the state unit chief DK Shivakumar.While MLA VS Ugrappa was issued a shadow-cause notice by the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), media coordinator MA Saleem was suspended for six years, reported news agency ANI.Action was initiated against the duo after a video surfaced in which Ugrappa and Saleem were reportedly heard talking about Shivakumar and “his people” taking money. Hindustan Times has not independently verified the authenticity of the leaked video clip. Correction | Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee serves show-cause notice to party leader VS Ugrappa. Party leader MA Saleem Ahmad* suspended for 6 yrs.In a video, the 2 leaders were reportedly heard saying to each other that party's DK Shivakumar & his people are taking moneyThe duo’s conversation, which came to light earlier in the day, seemed to be referring to Shivakumar’s tenure as the water resources minister in the previous HD Kumaraswamy cabinet.The two men were heard speaking about the differences in the style of speaking between Shivakumar’s and senior Congress leader and former chief minister Siddaramaiah. According to reports, Saleem could be heard doing most of the talking, while Ugrappa responded with monosyllabic answers.Soon after the surfacing of the clipping, Ugappa addressed a press conference stating that a private conversation was being taken out of context and the party did not encourage corruption. “Why is a conversation taken out of context being taken seriously? Congress has never encouraged commission or corruption in awarding tenders,” he told reporters.Meanwhile, the BJP said the grand old party acted in a biased manner while punishing its workers on the basis of religion. “At the KPCC office, Ugrappa and Saleem expressed their opinion of the corrupt and failed leadership of their president. Saleem, a minority, has been suspended,” the party tweeted on Wednesday.The Congress, however, said Saleem was suspended because he spoke “baselessly”, while urging the BJP to take similar action against its legislators. “We have suspended Saleem who spoke baselessly. Yatnal, who has been accused of repeatedly accusing his government.Vishwanath on him @BJP4Karnataka. Do you dare to take action or are you willing to admit their accusations?” the party wrote in a tweet.The BJP also took a dig at the ongoing rumblings in the state unit of the Congress. Calling Shivakumar a ‘corrupt president’, the saffron party wrote, “Filming of multi-lingual multilingual political film has begun. Production, Direction - Siddaramaiah. Starring - Ugrappa, Saleem. The original trailer for the illicit editing has been released from the KPCC office.Will cinema be released in your theater?”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-congress-takes-action-against-2-leaders-over-remarks-on-shivakumar-101634124129444.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM shoulders coffin of soldier cremated with full military honours||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday paid tributes to sepoy Gajjan Singh, who was cremated at his native Pachranda village in Nurpur Bedi sub division of Ropar district with full military honours. Shouldering the mortal remains of the martyr and accompanied by Punjab Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh, the chief minister laid a wreath and participated in the ‘ardas (prayer)’. He accompanied the martyr’s nephew and his father to light the pyre of the soldier who made the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty in a gunfight with terrorists in Poonch sector of Jammu and Kashmir on October 11. Also read: Jammu and Kashmir: Search op on in Rajouri, Poonch to flush out ultrasSharing the family’s grief, Channi said: “Sepoy Gajjan Singh’s supreme sacrifice will inspire his fellow soldiers to perform their duties with utmost dedication and commitment to preserve the country’s sovereignty and integrity.” As the mortal remains of the 26-year-old soldier reached his village, Channi and Rana KP Singh stepped forward to carry the Tricolour-draped coffin on their shoulders. The chief minister announced that the Punjab government will give ₹50 lakh and a government job to a family member of the sepoy. The entire village gathered to pay tributes to its brave son, who was cremated with full state honours. Channi represents the Chamkaur Sahib constituency in Ropar district. Farmer’s son, he was concerned about stir Sepoy Gajjan Singh had joined 23 Sikh Regiment nine years ago. He had got married in February this year and a photo of him in wedding attire, holding a farmer union flag, was widely circulated on social media. The youngest of four brothers, he had visited his family two months ago to attend his brother’s wedding. He is survived by his wife, Harpreet Kaur, and parents, Charan Singh and Malkeet Kaur. “We never thought that such a day would come. We have lost everything,” his father, Charan Singh, said. His uncle, Dilbagh Singh, said the family was shattered beyond words. “The family owns 2.5 acres of farmland. Gajjan was concerned about the farmers’ agitation against the three laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-shoulders-coffin-of-soldier-cremated-with-full-military-honours-101634122539490.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: Peshwa’s Ramna Dakshina births a legacy of scholarship in Pune||Last week, on October 6, 2021, the Deccan College and Postgraduate research Institute concluded its celebrations of it bicentennial year with great fanfare. This third oldest college in India was established on October 6, 1821 as Hindoo College, part of an initiative undertaken by the Bombay Presidency Governor, Mt Stuart Elphistone. But, did you know that this establishment has a connection to a much older tradition of “Shravan Dakshina”, known from the Peshwa period?It is difficult to determine the exact date when the tradition of granting “Dakshina” during Shravan month to learned Brahmins folks began. Some scholars attribute it to Shivaji Maharaj, but safer attribution would be to Sambhaji Maharaj or the Rajaram Chhatrapati period. Shravan month is considered to be most auspicious amongst the four-month “chaturmas” period observed by Hindus during the monsoons. Shahu Chhatrapati-I would commission abhishekh rituals at Shiva temple at Kashi-Banaras and distributed gifts worth ₹2lakh to ₹4lakh every year. Back then, Shravan was also the period when soldiers and battalions retreated to home lands during the rainy season. The residential camp of various military commanders including the Peshwas, would be in Pune. It was a season of meeting families and relatives and also meant the celebration of various rituals and festivities. The month of Shravan, thus, proved to be the perfect time to carry out personal religious charity deeds. The learned and noble Brahmins, Shastri, Pandits and Veda scholars would earn their livelihoods by knowledge dissemination, teaching and priesthood. This was apparently not enough for their sustenance. Thus, Dakshina during Shravan month served as yearly scholarships for the knowledge fraternity. As per records, it was sardar Khanderao Dabhade who started the tradition of donating religious gifts to Brahmins during Shravan in Pune in 1718, inspired by the Bhosale kings. It continued till the death of Trimbakrao Dabhade in the battle of Dabhoi in 1730. After his death, Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj requested the Peshwas to continue the tradition of Dakshina and accordingly, Bajirao I commenced it at Shaniwarwada from 1732 onwards. In the initial years, 3,000-odd Brahmins benefitted from the Dakshina. The ceremony of Dakshina donation used to take place either at Kabutarkhana near Omkareshwar temple or at Hujurpaga, the horse stables near the present day Laxmi road. Re1 to Rs12 was distributed on an average, amounting to a total of anything between Rs16,000 and Rs50,000.Behind Shaniwarwada in Shaniwar peth, a leisure garden was created for personal entertainment. The ceremony of Dakshina donation, in the initial years, conducted at the spot of the Ramna garden gave it the name “Raman” baug. Even today, the school constructed at the same spot in later years, is known as New English School, Ramanbaug. Ramna is an enclosed open space or a leisure garden for entertainment, a place for distributing religious gifts. As Nanasaheb Peshwa’s tenure started in 1940, the revenue generation and personal property of the Peshwas grew manifold which brought eminent prosperity. Various developmental works undertaken by diplomatic strategist Nanasaheb also bore fruit, thus, increasing the urban cosmopolitan population of the medieval city. The total donation amount during his reign increased from a mere Rs30,000 to Rs18 lakh. Every year, the crowds of Brahmins congregating in Pune would increase. This led to the formation of a systematic organisation which would filter and segregate the Brahmins according to their genuine needs and the merit scholarship. In order to accommodate growing numbers, Nanasaheb Peshwa chose an open space on the foothills of Parvati hill to build a fortified walled open space called the new “Ramna” in 1751-52. The dimensions of this huge pavilion were 200 feet by 200 feet and it had four gateways in four directions. It was equipped with a full-fledged kitchen, water tanks, storage spaces and ritual spaces for sacrificial yajna, sandhya, and pooja. It could accommodate 50,000 to 60,000 Brahmins on a particular occasion. The Ganesha at the base of Parvati came to be known as Ramna Ganpati.The Brahmins were placed in the walled pavilion and on their way out were personally granted religious gifts by Peshwas and other eminent officers. Due to the massive numbers, sometimes it would take two whole days for a Brahmin to get out of the Ramna walls. Meanwhile, every donation seeker would be provided with food provisions and an allowance to cook their own food. Rains during month of Shravan necessitated residential arrangements for visiting Brahmins. Thus, residential arrangements were made for 40,000 Brahmins by building dharamshala or sarai. Temporary arrangements in the form of tents were made for additional crowds. Kabutarkhana or the old Ramna near Ramanbaug was utilised to distribute Dakshina to the non-Brahmins, particularly, beggars and mendicants. In some years, the records show numbers reaching 80,000 people! As a popular bard (shahir) describes the Dakshina ceremony, there is no count of the number of Brahmins who received charitable gifts in Pune during Shravan. Brahmins from far flung places such as Bundelkhand, Malwa, Kashi, Karnataka, Telangana, Gujarat and Konkan would participate in the Dakshina ceremony. He also quips, how Brahmins from south Konkan demand more money and in spite of getting generous grants complain and bicker about amounts received from the Peshwas.The Hyderabad Nizam’s attack on Pune region in 1763 caused substantial damage to various establishments including the Ramna which was totally destroyed by troops. The Dakshina was then briefly discontinued, but later was reinstated in Madhavrao Peshwa’s period. The loss of revenue in the Panipat battle was swiftly recovered by pious Madhavrao and within few years, the Ramna ceremony was performed as per its former glory. Yet another Sanskrit verse describes only two places that are known to turn muddy due to excess discharge of water in the absence of the monsoon; one is at chief justice Ramshashtri Prabhune’s front yard, where people failing the examination for Dakshina eligibility would cry desolately; and the other when Madhavrao pours udak or water during the charity gifting at Ramna.The Ramna further continued during Sawai Madhavrao’s and Bajirao II’s period. It was required for every Brahmin to pass an examination to be eligible for the Dakshina. Bajirao II‘s period records show that learned women, too, received Dakshina. Dakshina for deserving old and helpless Brahmins was sent to their homes during the month of Shravan. A force of 1,500 soldiers was kept on guard to manage the Brahmin crowds. The descriptions of “satvik” feast distributed during his time include various sweetmeats, dry fruits, sukeli (dried bananas), fanaspoli (dried jackfruit), yogurt, buttermilk and poha. This pious act conducted for 100 years by subsequent Peshwas was instrumental in spreading tales of generosity and religious character of the Maratha state under the Peshwas. After the end of Maratha rule in 1818, the British government started the Poona Sanskrit School at Vishrambaug wada, as per the orders of Mr Chaplin. 1836 onwards, it was supervised by Major Candy who brought in modern education reforms and named it Hindoo College, currently known as Deccan College and postgraduate research institute. Today, the Ramna pavilion and Ramanbaug are erased from Pune’s map, but Deccan College continues to herald the Peshwa legacy of Shravan Dakshina - a medieval underpinning of the education capital that is Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-peshwa-s-ramna-dakshina-births-a-legacy-of-scholarship-in-pune-101634121700018.html
13-10-2021||Bangalore||Decision on further easing of norms, resuming primary classes after Dasara: Karnataka CM||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said border districts in the state would be offered some relaxations regarding Covid-induced restrictions that are currently in place following an assessment after the Dasara celebrations.Speaking to reporters at the Mangaluru airport, Bommai said his government would conduct an assessment meeting regarding the relaxations and would accordingly take a decision on the matter. A report in PTI said a decision on reopening primary schools in the state would also be taken at the meeting.The CM’s announcement came in the wake of a gradual decline in coronavirus cases being reported across the state over the past few days. At present, Karnataka is reporting a little over 300 daily new cases on an average with 332 people testing positive for the disease on Tuesday.With this, the total number of confirmed infections rose to 29,81,732, according to a bulletin from the state department. Also, 11 more fatalities in the past 24 hours pushed the death toll to 37,906, the data showed.Meanwhile, the active caseload fell below the 10,000-mark and was recorded at 9,712 as of Tuesday. Bengaluru Urban with 6,595 active cases contributed the most to the state’s tally.Earlier in the month, Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar had also spoken about reopening schools for primary classes (classes 1 to 5). On September 6, physical schooling resumed for students of classes 6 to 8 in taluks where the Covid-19 positivity rate was less than 2 per cent.Sudhakar said the state government did not take any decision on reopening of educational institutes in a hurry. It was done in a phased manner after due consultations with parents and experts, he added.The state has also offered some relaxations to existing norms with a gradual improvement in the pandemic scenario and allowed cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes and pubs to be reopened However, night curfews between 10pm and 5am would continue to keep the virus under control.As of 7am on Wednesday, 59,913,592 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the state, according to the Union health ministry’s data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/decision-on-further-easing-of-norms-resuming-primary-classes-after-dasara-karnataka-cm-101634118023925.html
13-10-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh Cong in-charge PL Punia, co-incharge Chandan Yadav in Raipur today||Amid talks over the reported two-and-a-half-year power-sharing agreement between Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and his cabinet colleague TS Singh Deo, state in charge of Congress PL Punia, along with co incharge Chandan Yadav, will be in Raipur on Wednesday, people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. People in the Congress state unit claimed that a meeting with the senior Congress leaders and office bearers has been called on Wednesday evening. Both will reach Raipur from Delhi at around 8 pm. The development comes a day after Singh Deo was on a one-day visit to Delhi and reportedly met a senior Congress leader on Tuesday. Singh Deo returned to Raipur on Tuesday evening. “It was just a courtesy call nothing more than that... no political development,” Singh Deo told HT. On August 28, emerging after a long meeting with the Congress high command on suggestions that he should move aside because of a reported two and a half year power-sharing agreement with colleague TS Singh Deo, Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel seemed to have bought some time. He said that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would visit the state the next week, especially Bastar, to review the work that was being done. The next day, when Singh Deo returned, he said that he had spoken to the leadership too and they had kept a “decision safe”. Congress leadership in Delhi believes that the visit of Punia and Yadav on Wednesday should not be seen as a ‘political development’. “I believe that the decision over power-sharing is reserved with the high command but there is confusion and desperation among the Congress leaders, bureaucrats and media in Chhattisgarh. Punia and Yadav are going for the first time after the turmoil started about two months ago. The aim is to ease out the confusion prevailing in Chhattisgarh,” said a senior Congress leader based in Delhi. Meanwhile, functionaries close to Baghel asserted that the visit is routine which will be followed by meetings. “The visit of Punia and Yadav is routine... Actually, their visit was due for a couple of months. There are some meetings lined up with office-bearers and leaders,” said a leader close to the CM. In December 2018, in the aftermath of a dominant Congress performance where the party won 68 of 90 seats, even as the party’s Delhi leadership sought to put out leadership fires in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh emerged as a problem too. Four state leaders, Baghel, home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu, speaker Charan Das Mahant and Singh Deo flew to Delhi, all eyeing the chief minister’s post. As Mahant settled for the speaker’s post, friction between Baghel and Singh Deo meant that Sahu first emerged as the frontrunner, but pushed by the idea that a third leader would take the top position, Baghel and Singh Deo, along with Punia and Gandhi, reportedly arrived at a power-sharing arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-congress-in-charge-pl-punia-co-incharge-chandan-yadav-in-raipur-today-101634114739783.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Shimla much more than the Ridge and the Mall||Shimla is one of the best-known hill stations that tourists throng to. Once the summer capital of British India, Shimla is now the state capital of Himachal Pradesh. Tourists normally mill around popular hotspots, namely The Ridge and The Mall, considered the epicentre of tourist activities in town. I was fortunate to be posted in Shimla as a banker. The two-year stay offered me opportunities to explore Shimla in ways that tourists who come for a couple of days don’t get. Aided by official heft, I discovered the academic side of Shimla. There are four such landmarks that embellish the Queen of the Hills uniquely. The first institution is the Indian Institute of Advanced Studies (IIAS). Set up as a research institute by the then ministry of education, Government of India, in 1964, IIAS started functioning from October 20, 1965. By virtue of the goodwill earned through the installation of an ATM at the gate of the IIAS during my tenure in the bank’s Shimla branch, I gained the opportunity of not only meeting its top brass but also the privilege of being shown around even those quarters that are not open to the public. The building that houses IIAS was completed in 1888 as the Viceregal Lodge. After Independence, it was renamed Rashtrapati Niwas. The second place of eminence is the National Academy of Audit and Accounts (NAAA). It is the apex training institute of the Indian Audit and Accounts Department. Trainee officers of the Indian Audit and Accounts Service (IAAS), an allied service of the IAS, are imparted training at NAAA during their probation period. I will always cherish the privilege of taking a session on the topic of banking for IAAS probationers in the plush precincts of the academy. Next comes the Labour Bureau. It is a central government office under the ministry of labour and employment. It compiles the consumer price index for industrial workers (CPI-IW), used for calculating the dearness allowance (DA). It is housed in The Cleremont Building, a British Raj heritage building. Prior to my visit to the Labour Bureau where this interesting fact was revealed, I hadn’t known that the CPI-IW was compiled in Shimla. Officials at the bureau fully satiated my curiosity about the methodology of compiling the consumer price index. Last but not the least is the Central Potato Research Institute (CPRI), run under the aegis of the Indian Council of Agriculture Research. CPRI was established to carry out research, education and extension on the potato. An interesting trivia about potato is that though potato is a household name today in India it came to this ancient land from Europe in the beginning of the 17th century. It remained an insignificant crop till independence. As our bank had an extension counter there, I was duty-bound to visit the CPRI periodically. Undoubtedly, Shimla is much more than the Ridge and the Mall. It is dotted with heritage buildings that house institutions of academic significance. chander59@icloud.com The writer is a Panchkula-based retired banker||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/shimla-much-more-than-the-ridge-and-the-mall-101634113958653.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||DU student turns British High Commissioner for a day!||It’s not everyday you that you get to be numero uno at British High Commission in the Capital. But for 20-year-old Aditi Maheshwari, a student of Bachelors in Physical Science from Miranda House, University of Delhi, it was a dream come true.From attending meetings with senior-level diplomats to learning about professional responsibilities, she caught a glimpse of diplomat life as the British High Commissioner for the day. Maheshwari who hails from Chittorgarh, Rajasthan won this year’s High Commissioner for a Day contest, which is held annually by the High Commission, in celebration of International Day of the Girl Child (October 11) for young girls aged 18-23 to head the diplomatic mission for a day.What helped Maheshwari’s selection from over 100 entries was her befitting answer to ‘How can young people best support tackling the global challenge of climate change?’ She says, “I think every problem has an opportunity and the problem can be solved by us. So we are the solution.” She also reveals that it was her father who motivated her to participate in the competition.Maheshwari, who aspires to become an Indian Administrative Officer started her day as the commissioner at 8am with meetings followed by interactions with next gen women leaders from Delhi University and then a meeting with beneficiaries and staff, to understand the relations between India and the UK. She says, “I learnt a lot during the day about international relations and diplomacy. I got to know about the qualities that a leader needs to have.”In between the packed day, she also taught new words in Hindi to Alex Ellis, British High Commissioner to India, who often posts videos of himself speaking in the language. He says, “That was a good ice breaker. She taught me words like umar (age), vidyarthi (student) and uttari (north).” Talking about switching the roles for a day, he says,“She has been fantastic. She is very thoughtful, and showed great confidence. She’s also good at addressing groups. The world belongs to her and her generation. And it’s a great privilege for me to see it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-student-turns-british-high-commissioner-for-a-day-101634113179306.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Police arrest third suspect in killing of 14-year-old girl in Pune||Hours after a 14-year-old girl was hacked to death in Pune on Tuesday, the police arrested three persons, including the main suspect and two juveniles, officials said. While the police detained two minors late on Tuesday, the main suspect, 22-year-old Hrishikesh alias Shubham Bhagwat, was apprehended from Bibwewadi area where he was trying to hide, an official said on Wednesday. Bhagwat, who was stalking the victim, and two of his accomplices allegedly hacked an 8th standard student with a sickle at a playground in Pune during Kabaddi practice on Tuesday. So brutal was the attack that the victim’s head was nearly decapitated. “We have arrested the third suspect as well while the two juveniles in conflict with law were detained last night,” said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police (Zone V). According to another official, they are also investigating the involvement of a fourth suspect in the case though he refused to divulge any more information. Taking cognizance of the brutal killing, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar asked the police to make a tight case against the suspects to ensure the harshest punishment for a crime which he described as an “indication of the overall deterioration of social values.” “The incident is extremely serious. I have asked the police to take all possible efforts and ensure that suspects are awarded the harshest punishment,” said Pawar. Police officers said Bhagwat, who was a relative of the victim and was allegedly stalking her for months, reached the playground along with two other friends in the evening. He then called the girl who was about to begin her Kabaddi practice with friends and took her aside. An argument ensued and Bhagwat pulled out a sickle from his bag and hacked her to death. “The girl was at a playground where local groups hold Kabaddi practice and fitness classes for children. Three people, including a 22-year-old man, came on a bike and attacked the girl with a sharp weapon. The attack was so brutal that the girl died on the spot,” Patil said after the incident. The other two, according to police, were also carrying sharp weapons and assaulted the girl. Police said the attack unfolded in front of the victim’s friends and others who came for an evening stroll, all were shocked and left the place immediately. Police detained the two alleged accomplices, both minors, but the main accused was on the run. Police also recovered from the spot a toy pistol, which was allegedly used to scare off the victim’s friends. Police said Shubham was staying at the victim’s house with her family in the Bibwewadi area when he began stalking her. “Shubham was stalking her for some time. After the victim’s parents learnt about it, they warned him to leave after which he went to stay at another area at Chinchwad,” said Sunil Zaware, senior police inspector, Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-arrest-third-suspect-in-killing-of-14-year-old-girl-in-pune-101634103638053.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||NCR may shrink, draft regional plan 2041 approved. Check details||The National Capital Region is likely to shrink to 100-km radius, according to a draft plan approved by the NCR Planning Board on Tuesday. The focus of 'Draft Regional Plan 2041' is the development of NCR's urban areas, according to news agency PTI, which quoted officials.The National Capital Region currently spans around 150-175 kilometres, covering entire districts and their rural areas. But with the approval of Regional Plan 2041, areas beyond 100 km are not likely to be main part of the NCR, said the officials.The draft plan talks about establishing linear corridors beyond the 100 km radius, paving the way for development in areas falling within one kilometre from expressways, national highways and regional rapid transit system.The decision to include or omit Tehsils lying partly within this 100 km delineation will be left to the respective state governments, according to the details of the regional plan carried by PTI.A detailed draft plan will soon be made public for suggestions and objections and thereafter, it will be notified by the NCR Planning Board.The Regional Plan 2021, which is available on NCRPB's website, had identified seven metro centres - Faridabad-Ballabgarh, Gurgaon-Manesar, Ghaziabad-Loni, Noida, Sonepat-Kundli, Greater Noida and Meerut.It had also identified 11 regional centres - Bahadurgah, Panipat, Rohtak, Palwal, Rewari-Dharuhera-Bawal, Hapur-Pilkhua, Bulandshahr-Khurja, Baghpat-Baraut, Alwar, Greater Bhiwadi and Shahjahanpur-Neemrana-Behror.The plan for the year 2041 also envisions an NCR with air ambulance facility and high-speed connectivity through helitaxis, road, rail and inland waterways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ncr-may-shrink-draft-regional-plan-2041-approved-check-details-101634099891333.html
13-10-2021||Patna||Bihar to have smart, prepaid electricity metres by 2025||Around 17.5 million electricity metres in Bihar will be converted into smart, prepaid metres by 2025. The metres will not require manual reading for billing, distribution of bills, collection of fees and disconnection over non-payment of dues.The state government on Monday gave its nod to two power distribution companies to avail of ₹3,330-crore financial assistance for the execution of the project estimated to cost ₹11,100 crore. The Centre will provide around 15% of the project cost.“Bihar is the first state in India to conceptualise, design and operationalise smart, prepaid metres, which we have been working on since 2019. Other states have been working on smart metres in post-paid mode,” said Sanjiwan Sinha, managing director, South Bihar Power Distribution Company Ltd.Arwal and Kanti were selected as pilot districts for the installation of smart, prepaid metres in February 2020. Patna, Samastipur and Motihari were chosen as part of its mass rollout in January this year.“As of now, installation of such metres is underway at 28 electricity supply divisions across north and south Bihar,” said Sinha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-have-smart-prepaid-electricity-metres-for-by-2025-101634097217283.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Massive fire breaks out in Mumbai's Kurla, 20 motorcycles gutted||A massive fire broke out among around 20 motorcycles parked at a residential society in Mumbai's Nehru Nagar, Kurla on Wednesday morning.Mumbai: A fire had broken out in approx 20 motorcycles parked at a residential society in Nehru Nagar, Kurla earlier this morning. It was later doused by the fire department. Police officials are present at the spot. pic.twitter.com/kIheFdfOpMAll the motorbikes were gutted in the fire that was later doused by the fire department's personnel.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/massive-fire-breaks-out-in-mumbai-s-kurla-20-motorcycles-gutted-101634096225603.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra issues guidelines for reopening of cinema halls and auditoriums||The Maharashtra government has issued guidelines for the reopening of cinema halls, theatres, and auditoriums from October 22 at 50% seating capacity. The guidelines allow access only to people with Covid vaccination certificates or with the Aarogya Setu app showing their “safe status”. The government late last month announced the reopening of cinemas and auditoriums. It has since mid-August announced gradual relaxation in Covid-19 related restrictions amid a decrease in the number of infections.The state issued the guidelines on Monday saying Aarogya Setu App showing “safe status” will be mandatory. As an alternative, visitors can show their final Covid vaccination certificate before entering a cinema hall or multiplex or a drama theatre. Even entry into the malls is restricted to only fully vaccinated citizens. Cinema halls, drama theatres, and auditoriums are not allowed to operate in containment zones.The state reported 2,069 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and 43 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 139,621. The active cases in the state stood at 30,525. Mumbai reported 418 Covid infections and two deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-issues-guidelines-for-reopening-of-cinema-halls-theatres-and-auditoriums-101634096197594.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||‘Delhi to witness clear skies, morning mist on Wednesday’: IMD||Delhi is likely to see a generally clear sky with the possibility of mist in the morning on Wednesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be at 22 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 36 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was around 22.7 degrees Celsius, over two notches above normal and the maximum temperature was around 36.7 degrees Celsius, which was three notches above normal.Delhi’s air quality deteriorated and was in the “moderate” category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 170. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 179, which was also in the moderate category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-witness-clear-skies-morning-mist-on-wednesday-imd-101634093317219.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport's Terminal 1 to open from today||Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) will resume operations from Terminal 1 (T1) from Wednesday. The Adani Group-owned Mumbai airport operator had said in a statement on October 8 that it was supposed to start operations from T1 from October 20 but due to heavy passenger rush amid the festive season, was forced to prepone resumption of flight services from the domestic terminal.On morning of October 8, many people took to social media to mention about the chaos and also shared pictures and videos of the scenes at the airport, while airlines advised passengers to report early to allow sufficient times for security check. A CSMIA spokesperson blamed the rush on the upcoming festive season and announced several measures "to ensure a smooth experience while keeping security protocol intact".The airport operator said these measures include resuming T1 operations from Wednesday with flights operated by GoFirst, followed by AirAsia India on October 16.The Mumbai airport had on October 4 announced the reopening of its domestic passenger terminal T1 from the midnight of October 20, saying GoFirst, AirAsia India, Star Air and TruJet will resume all their domestic operations from there. However, IndiGo's select flights will resume from October 31 with most of its flights operating from T2 and base flights will operate out of Terminal 1, it had stated.The Mumbai airport authorities had suspended flight services from T1 in mid-April after the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic hit the nation and moved all operations to T2, which is largely used for international connectivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-s-terminal-1-to-open-from-today-101634083520718.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM: Pollution rising, need your help to bring it down||People should turn off their vehicles when waiting at a traffic signal, use public transport or carpool once a week, and flag violations of environmental rules, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to citizens on Tuesday, after hitting out at neighbouring states for failing to stop farm fires which, he said, will impact the Capital’s air soon.Kejriwal’s appeal comes days after the city launched a 10-point action plan to mitigate a spike in air pollution levels.“Air pollution has been slowly increasing for the last three-four days. One of the main reasons is that stubble burning has started in neighbouring states where governments have failed in helping farmers in this regard. We can get a clear picture of that through Nasa images… Last week, we presented a 10-point action plan. Today, I seek your help in reducing air pollution in personal capacity,” said Kejriwal in a video briefing on Tuesday.He said the government, like last year, will launch an awareness campaign on the benefits of switching off engines at traffic lights. “Even though we will launch a formal campaign this year again from October 18, I request you to start it in personal capacity from today. Studies have shown that by doing this we can collectively save around ₹250 crore a year and reduce pollution by up to 15%.”Last year, it launched the “Red light on, gaadi off (vehicle off)” campaign to help reduce vehicular emissions and fuel consumption. While environmentalists and activists appreciated the campaign, many pointed out the limited period for which it lasted. Experts said a campaign aimed to bring about a behavioural change needs to be sustained to show visible results.“Secondly, I request you to use public transport or carpool at least once a week, instead of using a personal vehicle. Doing it more than once a week would be even better. Third, I request you to download the Green Delhi app... for actively registering complaints regarding pollution... We have resolved more than 23,000 complaints through the app so far,” said Kejriwal.On October 4, Kejriwal released a winter action plan. It includes free distribution of a bio-decomposer to help dissolve paddy stubble – the farm residue is a major source of pollution. Farmers set this alight as a quick and cheap way to prepare their fields for the next crop that need to be sowed before the onset of winter.The plan also includes dust suppression drives, a ban on burning of garbage, installation of smog towers, a tight vigil on the ban on firecrackers, constant monitoring of pollution hot spots, and investing on efforts to reduce vehicular pollution in the capitalKejriwal, over the last month, has been tweeting the city’s daily AQI recordings to show what he says is pollution under regular circumstances. On Tuesday, the 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was at 179, which is regarded as moderately polluted.At least 11 of the 35 air monitoring stations in the city recorded air quality that was in the poor category (with a value of over 200), up from 7 a day before. On Monday, Delhi’s average AQI was 166.To be sure, farm fires are not the only reason for the drop in air quality. Meteorological conditions are a strong factor, and they trap the local dust and emissions from vehicles and factories in the air close to the ground. There are also significant local sources of pollution, such as road dust and construction debris, that the authorities have struggled to control over the years. The situation is made worse by the use of firecrackers -- banned in Delhi since 2017 by the Supreme Court, except for relatively less polluting “green crackers” -- during Diwali, which lead to a sudden spurt by adding emissions that are more toxic than usual.Union environment minister Bhupender Yadav in an interview last week said that all stakeholders are working together to control farm fires this time and special directions have been issued by the newly formed Committee on Air Quality Management (CAQM) to states to provide all assistance to farmers so that they refrain from setting their fields on fire.Farmer unions this year warned that there could be significant instances of farm fires, since the monsoon withdrew late, reducing the time cultivators had to harvest the crop. “Harvesting has started but will pick up properly around October 10. Until the government plans to give farmers a direct subsidy, most farmers will choose to burn stubble,” said Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union, Punjab, told HT last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-pollution-rising-need-your-help-to-bring-it-down-101634081421220.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||BJP MP Manoj Tiwari injured during protest outside Kejriwal’s home||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament Manoj Tiwari was injured on Tuesday while protesting near Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence against a ban on the celebration of Chhath Puja at public places because of the Covid-19 pandemic. He was rushed to the emergency wing of the Safdarjung Hospital, where he was reported to be stable.Tiwari was leading a group of protestors, including Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, seeking the revocation of the ban when Delhi police used water cannons to disperse the protesters.A police officer said that Tiwari was injured after he fell from a barricade he had climbed on to as Delhi Police used water cannons to repel the protesters.Abhay Verma, the chief spokesperson for Delhi BJP, said Tiwari sustained injuries as he was standing on the barricade. “He is stable now,” said Verma.The area around Kejriwal’s house was heavily barricaded to prevent the protestors from getting closer to it.Last Friday, Kejriwal said that the decision to restrict of Chhath at public places was taken in view of health and safety of the people. However, Gupta asserted on Monday that Chhath would still be celebrated, and the BJP-ruled municipal corporations would make arrangements for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-mp-manoj-tiwari-injured-during-protest-outside-kejriwal-s-home-101634080601745.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A cold-weather friend||A man is lying on a bench, wide awake. Some steps away, a chhole-bhature eatery staffer is hurriedly finishing his homemade dal-roti. While a cotton candy hawker, armed with plastic-wrapped pink candies, is playing ludo on the mobile. Then there’s a goat, and a lazy dog too. Overlooking it all is the area’s Jama Masjid.After plunging into semi-hibernation during the summer and monsoon months, Gurugram’s Masjid Udayan has awakened to the October nip. It’s not yet cold, and the winter’s dreaded haze is weeks away. Be warned, though: the park is just a muddy brown ground with some grass and some cactuses. If you are patient, only then does it reveal its elusive beauty. Most citizens ignore this place, tucked at one end of the town’s Sadar Bazaar; but those who are drawn to it fall into a committed relationship. That’s why the unusual city oasis is peopled with always the same faces. For instance, at a certain hour in any given afternoon, you’ll find the same three “putai wale” house painters sitting with legs crossed, their work-clothes splattered with colours. The same rat poison hawkers sit under the park’s peepal for lunch.Occasionally unfamiliar folks are spotted. They tend to come up with some sad story or the other. One afternoon in the ongoing pandemic era, a young man in ironed pants and shirt was lying flat under this tree. With his black laptop bag doubling up as pillow, he confessed he hadn’t told his “bhaiya-bhabhi” that he was recently relieved of his “office job.” Another afternoon (this was last year’s winter), two panic-stricken labourers were furiously calling up contacts on their mobile to help them with emergency cash for train tickets to home in Bihar.In the late morning hours, a corner of the park smells of fragrant pulao—a street-food seller daily cooks the dish in an adjacent yard.When here, also look out for a man in safari suit. Biscuit trader Naseer Ahmad Khan’s “biskut ke thele” are permanently parked by the park. A cheerily optimistic man, he is full of stories about the locality and its people. He speaks in flowery Urdu, like a Ghalibian poet of yesteryear. If you say hello to him, he might treat you to chai and his biscuits, which he “imports” from the pilgrimage town of Ujjain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-cold-weather-friend-101634079154118.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir clocks 80 new cases of Covid||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 80 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday. Also for the sixth consecutive day, no death caused by the virus was reported. Of the total cases, 67 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 13 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 136 with active cases going below 1,000 to reach 993.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 13 districts of the UT — Rajouri, Poonch, Ramban, Samba, Jammu, Doda, Anantnag, Shopian, Budgam, Bandipora, Kulgam ,Pulwama and Ganderbal — have managed to vaccinate 100% of their adult population with the first dose after more than 1.18 lakh doses were administered on Tuesday. Srinagar has the highest number of active cases at 429 followed by Poonch and Budgam districts with 95 and 91 cases, respectively.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,25,247 which took the recovery rate to 98.36%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have reached 3,30,666 and the death toll stands at 4,426.The officials said that 48,310 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.174 infections detected in HPHimachal logged 174 fresh Covid cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,20,792 while death toll mounted to 3,694 after four patients died of the infection. The active case count climbed to 1,312 while recoveries reached 2,15,769 after 95 people recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-clocks-80-new-cases-of-covid-101634078241813.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: Army pays rich tributes to Poonch bravehearts||In a solemn ceremony held at Rajouri on Tuesday, rich tributes were paid to the soldiers, who laid down their lives during a counterterrorist operation in Thanamandi on Monday. “Wreaths were laid by senior army officers and civil dignitaries. The mortal remains of JCO and four soldiers belonging to different parts of the country will be moved to their respective hometowns. Indian Army salute the sacrifices of its soldiers who laid down their lives in the service of the motherland,” said a defence spokesperson. Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh, (Sena Medal) of Mana Talwandi in Kapurthala, Naik Mandeep Singh of Sirha in Gurdaspur, Sepoy Gajjan Singh of Panchranda in Ropar, Sepoy Saraj Singh of Akhtyarpur Shahjahanpur, Uttar Pradesh and Sepoy Vaisakh H of Kollam in Kerala made supreme sacrifice on the line of duty while combating armed terrorists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-army-pays-rich-tributes-to-poonch-bravehearts-101634078061893.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||2 snatchers held from Bawana||Two men, who took motorcycles and pistols on a rent of ₹5,000 a day to commit snatching across the city, were arrested in outer north Delhi on Sunday, police said.Police identified the two alleged criminals as Suraj Malik, 18, and Rashid Alam, 19, both residents of Bawana.Investigators said they suspect the two arrested accused were involved in at least 100 snatching cases in parts of outer north police district, such as Bawana, Alipur, Narela. However, police have found evidence of their involvement in two snatching cases so far.Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Brijendra Kumar Yadav said Malik and Alam used to target people in the morning, and snatched cell phones of people, many of whom may not have reported the crime. DCP Yadav said that on Sunday, when the two men were arrested from Sector 4, Bawana, they had already snatched eight cell phones within three hours. Police have seized the phones, and are contacting the victims.The officer said that the two suspects started working together one and a half months ago. He said there was another person who joined them, identified as one Raja, and they formed a gang.“They got in touch with one Raja, who became the gang leader eventually. They paid Raja ₹5000 at least 20 days a month, to rent high-end bikes. Raja also helped them with money, whenever required, weapons and places to hide,” a senior official said.Initial investigation has shown that Raja too was involved in at least 25 snatching casesacross the city. Police said Raja’s brother, named Manish Poddar is also the gang leader of a different gang. Police are searching for Raja, and are questioning the two accused to trace their other accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-snatchers-held-from-bawana-101634077555151.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: Search op on in Rajouri, Poonch to flush out ultras||The Indian Army has launched a massive search operation in the forest area between the borders of Rajouri and Poonch districts to eliminate terrorists, said officials. “This morning, fresh encounter broke out between the terrorists and security forces in a forest near Pangai area in Rajouri. Thereafter, the contact was again lost with the terrorists but a massive search operation has been launched to eliminate them,” said a defence official. Five soldiers, including a JCO, lost their lives when a group of heavily armed terrorists opened fire on an army search party in Chamrer forest close to Dera Ki Gali (DKG) in Surankote early on Monday. After the initial encounter, terrorists fled to nearby Pangai forest which falls in the jurisdiction of Rajouri’s Thanamandi. The gunfight between the two sides stopped on Monday evening after the terrorists took advantage of the dense forest and fled, the officials said, adding that the entire forest belt was cordoned off and a search operation was underway to neutralise the hiding terrorists. The officials said senior police and army officers also rushed to the area to supervise the operation. Earlier, a defence spokesman said on the intervening night of October 10 and 11, a counterterrorist operation was launched by the Indian Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police in the area of Shahdara, near the boundary of Poonch-Rajouri districts. The districts of Rajouri and Poonch, south of Pir Panjal, have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-search-op-on-in-rajouri-poonch-to-flush-out-ultras-101634077761876.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls: Jai Ram flays Pratibha over Kargil War remarks||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday slammed Congress nominee Pratibha Singh over her remarks on Kargil War. Pratibha during an election rally had described the Kargil conflict as a “small war”. She was trolled for her remarks as a video of her statement was put out on social networking platforms. “There is a strange situation in the Congress right now. Its leaders do not listen to each other inside the assembly. Everyone is in a race to become a leader,” Jai Ram said while making a veiled attack on leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri. “Whatever Congress leaders said about me is not an insult to me, but to the entire state,” the CM said during an election meeting in Churag. “I am not a king. I am from a poor family, but it doesn’t mean that you keep on insulting a common man,” Jai Ram said, calling the Congress a “directionless party without a leader”. He said the records of Congress leaders were known to everyone. “Everybody knows Brigadier Khushal Thakur. He fought valiantly. It’s saddening that Pratibha described the battle with Pakistan as a minor one,” the Himachal CM said, while lambasting Vikramaditya. “He made it to the Vidhan Sabha for the first time and he is talking about avenging the Congress’ defeat . It’s unfortunate that Virbhadra Singh is not among us today and if anyone is seeking votes, they should do that on the basis of work rather than anyone’s name,” he added. Pratibha targets CM over unemployment in Himachal Meanwhile, Pratibha Singh flayed Jai Ram Thakur-led state government over growing unemployment. “It’s disheartening that people from outside the state are getting jobs in Himachal, but not the Himachalis,” she said. She addressed a series of rallies in different assembly segments of Mandi on Tuesday. “Virbhadra Singh always gave prominence to the people of the state while his government made job appointments. It’s for the first time that I am in fray without him (Virbhadra). Virbhadra ji is remembered for his works, it’s the reason that he got love and affection from people of the state,” she added. She blamed the “defective policies” of the central government for rising unemployment and inflation. HP Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore, while addressing the media in Shimla, also claimed that the government has failed on all fronts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypolls-jai-ram-flays-pratibha-over-kargil-war-remarks-101634077221615.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mayor’s visit catches MC staff unawares||Even after over three weeks have passed since Chief Minister Charanjit Channi directed government staff to reach offices on time, municipal corporation (MC) staff continue to give two hoots to the directions and reach late to offices.Mayor Balkar Sandhu conducted a surprise inspection at the MC Zone-C office and found many staffers, mostly clerical staff, late for duty on Tuesday morning.Reaching the office at 8.45 am, the mayor sat near the entry gate of the office to check punctuality and issued a warning to the staffers who reached the office after 9 am. A few senior officials, including an SDO, were also found absent from the office.The mayor directed the staff to reach the office on time so that more time could be spent on public dealing.He said,” A warning has been issued to the staff. I have also written to the MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal, to ensure that staffers reach the office on time. The inspections will continue in the coming time and disciplinary action will be initiated if the staff don’t reach the office on time. The location of the staff in the field will also be checked to cross-check their claims.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mayor-s-visit-catches-mc-staff-unawares-101634073681249.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Property dispute: Bakery owner’s son shoots brother dead in Ludhiana||The son of a prominent businessman shot his younger brother dead over a property dispute at a posh residential locality in Basant Avenue on Monday. The owner of the chain, Lucky Bakery, Hardeep Singh had divided his property between his two sons 10 day ago, which led to a disagreement, culminating in the death of Hardeep’s younger son at the hands of his brother. The accused, Palwinder Singh, 38, of Sant Fateh Singh Nagar, fired three bullets at his brother Gagandeep Singh, 35, of Basant Avenue, one of which hit him in the head and killed him on the spot.Station house officer, inspector Jagdev Singh, said Palwinder was upset with the division of property as he felt he had drawn the short end of the stick. “On Monday night, Palwinder went to Gagandeep’s house at Basant Avenue around 9pm. The brothers argued, but things turned ugly when Palwinder shot Gagandeep in front of his parents and wife with the victim’s licenced .32 bore pistol.” Roopdeep Kaur, the victim’s wife, said Palwinder fired three shots. Her husband was rushed to the hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.The accused fled from the spot, but the police arrested him on Tuesday. A murder case has been registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-dispute-bakery-owner-s-son-shoots-brother-dead-in-ludhiana-101634073382638.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sacked, factory worker torches employer’s pick-up auto in Ludhiana||A factory worker, who had been fired from his job for showing up drunk and picking fights with his co-workers, torched his former employer’s pick-up auto in Mandi Mullanpur on Monday. The accused, Ramu of Sitapur, had poured petrol over the vehicle before setting it on fire and suffered minor burn injuries on his face and hands.The factory owner, Ramandeep Singh of Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, said Ramu had been working at his plastic factory for four years and as his alcohol addiction worsened he had started turning up for work in an inebriated state. “At times, he would get into minor scuffles with colleagues and on Monday, he had a spat with the foreman, Amrinder Kumar, after which he was sacked from the job. An hour later, Ramu returned with a bottle containing petrol in a bottle. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Narinder Kumar, who was investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Section 435 (Mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to cause damage) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sacked-factory-worker-torches-employer-s-pick-up-auto-in-ludhiana-101634073020989.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Festive season: Get coupons from Chandigarh MC to set up temporary stalls||For setting up temporary stalls during the festivals of Dussehra and Diwali, the municipal corporation (MC) will issue coupons for 3-7 days and 20 days.Permission for 3-7 days will be granted from October 25 to 28 in the office hall adjoining the booking branch, MC office in Sector 17, and at the sub-office in Manimajra from 10am to 4pm daily. The permission for setting up stalls in Sectors 17 and 22 will be for three days only except the Plaza and Sectors 22C and 22D.Permission from Dussehra to Diwali (for 20 days) will be given on October 13 and 14 (with the cashier of the booking branch), except Sectors 17 and 22.The coupons shall be issued on a first-come-first-serve basis. No coupons will be issued after the last date, October 28. Anyone found to have set up a stall without a coupon will be charged double the rate or the stall can be removed by the corporation without notice, as per the existing law.Those interested will have to bring their Aadhar cards, voter card, driving lLicence/passport etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/festive-season-get-coupons-from-chandigarh-mc-to-set-up-temporary-stalls-101634072900895.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour: Panchkula golfer Amandeep Drall leads strong field||Amandeep Drall leads a strong field, which includes a bunch of players fresh from their European sojourn, as they get set to tee off in the 10th leg of the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour at the Chandigarh Golf Club par-72 layout on Wednesday.The event will be held over four days from October 12 to 15. Panchkula golfer Amandeep, who has had a good season on the Ladies European Tour Access Series with a few top-10 finishes, will be joined by Vani Kapoor, who had a modest season. Gaurika Bishnoi had some good finishes, too, while Pranavi Urs and rookie Durga Nittur are also back after playing in Europe.Amandeep is coming off a fine streak that included three top-10 finishes in her last four starts on the LET Access Series. A total of 34 players including six amateurs will play in the ₹10-lakh event as the season approaches the closing stages for 2021.Leading the Hero Order of Merit is Amandeep Drall, who is followed by Vani Kapoor, while Jahanvi and Hitaashee Bakshi are in third and fourth places. Seher Atwal is lying fifth.Speaking ahead of the tournament, Ravibir Singh Grewal, president of the Chandigarh Golf Club, said that such events would go a long way in increasing the popularity of the game among ladies and budding golfers would learn a lot by interacting with the young professionals participating in the tournament.Dr GS Kochhar, vice-president, said that it was indeed a feeling of pride for the Chandigarh Golf Club to be hosting the event when the leading women golfers like Amardeep Drall, Sehar Atwal, Lakhmehar Pardesi from Chandigarh are competing.Jaipur Open: Harendra, Abhijit tied-fourthBengaluru golfer Khalin Joshi’s consistent run continued as he fired a scorching nine-under 61 to take the lead in round one of the Jaipur Open 2021 at the par-70 Rambagh Golf Club on Tuesday.Kartik Sharma struck error-free rounds of eight-under 62 consisting of an eagle and six birdies each to hold joint second position. The Chandigarh duo of Harendra Gupta and Abhijit Singh Chadha were in tied fourth place with scores of 63. PGTI Order of Merit leader Karandeep Kochhar of Chandigarh was tied ninth place after a round of 65.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hero-women-s-pro-golf-tour-panchkula-golfer-amandeep-drall-leads-strong-field-101634072660989.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity area reports 9 fresh Covid cases; no deaths||The tricity area recorded nine fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, an uptick from four cases reported on October 11.No fatality owing to the virus, however, was reported in the tricity area for a week straight. It was on October 5 when two patients, one each from Chandigarh and Panchkula, had succumbed to the virus.Of the nine cases reported on Tuesday, five surfaced in Chandigarh, while two patients each got infected in Panchkula and Mohali.Meanwhile, tricity’s active case tally stood at 61 on Tuesday, of which 39 are in Chandigarh, 15 in Mohali and seven in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,285 positive cases, of which 64,426 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded to date are 68,761. Among these, 67,678 patients have recovered and 1,068 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,745 includes 30,360 recoveries and 378 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-area-reports-9-fresh-covid-cases-no-deaths-101634072302926.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Upset over losing ₹8-lakh cricket bet, Ludhiana man hangs himself||Unable to pay a bookie ₹8-lakh, which he had lost in cricket bets, a 31-year-old man hung himself at his house at Baba Than Singh Chowk on Monday. The accused, Rubal of Amarpura, had come to the victim’s house one week ago and threatened him, the complainant said. Chats have revealed that the victim had asked to be allowed to repay the money in instalments, but the accused was reluctant. The victim, who sold mobile phones for a living, is survived by his widow and six-year-old daughter. Assistant sub-inspector Jagdish Raj, who is investigating the case, said Rubal had been booked under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/upset-over-losing-8-lakh-cricket-bet-ludhiana-man-hangs-himself-101634071950612.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||National Achievement Survey: Ludhiana block nodal officers told to visit all schools by October 20||With a month left for the students to appear for the National Achievement Survey (NAS) exam, district education officer (DEO) Lakhbir Singh Samra has directed block nodal officers (BNOs) in the district to visit all schools in their respective blocks by October 20 to analyse the preparation for the NAS. The DEO held a meeting with over 400 government school heads to discuss the strategies for the preparation of NAS in the schools. The BNOs have been asked to discuss the results of students in September bi-monthly exams and sensitise them towards the survey exams in order to achieve the top spot in the country. The stress on cent percent participation of students was laid during the meeting. The schools have been asked to give special attention to the attendance of students. Special strategies have been made to guarantee the higher performance of students in the NAS examination. A few strategies include special subject-wise PPT, especially for Classes VIII and X, on the least scored five questions during the bi-monthly tests held last month. Moreover, schools have been asked to conduct weekly tests of students from videos and PPTs shared by the education department with schools for the NAS preparations. School heads and principals have been told to hold meetings with subject teachers whose results were not satisfactory during the bi-monthly tests. Most of the students secured marks between 40% to 80% in bi-monthly tests but in order to bag the first spot in the country, all students will have to get over 80% marks in the NAS exam. Sharing the strategies, DEO, secondary, Lakhbir Singh said, “Questions related to weekly learning outcomes will be included in each weekly assignment and in word wall activity. Links of YouTube videos related to these learning outcomes will be shared in the field.” He added that students were being trained to fill the OMR sheets as the department doesn’t want them to make silly mistakes in the NAS exam. Meanwhile, Davinder Singh Chhina, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Shahapur, said the preparations for the NAS were in the full swing and in the final phase. “We are stressing more on the revision. Private apps, including Khan Academy and Wordwall, are being used for the preparations along with booklets being supplied to students by the department and other online and offline modes. The motive is to get the top spot for the state. The teachers and students have been working really hard for the same,” said Chhina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/national-achievement-survey-ludhiana-block-nodal-officers-told-to-visit-all-schools-by-october-20-101634071949551.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Coal shortage: Power outages continue to beleaguer Ludhiana residents||Unscheduled power cuts continued to haunt Ludhiana residents on Tuesday amid the shortage of coal in Punjab.According to PSPCL officials, the power outage averaged for around three hours in various areas of the city.The areas in the district have been divided under Ludhiana city-1, Ludhiana city-2 and Ludhiana city-3 by the PSPCL.The areas under Ludhiana city 1, including Rajguru Nagar, South City, Haibowal, BRS Nagar, GT Road, Chaura Bazaar, Balokee, Amaltas, Sarabha Nagar, DL Complex, PAU and Fountain Chowk witnessed a brief power snag in the morning. Supply got disconnected around 3pm and resumed around 5.30pm in these areas. Residents in BRS Nagar had sleepless night. After three to four-hour power cuts in the day on Monday, a major power snag was observed in the wee hours. The power went off around 3.30am and it was resumed around two hours later early morning. “We don’t have an inverter at our place as we never felt the need. However, life has become tough due to long power cuts since Monday morning,” said Siddhant Tiwari of BRS Nagar.However, a senior official said the power cut in the wee hours must be due to some fault.People residing in the areas in City-2, including Basant Park, Gill road, Model Town, Dugri, Basant Avenue, Dholewal, Millerganj, Transport Nagar, Old Jail Road and Chandigarh Road witnessed power outage between 11.30am and 1.30pm and a brief cut in the evening.According to Rajiv Sumra, ASE, City Division, three-hour power cuts were imposed on an average in the areas under city-3, including Sahnewal, Kanganwal, Singla Cycle, Focal Point, Indra Park, Phase-7, Phase-8, Tajpur Road, Palm Garden, Meharban, Giaspura and Billet factory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coal-shortage-power-outages-continue-to-beleaguer-ludhiana-residents-101634071947707.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man protests outside LIT office over delay in registration of plot||Forced to make rounds of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) office for the last six years to get a registry of his house done, a resident of BRS Nagar block-J, Jatinder Pal Singh staged a protest outside the trust office in Feroze Gandhi market on Tuesday.Holding a placard in his hand accusing LIT officials of corruption, he claimed that even after transferring the ownership of the plot on his name, LIT was not getting the registry done citing vigilance inquiry and a pending case in the high court. He claimed that even the facts of the case were clear and the ownership had already been transferred to his name.Accusing the LIT officials of asking for a bribe of ₹2 lakh for getting the registry done, Jatinder Pal stated that he had applied with LIT in 2015. At that time, LIT officials wrongly showed a default in the payment for the plot and asked for a bribe of ₹50,000 for resolving the issue, he alleged.“I denied and started pursuing the case at the state level. A complaint was also filed with the CM office, following which a vigilance inquiry was marked in the case, which is still pending. A petition was also filed in the high court and the court directed the LIT to take the final decision on whether the department wants to get the registry done or not based on the facts of the case. In 2018, the department admitted that there is no default on payment and transferred the ownership of the property on my name. But for the last two years, the department is not allowing the registry of the property done on my name,” said Jatinder Pal.“I have been forced to make rounds of the office and the department officials demand ₹2 lakh bribe for clearing the case. Even LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam has failed to provide any relief,” he said.Meanwhile, Balasubramaniam said a vigilance inquiry was marked against few cases in the past, including the case of Jatinder Pal, and a case regarding the matter is also sub judice in the Punjab and Haryana high court. “To support Jatinder Pal, a resolution approved by LIT was also sent to the government for approval, but the government has not taken any final decision on the same. There is no delay on the part of LIT and the allegations being levelled by Jatinder Pal are baseless,” said the chairman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-protests-outside-lit-office-over-delay-in-registration-of-plot-101634071946441.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Manual scavenging: Quality Council of India to hold inspection in Ludhiana||At a time when the Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission has moved the Punjab and Haryana high court over the alleged incident of manual scavenging in the city, a team of the Quality Council of India (QCI) will be conducting the third-party inspection under the Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge - 2021 in the city. The team is expected to reach the city on Wednesday.Apart from conducting field inspections, the team will also inspect the equipment and machinery available with the MC to stop manual scavenging and cleaning of sewer lines. The team will also interact with sewer men, including those working with private contractors, about the working conditions/environment.Having an eye on the first prize of ₹12 crore under the challenge (for cities with over 10 lakh population), the MC had participated in the challenge launched by the Union government last year. The aim of the challenge is to stop manual scavenging and to ensure proper machinery/equipment with MCs for cleaning the sewer lines. Complaint number 14420 has also been launched by the government at the national level to deal with the complaints of clogged sewer lines and manual scavenging.MC officials said 18 jetting machines and 24 desilt machines had been purchased in the past and a tender to purchase over 1,600 safety kits had also matured wherein gumboots, cover all suits, etc, will be provided to over 1700 sewer men employed by the MC. Gas detectors are also being purchased for the safety of sewer men.MC executive engineer Ranbir Singh said around 100 safety kits were already available with the department and over 1,600 are being purchased. “All of these will not be provided to the staff at once and only a few will be provided at each sub-zone as per the needs, while the other will be kept in the stores for future use.Earlier in September, chairman of the Punjab State Safai Karamchari Commission Geja Ram Valmiki had moved the high court seeking action against MC officials concerned over the alleged incident of manual scavenging in the Jugiana area.The chairman claimed that he had caught MC sewer men involved in manual scavenging in Jugiana on July 16. The MC officials, however, alleged that manual scavenging was banned, and the chairman forced the sewer men to enter the manhole for implicating MC staffers. The video of the incident was also available, claimed the MC officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/manual-scavenging-quality-council-of-india-to-hold-inspection-in-ludhiana-101634071945321.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Probe ordered into Ludhiana man’s death after family alleges lynching||Five months after a 40-year-old man was found dead near an electrical transformer at Darshan Singh Wala village in Ramgarh , his family has alleged that he was lynched to death by a former sarpanch and his aides. After the family sought intervention of commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, a probe was marked to additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 4) Rupinder Kaur Sra on Tuesday. The victim, Sajjan Singh of Guru Nanak Colony, was a pickup truck driver. His wife, Gurmeet Kaur, said that Sajjan had left the house with his friend Raju on May 14, saying he will be back in jiffy, but never returned. His body was found at a field in Darshan Singh Wala village the next day, which was May 15. Dalbir Singh, a relative, said the police did not take Raju’s statement and were pressuring them to drop the matter. “Raju has said the two of them were attacked by a former sarpanch and his aides, who suspected that they were thieves. He had managed to escape, but they had lynched Sajjan to death and set his body on fire. The police said that he had been electrocuted to death while stealing oil from transformers.However, the body was found at some distance from the transformer,” Dalbir said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/probe-ordered-into-ludhiana-man-s-death-after-family-alleges-lynching-101634071944129.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana residents, councillor stage protest against dyeing unit||Irked over clogged sewer lines and accumulated water on the streets, residents of Dhandari Khurd village in ward number 28 staged a protest against a dyeing unit operational in their area on Tuesday. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor Paramjit Singh Garcha and schoolchildren also took part in the protest.The residents rued that the municipal corporation (MC) has failed to take action against the dyeing unit despite repeated complaints.Amid rising tension between the residents and dyeing unit staff, MC officials and police reached the spot to pacify the protesters.The residents rued that the sewer lines get choked due to excess discharge of waste from the dyeing unit. The problem is being faced in the area for the last many years and the residents had also staged a protest outside the dyeing unit in 2018, but the authorities failed to resolve the issue despite giving assurance.Sukhwinder Singh and Gurpreet Singh, locals, said the residents were suffering from skin diseases due to sewer water accumulation and contaminated water supply in the area, but the authorities had failed to resolve the issue.The protest was lifted after the authorities and the dyeing unit owner assured that the problem would be resolved in 10 days.Kamal, MC, SDO, said the MC would initiate action against the dyeing unit owner if he failed to stop waste discharge in the MC lines in 10 days. The owner has been directed to discharge the waste in the sewer lines of the common effluent treatment plant of the dyeing industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-residents-councillor-stage-protest-against-dyeing-unit-101634071943023.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||After councillor’s appeal, Ludhiana MC acts against illegal hoardings||A day after Congress councillor Mamta Ashu, wife of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, appealed to the residents to stop using pictures of ministers on illegal hoardings and urged the civic body to take action against such hoardings across the city, the municipal corporation (MC) initiated a drive to remove illegal posters/hoarding from city roads on Tuesday.However, a large number of hoardings can still be seen installed in different parts of the city, including Ferozepur road, SBS Nagar, Model Town Extension, Barewal road, Chandigarh road, old GT road among other areas. Most of these are political or religious hoardings and at many points the directions boards have also been covered with illegal hoardings, giving a tough time to commuters.On Monday, the Congress councillor took to social media urging supporters and social, religious, industrial and political organisations in Ludhiana west constituency to stop defacing the city by installing illegal hoardings.In her post on social media, she said, “In a progressive society like ours, our endeavour should be to make our city smarter and aesthetically more beautiful. Dotting the city with illegal hoardings is definitely not acceptable to anyone.”Further, she urged mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal to take action against such hoardings.The mayor said action was always taken against illegal hoardings in the city. Directions had again been issued to the MC staff and an extensive drive had been initiated in the city to remove illegal hoardings. “The staff has been directed to remove illegal hoardings even if there is a picture of a minister or mine too. Supporters add pictures of leaders in the hoardings without their consent,” said Sandhu.MC fails to impose penaltiesEven after the municipal corporation (MC) house had approved a resolution to impose a penalty of up to ₹50,000 on printers for installing hoardings last year, the MC has failed to tighten the noose around printers and residents who install hoardings.In the resolution approved by the MC general house in November last year, the MC had also decided to impose a penalty of ₹5,000 per day on superintendents who fail to remove illegal hoardings. The house also deliberated on lodging an FIR against violators.One of the MC officials requesting anonymity said there was a large-scale interference in the working of the MC due to which the civic body failed to take action against illegal hoardings. With assembly elections scheduled for next year and festival season around the corner, supporters have installed a large number of hoardings in the city and politicians also support them.Residents have also been complaining against defacement, but MC officials were helpless, said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-councillor-s-appeal-ludhiana-mc-acts-against-illegal-hoardings-101634071940929.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC fails to re-tender sanitation work in southern sectors||Even though it has been four months since the MC House passed a resolution for not renewing its five-year contract, firm Lion Services Limited will continue sanitation work in southern sectors during the code of conduct set to be imposed next month ahead of the MC elections.The corporation pays about ₹5 crore per month for the machined sweeping of the southern sector roads through the company.On MC’s failure to call a fresh tender for the work, BJP councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali has sought a probe from MC commissioner into the “deliberate delay in the process of re-tendering for GIS-based mechanical and manual sweeping of selected roads.” The contractor firm has a separate manual contract (for some other sectors) which expires in January.“The assets, three Dulevo 5000 road sweeping machines, along with other fittings, which would have become properties of the corporation after expiry of the contract, will be unnecessarily delayed. Delay in re-tendering process will cause huge financial losses to the civic body. Willful delay in the re-tendering process may amount to giving undue favour to any person or firm by causing loss to the MC,” he said.Devshali added, “Apart from this, the accountability of the responsible officers should be fixed and appropriate action should be taken in the interest of the corporation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-fails-to-re-tender-sanitation-work-in-southern-sectors-101634071640935.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||15 lakh families to be brought under Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana: Punjab deputy CM||Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni on Tuesday said that more 15 lakh families will be brought under the state government’s health insurance scheme Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana which is running successfully in the state.After a meeting with senior officials of the health department on dengue outbreak in the state, he said, “The decision has been taken with an objective to benefit all the sections. The government is focusing on education and health and reforms are being brought in these sectors,” said Soni, who holds the health portfolio. “The hospitals faced problems with the change of insurance companies under this scheme, but it will be eliminated soon,” he said.Secretary (health) Vikas Garg and other officials accompanied him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-lakh-families-to-be-brought-under-sarbat-sehat-bima-yojana-punjab-deputy-cm-101634071102603.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||High moisture content in paddy worries Punjab farmers, commission agents||High moisture content in paddy produce arriving at procurement centres across Punjab has become a matter of concern for farmers and arhtiyas (commission agents) this kharif marketing season. The moisture content in the grain is being recorded from 18-20% against the permissible limit of 17%, officials said. In Amloh sub-division of Fatehgarh Sahib district, the state food and civil supplies department barred 13 commission agents from the procurement process after they allowed purchase of paddy with a moisture content over permissible limit. The agriculture department said harvesting of an unripe crop was the main reason behind high moisture in the grain.But the farmers blamed inclement weather conditions and late sowing of paddy for the problem. Punjab Arhtiya Association general secretary Harjeet Singh said the procurement agencies were harassing both farmers and commission agents on the pretext of high moisture content.“The farmers who brought paddy with high moisture are not being allowed to dry their produce in the grain markets. Moreover, the department and procurement agencies resort to stringent action if commission agents are found unloading such produce in the market,” said Singh.This is for the first time that moisture level has become such a big trouble for every stakeholder, he claimed. Manjit Singh of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) said it is really difficult for farmers to bring down moisture level in the grain due to suddenly drop in temperatures in morning and evening hours. “The bulk of produce is yet to reach the grain markets as the harvesting has started picking pace. In the coming days, the problem of moisture level will multiply. The central government and procurement agencies should increase the permissible limit of moisture content,” he said. In such a situation, farmers have no choice but to resort to distress selling and they end up getting rates far below the minimum support price (MSP), he said. Patiala chief agriculture officer Jaswinder Pal Singh Grewal said, “We are asking farmers not to harvest the crop till it matures adequately.” New specifications irk farmers, millersAlso, the new quality specifications issued by the central government for procurement of paddy have irked rice millers and farmers in Punjab.According to the new specifications, stricter quality control measures have been put in place for the millers as broken grain percentage has been reduced to 20% from the earlier 25%. Moreover, the moisture content in rice to be accepted from millers has also been reduced from 15% to 14%. The damaged grain percentage has been brought down from 3% to 2%, while red grains, which earlier had 3% limit, will not be accepted.In case of paddy unloaded at grain markets, the permissible limit of foreign matter (organic and inorganic) has been lowered from 2% to 1%. The percentage of discoloured, sprouted and damaged grain has been reduced from 5% to 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-moisture-content-in-paddy-worries-punjab-farmers-commission-agents-101634070624721.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dussehra festivities: Ravana effigy brings Hindu, Muslim artisans together in Ludhiana||Artisans from Agra have the market cornered in effigy making and are highly sought after ahead of Dussehra festivities, which typically include a theatrical re-enactment of Lord Rama’s life, culminating in burning effigies of the demon king Ravana along with his son, Meghnada, and brother, Kumbhkarana. One such 20-member team from Agra, headed by 46-year-old Saira Banu, has been entrusted with preparing a 100-ft tall Ravana effigy to be burnt at the Daresi Dussehra ground on Friday. Of her 20-member team, 16 are Muslim workmen, and the rest are Hindus. Promote communal harmonySaira says she prepares the effigies to promote communal harmony and for the love of the art. Each year she gets orders for hundreds of effigies ahead of Dussehra, which she prepares with the help of workmen and her family, all of whom take leave of absence from their regular jobs to give her a hand. “Most people, barring a few, appreciate us for promoting communal harmony. My family has been in the business for over three decades, and we have been preparing effigies for the Daresi Dussehra ground for 22 years,”says the mother of four.Her eldest son, Imran Farooqui, a post graduate, is working with a private company in Noida as a software engineer, while her younger son, Sohail Khan is pursuing engineering at a college in Agra. Her elder daughter Asma is a government school teacher and lives in Lucknow, while her youngest daughter, Noreen Farooqui, is pursuing MBBS at Kota.A family affair Her husband, Azgar Ali, a diploma holder in civil engineering, left his government job to pursue his love for the art, which his forefathers had also excelled at. Her children, despite earning handsome salaries, have learnt the art of their fathers, which has been passed down from generation to generation. “We cannot part ourselves from this job, despite our stable financial condition, as it transcends communal differences and divisive political vendetta.” Azgar Ali, who is preparing effigies with another team at Chandigarh and Panchkula says.”We have never asked our kids to help us, but they do it voluntarily.” “I was a kid when I saw my father and the grandfather preparing effigies. Now, it is my passion and love. The last two years were disappointing as we only made one effigy for the Daresi ground due to the pandemic,” said Ali. Hindu rituals followedHer brother, Akeel, says Hindu traditions as well as Muslim traditions are followed before starting the work. “Along with Muslim prayers, we also follow Hindu rituals before making the effigies and even 10 minutes before the effigies are burned. The people love us, which is the most sacred thing for the team,” said Akeel.Other than Ravana, the team has prepared 50-feet effigies of Khardushan, Kumbhkaran and Meghnath for the Daresi Ground this year. These artists also lend their services for other Ramlilas in the district, including those at Shiv Purin and Bharat Nagar Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dussehra-festivities-ravana-effigy-brings-hindu-muslim-artisans-together-in-ludhiana-101634070500539.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU engineering admissions: Retain reservation for single girl child, border area students, suggests panel||Amid growing demands to not dissolve the additional seats for single girl child, and students from rural and border areas, a Panjab University (PU) panel on Tuesday suggested that the reservation should be retained for admissions in engineering courses offered at the varsity like in previous years.The panel was constituted on Tuesday after which a meeting was held to discuss the matter. The members of the panel recommended that these reservations should be given as per previous years’ practice. However, the recommendations of the panel are yet to be approved by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and a final announcement is still awaited.The admission process at PU’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) and University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICET) are currently underway. But additional seats for single girl children and students from rural and border areas were not available as per this year’s handbook of information (admissions) for the courses governed by AICTE, DCI, AERB etc.A member of the panel said, “It was discussed that reservation should be given like in previous years since this decision can be taken by the syndicate.”The issue was raised in recent days and the move was condemned by the students. On Tuesday, Students For Society (SFS) also submitted a memorandum to the varsity requesting them to reverse the decision. “Universities are meant to uplift marginalised sections, but by cutting the seats, marginalised sections will be pushed to the wall,” the student body had said in the memorandum.University issues statementPU also issued a statement on Tuesday stating the varsity was looking into the matter. “The issue of reserved seats for single girl children and students from rural and border areas in UIET and UICET is under active consideration of PU authorities towards positive development,” read the varsity statement.As per the admission schedule, the registrations will close on October 13, the first round of counselling will start from October 21 and the first round of seat allotment will be held on October 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-engineering-admissions-retain-reservation-for-single-girl-child-border-area-students-suggests-panel-101634070380521.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Vehicle tracking system to be must for private buses: Punjab transport minister||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Tuesday said the newly launched vehicle tracking system (VTS) will be made mandatory for all private buses operating in the state. Reviewing the functioning of the bus tracking system monitoring and control room in Chandigarh, Warring said that as the performance of private buses was not satisfactory in terms of safety, the installation of VTS would be ensured in them as well. The system had been implemented in 1,450 buses of Punbus and Punjab Roadways till now, he said. “VTS is for checking speeding of buses, harsh braking and acceleration, overnight stay of buses, stoppage at any other place rather than designated stops, stay of buses at dhabas for more than 25 minutes, route diversion, bypassing cities, missing stops, real-time monitoring of arrival and departure from counters and actual travel distance covered,” he added. The management information system was also generating reports on behaviour of drivers and conductors, usage of buses, utilisation of available staff, delays and advancement in the time of buses, kilometers covered by buses, etc, the minister said. “On the basis of reports generated by the system and feedback of department officials, three best performing general managers of depots and 10 drivers and conductors each will be honoured every fortnight,” he said, warning non-performers of action. Principal secretary (transport) K Siva Prasad and director (transport) Bhupinder Singh were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vehicle-tracking-system-to-be-must-for-private-buses-punjab-transport-minister-101634070260356.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dr SP Singh takes charge as Ludhiana civil surgeon||Senior physician Dr SP Singh took charge as the Ludhiana civil surgeon on Tuesday. His predecessor, Dr Kiran Ahluwalia, had retired last month. Before being posted to Ludhiana, Dr Singh had been working as a civil surgeon in Fatehgarh Sahib.No stranger to the city, Dr Singh has worked as a district family welfare officer in Ludhiana for five years and was instrumental in tightening the noose around illegal sex detection centres operating in the city. It was only last month he was promoted as civil surgeon.Speaking on the occasion, Dr Singh said his first focus will be arresting the rising cases of dengue in the district and ensure that Covid remains under control. “The goal is to ensure all government health care schemes reach the needy and to improve the system in government hospitals,” he said.Dip in dengue, Covid cases 
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Plastic factory tragedy: Four years on, Ludhiana MC finally hires deceased firefighter’s sister||After struggling for four years, the sister of the firefighter who was killed in the plastic factory tragedy was appointed as a municipal corporation clerk on compassionate grounds on Tuesday. Handing over the appointment letter to Harpreet Kaur at the civic body’s Zone D office, mayor Balkar Sandhu said the firefighter, Manpreet Singh, had been hired on a contractual basis and the local bodies’ department had to go through a complicated process to provide his sister with a regular job. On November 2017, a plastic factory had collapsed near Suffiyan Chowk after a fire broke out on the premises. Sixteen people, including nine firefighters, perished in the tragedy. In the aftermath of the building collapse, the state government had announced compensation and a government job to the victims’ kin. However, Manpreet, and Vishal, another firefighter, were contractual workers, so special permission was required for providing their kin with a regular job.Manpreet’s father, Malkit Singh said, “We had to go to the municipal corporation offices several times, but at least they provided my daughter with a job, which is appreciable.” The mayor said, “The process was delayed as the MC had to take special permissions. Manpreet’s sister has been appointed as a clerk and will be deputed to the Zone B office, which is closer to her house in the Mundiyan area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/plastic-factory-tragedy-four-years-on-ludhiana-mc-finally-hires-deceased-firefighter-s-sister-101634069840283.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amid two dengue deaths, 97 new cases, Mohali admn intensifies fogging drive||Two more patients died of dengue while 97 new cases surfaced in Mohali district on Tuesday.As per the health authorities, a 43-year-old woman of Sector 71 and a 35-year-old man of Zirakpur, who were under treatment in private hospitals in Mohali, succumbed to the vector-borne disease.With this, the death toll rose to nine in the past two months, which have also seen 976 cases. As many as 632 cases and seven deaths have been reported just this month, making the administration step up corrective measures in the district.Deputy commissioner Isha Kalia has ordered the district health department, the municipal corporation and the municipal councils to “actively take up fogging drive to curb mosquito menace”.Chairing a health review meeting at the District Administrative Complex, DC Kalia said that with the change in season, mosquito menace was expected to increase so fogging and door-to-door container survey must be intensified with active challaning of households where larvae are found.“Instead of pressing each fogging vehicle into operation just once a day, they may be used twice; evening fogging schedules should be prepared,” ordered the DC.Apart from fogging, regular disinfectant should be sprayed across the city with special focus on public places owing to the festive season, she said, adding that dusting medicinal powder near drains should be coupled with frequent disinfection activities in densely-populated areas, slums and narrow lanes.The MC has pressed into service global positioning system (GPS) equipped fogging machines, enabling monitoring of speed and duration of the vehicles in the designated area/locality. The city is divided into four zones and fogging is done in each by one fogging machine, catering to every sector/phase once a week on an average. Besides, two shoulder-mounted fogging machines are also being used for parks, in villages and settlements where big machines cannot enter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-two-dengue-deaths-97-new-cases-mohali-admn-intensifies-fogging-drive-101634069720434.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Arvind Kejriwal in Punjab on 2-day visit, meets late minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan’s family||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday reached Punjab on a two-day tour and visited the house of former state minister Sewa Singh Sekhwan to offer condolences to his family.Sekhwan, an Akali stalwart who along with his family members joined the AAP one-and-a-half months ago, died of prolonged illness six days ago. Accompanied by Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh and co-in-charge Raghav Chadha, Kejriwal landed at the Amritsar international airport from where he headed to Sekhwan village of Gurdaspur. He met Sekhwan’s wife Amarjit Kaur and elder son Jagroop Singh, who was appointed party incharge of the Qadian segment. Sangrur MP and AAP state president Bhagwant Mann, leader of opposition in Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema and party MLAs from Punjab also accompanied him. “It is painful to visit the house this time. Efforts were also made to get him treated in a hospital in Delhi, but to no avail. He was such a great personality who made considerable contribution to Punjab, his community and society as a whole,” said Kejriwal interacting with the media. Later, the Delhi CM left for Jalandhar. Pays obeisance at Devi Talab temple In Jalandhar, Kejriwal paid obeisance at the Devi Talab temple on the auspicious occasion of Navratris. Addressing devotees, Kejriwal said he had not come as a political leader but as a devotee to seek blessings of the goddess. Kejriwal said it was the common responsibility of all of us to make Punjab prosperous again. “Therefore, everyone should rise above political boundaries and make their own contribution,” he added.Buzz on subordinate board chairman joining AAP There were speculations of Congress leader and Punjab State Subordinate Services Selection Board (PSSSSB) chairman Raman Behl joining the AAP in the presence of Kejriwal during his two-day state visit. When contacted, Bahl said, “I have no such plan for now, but nothing can be ruled out in politics.”Bahl is learnt to have been annoyed over not being allotted a Congress ticket in the 2017 assembly elections from Gurdaspur assembly constituency which is currently represented by Brinderjit Singh Pahra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/arvind-kejriwal-in-punjab-on-2-day-visit-meets-late-minister-sewa-singh-sekhwan-s-family-101634069660742.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 robbers who posed as income tax sleuths arrested in Ludhiana||The three robbers, who had “raided” a pharmacist’s house in New Shivaji Nagar on Monday, while posing as income tax officials, have landed in police net.The accused, all engineering diploma holders, were inspired by the Bollywood flick “Special 26” to strike big in one go and live a lush life, said police.The accused, Shamsher Singh, Gurpreet Singh and Prince Goyal, all residents of Dhuri, Sangrur, are aged between 25 and 30.“They have studied mechanical engineering and are working at a Sangrur-based company. Taking inspiration from a movie, they hatched a conspiracy to execute an inconspicuous robbery at the pharmacist’s house, under the garb of income tax sleuths,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Pragya Jain. Huge rush of customers caught their eyeThe ADCP said around a week ago, the trio visited the Old City Market for shopping. “At Trunka Wala Bazaar, they noticed a heavy rush of customers at a pharmacy store and assumed its owner, Damanpreet Singh, must have deep pockets. Thus started their search for Damanpreet’s house and a scheme to rob him,” she added.After conducting a recce of the pharmacist’s house to understand his movement, they struck on Monday when he and his father were away, and his mother, wife and two children were home.“The accused presented a fake income tax notice before the family and started to search the house. But Damanpreet’s wife smelled a rat and raised the alarm. As a Covid vaccination camp was being organised near the house, people rushed to the house, forcing the accused to flee,” the ADCP said.The trio was arrested within 24 hours, and the computer, printer, the fake I-T notice and the motorcycle used in the crime were seized. ₹5,000 in cash that they snatched from the pharmacist’s mother before fleeing were also recovered, the police official said.The accused have been booked under Sections 379-B (snatching), 419 (cheating by personation), 171 (cheating by personation) and 451 (house-trespass) of Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-robbers-who-posed-as-income-tax-sleuths-arrested-in-ludhiana-101634069540452.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||‘Illegal removal’ of trees by contractor in Majri block: Look into ‘anomalies’ in export permit, directs HC||The high court has directed the principal chief conservator of forests, Punjab, to get a thorough probe conducted by a committee, comprising three senior ranking officers, into a case of export permit obtained by a forest contractor booked for illegal removal of trees by police in April. The high court said that a committee shall examine the procedure adopted in the case in hand for extending time-limit and shall report as to whether the same was in accordance with rules and settled procedure. The committee will also examine as to why there was no “export permit” in favour of the accused when he was granted permit for removal. The department has been given a time of four weeks and the report is to be submitted to chief conservator of forests, who will further take action as warranted, the high court said. The directions were issued on the bail pleas of two accused, Bhupal Sharma and Kapil Sharma, who were booked on the complaint of the forest department, registered at the police station in Majri block, Mohali, for illegal removal of trees in Mirzapur village. The forest department had claimed that the high court had stayed the cutting and lifting of khair wood in 16,400 bighas 18 biswas in Mirzapur, but they had removed 375 logs loaded in seven trolleys and one pick-up truck on April 4 night without seeking approval from the forest department. On the other hand, the accused had pleaded that forest department officials were demanding illegal gratification and that they had valid permits. The court found that the initial permit was issued on January 18, valid up to January 26, for removal of 933 trees and an export permit was also issued. Another permit was issued on January 30 to cut 964 trees and to stack the same at the depot by March 15, the period later extended upto March 31. However, no export permit was ever issued in this case, as per the department. The court found that even as the initial permit was only for removal of trees upto March 15, the department processed his application for “export permit” and allowed time limit of the same up to March 31. The court further observed that it appeared that his application had been processed in a “cavalier manner”. While an extension of time-limit of the so-called “export permit” was accorded, nobody seemed to have verified as to whether any such permit had ever been issued, the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-removal-of-trees-by-contractor-in-majri-block-look-into-anomalies-in-export-permit-directs-hc-101634069360162.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Talks only if farm unions come up with constructive suggestions: BJP kisan morcha chief||Bharatiya Janata Party’s kisan morcha national head and Fatehpur Sikri MP Raj Kumar Chahar on Tuesday said the central government will initiate any further talks with the protesting farmers on the three contentious farm laws only if the unions come up with some “constructive suggestions”. “Till now, the only thing farmer unions have been telling the Union agriculture minister is that these are black laws and should be withdrawn. They haven’t been able to convince as how these laws are black and why they are anti-farmer,” said Chahar addressing a press conference after chairing a meeting of Punjab BJP’s kisan morcha cell in Chandigarh. Chahar said the deadlock between the Centre and the farmer unions can be broken only if the latter are ready to discuss as how these laws can be improved by making certain changes. “But if somebody thinks that Modi government will buckle under pressure to withdraw the laws, they are mistaken. We are sure that finally whatever misconceptions have been created in the minds of farmers would end,” he said. The Lok Sabha MP said the farmer unions have been misguided by the Congress and the communist think-tanks and the shoulder of the peasants are being used to fire at the Modi government. “Those who are left with no political ground in the country have misguided the farmers that if these laws are implemented their land will snatched away. Moreover, these laws have already been stayed by the Supreme Court and the Centre has also agreed not to implement them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/talks-only-if-farm-unions-come-up-with-constructive-suggestions-bjp-kisan-morcha-chief-101634069301659.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mishra’s ouster must to ensure fair probe in Lakhimpur incident: Randhawa||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Tuesday demanded immediate removal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra from the government to ensure a fair investigation as his son is an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. He said this while briefing the press after paying obeisance at Gurdwara Rampur Khera Sahib. He also met Sant Baba Sewa Singh. Terming the Lakhimpur Kheri violence unfortunate, Randhawa said he had already urged the Prime Minister to remove Mishra from the cabinet to ensure an impartial probe and justice to the bereaved families. The deputy chief minister said the shortage of coal across the country was the main reason behind the current power crisis and the Punjab government was making efforts to ease out the situation. “The government is purchasing electricity at a much higher rate to cater to the needs of the consumers, especially the farmers. We expect the situation to become normal with coal rakes reaching the state in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mishras-ouster-must-to-ensure-fair-probe-in-lakhimpur-incident-randhawa-101634069120347.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Four held for robbing foreign exchange dealer of ₹10.63 lakh in Amritsar||Four persons were arrested for allegedly robbing a foreign exchange dealer of nearly ₹10.63 lakh at gunpoint near the Sultanwind Gate area of Amritsar city on September 26, police said. A pistol, five rounds, ₹90,000 and 100 UK pounds were recovered from them, said officials. Those arrested are Samsher Singh, alias Sharry, Dharambir Singh, alias Haddi, Kishanjit Singh, alias Kishan and Jatinder Lal of Amritsar. Four of their accomplices identified as Gurpreet Singh, alias Kaka Mahiya, Anwar Singh, Tashan and Honey are still absconding. Addressing a press conference, deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “One of the accused, Gurpreet Singh, used to convert foreign currency from the shop. His sister lives in the United States. He hatched the conspiracy to rob the shopkeeper. At the time of the incident, he waited outside the shop while the others barged inside.” ₹8.5 lakh in Indian currency, 560 UK pounds, 400 US dollars and 6200 dirhams were looted from the foreign exchange dealer in the Golden Cloth Market. “Our raids are on to nab the other accused. We are trying to recover the remaining looted amount,” the DCP said. A case under Sections 395 (dacoity) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered at the B-Division police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-held-for-robbing-foreign-exchange-dealer-of-rs-10-63-lakh-in-amritsar-101634069000597.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Coal crisis: Private plant forces Punjab power utility to pay 60% more than PPA price||The Tata Mundra-run private thermal power project, which since last year stopped supplying electricity to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) citing non-viability, has now asked the utility to pay more if it wants to draw power in view of high demand amid the ongoing coal crisis. The plant, located at Mundra in Gujarat, has asked the corporation to shell out money which is 60% more than the price agreed in the power purchase agreement (PPA). The power supply arrangement will be for a week, it is learnt. The PSPCL has a share of 475 megawatt (MW) in the project’s total production capacity of 4,000 MW. According to the agreement, which was entered in 2007 and is valid for 25 years, the Mundra project will sell power to the state at around ₹3 per unit. But last month, the project stopped power supply to the PSPCL citing losses and its inability to supply the required volume of electricity. But later, the project management communicated to the power utility that it was ready to sell power if it agreed to pay ₹5 per unit. “Since the PSPCL is already purchasing power from the grid at ₹13 per unit, it decided to go ahead with ₹5 per unit from the Mundra project even as it is much higher than the rate agreed in the PPA,” said a senior corporation official. The decision, he added, was taken in the interest of consumers as prices of power available with the grid have touched rates as high as ₹20 per unit during the peak hours due to the countrywide coal crisis.PSPCL chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said they will take decision in the interests of consumers. “We are trying our best to meet the demand, but the coal supply from the mines is really slow,” he added. Some senior power engineers have opposed the corporation’s decision. “Why two set of rules for private and government sector? If private projects can ask for higher rates than PPA on the plea that exchange rates are high, then why can’t the PSPCL refuse to pay as per the agreement when the exchange rates are lower? asked an engineer. Coal stock situation remains criticalThe coal stock situation in all thermal power plants in Punjab remains critical. The private based have coal reserves for about 2 days while the state-owned plants are left with less than 3 days of stock. On Monday, 13 coal rakes were received against the total requirement of 22 rakes. The PSPCL met maximum demand of 8,809 MW a day earlier. On Tuesday, nearly 1,600 MW electricity was procured at Rs.14.56 per unit from the national exchange. Power availability has improved as an additional unit of the Ropar plant and a unit of the GVK have started generating power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/coal-crisis-private-plant-forces-punjab-power-utility-to-pay-60-more-than-ppa-price-101634068820150.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir promises separate ministry for Kandi area’s development if SAD-BSP voted to power||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday announced a separate ministry for Kandi area’s development once the SAD-BSP alliance forms the government in the state. During his visit to Urmar constituency, he inaugurated a house made for slum dwellers here by an NGO, and assured that the SAD-BSP government would construct five-lakh houses for the homeless. On the occasion, former minister Balbir Singh Miani rejoined the party. Miani said he will work for the victory of BSP candidate from Urmar, Lakhwinder Singh Lakhi. Sukhbir said the Kandi area had been neglected by the Congress government and no effort was made to augment drinking water and irrigation facilities. “A separate ministry will ensure focused development of the entire sub-mountainous area,” he said. Talking to mediapersons, Sukhbir said it was surprising to see AAP convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s double standards on the issue of electricity crisis. “Kejriwal had announced that Delhi had become the only state which was not using coal for generating power. He also wrote to the Prime Minister, demanding diversion of coal meant for other thermal plants to the ones supplying power to Delhi,” he said. Sukhbir said the AAP leader’s stand on Satluj-Yamuna Link Canal and stubble burning issue was also not clear. On chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the SAD president said he was part of the cabinet that had denied SC scholarships to deserving students and scrapping of lakhs of blue cards. On the power crisis in the state, he said it was the direct result of mismanagement by the Congress government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-promises-separate-ministry-for-kandi-area-s-development-if-sad-bsp-voted-to-power-101634068762214.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records hottest October day in 13 years||With maximum temperature touching 36.5°C, nearly four notches above normal, Tuesday was the hottest October day in at least 13 years in Chandigarh, according to data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The all-time high for the month was recorded at 37.2°C nearly three decades back, on October 4, 1992.“An anticyclonic movement has developed over Rajasthan and Gujarat, which is sending dry and warm southwesterly winds towards this region, leading to a rise in mercury,” said Manmohan Singh, director, IMD, Chandigarh, adding that the temperature is likely to stay on the higher side in the coming days as well.“This situation will continue for the next two to three days, and the mercury could rise up to 38°C. However, the anticyclonic movement is shifting eastward. Northwesterly winds, which are colder, will again become dominant in the region and lead to a drop in mercury,” he said.Meanwhile, minimum temperature continued to fall, dropping to 20.6°C on Tuesday. Though three notches above normal, it was the lowest recorded since May 30 and is likely to remain around 20-21°C in the next three days too.Air quality turns poorThe air quality, too, took a turn for the worse on Tuesday. The air quality index (AQI) went up to 272 around 1pm at the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Station in Sector 22, which has been made operational recently. The AQI remained 200 till 2pm before gradually falling to 156 around 6pm. Meanwhile, the air was much cleaner at the monitoring station in Sector 25, where the AQI was recorded at 94 around the same time. AQI in the range of 201-300 is considered poor, and denotes that the polluted air can cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. Usually, it stays below 150 during this time of the year, and rises due to the burning of paddy stubble in the region. Debendra Dalai, member secretary of the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, said the AQI is expected to go higher in the coming days. “After the monsoon system, an anticyclonic movement forms over the area, which keeps pollutants from getting dispersed from the air,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-hottest-october-day-in-13-years-101634068587170.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh imposes blanket ban on crackers this Diwali||The Chandigarh administration on Tuesday decided to continue with the cracker ban this Diwali, which was also imposed last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The order, issued by UT adviser Dharam Pal, came into force with immediate effect and will remain in force until further orders. Any violation can invite up to two-year imprisonment. However, burning of effigies will be allowed on Dussehra.According to the administration, the decision was taken after extensive consultation with health and environment experts, keeping in view the ongoing Covid-19 situation and the National Green Tribunal’s order.“These directions are issued as a containment measure to prevent spread of Covid-19 due to polluted atmosphere created by bursting of crackers,” the adviser stated in his order.Meanwhile, a spokesperson said:“Keeping in mind the National Green Tribunal orders, the Chandigarh administration has decided to impose a complete ban on sale or use of crackers of any kind, throughout the UT,”The city is one of the non-attachment cities included in the list notified by the Central Pollution Control Board as per the NGT orders, which advocate stringent measures for air pollution control.The spokesperson said the toxic air rising out of crackers is likely to affect residents’ health, and they should avoid bursting crackers this festive season.Any violation of the order will invite penal action under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other provisions as applicable. The punishment under the stated sections ranges from six months to two years, though the convicts can also be made to pay just a fine.Decision draws flakThe administration’s decision has drawn flak from the business community. Terming it arbitrary, the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) appealed the administration to follow a policy on the pattern of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.“This most important Indian festival of Diwali is celebrated worldwide by all communities to mark ushering of New Year. Without fire crackers, this festival seems incomplete. CBM demands protection of trade concerning sale and purchase of crackers and fireworks, though with necessary reasonable restrictions that may be imposed in its usage and timings,” said CBM patron Diwakar Sahoonja.Chirag Aggarwal, general secretary, Cracker Dealers Association, said they were going through the worst phase for the past two years. “In Mohali and Panchkula, people can sell and burst crackers, but not in Chandigarh. We will approach the courts against the order. Thousands of crackers manufacturers and traders are set to lose their livelihood.” Last year, the administration had banned the sale and bursting of crackers as the Covid-19 cases were on the rise. Even in 2019, the administration had allowed the use of crackers only for restricted hours to curb pollution. Stating that the Covid-19 situation is starkly different this year in comparison to last year, BJP state president Arun Sood said: “A blanket ban is not warranted. We will take up the issue with the administration.”AAP convener Prem Garg said: “The administration should allow limited sale of green crackers because children look forward to Diwali for bursting crackers.”Paveela Bali, a city-based environmentalist, said, “A blanket ban is not a rational response to environment protection. It goes against the traditions and hits at the livelihood of thousands of people. Better regulation of cracker quality can be done.”Limited licences in MohaliIn Mohali, which houses one of the biggest cracker markets in Kurali, the district administration has no plans to ban the sale of crackers. However, only a limited number of licences will be issued and the sale of crackers will also be allowed for only about three days.Deputy commissioner Isha Kalia said: “As per the directives, only temporary licences will be issued; that too would be only 20% of the licences issued in 2016.” Last year, the administration had issued 44 licences in the entire district.In Panchkula, the district administration is awaiting the state government’s directions.Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said: “Panchkula will go by whatever directions the state government issues. So far, we have not issued any licences. We will implement the decision as and when it comes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-imposes-blanket-ban-on-crackers-this-diwali-101634068586007.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh court awards 12-year jail to woman caught with drugs||A 20-year-old woman arrested with restricted drugs in 2019 was sentenced to 12-year imprisonment by a Chandigarh court on Tuesday.The court also imposed a fine of ₹1.2 lakh on the convict, identified as Arshdeep Kaur of Badheri village in Sector 41. She will have to undergo an additional six-month jail term is she fails to pay the fine. According to the prosecution, a team of the crime branch on patrol duty near Sector 39 had apprehended Kaur on the afternoon of July 10, 2019. As many as 50 vials of buprenorphine and pheniramine maleate were recovered from her. Both drugs are addictive in nature and taking them without prescription can be dangerous. The batch numbers on the vials were smeared with black ink and hence were not legible. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered at the police station in Sector 39. “The nature of offence and heavy recovery, which is commercial in nature, do not leave any reason with the court to treat convict with leniency, lest it may give wrong signal to the society, thereby encouraging propagation of delivery and possession of such psychotropic substances, which are hazardous, damaging and are potential reason for spoiling of youth,” ruled the court of additional district and sessions judge Rajeev K Beri. False implication plea fails to hold waterKaur, who claimed to be a Class-11 student, had claimed false implication in the case. She told court that her mother was annoyed with her and had requested police to take some steps to make her mend her ways.She alleged that police had picked her up from a house in Sector 40 and the drugs had been planted. The court dismissed her submissions, stating: “The suggestion remained lame and unsubstantiated one. No ground is made out to believe such unproved suggestion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-court-awards-12-year-jail-to-woman-caught-with-drugs-101634068585053.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala murder: Juvenile, friend nabbed for stabbing youth||A day after a 21-year-old youth was stabbed to death outside a bakery shop in Ambala City, police nabbed the juvenile suspect and his accomplice on Tuesday. The suspect, who is 17-year-old, was produced in a juvenile court and sent to an observation home in Karnal, sub-inspector Balbir Singh, who is investigating the case, said. His friend, Aditya, 19, will be produced in court on Wednesday. He has been arrested for helping the juvenile escape on a bike after the crime, said police. According to Singh, the suspect told them that the victim had thrashed him in the past, due to which he held a grudge against him. The suspect and the victim’s younger sister are classmates in a local school. According to the victim’s family, the suspect had passed lewd comments at her, following which the victim had rebuked him in August. The victim had joined as a salesman at a garments shop recently and was his family’s sole breadwinner. He is survived by his mother, sister and an ailing father.In is not yet clear whether the juvenile will be treated as a minor or an adult while being prosecuted. Senior advocate Rohit Jain is of the opinion that as per the Juvenile Justice Act 2015, a Juvenile Justice Board will conduct an assessment of the suspect and will determine if he should be tried as a minor or an adult.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-murder-juvenile-friend-nabbed-for-stabbing-youth-101634068583878.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools to open for primary classes from October 18||Children studying in primary classes are set to return to schools in Chandigarh from October 18. Continuing with the phased reopening of schools amid a decline in the Covid-19 pandemic, the UT administration will soon issue a detailed order for Classes 1 to 4. Confirming the development, director school education Palika Arora said the same rules will be followed as those in force for the higher classes. Attendance will not be compulsory and students will have to bring consent letters from their parents. Online classes will also continue.Earlier in July, schools had reopened for Class 9 onwards. Next, Classes 7 and 8 were called back in August, and recently Classes 5 and 6 were reopened from September 2.The latest development comes as a good news for private schools, which had been urging the administration to allow all students to return to schools. The Independent School Association, which represents around 78 schools in the tricity, had also met UT administrator Banwarilal Purohit to discuss the issue last week. “We had a very positive and detailed discussion, wherein we apprised the administrator of the opinion given by various medical experts that it’s okay to open schools for primary classes,” said association president HS Mamik.Kavita Das, principal, St John’s High School, Sector 26, said: “Schools are ready to resume primary classes, as our experience with senior classes has been positive.” Atul Khanna, director, Strawberry Fields High School, Sector 26, said: “Attendance in senior classes has started to improve; so it will be beneficial for younger students if we reopen primary classes as well.” Even in government schools, the attendance has gone over 50% from 10-15% recorded in the initial days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-schools-to-open-for-primary-classes-from-october-18-101634068582757.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Fourth diarrhoea outbreak in Dera Bassi subdivision||As many as 68 diarrhoea cases have been reported at Gaily Colony in Dera Bassi’s Kurawala village in the past three days, with 21 cases surfacing on Tuesday.Even as cholera outbreak has not been confirmed yet, water supply has been stopped in the area and water tankers have been deployed instead.Diarrhoea is the frequent passing of loose, watery and unformed faeces. Cholera is a bacterial disease causing severe diarrhoea and dehydration, usually spread through contaminated water. The infection is often mild or without symptoms but can sometimes be severe and life-threatening.In the past two months, around 800 people have been infected and two have died due to three outbreaks at Baltana, Peermuchalla village and Sukhna Colony near Dhakoli, all in Zirakpur, which falls under Dera Bassi subdivision of Mohali district.Looking at the increasing number of cases, subdivisional magistrate Kuldeep Bawa and civil surgeon Sangeeta Jain visited Gaily Colony on Tuesday. They held a meeting with the residents and urged them to separate their utensils used for drinking and cooking from those used for other purposes.“The underground water tanks made for storage of drinking water need to be cleaned. Apart from this, the shallow borewell in the area is leading to mixing of sewage water with drinking water, which is a matter of concern,” said Bawa. The residents have been asked to drink boiled water and chlorine tablets have been distributed in the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-fourth-diarrhoea-outbreak-in-dera-bassi-subdivision-101634068581389.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two arrested after woman molested at her house||Around a dozen men molested a woman and assaulted her husband and brother-in-law after barging into their house following an argument at Dadumajra, police said on Tuesday.Two of the accused, identified as Vikas, 25, and Anil Kumar, 34, of Dadumajra Colony, have been arrested for the crime that took place on Sunday night. According to the FIR, the woman’s brother-in-law had an argument with Anil on Sunday evening. Later, he returned home and was having dinner when Anil reached there with around a dozen men and attacked him and the woman’s husband with swords, rods and sticks. When the woman intervened, the men allegedly molested her. After she raised the alarm, they fled, but not before pelting stones at her house. A case of rioting, assault and molestation was registered in Maloya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-arrested-after-woman-molested-at-her-house-101634068580293.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Bodo militant held for making guns at rented house in Bathinda||A 36-year-old former member of Assam’s now-defunct Bodo Liberation Tiger Force (BLTF), Sanjay Bodo, was arrested on Monday for running a gun-manufacturing unit from a rented accommodation here. Police said two country-made pistols and two semi-finished weapons were recovered from his house in Model Town, Phase-1, locality. Police said it was for the first time in recent years that an improvised weapon manufacturing unit was found in Punjab. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Aaswant Dhaliwal said several tools used to manufacture arms were also seized. It is being probed whom he was supplying the weapons to, the DSP said. “We had inputs about a suspicious person. On questioning, the person turned out to be an active member of Bodo Liberation Tiger Force. Assam police authorities confirmed that Bodo had surrendered in 2003 and after that, he disappeared,” said Dhaliwal. Police said Bodo was staying alone in the rented accommodation since July. The accused left Assam and did odd jobs at various places outside before landing in Bathinda four months ago. “Bodo has revealed identify of his old friend, a plumber from Muktsar, currently residing in Bathinda with his family. Teams are trying to locate him to find out if he too was involved in manufacturing illicit arms. His background is being verified,” said the DSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exbodo-militant-held-for-making-guns-at-rented-house-in-bathinda-101634068400132.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||GSI detects potash reserves in Punjab’s Fazilka, Muktsar districts||The Geological Survey of India (GSI) has found reserves of potash, a mineral mainly used in fertilizers, estimated to be worth over ₹1,000 crore in the basin of south-western Punjab’s Fazilka and Muktsar districts, officials privy to the development said. The potash reserves will boost the state exchequer and reduce import bills of the country, they said. With this, Punjab has become the second state in the country after Rajasthan to have underground potash reserves and this will open a new chapter in the mining sector of the state, said an official. An official of the state mining department said India imports millions of tonnes of the mineral every year. The GSI officials shared the news with the state mining department recently in a meeting of the State Geological Programming Board. The GSI study has confirmed the presence of potash at a depth of 400-500 metres. The exploration was going on for the past one year. Sources in the mining department said the GSI team will take a few more months to complete the exploration and then hand over the sites to the Punjab government. A top official of the GSI, pleading anonymity, said, “A team of GSI has found potash in Fazilka and Muktsar districts. The quantity is yet to be calculated as the work of exploration is still on. But its commercial value is expected to be over ₹1,000 crore.” In written communication, a GSI official said, “Two deep boreholes have been completed and a few more have been planned to delineate the extent and mineral potential.” Additional secretary of mines and geology, Rahul Bhandari, said, “In the recent meeting of State Geological Programming Board, GSI officials said that they have found potash in Punjab and further studies are on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gsi-detects-potash-reserves-in-punjab-s-fazilka-muktsar-districts-101634068044481.html
13-10-2021||Other||In Prayagraj, AAP wooing voters with Kejriwal’s free electricity ‘guarantee card’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has launched a rigorous campaign in different constituencies of Prayagraj with promises of providing 300 units of free electricity to citizens if the party is voted to power in the state, in the upcoming assembly polls.Different teams of AAP activists, along with the candidates, are approaching voters under their constituencies and assuring them of fulfilling the promises which are being made by AAP chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal.Party leaders claim that they are receiving massive response from the common people who are overburdened following heavy electricity bills, hike in fuel, LPG prices, etc. AAP leaders said that people are reeling under the present government while other parties are also not raising issues of public interest.AAP district president Altaf Ahmad said that party leaders and workers along with MLA candidates of city West, North and South constituencies are going to people with Arvind Kejriwal’s guarantee card. The details of voters along with their woes related to electricity supply and billings are registered through a mobile app and the guarantee card is handed over to the voters with a registration number.“The voters may complain and even move court with the guarantee card if the promises made by AAP are not fulfilled after the party comes to power in the state. At present, the first guarantee card of Arvind Kejriwal promises 300 units of free electricity, waiver of old unpaid bills, regular power supply besides free electricity to farmers in the state,” Altaf said.Altaf, who is the party candidate from city South constituency, said that within a few days of campaigning, the guarantee card of Arvind Kejriwal has been handed over to around 3,000 households in different constituencies. Citizens reeling under the present government are now themselves expressing faith and confidence in the Aam Aadmi Party’s public interest policies. The budget for electricity in UP is far more than Delhi and it is possible to provide 300 units of free electricity to people across the state. People are being overbilled and if they receive 300 units free electricity then they may spend the saved money on welfare of their families and their entertainment.AAP city general secretary Sarvesh Yadav said that party leaders will soon go to the people with a second guarantee card of Arvind Kejriwal which will promise employment and raise issues related to women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-prayagraj-aap-wooing-voters-with-kejriwal-s-free-electricity-guarantee-card-101634067859898.html
13-10-2021||Other||Kanpur realtor murder case: Two more accused cops held in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: Two more accused policemen, who were on the run since September 27, were arrested on Monday from the town in connection with the sensational murder of Kanpur realtor Manish Gupta. Both were nabbed while planning to surrender in a court, police said. The arrests were made just two days after JN Singh, former SHO Ramgarh Tal police station and Akshay Mishra, chowki in charge of Phal Mandi post were held from Gorakhpur. These four cops were among the six policemen who were booked under section 302 of the IPC. “Acting on a tip-off, police have arrested the two cops identified as Rahul Dubey and Prashant Kumar in connection with Manish Gupta murder case,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vipin Tada. All the six accused cops were carrying a cash reward of ₹1 lakh declared by Kanpur SIT which had also circulated the photos of the accused policemen with public appeal for information leading to their arrest. Raids were on to nab the remaining accused persons, the police officer said. On the intervening night of September 27 and 28, six policemen led by JN Singh and Akshay Mishra visited Hotel Krishna palace around 12.30 and checked room no 512, where Manish was staying with his two friends Hardeep Singh Chauhan and Pradeep Singh Chauhan, brothers from Gurgaon, and asked them to show their ID proofs as part of an ongoing checking drive against criminals and suspects. While the Chauhan brothers were quick to show their IDs, Manish objected to the midnight checking, leading to arguments which eventually made Singh and Mishra angry who then allegedly started beating him brutally. Chauhan brothers had told media that Manish was beaten up in the closed room after they were pushed out by cops. When the door opened, they saw the cops dragging Manish in an unconscious state. They said the policemen took Manish to a nearby private hospital from where he was referred to the BRD Medical College, where he was declared brought dead due to excessive bleeding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanpur-realtor-murder-case-two-more-accused-cops-held-in-gorakhpur-101634067680711.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||Jitin Prasada urges students to research, innovate to increase employability||Technical education minister Jitin Prasada said that students should not confine themselves only to the course curriculum. They have unlimited opportunities and should take more interest in innovation and research as the country’s entire progress depends on technical education.Addressing his first student gathering on Tuesday, at an event, ‘upgrade of technical education’, held at Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), he said, “Fly high, but keep your feet firmly grounded. Students do not have to be limited to just getting a degree. Also, research and innovate, so that employability can increase. It is our duty to make efforts to improve the future of the students.”He said, “I have especially come here to meet and listen to students. The aim of the government is to make efforts to make students self-reliant by providing world-class opportunities.” He said that soon he will go to different technical institutions of the state and listen to the problems of teachers and students and solve them. “Work will be further accelerated to make student-centric policies,” he said.Prasada said that the prime minister is to announce the Gati Shakti Yojana on Wednesday. It is a digital platform connecting 16 ministries including rail and road, through which the development of infrastructure projects worth about rupees hundred lakh crores will usher in a new chapter of India’s development.Technical education secretary Alok Kumar was the special guest. Earlier, AKTU vice-chancellor Prof Vineet Kansal said that the purpose of organising the programme for upgrading technical education is to promote the uplift and rehabilitation of teachers and students.Later, laptops were distributed to five girl toppers and five SC/ST student toppers of Uttar Pradesh State Entrance Examination-2019 in a symbolic way.Amendment in line with NEP-2020 at AKTUKansal said that in line with the National Education Policy 2020, the university has amended the regulations for educational autonomy.Technical Education Secretary Alok Kumar said that soon an incubation hub will be set up at AKTU. He said that the SIRF ranking framework will be begun for quality improvement in technical education in the state.He said that the government has approved a scheme of ₹22.64 crore for the establishment of incubation centres in government and aided institutions of the state.6 AKTU institutes honouredJitin Prasada honoured with a citation six affiliated institutes of the university which have been ranked in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). These six institutes are Noida Institute of Engineering and Technology, Gautam Budh Nagar, Noida Institute of Engineering and Technology Pharmacy, Gautam Budh Nagar, KIET, Ghaziabad, GL Bajaj Institute of Technology and Management, Gautam Budh Nagar, ABES Engineering College, Ghaziabad and JSS Academy of Technical Education, Noida.Covid-19 deaths mournedThe minister mourned the deaths of teachers who died due to Covid-19 and paid condolences to the students whose parents succumbed during the pandemic. ₹5 lakh was given to the family members of 18 teachers and one lakh each to 467 students. Symbolically, cheques of ₹1 lakh each were distributed to 11 students who lost their parents during the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jitin-prasada-urges-students-to-research-innovate-to-increase-employability-101634067440417.html
13-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Juna Akhada to launch mega mission across Uttar Pradesh for Yamuna conservation||PRAYAGRAJ: With the sacred Ganga only hogging the focus of river conservation in the state, seers of Shri Panchdasnaam Juna Akhada—one of the 13 ancient recognised Hindu monastic orders of the country—have now decided to undertake efforts to conserve the Yamuna in Prayagraj as well as other villages and towns of Uttar Pradesh. For this, the monastic order has decided to organise ‘Kalindi Utsav’ under which wide spread riverbank cleaning exercises and conservation awareness events would be started between Karela Bagh and Bade Hanuman temple in Prayagraj on November 14 and it would be gradually scaled up into a state-level mission, said Mahant Hari Giri, general secretary of Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad and chief patron of Juna Akhada. “Yamuna is also a sacred river in Hinduism. The river is worshipped as a Hindu goddess called Yamuna, also known as Yami in early texts and in later religious literature, she is called Kalindi. In Hindu scriptures, she is daughter of Surya, the sun god, and Sanjna, the cloud goddess,” the senior saint said. Aimed at attracting the attention of the people as well as the governments towards need of undertaking Yamuna-specific initiatives to conserve the river, demand of constructing public toilets on the river banks would also be raised, said Mahant Hari Giri. “We want basic amenities to be developed first to conserve Yamuna, followed by the people residing on its bank being sensitised about the need to conserve the river and its importance among millions of Hindus. The next step possibly could be strict measures like levying fines etc on people polluting the river and its banks by dumping waste, garbage and releasing untreated sewage into it,” he said. The Juna Akhada, the largest of all 13 monastic orders in terms of count of seers as well as having maximum number of Naga ascetics, would also undertake massive tree plantation drives along the banks of Yamuna as part of this mission. “We will involve locals residing on the riverbank as well as volunteers for looking after the planted trees. Our saints and seers across the state will use their sermons and discourses to spread the message,” he explained. Deepdaan events on Yamuna banks during the sacred Kartik month as per the Hindu calendar, set to start on October 21, and continue till November 19, would also be organised during cleaning of the ghats and the banks as part of this mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-juna-akhada-to-launch-mega-mission-across-uttar-pradesh-for-yamuna-conservation-101634067204406.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sangrur: Health workers, librarians protest clerical delay in medical examination||Irked over clerical delay in getting their medical examination done, a requirement to join duty, nearly 60 newly appointed health workers and librarians held a protest at the Sangrur civil surgeon’s office on Tuesday.The protesters said the ministerial employees needed to provide them forms before medical examination at the civil hospital and accept the paperwork after it was completed, but their strike for the past several days had been holding up the process.Sandeep Kaur, a librarian candidate, said they had been visiting the civil surgeon’s office for it for the past four days for a form, but were returning empty handed every day. “The staff is not even accepting the form of candidates who have already been examined. We cannot join without a medical examination,” she added.Assistant civil surgeon Dr Jagmohan Singh said they had accepted the forms of some candidates on Tuesday and assured that the rest will be covered by Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sangrur-health-workers-librarians-protest-clerical-delay-in-medical-examination-101634067021161.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mechanism needed to improve higher education in Punjab: Pargat Singh||Punjab education and language minister Pargat Singh on Tuesday emphasised the need for a blueprint to give boost to higher education. Singh, who held an interactive session with prominent educationists at Punjab Bhawan, said a mechanism should be developed to have regular interactions with eminent names from the academic world to make this possible. Around 30 academicians, including former and present vice-chancellors, principals and teachers from all over the state, shared their visions about the future of higher education and steps needed to take Punjab to the next level. The minister also said the state government was serious about recruitments in government colleges and will fill the vacant posts soon. Former V-C Dr SP Singh said there should be no more delay in implementation of UGC pay scales. ‘Resolve employee demands immediately’In another meeting with representatives of 40 employee unions and applicants for various jobs, Pargat directed the school education department to immediately resolve their grievances and demands. He said the government was responding to the demands of every union and employee in a positive manner. School education secretary Ajoy Sharma, director public instructions (DPI, secondary education) Sukhjit Pal Singh, DPI (elementary education) Harinder Kaur, assistant state project director Manoj Kumar and assistant director (elementary education) Bindu Gulati were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mechanism-needed-to-improve-higher-education-in-punjab-pargat-singh-101634067019953.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pink bollworm attack in Punjab: Agriculture minister sets 72-hour deadline for reports||Miffed with the delay in field reports about seed quality following the pink bollworm attack on cotton crop, Punjab agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha on Tuesday directed deputy commissioners of southern districts to compile details within 72 hours.Pest outbreak was a serious issue that required inputs from the ground before chalking out a broader plan for the next sowing season, said the minister, who had previously sought time-bound reports on September 29.“There are allegations from various quarters that spurious seeds and pesticides were behind the devastating pink bollworm attack. The field reports should have been filed by now. The respective district authorities should now file these within the next 72 hours. Accountability will be fixed if anyone is found involved in the sale of spurious seeds and pesticides or overlooking their availability,” said Nabha.The minister said the reports from cotton-growing belts were also required to determine the exact crop loss for compensation.“As per existing rules, loss between 76% and 100% can be compensated with ₹12,000 per acre. But it is the domain of the finance minister to finalise the amount of compensation,” he added.Nabha said experts of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, and other institutes had been taken on board to chalk out a long-term plan to mitigate infestation of pink bollworm.Prima facie, the onus of transportation of this pest from other states lied on the cotton-ginning and oil-extraction firms, he added.“We do not intend to take any punitive action. But factory owners must ensure that safety protocols are followed strictly to check the population growth of pests. Also, a mass awareness drive has been planned to sentitise farmers by February to adopt best farm practices,” he added.Nabha said a draft farmers’ policy, framed by the Punjab Farmers and Farm Workers Commission, will be reviewed for implementation.“Ajay Vir Jakhar, who recently resigned as commission chairperson, had spent considerable time to prepare the report. It deserves to be discussed in the government and we should adopt the best recommendations,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pink-bollworm-attack-in-punjab-agriculture-minister-sets-72-hour-deadline-for-reports-101634066962315.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Couple assaulted: SC panel issues notice to Tarn Taran admn||The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has issued a notice to the Tarn Taran administration, seeking an action-taken report into the alleged assault on a Scheduled Caste couple in Assal Uttar village of Bhikhiwind sub-division. In his complaint to the commission, the victim had alleged that on January 12 this year, as many as 33 men had attacked him with swords and molested his wife to grab his house that he bought in 2018. He had filed a complaint in this regard at the Valtoha police station, but the station house officer (SHO), Balwinder Singh, and Bhikhiwind deputy superintendent of police (DSP) did not take any action. A special investigation team was constituted, but nothing had been done on the ground so far, he added.In a press release, NCSC chairman Vijay Sampla alleged that village’s sarpanch Tarlochan Singh was among the assailants. Through a notice to the Jalandhar divisional commissioner, Ferozepur range inspector general of police, and Tarn Taran deputy commissioner and senior superintendent of police, the commission has asked them to investigate the matter and submit an action-taken report by October 22.Sampla cautioned the officials that if the report was not received in time, they could be summoned for personal appearance before the commission in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/couple-assaulted-sc-panel-issues-notice-to-tarn-taran-admn-101634066961056.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC to set up super-specialty hospital in Jalandhar||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Tuesday announced a super-specialty hospital, dedicated to Guru Ramdas, in Jalandhar.The SGPC president said a devotee, Joginder Singh, had donated 26 kanals for developing a hospital in Jalandhar and construction will begin soon. At the same time, she announced commissioning of a large hospital developed in the past at Tarn Taran.Kaur said a dispensary offering affordable medicines near the Information Centre at the Golden Temple complex was almost complete. Sharing the outline of ceremonies planned for the birth anniversary of Guru Ramdas on October 22, Kaur said a nagar kirtan will be organised on October 21 and like every year, Raag Darbar and Padtal Shabad Gyan Kirtan Samagam will be organised the same night.The nagar kirtan will start from Akal Takht and pass through the outer gates of the old city, before culminating at Golden Temple. On October 22, jalau (grandeur) will be decorated at Golden Temple, Akal Takht and Gurdwara Baba Atal Rai Sahib, and a grand event will be held at the Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan hall. Earthen lamps and fireworks will light up the evening later at Golden Temple and other gurdwaras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-to-set-up-super-specialty-hospital-in-jalandhar-101634066959882.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||Hopeless, man consumes poison near UP CM’s house in Lucknow, admitted to hospital||Upset by the district administration’s inaction after his land was grabbed, a Mainpuri man reportedly consumed a poisonous substance near the chief minister’s residence, on Kalidas Marg, in Lucknow, on Saturday morning.Senior police officials said the man was immediately rushed to the nearby Shyama Prasad Mukherjee (Civil) Hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable.Demanding action against people who fraudulently grabbed his land, the man told the police that two locals Lallu Yadav and Ravi Yadav grabbed his land by fraudulently getting it transferred in their name. He said a police complaint was registered when he approached the local district administration officials but no further action was taken in the matter. He said he has been running from pillar to post with the application to get his land back.He said he consumed poison as he was left with no hope to get justice in the matter.Senior police officials said a report has been sought from the local police and administration and the man has been assured of further action on the basis of that report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hopeless-man-consumes-poison-near-up-cm-s-house-in-lucknow-admitted-to-hospital-101634066659895.html
13-10-2021||Other||Father, uncles, raped me for 5 years, alleges UP teenager; lists 28 names in FIR||KANPUR: A Class 11 student has accused her father, his associates and uncles of raping her over the last five years in Lalitpur district, an Uttar Pradesh police officer said late on Tuesday evening.A First Information Report (FIR) has been filed by the Sadar Kotwali police on the complaint of the girl and the police have started investigations, additional superintendent of police, Lalitpur, Girijesh Kumar said.Kumar said the girl and her mother met Lalitpur district SP Nikhil Pathak to seek action.In her FIR, the girl alleged that her father first raped her when she was in Class 6 during an outing. The FIR alleges that her uncles and cousins later also raped the girl. She has also accused her father of trying to force her into prostitution.Lalitpur district president of the Samajwadi Party Tilak Yadav, who has been named in the FIR, said it was a conspiracy against him. “ I will commit suicide if implicated; this is the case of martial dispute. I will submit a memorandum to SP and district magistrate tomorrow seeking a fair probe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/father-uncles-raped-me-for-5-years-alleges-up-teenager-lists-28-names-in-fir-101634066479811.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||Shivpal Yadav begins ‘samajik parivartan yatra’ from Mathura||Agra National president of Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (PSP), Shivpal Yadav chose death anniversary of socialist leader Dr Ram Manohar Lohia on Tuesday to begin his ‘samajik parivartan yatra’ from the religious town of Vrindavan in Mathura district. The yatra which halted in Agra on Tuesday night will head for Firozabad on Wednesday morning. Shivpal Yadav offered prayers at Bankey Behari Temple in Vrindavan on Tuesday to seek blessings as he began his election campaign for forthcoming assembly election in Uttar Pradesh. From Firozabad the yatra will go to Etawah, Auraiya and Jalaun on way to Rae Bareli and is expected to end on November 27 after travelling through different districts. “It is jungle raj all over UP and mafia are dominant everywhere. Farmers are being targeted for no fault of theirs, so this ‘rath yatra’ is for ‘parivartan’ (change) of power in the state. We have begun our effort to achieve this aim after seeking blessings of Bankey Behari in Vrindavan,” said Yadav before beginning his ‘yatra’ in a specially prepared bus. Incidentally, Shivpal Yadav began his ‘samajik parivartan yatra’ on the same day in Mathura when his nephew Akhilesh Yadav initiated his ‘vijay yatra’ from Kanpur. In a surprising development, Congress leader and spiritual head Acharya Pramod Krishnan was with Shivpal Yadav and boarded the bus too in Mathura. “The present government in Uttar Pradesh has chosen the path of ‘adharm’ (against ethics) and PSP leader Shivpal Yadav has chosen to initiate ‘yatra’ to uproot this government. So I came to convey my good wishes to Shivpal Yadav with whom I have personal relations, being associated with the same ashram in Mathura’ said Pramod Krishnan while evading questions related to alliance between Congress and PSP. But he said that parties with same ideologies should unite to uproot the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. On Monday Aditya Yadav, son of Shivpal Yadav, said in Mathura, that his father was blessed by good wishes from Mulayam Singh Yadav and masses in Uttar Pradesh both of which would pave the way for success in the forthcoming elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shivpal-yadav-begins-samajik-parivartan-yatra-from-mathura-101634066419916.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC pulls up authorities for not closing 1,000 juvenile-related cases||The Delhi high court on Tuesday pulled up the authorities for not taking steps to close around 1000 cases related to petty crimes allegedly committed by children or juveniles in which enquiries have been pending for more than a year. Petty crimes under Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act are defined as those which entail a maximum imprisonment up to three years. These include offences such as assault, causing simple hurt, theft, forgery etc.A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani noted that the state has also not complied with its direction to inform it about the number of cases where inquiries are pending in each Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) for six months to one year, along with the date of institution of the inquiry and of the first production in each case.When the court was informed that the government was waiting as some amendment was going on in the Rules and 10 days time was sought to produce juveniles before the JJBs, the bench observed, “Children can’t wait. Juveniles can’t wait. You take as much time as you want but children cannot be put on hold.”During the hearing, the Delhi government showed a chart to the court where there was a difference of 409 minors in the number of juveniles produced before the JJB and those released thereafter.“Where are these 409 juveniles? They have fallen through the cracks. These 409 (minors) will be lost in the system. We shudder to think what awaits us. What is happening? What happened to these 409 and where are they?” it asked.The bench further said the government’s conduct was not satisfactory and the court’s September 29 judgment, which said the child must be produced before the JJB within 24 hours of becoming a subject of processes under the JJ Act, was clear and had no ambiguity.“You should follow “Alice in the Wonderland” which says that if everybody minded their own business, the world would go around a great deal faster than it does,” it said.The court granted Delhi government a week’s time to file an affidavit elaborating the steps taken by them to comply with its previous order.When the court asked when will all the juveniles, allegedly involved in petty offences and against whom inquires are pending, be produced before the JJB, the government counsel said it will be done in 10 days.“You should have done it by now. We are surprised with what JJBs are doing. Are they not aware of our order? They must comply with our order. By now, the JJB should have directed the police to produce all juveniles before the board,” the bench said.“We can understand the executive is finding it difficult to comply with our order but we cannot understand why JJB is finding it difficult to comply with our order. We cannot turn a blind eye to it,” it added.When the government counsel said the court’s September 29 order has been a boon, the bench shot back saying the order has not yet been complied with and how can it be a boon to anyone.The court said the authorities cannot take the ground of COVID-19 pandemic for not producing the juveniles before the JJB within 24 hours and said when policing did not stop in the pandemic, it must also do all the documentation work.Senior advocate H S Phoolka, amicus curiae in the matter, said the bench may direct the registrar of the court to send the order to the JJBs for ensuring compliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-pulls-up-authorities-for-not-closing-1-000-juvenile-related-cases-101634066240841.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Rohini shooting: Bar associations suggest smart ID cards for lawyers||The Delhi High Court Bar Association (DHCBA) and the Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) on Tuesday suggested to the Delhi high court that advocates must be allowed to enter district court premises only on the basis of a “smart ID card”, having a digital chip for verification of the individual’s identity.Listing out their suggestions for improving security measures at district courts, the lawyer bodies told the bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh that such smart cards will be similar to the “proximity cards” issued to lawyers for securing entry to the Supreme Court premises.“Advocates may be permitted with ID cards, like proximity cards in Supreme Court... There will be a mechanical scanning of these digitised cards,” said DHCBA president and senior lawyer Mohit Mathur.Lawyer Devendra Singh, appearing for BCD, said a new card containing a “chip” will be issued to advocates to regulate their entry into court premises.He said all advocates must abide by security checks and any refusal to follow the same shall amount to misconduct.The suggestions were made during the hearing of a plea that the bench had taken up suo motu, following the shooting at Rohini courts on September 24 in which jailed gangster Jitender Gogi was shot dead by two men posing as lawyers, who were later shot dead by the police in retaliatory firing. The bench had earlier asked all stakeholders, including the Centre, the Delhi government, and various bar associations, to also give their suggestions on the improving security at district courts so that these could be incorporated in the final order.During the hearing, the DHCBA further suggested that all visitors, including advocates, be frisked using advanced metal detectors, and all vehicles checked using hi-tech devices. The association further said the entry of hawkers must be banned; only licensed shopkeepers must be allowed access and identity cards must be issued to their staff as well. The BCD called for a three-tier security system, including posting police personnel in civvies inside courtrooms, setting up a “24-hour control room” and installing more CCTV cameras to monitor the court premises.It was also suggested that an “active interactions and meetings” of stakeholders must be ensured to deal with the issues and a separate uniform be prescribed for law interns.Both lawyer bodies said the production of under-trials should be done in the virtual mode and the number of security personnel increased.Lawyer Robin Raju, appearing for a petitioner lawyer, who has filed a separate plea on the issue, said an advisory should be issued to all members of the Bar to cooperate with the security checks.Additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma, appearing for Delhi Police, said his suggestions were “more or less the same”.Earlier, Delhi Police had suggested that the use of technology must be maximised to reduce the physical appearances of parties at all seven district courts and also suggested the immediate upgrade of security gadgets to obviate security concerns.It said the security of the seven district courts has been taken over by the Security Unit, a specialised unit of the Delhi Police, and necessary security arrangements and staff are being deployed accordingly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rohini-shooting-bar-associations-suggest-smart-id-cards-for-lawyers-101634065999863.html
13-10-2021||Lucknow||17-yr-old girl alleges sexual assault by father, SP and BSP leaders in Lalitpur||KANPUR A Class 11 student in UP’s Lalitpur district lodged an FIR against 28 people, including her father, some close relatives and district presidents of the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party, accusing them of outraging her modesty over the last five years.The FIR was registered with the Sadar Kotwali police under relevant sections of the IPC and Pocso Act and the cops had started investigations into the case, said Girijesh Kumar, ASP (Lalitpur). The 17-year-old girl, along with her mother, had met SP (Lalitpur) Nikhil Pathak and narrated her ordeal, after which he assured them of action.In the FIR, the girl alleged that she was first sexually assaulted by her father when she was in Class 6. The girl said she was taken for an outing and that is when her father showed her a porn clip on phone before outraging her modesty.Thereafter, many other relatives sexually assaulted her, taking advantage of her silence. These included her four uncles and cousins, alleged the girl.According to the girl, her father even pushed her into prostitution and attempted to sell her off to make money.SP district president Tilak Yadav said it was a conspiracy against him. “I will commit suicide, if implicated. I will submit a memorandum to the SP and district magistrate tomorrow seeking a fair probe,” he said. His BSP counterpart, Deepak Ahirwar, also named in FIR, was not available for his comment. Apart from these two, other politicians were also named in the FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/17yrold-girl-alleges-sexual-assault-by-father-sp-and-bsp-leaders-in-lalitpur-101634065643335.html
13-10-2021||Other||Andhra declares reward to curb tests for sex determination||The Medical and Health Department of Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday announced a reward of up to ₹1 lakh for information leading to the conviction of errant diagnostic centres that violated the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act and carried out sex determination tests.The Department came out with the reward scheme after reports of increase in sex determination tests across the state.Health Commissioner Katamneni Bhaskar appealed to people to provide information about scanning centres that conducted sex determination tests on pregnant women.“Any informant will be given ₹25,000 as reward upon information leading to registration of a case. The reward will go up to ₹1 lakh if the case ends in conviction,” Bhaskar said in a release.Information against errant scan centres could be provided on helpline number 104 or pcpndt.ap.gov.in website. Details of the informants would be kept confidential, the Commissioner said.The child sex ratio in AP currently stood at 0:5, “which is not good”.“We will have a bad sex ratio again in a few year, though the adult sex ratio now looks okay,” a top official pointed out.He said sex determination appeared to be high though nobody was giving evidence.“Hence this reward and ₹1 lakh is decent,” he added.The health department carried out 474 decoy operations in various districts in recent times to keep a tab on scanning centres. More than 17,000 inspections were also carried out to ensure that the PCPNDT Act was not violated.In 21 cases, the centres were sealed and cases filed in courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-declares-reward-to-curb-tests-for-sex-determination-101634065642316.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||32 Tihar officials booked for violation of jail rules in Delhi||The Delhi Police crime branch on Tuesday filed a case against 32 officers of Tihar jail for allegedly helping jailed Unitech ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra violate prison rules and run a “secret underground office in south Delhi” from the jail, officers aware of the matter said. The officers said that all 32 prison officials who have been booked were posted in Tihar’s jail number 7, where the two real estate developers were lodged, until the morning of August 28 when they were shifted to Arthur Road and Taloja jail in Maharashtra on the orders of the Supreme Court.“The FIR is against one jail superintendent and other junior officers such as deputy superintendent, assistant superintendent and warders. The FIR also names the two Chandra brothers and their father, Ramesh Chandra. There was prima facie evidence of the jail officers taking money for helping the prisoners, so we have registered case under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” said a mid-level police officer, who asked not to be named. On Tuesday evening, a Delhi Police spokesperson said that they have sent letters to the Delhi government and the Union ministry of home affairs for departmental action(suspension) against 32 officers. As part of the probe, Delhi police commissioner Asthana recorded statements of all officers; inspected jail premises where the Chandra brothers were lodged, and also visited the jails in Maharashtra where they are currently incarcerated.A senior prison officer, who asked not to be named, said the prison department is yet to receive the letter. “All 32 will be suspended until the investigation is completed. We are yet to receive the report,” the officer said.On October 6, the Supreme Court, acting on the inquiry report submitted by the police commissioner, ordered the government to suspend the officers named in the report. On August 26, the apex court directed the Delhi Police chief to personally look into the role of prison officials after the Enforcement Directorate(ED) informed the court that Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra violated prison rules and ran a “secret underground office” in south Delhi from inside Tihar jail allegedly with the help of jail officers.HT reported on October 7 that the crime branch will register an FIR in the case based on Asthana’s report, in which he questioned at least 18 jail officers, including two senior jail superintendents. Though no police officer confirmed this, a prison officer said that during the inquiry the jail officers showed alleged forged court documents, on the basis of which they claim they provided facilities to the Chandra brothers, such as telephones, refrigerators, and work stations inside the prison. However, they did not say who forged those documents. The Chandra brothers were arrested in April 2017 for duping homebuyers in 74 Unitech projects. The two were also being probed by the ED. The ED in a report to the apex court had said that the two used the prison complex to transfer the proceeds of crime and were instructing their people outside to dispose of their properties. The ED said that it also unearthed a secret underground office’ in Delhi, which was being operated by erstwhile Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra, and was visited by his two sons – Sanjay and Ajay – when they were on parole or bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/32-tihar-officials-booked-for-violation-of-jail-rules-in-delhi-101634065641258.html
13-10-2021||Other||DMK looks set to sweep local body elections in 9 Tamil Nadu districts||The ruling DMK in Tamil Nadu is poised to emerge victorious in the local body elections in nine districts for which the two phase polls were held on October 6 and 9, according result trends.Meanwhile, the opposition AIADMK appears to have suffered a setback as the counting of votes polled in the two-phase elections began on Tuesday morning. As per the emerging trends, the principal opposition party is trailing behind the ruling DMK at several places. The DMK, which got off to an impressive start, is comfortably placed and is poised for victory.Polling was held in 39 unions on October 6 while the remaining 35 unions went to polls on October 9, in Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Ranipet, Tirupathur, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts. Elections were held to fill 27,003 posts including 140 district panchayat ward members, 74 panchayat unions, 1,381 panchayat union ward members, 2,901 village panchayat presidents and 22,581 village panchayat ward councillors.The DMK has been leading since morning when the counting of votes was taken up and this set the tone for celebrations at Anna Arivalayam, the headquarters of the party - here. The opposition AIADMK seemed to be a divided camp in taking on the DMK combine in the polls as its ally PMK chose to contest on its own from all the nine districts and another ally, the BJP, contested alone in Kallakurichi district.Out of the 140 district panchayat wards, the DMK is ahead of AIADMK in at least 88 seats while the opposition party was leading in two seats.In the panchayat union wards, the DMK is leading in 331 and the AIADMK in 40.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmklooks-set-to-sweep-local-body-elections-in-9-tamil-nadudistricts-101634065640036.html
13-10-2021||Other||Centre to take over major irrigation projects after resistance from Telangana, Andhra||Beginning Thursday, the Centre will take over the operation and maintenance of two major irrigation projects of Srisailam and Nagarjunsagar on the Krishna river, and Pedavagu medium irrigation project on the Godavari river, which are the bone of contention between the two riparian states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.Though the Centre issued a gazette notification on July 15, seeking to take control of all major and medium irrigation projects with effect from October 14, it has decided to confine itself to only these three projects in the first phase due to objections raised by the two states and defer the decision on the remaining projects.As per the gazette notification, the operation and maintenance of as many as 36 irrigation projects on the Krishna, including Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala, along with their canals and irrigation systems, would come under the purview of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB).About 70 projects on the Godavari, including Kaleshwaram and Polavaram, would be brought under the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB). Both the boards would be directly under the control of the Union Jal Shakti ministry.A meeting of the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) under Jal Shakti ministry, held in Hyderabad on Tuesday, announced that the gazette notification will come into partial implementation from October 14.A similar decision was taken by the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) at its meeting held in Hyderabad on Monday, an official in the Telangana state irrigation department familiar with the development said.“The KRMB decided to take control of even the hydro-power projects on Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala apart from control over the canals and water releases. While Andhra Pradesh agreed to hand over the hydel power projects located on its side, Telangana refused to do so. The KRMB authorities deferred the decision on the same,” the official quoted above said.The KRMB also deferred the decision on all the other projects in the Krishna basin mentioned in the gazette notification due to certain objections from both the states. It also wanted to take over all the project offices, files, staff, machinery and equipment with effect from October 14, but kept the decision in abeyance for now.With regard to Godavari river projects, it was decided that for now, only one medium irrigation project, Pedavagu, would be brought under the control of GRMB, as it is an interstate project. “Both the states agreed for the same, but raised objection over handing over major projects like Kaleshwaram and Polavaram,” the official said.Though the constitution of KRMB and GRMB was done as per the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, it was aimed at only resolving the disputes between the two riparian states post bifurcation.“The boards are essentially meant for monitoring the water releases from the projects on the two rivers as per the allocations made to the states. It does not mean the Centre should take over the complete authority over the projects,” pointed out Madabhushi Sridhar, former Central information commissioner and dean of law in Mahindra University in Hyderabad.The two states have been raising objections over the gazette notification issued by the Centre. They are arguing that only major interstate projects could be brought under the purview of the river management boards and not all the canals, lift irrigation schemes and hydel power projects.At the GRMB board meeting held on Monday, the Telangana and Andhra Pradesh irrigation department authorities raised objections over the Centre taking over of the movable and immovable assets of all the irrigation projects like Kaleshwaram in Telangana and Polavaram in Andhra built on the Godavari river.They sought to know whether the Centre will also take responsibility of the liabilities of the states on these irrigation projects. “We have taken huge loans from banks and financial institutions to complete these projects. If the Centre takes control of them, will it take the responsibility of repaying the loans as well?” the Andhra officials asked.Both the states have also refused to commit on the payment of ₹200 crore each to the Krishna and Godavari boards towards the expenditure incurred on operation and maintenance of the irrigation projects. They asked the boards to present the expenditure details.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-to-take-over-major-irrigation-projects-after-resistance-from-telangana-andhra-101634065580925.html
13-10-2021||Other||NIA raids 20 locations in 3 states over 2016 Maoist camps in Kerala||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday conducted simultaneous searches at 20 locations across Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in the Edakkara Maoist case related to training camps organised by alleged Maoists in Nilambur forest area in 2016, according to a statement from the agency. Several alleged Maoists from Tamil Nadu had figured in the case registered by the NIA in Kochi relating to the conspiracy by members of CPI (Maoist). According to the statement from the agency, the proscribed terrorist organisation conducted a training camp, arms training, flag hoisting and celebrations for formation day of CPI (Maoist) during the last week of September 2016 in the Nilambur forest area “and also for engaging in anti-national activities, threatening the unity, integrity and security of India.”Officials of the agency have been raiding the locations across all the three southern states since Tuesday morning. They included 12 premises in Tamil Nadu of the accused Maoists in the districts of Chennai, Coimbatore, Theni, Ramanathapuram, Salem, Kanyakumari, and Krishnagiri. Searches went on in three locations in Kerala’s Wayanad, Thrissur, and Kannur, and five locations in Karnataka in the districts of Chikmagalur, Udupi and Shivamogga. The case was originally registered in the Edakkara police station in Kerala’s Malappuram district in 2017. The NIA subsequently took over and reregistered it in August this year under sections 121 and 122 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), section 3 read with 25(1B) (a) of Arms Act, 1959 and sections 18A, 20 and 38 of UA (P) Act (UAPA).After investigation by the Kerala police, in May this year, five accused people, named Kalidas, Danish alias Krishna, Rajan Chittilapilly, Dinesh D H and T K Rajeevan, were charge-sheeted. “Investigation by the NIA is continuing against the involvement of the remaining 20 members of CPI (Maoist),” the agency’s statement said. “During searches conducted today, digital devices including mobile phones, SIM cards, pen drives, documents including books, manifesto, pamphlets and other incriminating materials have been recovered from the premises of the accused persons.”Police personnel were deployed in the 12 locations in Tamil Nadu. “As per NIA Act, we have to provide local assistance,” said a senior police official of Salem district. “We are not sure if the searches will continue tomorrow.”The NIA said that further investigation in the case will continue. HT has contacted the NIA’s spokesperson and this story will be updated with their comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/niaraids-20-locations-in-3-states-over-2016-maoist-camps-in-kerala-101634065579755.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||‘Farm produce not being graded scientifically’||Haryana IAS officer Ashok Khemka, who is the administrative secretary in-charge of Nuh district, has recommended that the quality of agricultural produce arriving in mandis for procurement should be graded in a scientific manner.The IAS officer, who recently inspected Kharif procurement operations in Nuh district, said the focus should be on quality-based trading on national agriculture market portal (e-NAM) to ensure greater number of buyers and best value for the farmers’ produce.Khemka, in his inspection report, said during his visit to mandis of Nuh, Ferozepur Jhirka and Tauru on October 1, he came to know that some bogus registration for Bajra on ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal were found during ground verification.“This was due to expectation of government purchase of bajra at minimum support price (MSP) where unscrupulous traders would have sold recycled or bajra brought from other states,” he wrote.The IAS officer said bajra produce was traded between ₹1,250-1,300. However, one lot was sold at ₹1,800 and another at ₹900. “The large difference was explained due to differences in quality. But the quality is being judged by eye estimation. No grading of lots was being done by the market committees,” the officer wrote.“Though the producer did not dispute the low price, the fact remains that had bajra been purchased by government agencies at MSP, all lots would have been purchased at the same price, irrespective of differences in quality,” the officer further wrote.The officer said under the Agricultural Produce (Grading and Marking) Act, 1937 the national standards for Bajra are notified, considering quality factors such as moisture, foreign matter, other food grains, admixture of different varieties, damaged grains, immature grains, grains infested with weevil (an insect which damages grains) and shrivelled grains.Bajra is graded into four types taking into account the maximum level of tolerance for each of the factors and grading is done using MAAT machines.Khemka said average rate of PUSA Basmati 1509 variety was hovering between ₹2,800-2,900 and one particular lot was sold for ₹1,700. The reason given was that the lot contained large proportion of unripe grains as per eye estimation.However, the quality is not measured and recorded to explain the price difference. The price variation without grading of the produce is prone to misuse by vested interests, he said.Khemka wrote the e-NAM trading was non-existent, the auction was done manually and the auction details were entered manually into the e-NAM portal. The analyst was ignorant of e-NAM trading or grading of the produce.“Instead of being Luddites, the marketing board should make progress with the use of e-NAM quality-based trading. A unified market of farmers produce will ensure best value for it. Buyers should be allowed to register in e-NAM, independent of registration in APMC mandis. Farmers will realise better value of their produce with increasing buyers. Inter-state or unified registration of buyers may be allowed on the portal,” Khemka said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-produce-not-being-graded-scientifically-101634065099495.html
13-10-2021||Pune||28-year-old woman files FIR against husband over WhatsApp triple talaq in Pune||PUNE A 28-year-old woman has filed a case with the Samartha police alleging that her husband divorced her by sending a talaq message on WhatsApp. The offence was lodged at Samaratha police station after an application was moved seeking registration of an FIR. The woman has been identified as Alia Mohammad Yusuf (28), a housewife and resident of Chamde Galli in Nana peth. In her complaint alleged that her husband identified as Sajid Magdum Shaikh and mother-in-law Zaibunissa, both residents of Lohiya nagar in Ganj peth constantly harassed her and demanded that she bring money from her father’s house to buy cooler, iron and a flat. They allegedly abused and threatened her. On March 10, 2021, her husband sent a WhatsApp message pronouncing triple talaq. In protest against the manner in which the divorce was given, the victim lodged an FIR. The police have invoked IPC 498 A, 323, 504 and 506 against the accused along with sections 3 and 4 of Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019. The FIR was lodged on October 11. PSI H B Khopade is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/28yearold-woman-files-fir-against-husband-over-whatsapp-triple-talaq-in-pune-101634064979612.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: North MCD to only collect segregated waste from November 1||New Delhi: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation will collect only segregated waste from households and other waste generators from November 1, and have issued directions to officials to ensure concessionaires use green and blue bins to transport wet and dry waste respectively to the processing facility. Officials said the decision was taken to ensure strict compliance to the solid waste management rules 2016, which seeks to ensure 100% segregation of waste at source. North MCD commissioner Sanjay Goel, who chaired a review meeting on Monday with officials and concessionaires on Monday, said there will be provision for a monetary penalty for defaulters but did not specify its quantum.“The North MCD will paste red stickers on the premises of regular defaulters who are found violating the norms for waste segregation. There is also a provision of monetary penalty for the violation of norms. Since nobody can afford to pay fines all the time, we believe that people will soon start adhering to the norms. Until they do, the red stickers will continue for defaulters,” he said. Goel further said that the concessionaires have been directed “to deploy adequate staff at dhalaos to prevent the public from dumping non-segregated waste”.The corporation is also planning to organise public awareness campaigns to educate the public about the benefits of waste segregation. “The officials have been directed to hold regular meetings with RWAs, market associations and bulk waste generators in their respective areas, for waste segregation at source. The officials have also been asked to prepare area specific strategies, including for slums and other settlements, commercial institutions and other non-residential premises, for segregation of waste at source,” said Goel. Meanwhile, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), in association with US Environment Protection Agency, on Tuesday, organised a training-cum-awareness programme on waste management for bulk waste generators at the auditorium in its headquarters. This programme was a part of its Global Methane Initiative (GMI) along with TERI.Briefing about the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 and its bye-laws, Alka Sharma, the additional commissioner of EDMC, said that it is the need of the hour to segregate waste at the source. “This little effort can change the whole picture of waste management in East Delhi. We hope that the bulk waste generators will help EDMC to make East Delhi garbage-free,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhinorth-mcd-to-only-collect-segregated-waste-from-november-1-101634064799658.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two held in Karnal bank robbery case||A week after armed robbers had robbed ₹10.64 lakh from the branch of a nationalised bank in Karnal’s Nissing village, police have arrested two accused on Tuesday.Police said accused Ankur alias Rinku, of Panipat district, and Vikas alias Kashu, of Gharaunda in Karnal, have been arrested from Himachal Pradesh.Police have also recovered two countrymade pistols, 10 live cartridges, ₹2.84 lakh cash and a bike from their possession. However, third accused Surender, of Karnal, is still at large.As per the police complaint filed by the bank officials on October 5, three armed miscreants allegedly looted ₹15 lakh from Bank of Baroda’s Nissing branch in Karnal. Later, police said the bank officials told them that the accused had robbed ₹10.64 lakh.The bank officials alleged that the miscreants snatched the gun of the bank security guard and opened fire but no one got hurt in the incident. Later, the Karnal police had announced a reward of ₹50,000 each for any information on the accused.The primary investigation revealed that after committing the crime, the accused frequently changed their location and stayed in rented rooms in different cities of Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh.The officials were tracking the accused’s criminal record and claim to have found their involvement in the ₹15.35 lakh robbery from a filling station in Uchana village of Karnal in April this year. A murder case is also registered against accused Ankur in Panipat in 2012. He has already completed his sentence in a robbery case registered in Ambala in 2017.A case of robbery is also registered against accused Vikas in Sonepat district. In this case, the accused had come out of jail after serving nine months’ sentence.All accused have been booked under Sections 392, 397, 379-B, 307, and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 25, 54, and 59 of the Arms Act. They were produced in court which sent them to 10-day police remand for further interrogation, police said, adding that efforts are on to nab the third accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-held-in-karnal-bank-robbery-case-101634064679596.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Drop in air quality but rain, winds to improve conditions over the week||Delhi’s air quality saw a marginal deterioration on Tuesday, with at least 11 of the 36 monitoring stations in the Capital recording air quality index (AQI) in the ‘poor’ category, up from seven stations a day ago, data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed.However, India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists said that the pollution situation in the Capital will improve in the coming days with wind speeds expected to pick up from Wednesday and light to moderate rain forecast on between October 17 and 18.CPCB data showed that on Tuesday, the overall AQI in Delhi was 179, up from the 166 on Monday, both of which are in the ‘moderate’ category.IMD scientists said that the brief deterioration in air quality was because of calm winds. “The winds were calm on Tuesday and the primary pollutant in Delhi was PM 10 (particulate matter of diameter less than 10 micrometres) or dust from local sources. Currently, the impact of stubble fires is not much. From Wednesday, wind speeds will pick up and pollution is likely to go down,” said a senior IMD scientist.He also said that there is a forecast of rain in Delhi and neighbouring states, which will also result in an improvement in air quality.“Since there are not much pollutants in the air now, the rains will help clear the pollution levels. Usually, if the pollution load in the atmosphere is high, and the humidity levels also increase, pollutants stick to it and settle close to the surface,” he explained.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather Services, said that the wind direction over Delhi is expected to change from October 16, and light to moderate rains are likely over Delhi-NCR between October 17 and 18.“At present, Delhi is receiving westerly winds. From October 16, the wind direction will change to easterly, which will also result in light to moderate rains in the city. The neighbouring states will also receive moderate to heavy rains,” Palawat said.Scientists warned that though the impact of stubble fires is low in Delhi’s air for now, pollution will start rising in the coming weeks as temperatures drop and stubble burning activities pick up.Data collated by United States’s National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Nasa) shows that between September 1 and October 11 this year, Punjab reported 918 stubble fires, much lower than 2,996 instances reported in the same period last year. In Haryana, 442 fires were reported between September 1 and October 11 this year, as opposed to 750 reported during the same period last year.“Last five years of satellite data for stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana clearly shows late and slow starts of the season compared to previous years, potentially due to prolonged monsoon and change in policies. We will have to monitor the numbers in the coming weeks,” said Pawan Gupta, a research scientist at the Goddard Earth Sciences Technology and Research (GESTAR), Universities Space Research Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhidrop-in-air-quality-but-rain-winds-to-improve-conditions-over-the-week-101634064559723.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Pune’s first disability rehab centre gets final approval, ₹3.5 crore sanctioned||PUNE: The one-of-its-kind district disability rehabilitation centre (DDRC) – for which the Pune Zilla Parishad has sanctioned ₹3.5 crore – will soon see the light of day, with the deputy chief minister and general body granting their approval to the project.The administration will soon float tenders for the project and subsequently, construction is also likely to begin. This is the first-of-its-kind centre with different departments all-in-one place so that diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation can be provided through various methods.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “The design for the ground+3 building was approved at the recent general body and the deputy chief minister meet as well. This is the final approval and the building will come up at Aundh and we have sanctioned ₹3.5 crore for the disability centre. The DDRC will act as a one-stop centre to provide treatment and therapeutic services for all types of disabilities. In addition to providing medical treatment such as artificial limbs to disabled patients, the centre will also provide rehabilitation therapies. This will be the first-of-its-kind rehabilitation centre in the state.”Prasad said that the centre will also serve nearby districts as it will be a one-of-its-kind centre not just in Pune but also in the entire state. At the centre, disabilities will be identified, treated and surgical intervention will be provided if required. The centre will identify all 21 disabilities recognised by the Government of India. The centre will be housed on the existing campus of the district hospital.Dr Kavita Murugkar, an impanelled architect for the project, said, “All types of disabilities be they physical, sensory or cognitive, will be taken care of at this centre. The centre will provide artificial limbs, corrective surgeries and also therapies to ensure all-round development of the persons undergoing treatment. Some of the unique therapies that will be provided at the centre include music therapy, dance/yoga therapy, language therapy, maths lab, occupational therapy, physiotherapy, orthotic and prosthetic unit, audiometry, speech therapy, aqua therapy, and outdoor gym and rehabilitation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-first-disability-rehab-centre-gets-final-approval-3-5-crore-sanctioned-101634064508012.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man gets death penalty in Sonepat triple murder||A local court in Sonepat on Tuesday awarded death penalty to a man for killing his friend’s sister’s husband, her father-in-law and mother-in-law after the friend’s sister had an inter-caste marriage nearly five years ago.District additional sessions judge RP Goyal convicted accused Harish to death penalty and framed charges against the woman’s brother Satender alias Monu, who is absconding, for shooting at his sister and her brother-in-law and killing her husband and his parents after the inter-caste marriage.The court acquitted Satender’s brother Sonu and their father Om Prakash due to lack of evidence.The court has given death penalty to Harish, of Hasanpur, under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 449 (house trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death) of IPC and under the Arms Act and the SC/ST Act.Harish is undergoing imprisonment in district while Satender is on the run. Police have declared the latter a proclaimed offender.In his complaint to police, Suraj, of Kharkhauda in Sonepat, said his brother Pradeep got married to Sushila, of Birdhana village, in Jhajjar in 2013 against the wishes of her family.“On November 18, 2016, my sister-in-law Sushila’s brother Satender and his friend Harish entered our house and fired shots at our family in which my brother and our parents died. I and my sister-in-law received bullet injuries and she gave birth to a baby boy at Rohtak’s PGIMS the next night,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-gets-death-penalty-in-sonepat-triple-murder-101634064506872.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi family that helped ‘Pakistani terrorist’ get Aadhaar fears witch-hunt||Twenty-three-old Uzaib Ahmed was busy stitching garments along with his father and brother at their factory on the ground floor of their house in Aaram Park near Geeta Colony in east Delhi, when on Tuesday noon, some journalists arrived and started asking them about an alleged Pakistani terrorist, who the police claimed, lived at their house as a tenant some years ago.Initially, Uzaib and his family members were baffled because the journalists were asking about Ali, and at least three tenants having the same surname lived at their house in the last six-seven years. It was only when the journalist showed Uzaib a photograph of the alleged terrorist, Mohammad Ashraf, that he identified him and admitted that his father, Naseem Ahmed, helped Ashraf get an Aadhar card at their address.Also Read| ‘Lone wolf terrorist’ from Pakistan held in East DelhiAshraf lived at their house under the name of Ali Ahmed Noor, Uzaib said.“I don’t know the entire details but my father helped him (Ali) get his Aadhar card, as he carried other identification documents (IDs). We did not know his real identity and nationality. Ali came to us through a reference. He lived at our house for nearly a year and then moved out. He lived alone and nobody ever visited him. He told us that he worked at a private company in Ramesh Park, near Laxmi Nagar,” said Uzaib.Since the police broke the news that the alleged Pakistani terrorist used their address to procure his Indian ID, Uzaib and his family members were afraid that they may have to face consequences for keeping a Pakistani citizen at their house, and helping him obtaining an Aadhar card.“We closed our factory as we could not face the questions from journalists, and our neighbours were looking at us as if we were guilty. My husband is stressed. We fear that the police would trouble us, specially our two sons. I don’t understand what crime we have committed,” said Uzaib’s mother, who did not share her name.The family members said Ashraf stayed in an 8x10 feet room on the first floor of their house, and paid ₹700 as monthly rent. He left the room in the morning for work and returned late in the evening.Several residents of Aaram Park refused to speak on the matter, saying that they did not know Ashraf personally or remember seeing him living there.The police said Ashraf was arrested from Gali Number 10 in Ramesh Park, near Laxmi Nagar that has several garment stores apart from residential buildings where migrants, mostly students or those working in private companies, live as tenants. HT spoke to many people in the neighbourhood but nobody was aware of any such arrest on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-family-that-helped-pakistani-terrorist-get-aadhaar-fears-witchhunt-101634064380765.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: CRPF head constable shot dead by fellow constable at Tughlaqabad camp||A head constable of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was shot dead by a fellow constable in front of their colleagues at the CRPF camp in Tughlaqabad on Tuesday, police said. The constable allegedly tried to turn the gun on himself, but was overpowered by those around him. Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) Esha Pandey said they received a call from Batra hospital on Monday stating that CRPF head constable Vakeel Singh (35) was admitted there with a gunshot wound and was in a critical condition. He later died during treatment. A team reached the hospital and also went to the CRPF camp in Tughlaqabad.According to the complaint given by CRPF assistant commandant (Parliament duty group) Manoj Kumar, around 6pm, the staff were briefed before their departure for Parliament duty. As soon as the briefing ended, constable Aman Kumar (28), who was carrying an X95 assault rifle, opened a burst of fire at Singh, who collapsed on the spot. Other senior officers asked Kumar to surrender but he refused to do so.Kumar allegedly also threatened to shoot anyone who tried to take Singh to a hospital or give him medical aid. Meanwhile, another constable, Vijay Ram, tried to overpower Kumar, who turned the gun on himself and fired a shot, but the bullet grazed past his chin.Kumar was then overpowered by the other personnel in the camp and he was provided first aid.Police said a total of nine spent cartridges have been recovered from the spot and the rifle used in the shooting has been seized. Vakeel Singh, meanwhile, succumbed to injuries during treatment, police said.DCP Pandey said a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Govind Puri police station. “We have registered the case and are investigating the matter,” said Pandey. Police said suring questioning, Kumar allegedly said he killed Singh because he often abused Kumar. Singh’s body was handed over to the family after a postmortem examination, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhicrpf-head-constable-shot-dead-by-fellow-constable-at-tughlaqabad-camp-101634064259458.html
13-10-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar: Health department on alert as district sees 140 dengue cases||With 24 fresh dengue cases reported on Monday, of which 11 patients are under treatment at various hospitals in the district, the total tally in Gautam Budh Nagar reached 140 so far.The health department is closely monitoring the dengue situation in the district, said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer (CMO), Gautam Budh Nagar, on Tuesday.“A high number of dengue cases are reported in some villages of Jewar block and Nevada village of Dankaur block. The health department officials have been directed to investigate and carry out containment measures there,” said Dr Sharma.Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the health department is conducting fogging and spraying anti-larvae medicines in the district. “Our health teams are screening densely populated localities to eliminate chances of mosquito breeding. We are carrying out testing in areas where fresh cases are being reported, and conducting extensive fogging and anti-larvae medicine spraying drives,” Sharma said.Meanwhile, the blood bank at Child PGI hospital has reported an increase in the demand for platelets. “The daily consumption of platelets at Child PGI hospital was five to six units till September, but the consumption has increased to 15-20 units per day in the past two weeks. Since the shelf-life of platelets is only 72 hours, it is very hard to maintain the inventory and we are able to satisfy 80% of the demand, there is still some shortage as the blood donations are to a bare minimum,” said Dr Satyam Arora, associate professor, Transfusion Medicine, adding that the department will hold blood donation camps in the district this month itself.Trilok Sharma, founder trustee, Rotary Noida Blood Bank, said that the blood bank is getting at least 25-30 units. “Earlier, we had a demand of about five units of platelets a day, but it has increased to 25-30 units a day now. Since the shelf-life of platelets is low, for 20% of the demand, we have to ask the patients to bring donors and we provide platelets to the rest,” Sharma added.The Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), which also has a blood bank with a platelet facility, there’s a consumption of around five units per day, said the officials. “The hospital does not have critical dengue patients requiring platelets. The daily consumption of five units of platelets at the hospital is usual, and there has been no increase in the demand so far,” said Dr (Brigadier) Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS in Greater Noida.The dengue patients admitted at the district hospital in Sector 30 have no need for platelets so far, said chief medical superintendent (CMS) Dr Sushma Chandra on Tuesday. “Dengue patients at our hospital are able to recover without being given platelets as they are not critical. So, we have not had any demand for the same,” she said.Editor’s Note: A previous version of this article incorrectly mentioned the total number of dengue cases in Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-health-department-on-alert-as-district-sees-116-dengue-cases-101634064079557.html
13-10-2021||Noida||Grap measures in Ghaziabad from Oct 15: UP pollution body||Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) on Tuesday said that they will implement Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures listed for areas with ‘very poor’ air quality from October 15, even though most of the district is reporting ‘poor’ air for now.The decision was taken during a video conference meeting conducted by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in the national capital region (NCR) and adjoining areas.An air quality index (AQI) reading between 101 and 200 is considered moderate, between 201 and 300 is considered poor, between 301 and 400 is considered very poor, and above 400 is considered severe. On Tuesday, Ghaziabad recorded an AQI reading of 190 in the ‘moderate’ category against 225 in the ‘poor’ category a day earlier.UPPCB officials said that the implementation of Grap in the district will include different measures, except for the ban on diesel generator (DG) sets.“During the meeting, senior members of the commission said that different measures will be implemented to improve the air quality in the district. The air quality in the city is in the ‘poor’ category now, but we will implement measures listed under the ‘very poor’ category from October 15, except for the ban on DG sets,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.In 2016, the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority had conducted meetings with state government representatives and experts, and came up with a plan that listed different measures to be taken when air quality deteriorated. “The measures will include periodic mechanised road sweeping, prevention of burning of garbage at landfill sites, implementation of dust control measures, ensuring smooth flow of traffic, strict vigilance and enforcement of Pollution Under Control (PUC) norms, strict enforcement of the Supreme Court orders regarding ban on firecrackers. The commission will meet every Friday to assess and monitor the process,” Sharma added.At present, Ghaziabad has four continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations at Indirapuram, Loni, Sanjay Nagar, and Vasundhara. “The primary pollutant at the three stations, except for the one at Loni, has PM10 as primary pollutant, and the one at Loni has several hours when the primary pollutant is PM2.5. So, dust control measures need to be enforced strictly. The municipal corporation of Ghaziabad has been asked to provide us the roster of mechanised road sweeping activities which details the route, timings, and information of drivers as well. We will keep a strict check on road sweeping and also burning incidents of garbage or crop residues,” Sharma said.According to government data, Ghaziabad is listed among the 16 non-attainment cities in Uttar Pradesh with high levels of air pollution. Cities are declared non-attainment if, over a five-year period, they consistently do not meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for particulate matter (PM10) or nitrogen dioxide (NO2). “The implementation of Grap should be strictly monitored and enforced to have a positive outcome. At present, the city has bad road patches and potholes on roads which are yet to be repaired after the monsoon. So, the task would be challenging for different agencies. Further, the Winter Action Plan should be strictly enforced, otherwise, the pollution level will soar again, just like the previous years,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist and a lawyer.The UPPCB on October 5, 2021, chalked out a Winter Action Plan under which at least 18 different departments have been tasked to take up slew of measures to help keep the air pollution in check.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/grap-measures-in-ghaziabad-from-oct-15-up-pollution-body-101634063961430.html
13-10-2021||Other||IT software engineer found dead with gunshot to the neck in Kondhwa||PUNE An IT software engineer Ganesh Yashwant Tarlekar (47), a resident of Sunflower society, Kondhwa, was found dead with a gunshot injury in his neck on Monday. The police have detained two of his friends who were present with him during a party inside the flat on the day the incident took place. According to the police, those detained had told them he had died by suicide with a pistol.According to an FIR lodged with the Kondhwa police, the deceased is married and has a 14-year old son. He was not getting along with his wife who had left him and was staying at her mother’s house for the past one year. Inspector Sardar Patil, Kondhwa police station said, “He was found with a bullet injury from the neck upwards into the head. His two friends have been detained and interrogation has taken place. Preliminary investigation has revealed that the duo said that the deceased shot himself with the pistol after which they ran away out of the flat with the pistol and locked the flat from outside. They later threw the pistol into a well and the policemen used a magnet to bring out the firearm.”|||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/it-software-engineer-found-dead-with-gunshot-to-the-neck-in-kondhwa-101634063960177.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: Can UAPA be invoked for calling road blockades, asks Umar Khalid||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid, arrested in the conspiracy case related to the north-east Delhi riots, on Tuesday told a city court that police have written fanciful stories in the charge sheet and asked whether he could be charged under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for calling for (road) blockades in the city. Arguing his bail plea in the riots conspiracy case before additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat, senior advocate Trideep Pais told the court that the police wished to paint every accused with the same brush while giving a “tadka” (flavour) to it.“Is chakka jam (blockade) an offence, does it invite UAPA? Is a meeting to say that our protest will involve chakka jam automatically a criminal conspiracy? Where does it say it’s a crime? This meeting has found itself on every news item, branded about like some great conspiracy,” Pais said.“Your [prosecution] wish to paint every accused with one brush as if it was one conspiracy crumbles when you look at the charges sheet. Where do you get it from? You got it from your mind. Half of it is a fertile imagination. None of this is supported by any statement,” Pais further said.Khalid, along with several others, has been booked under the stringent UAPA for “masterminding” the February 2020 north-east Delhi riots, in which 53 people were killed and over 700 injured.The Delhi Police had earlier said Khalid’s bail plea had no merit and that it will demonstrate the prima facie case against Khalid before the court.Pais, during the hearing on Tuesday, referred to three allegations made against the accused in the charge sheet, emphasizing that all three were the result of the fertile imagination of the police and had no consistency.He submitted that the first allegation levelled by the police in the charge sheet was that JNU student Sharjeel Imam created a WhatsApp group of Muslim students on the directions of Khalid on December 4, 2019.Denying this, he said, “Constituting a WhatsApp group of Muslim students, is it a terror? There is no witness to say that it was formed on the instance of Umar (Khalid). It is so easy to rope me in the charge sheet which is just a conjecture.”The lawyer further said there was not even a single shred of communication between Imam and Khalid and no message was shared by the latter in the WhatsApp group.“Just being in a group is not a crime,” the counsel said during the hour-long hearing. He also denied the second allegation levelled by the police regarding a speech given by Khalid at a protest organised by United Against Hate (UAH) at Jantar Mantar on December 7, 2019, where, as per the prosecution, he also introduced Swaraj India president Yogender Yadav to Imam. “Police said Imam was introduced to Yogender Yadav by Khalid, his senior and mentor. Senior, mentor – this ‘’tadka’’ (flavour) has been put by them. It is such a dangerous thing,” Pais said, referring to the charge sheet. He also said the speech purportedly given by Khalid was produced by the police and there is no evidence that it incited anybody. “The officer wants to tell the story but he forgets that he is not a storyteller; he is dealing with the law. Every assertion in the charge sheet must have a basis but this does not have any basis. They want to paint me with a single brush but do not have material for that,” Pais further said.He said the third allegation against him was that he was allegedly part of a “secret meeting” held on December 8, 2019, where organising a chakka jaam (road blockade) was discussed. The lawyer read out the statement of three prosecution witnesses and claimed that none of them described it as a secret meeting.The trio did not sign it, and it was recorded after a delay, Pais claimed. He said, “None of the witnesses spoke about a conspiracy, meeting of minds, or an illegal act. It is not my personal opinion or that of the officer who is writing these fanciful stories using words like a mentor, teachers, or whatever.” “If I am the mastermind, then why are these witnesses not saying what suits you? Mere presence in a meeting or being a part of a WhatsApp group is not a crime. Attending a meeting is not a crime by any stretch of the imagination,” Pais said. The court will now hear the bail plea on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-can-uapa-be-invoked-for-calling-road-blockades-asks-umar-khalid-101634063959639.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Mumbai has least number of immunised children in state: ICDS||PUNE: According to the Maharashtra Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), Mumbai city and Mumbai suburban have the least number of children in the age group of one to two years who have completed the one-year immunisation at 29.95% and 36.02%, respectively. This is much lower than the state average of 53.48%. Other than the financial district, the state’s other districts which have less than 40% children who have completed the one-year immunisation include Jalna, Parbhani and Beed. Whereas the districts which have the most number of children who have completed the one-year immunisation are Jalgaon, Bhandara, Nashik and Amravati.As per the June 2020 ICDS report, out of the 1,252,799 children in the age group of one to two years, only 669,993 have completed the one-year immunisation. Mumbai fares the lowest when it comes to complete immunisation of children in the age group of one to two years. Mumbai is further bifurcated into Mumbai city and Mumbai suburban district that have the lowest percentage of vaccinated children as only 29.95% and 36.02% have got all the vaccines to be administered to children within their first year of birth. Along with Mumbai, Beed at 36.32%, Parbhani at 38.24% and Jalna at 39.79% are some of the poorest performing districts when it comes to immunisation.Surprisingly, within the urban, rural and tribal community, urban children have the least immunisation coverage. While 30.02% of children in rural areas have been immunised, 32.83% of children in tribal areas and 19.63% of children in urban areas have been immunised. Immunisation is a national-level programme for children under five who are administered vaccines for all approved ailments free-of-cost at government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mumbai-has-least-number-of-immunised-children-in-state-icds-101634063839666.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||‘Lone wolf terrorist’ from Pakistan held in East Delhi||The Delhi Police on Tuesday claimed to have averted a terrorist strike during the ongoing festive season with the arrest of an alleged “lone wolf” terrorist who was sent to India 17 years ago by the Pakistani intelligence agency, Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), for launching attacks in India.The police said Mohammad Ashraf, 40, who was arrested from east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar area on Tuesday morning, had an Indian passport, Aadhaar card and other documents, and was about to launch a “lone-wolf attack”, during the ongoing or upcoming festivals. Lone wolf is a term used by security agencies to describe terrorists who operate alone.Special cell officers involved with the arrest said one AK-47 assault rifle with two magazines and 60 bullets, two sophisticated Chinese pistols with 50 rounds, and one hand grenade was recovered from a place near Yamuna Ghat in south Delhi’s Kalindi Kunj, on the information provided by Ashraf.The officers said the arms and ammunition were sent to him from Pakistan through the Punjab border by his ISI handler, whom Ashraf identified as Nasir.The police, however, did not clarify the place in India where the ISI was planning to carry out the terror attack through Ashraf. Also, they did not specify whether Durga Puja or Diwali festival celebration was on the target of the alleged terrorist.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said, “Ashraf claims that he has not been told about the place and the date when the terror attack had to be executed. He only had received coordinates of the place where the weapons and explosives were delivered. We suspect that Ashraf’s handler was sharing information with him on need-to-know-basis. Ashraf was only told about the delivery of the weapons and explosives but not about the person who was delivering them.”On Tuesday, Ashraf was produced before chief metropolitan magistrate (CMM) Pankaj Sharma at Patiala House court and was sent to special cell’s custody for 14 days for further interrogation. He has been booked under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), Explosive Act and Arms Act.Special cell officers said Ashraf, whose name in the passport and Aadhaar card has been given as Ali Ahmed Noor, was an active part of a sleeper cell module of the ISI, and added that he has confessed to have carried out many terror strikes and espionage activities in Jammu and Kashmir and other states in the country.Also Read| Delhi family that helped ‘Pakistani terrorist’ get Aadhaar fears witch-hunt“We are verifying his disclosures because the claims that he is making are very sensitive and beyond our imagination. That’s the reason we are not revealing details of the terror strikes that he said he was involved in,” said an officer who asked not to be named.Officers said that Ashraf was living in Delhi as a “Peer Maulana” (an ascetic), who solved health, family and personal problems of people through spiritual means. The added that Ashraf was “activated for executing the terror strike” by his handlers in mid-September, soon after the special cell arrested six people who were part of a Pakistan-trained terror module, and were planning serial blasts and targeted killings in at least three states during the festive season.“Although Ashraf is not part of that module and he doesn’t know the six arrested men, the way he was activated after their arrest gives us reasons to believe that the handlers of both the modules may be the same. When the first module was busted, the ISI handler activated Ashraf for the job,” the officer added.DCP Kushwah said information about Ashraf’s involvement in the planned terror strike came through “reliable sources” and he was arrested on Monday. His preliminary interrogation revealed that soon after he completed his Class 10 from a school at his hometown in Pakistan’s Naroval Punjab in 2004, he was recruited by the ISI. He was trained for six months in Siyalkot, Pakistan by his handler, Nasir, who motivated him to work as a sleeper cell agent in India.After completing his training, Ashraf entered India via Bangladesh through Sliliguri border in West Bengal. He stayed in Kolkata for a few months, and then moved to Ajmer in Rajasthan, where he befriended a cleric at a local mosque. In the year 2006, he accompanied the cleric to Delhi. He met relatives of the cleric and managed to win over their trust, and started receiving money from his ISI handler Nasir through online money transfer using IDs of cleric’s relative, said a second special cell officer.“During that time, Ashraf remained in touch with his handler through emails. In the recent past, Ashraf was using encrypted mobile applications for having conversation with his handler,” the DCP added.About Ashraf’s Indian identification documents (IDs), officers said that he first procured an ID from Bihar and used it to obtain Aadhaar card, passport and other papers in Delhi. His Aadhard card is registered at an address in east Delhi’s Aaram Park near Geeta Colony, where he lived as a tenant for nearly a year. Ashraf also lived in Vaishali, Ghaziabad and married a local woman. He left her nearly six months after their marriage and moved to other place in Delhi.“We have found that Ashraf travelled to Saudi Arabia and Thailand four-five years ago using his Indian passport. He may have met his handler there,” said Kushwah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lone-wolf-terrorist-from-pakistan-held-in-east-delhi-101634063659366.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar: BJP members stage protest against J&K administration||In a rare protest, members and workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Srinagar held a protest against the J&K administration for “not providing security to the panchayat members, corporators and political workers”.The protesting BJP workers also raised slogans against the officers of the J&K administration and alleged that the administration was “compromising on the security issues of the political workers”. The protesters claimed that even officers in the administration didn’t bother to pick their phone calls. Post-abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the state into two UTs on August 5, 2019, this is the first time when BJP workers organised protests against the administration. BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur, who was also a part of Tuesday’s agitation, said that they organised the protest to highlight their grievances, especially the security related issues of sarpanches, corporators and political workers of Kashmir, whose security and accommodations were withdrawn amid a serious threat in the backdrop of the rise in civilian killings. “We have brought issues related to security in the notice of divisional administration and the lieutenant governor. Unfortunately, nothing happened and we were forced to come on the roads. We held two sit-ins at Press Enclave and outside Civil Secretariat.”Thakur said that withdrawal of accommodation to the panches and sarpanches has resulted in the privacy issues and security related problems.“These are the elected representatives of people and not the prisoners,” he said, adding that in 14 hotels booked in Srinagar, more than six leaders are being kept together which is a clear breach of security. Altaf Thakur said that it was unfortunate that these leaders were thrown out of their personal accommodations and kept as “herd of sheep in hotel rooms”.He alleged that officials have been providing wrong feedback to L-G Manoj Sinha. “This is a grave issue that needs to be addressed. Our workers are highlighting problems on the behalf of all political workers and panchayat members, especially when militants are killing civilians and looking for soft targets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-bjp-members-stage-protest-against-j-k-administration-101634063599727.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||War of words as NTPC says Delhi only using 70% of power provided, Jain denies||A day after Delhi power minister Satyendar Jain complained that the national capital was only getting about 50% of its scheduled electricity from the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) Limited, the Union power ministry and the NTPC hit back and said Delhi was using only about 70% of the electricity that was being made available to it daily.“The NTPC has been making available the required power to Delhi. Data from October 1 to 11 shows that Delhi’s distribution companies (discoms) have been scheduling only 70% of the power that has been made available by us,” said a spokesperson of NTPC Limited, the country’s largest state-run electricity producer.Data shared by the corporation showed that on Monday, 2,285MW was provided by NTPC, of which 1,617MW was scheduled for distribution. On Sunday, 2,024MW was supplied by NTPC, of which 1,378MW was supplied to consumers. On Saturday, 1,846MW was provided by NTPC and 1,362MW was scheduled for distribution.Discoms did not comment on the figures shared by NTPC.The NTPC statement, however, was strongly refuted by Jain, who said the Centre is not considering the fact that on any given day, NTPC Limited is supposed to supply about 4,000MW to Delhi, but it is currently supplying only about 2,000MW or less daily.  “The NTPC has to supply 3,500MW to Delhi under the power purchase agreements (PPAs), but today it is giving only half of it— 1,750MW. For the past few days, NTPC has halved the power generation in its plants across the country. The Central government should answer whether there is an actual coal shortage or whether it (reduced power production) is being done intentionally,” he said. Hindustan Times verified the data and confirmed that owing to reduced generation capacity stemming from the coal shortage, almost all coal-fired plants are producing electricity up to 50-55% of their capacity.The Union power ministry on Tuesday said there was no power outage in Delhi due to a “shortage” of electricity. “The maximum power demand of Delhi was 4,536MW (peak) and 96.2 MU (energy) on October 10, 2021. As per the information received from Delhi discoms, there was no outage on account of power shortage, as the required amount of power was supplied to them,” the ministry said in a statement.Yet, the power ministry added that it has directed the NTPC Limited and Damodar Valley Corporation (DVC) to supply as much power as is available to Delhi. “The ministry of power has issued instructions to NTPC and DVC to secure the power supply to Delhi. This will ensure that distribution companies of Delhi will get as much power as was requisitioned by them as per their demand,” the power ministry said. In another letter, the ministry warned states and Union territories (UTs) to not indulge in selling excess power. It said a few states are not supplying power to their consumers and are imposing load shedding in areas, while selling electricity at the power exchange for a higher price. When asked, the ministry refused to name which these states or UTs were. “If any state is found selling power in the power exchange or not scheduling this unallocated power, their unallocated power may be temporarily reduced or withdrawn and reallocated to other states which are in need of such power,” said the letter.Jain also alleged that though Delhi has gas-powered electric power plants, the Centre has stopped giving gas to Delhi at a controlled rate because of which the Delhi government is forced to buy gas at market rates to generate electricity. “This has pushed up the cost of power generation. Despite that, there has been no power cut in the capital and the Delhi government is ensuring 24X7 electricity to the people. All coal reliant power plants in Delhi are non-functional. The Delhi government buys electricity from power plants that run on coal located outside Delhi. Chief Ministers of five to six states have written to the Prime Minister on this issue. Be it Punjab, Andhra Pradesh or Uttar Pradesh, power cuts are being imposed everywhere in the country, except Delhi,” he said. However, several residents from across Delhi that HT spoke to said they have been facing power cuts ranging from one to four hours over the past couple of days. Anand K Dubey, a resident of Ghitorni in south Delhi, said there was power cut in their area on Monday evening for at least two hours. “I request chief minister Arvind Kejriwal that there is no need to make Delhi like London or New York; let Delhi be like Mumbai or Bengaluru or even I’ll be happy to compare it with Lucknow or Patna when it comes to electricity,” he said. At least three power officials have confirmed that rotational load shedding is being undertaken to ensure equitable distribution of electricity. A senior power official said on condition of anonymity, “The power demand in Delhi is being met. It is being met in two ways — one is by purchasing power on the spot and two, through minor load shedding to ensure equitable distribution to all areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/war-of-words-as-ntpc-says-delhi-only-using-70-of-power-provided-jain-denies-101634063541517.html
13-10-2021||Pune||Surge in bronchiolitis cases due to RSV infection in babies, children in Pune||PUNE: Amid fears of a third wave of Covid-19, city doctors are now reporting a sudden uptick in the number of Bronchiolitis cases caused by Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) infection in children.While a spike in this viral infection is usually due to seasonal change such as the rainy season being on its way out as the winter approaches, this year, both the number of cases and the hospitalisation period have gone up. The number of children with bad cough, cold and fever has gone up. Upon investigation, they test negative for Covid-19 but test positive for viruses such as RSV or Para influenza which lead to Bronchiolitis. The respiratory tract infection is taking a toll on an increasing number of children.Dr Tushar Parikh, consultant neonatologist and paediatrician, Motherhood hospital, said, “Bronchiolitis is a lung infection seen in infants and young children in the age group of zero to two years. It leads to inflammation, swelling, and congestion in the small airways (bronchioles) of the lung, and is commonly seen during winters due to cold weather. This condition causes breathing problems. Premature babies discharged from the hospital are more severely affected as their lungs are immature.”Dr Parikh said that most Bronchiolitis cases are due to RSV. This virus causes Bronchiolitis, which spreads through the air when one coughs, sneezes or shakes hands. “Germs are present on hands, toys, faucets, door knobs, tissues, and other surfaces and are contagious for several days or even weeks. Infected children complain of symptoms such as wheezing, cold, rapid breathing, dry cough, congested or runny nose, poor feeding, irritability, tiredness, fever, sneezing, and headaches for up to a week. I have treated around 100 children with this condition in the last two to three months,” Dr Parikh said.“Infants and children may be at the risk of Bronchiolitis as their lungs and immune systems are weak. Other factors like pre-term birth, underlying lung conditions, lack of breastfeeding, second-hand smoke, spending a lot of time in crowded environments, and lack of hygiene can also be the culprits. Not treating children at the right time can lead to low SPO2 levels, dehydration, hospital admissions, viral pneumonia and respiratory failure. Moreover, children with RSV will be susceptible to Covid-19,” Dr Parikh added.Dr Pradeep Suryavanshi, a paediatrician who works as a consultant with three more hospitals, said, “Every day, I am seeing about six to 10 severe cases of Bronchiolitis that need admission and in addition, we have about 20 to 25 cases of RSV plus influenza and daily viral infections. Though we get cases of Influenza and viral infections every year, the time taken for recovery is longer this year, with children requiring five to 10 days to recover, up from the earlier three to five days. However I must also say that this pattern is not specific to Pune only and doctors practising across the state are reporting a spike. The most common incidence is among babies who are less than one year old, who are also pre-term and have lower immunity. We are yet to understand what has changed this year. However, we cannot link it to Covid-19 because we do test the infants and they test negative for Covid-19.”Dr Pradeep Alhate, paediatrician, Apollo Spectra hospital, said, “Our hospital too is reporting a spike in the number of children diagnosed with Bronchiolitis. It may start as a common cold but some may even get Cyanosis. Intercostal or Costophrenic Recession is an alarming sign that needs hospitalisation. Symptoms of RSV infection overlap with those of Covid-19. Hence, proper diagnosis is the key. Do not give any over-the-counter medication to the baby as the treating doctor has to decide the line of treatment, considering there is no vaccine to tackle this condition. Take precautions like avoid kissing the baby or shaking the baby’s hands, wear a mask near the baby, keep the baby away from sick people, breastfeed the baby, and keep the baby hydrated with adequate fluids.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/surge-in-bronchiolitis-cases-due-to-rsv-infection-in-babies-children-in-pune-101634063540013.html
13-10-2021||Delhi||Lockdown data to serve as baseline for India’s new air quality standards||The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) is working on revising the air quality standards in India with data from the Covid 19 lockdown last year serving as the baseline, Sudheer Chintalapati, joint director at ministry of environments and forest and climate change (MoEFCC), said on Tuesday. “We now have baseline data to show what air quality can be like when anthropogenic emission sources are either absent or very low. The Central Pollution Control Board is now working on revising the air quality standards in India with National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI),” Chintalapati said at a webinar on ‘WHO’s revised Air Quality Guidelines: A Health Sector Perspective.’Last month, the World Health Organization tightened its air quality guidelines last month bringing down the annual PM 2.5 (respirable pollution particles) guideline from 10 micrograms per cubic metres to 5 micrograms per cubic metres and the 24-hour PM 2.5 guideline from 25 micrograms per cubic metres to 15 micrograms per cubic metres. It has also tightened norms for five other pollutants based on recent evidence of health impacts associated with these pollutants.Sagnik Dey, associate professor at Centre for Atmospheric Sciences, IIT-Delhi who was associated with the baseline study during Covid 19 lockdown said the new standards should have intermediate targets so that implementation can happen in a phased manner.“WHO guidelines also have intermediate targets to help countries and regions achieve the guideline. We do have a baseline now as to how long pollution levels can go when urban air pollution sources are curbed, but we have to remember that household air pollution sources such as cooking and open biomass burning continued during the period which are also major sources of pollution. Now there is enough evidence on the massive health burden of air pollution, so I hope that is studied and incorporated,” Dey added.Rakesh Kumar, former director of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)- NEERI, said India must work on setting “achievable” targets since the ones fixed by WHO were guidelines only. “Our air pollution levels particularly PM 2.5 levels reduced by 40% to 60% in most regions during the complete lockdown period (March-April 2020). But even then, levels were not close to the WHO standards and often did not meet our national standards. Let’s not jump at numbers from the WHO guidelines. Those are only guidelines. We have to develop standards that are achievable in India and are closer to our baseline,” Kumar said.Maria Neira, Director, Public Health, Environment and Social Determinants of Health Department (PHE), World Health Organisation who also spoke at the webinar said that if the revised WHO guidelines are met globally 80% of the 7 million premature deaths and loss of millions more healthy years of life can be prevented.Dr Arun Sharma, director, National Institute for Implementation Research for Non-Communicable Diseases said the revised WHO guidelines should be taken as a warning. “The latest evidence shows no amount of particulate matter pollution is safe for us which is why the revised WHO guidelines are so low,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-data-to-serve-as-baseline-for-india-s-new-air-quality-standards-101634063360301.html
13-10-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata’s ‘Burj Khalifa’ puja pandal cancels laser show after pilots complain||KOLKATA: The laser show at east Kolkata’s Sreebhumi Durga puja pandal, which resembles the Burj Khalifa skyscraper in Dubai, had to be called off on Monday evening after the pilots of three planes complained to the air traffic control (ATC) tower at the city airport that they found it difficult to land the aircraft . The airport is located close to the venue of the popular puja.“As soon as the ATC received the complaints, the local police were informed and the laser show was stopped. There has been no more problem since then,” a senior officer at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose international airport told HT on Tuesday.#WATCH Kolkata's Sree Bhumi Puja Pandal designed on the theme of Dubai skyscraper Burj Khalifa witnesses huge crowds pic.twitter.com/Vf2TDURnRkThough the height of the tower meets the limit prescribed by the Airports Authority of India, laser shows are banned around airports across the country since strong beams of light cause visibility problems for pilots during landing, said an official at the airport.Patronized by the state’s fire services minister Sujit Bose, the puja organised at Sreebhumi is known for its unique themes and grandeur.
13-10-2021||Kolkata||Bengal doctors fear fresh Covid outbreak as millions hit streets during puja||The sight of crowds swelling on the streets of Bengal and Kolkata since the inauguration of the Durga Puja festival on Monday - the auspicious occasion of Sasthi according to the Hindu almanac - has panicked doctors with many fearing a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases in the coming weeks. As many as 36,946 community Durga pujas are organised in Bengal. Of these, around 2500 are held in Kolkata. HT talked to senior doctors and experts who said they were shocked to see people being taken over by a false sense of immunity, apparently arising out of the decline in active Covid-19 cases in the state since August coupled with mass vaccination. “If the coronavirus is appearing to be under control right now then it is because of the character of viruses and natural history of diseases they spread, not because of medicines and vaccines. The virus is now coexisting with us. It is herd immunity that has brought down the intensity of the transmission. This mass violation of health protocols can trigger a fresh outbreak. I am surprised to see nobody is speaking up,” veteran virologist Dr Amitava Nandy told HT on Tuesday evening. “The virus is being carried even by those who are vaccinated. They can become spreaders. Of the patients who came to my clinic with fever and symptoms of Covid-19 in recent weeks, around 40% were fully vaccinated. I know of many people who died after vaccination,” Dr Nandy added. While hearing a public interest litigation demanding restriction on the festivities, the Calcutta high court on October 8 ordered that no more than 15 people can enter small pandals to perform puja provided they have received both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine and are wearing masks. For big pandals, the number is restricted to 30. The court also said that no-entry zones have to be marked for common people around five metres of small pandals and 10 metres of the big ones. These do’s and don’ts were laid down by the high court last year when a similar petition was filed. Relaxing some restrictions imposed in 2020, the bench allowed rituals such as anjali (mass recitation of holy scripts before the deity). Even before the four-day puja began on Tuesday, millions of people thronged puja pandals in the state capital and district towns, ignoring social distancing norms, doctors said. A large section of revellers, including children, could be spotted without masks. In sharp contrast to last October, when the rate of infection was peaking, the crowds were alarmingly large, doctors pointed out. When the festival began on October 22 last year, 4157 new cases were recorded and 64 patients died on a single day, according to data provided by the West Bengal health department. Of these, 874 cases and 16 deaths were reported in Kolkata. A year on, the picture is quite different. The number of new cases recorded in Bengal between October 9 and 11 ranged between 597 and 755 respectively, while deaths per day did not cross 15. On Monday, for example, 145 new cases and only one death were reported in Kolkata. As many as 64.3 million of Bengal’s 101.9 million people were vaccinated till October 11. Of these people, 46.4 million have received their first dose while 17.9 million got both the shots, as per the official records. Several forums of Bengal-based doctors have warned people against an imminent danger if health protocols are ignored. The state government has issued warnings although hotels and restaurants have been permitted to operate beyond 10 pm for 10 days. Vehicles have also been allowed to ply at night although local train services are still suspended. The Joint Platform of Doctors, a forum of five organisations, has issued a statement saying Kerala witnessed a surge after the Onam festival and Bengal recorded a rise in infection rate when assembly polls were held in eight phases in April-May. “The court has imposed restriction on entry into pandals and people will be forced to follow it. It is crowding on the streets that we are worried about. People neither wore masks nor maintained social distance during shopping for puja. If this continues, we will be thrown back to where we stood in March-April,” the statement said. “The large turnouts have not gone unnoticed. Community puja organisers are following the court orders. Policemen and volunteers are warning people and persuading them to put on masks,” an officer from the south division of the Kolkata Police, who has been on duty since Monday night, said on condition of anonymity. Some health experts feel that if there is a fresh outbreak then mass behaviour will be responsible for it. “What can the government and police do when people are not conscious even after so many families have dissipated? Health protocols in a pandemic situation cannot be enforced without mass participation. Experts can only give advice,” Dr Kalyan Kar, head of surgery at a well-known private hospital in Kolkata, told HT. Dr Nandy said as a Hindu he was anguished to see a religious ceremony being reduced to revelry in which rules can be broken at random. “Many doctors do not raise their voice because they do not want to antagonize political parties,” he said. Since chief minister Mamata Banerjee, a patron of the festival, is also in charge of the health department, Trinamool Congress leaders did not want to comment on the record on the government’s decision to left certain restrictions. Last year, the Calcutta high court ruled that the grant of ₹50,000 given by the state government to each of the 36,946 community clubs should not be spent on festivities. The money needs to be spent on masks, sanitisers and better community policing, the court ruled. This year, however, no separate guideline was set by the court. “The government is keeping an eye on the situation. The police and civil administration have been asked to ensure that Covid protocols are maintained everywhere,” said a health department official who did not want to be quoted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-doctors-fear-fresh-covid-19-outbreak-as-millions-hit-streets-during-durga-puja-101634058620746.html
13-10-2021||Patna||Will expose many in party once my father returns to Patna: Tej Pratap||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav, who has been increasingly belligerent of late against a few leaders of his party, on Tuesday vowed to expose “wrongdoings” in the party once his father returns to Patna. The RJD chief, who has been recuperating from several ailments in New Delhi since his release on bail in fodder scam cases in April this year, is expected to visit Bihar later this month to campaign for his party for bypolls in two assembly seats due to be held on October 30.“I will show my father what all is happening in the party. Let him come,” Yadav (32) told reporters, but did not elaborate. Tej Pratap, a former health minister of Bihar, is said to be miffed with RJD’s state unit president Jagdanand Singh and younger brother Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, the party’s heir apparent. His name did not figure in RJD’s star campaigners’ list for the bypolls.On Sunday, Tej Pratap even refused to meet his mother and former chief minister Rabri Devi, who drove straight to his residence after landing in Patna from Delhi. On Tuesday evening, however, he visited her mother at her residence. Meanwhile, Tejashwi on Tuesday chaired a meeting of senior leaders and functionaries in Patna to discuss the party’s campaign and strategy for the upcoming bypolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/will-expose-many-in-party-once-my-father-returns-to-patna-tej-pratap-101634055439180.html
13-10-2021||Mumbai||Nerul to Uran railway corridor: ‘CIDCO violated Forest Act, HC order on mangroves’||The regional empowered committee (Nagpur), constituted by the Union environment ministry, has held off on green-lighting the City Industrial Development Corporation’s (CIDCO) proposal to divert 23.7 hectares of forest land in Thane district, to make way for Phase 1 of the Nerul-Uran railway corridor. This was done in the light of previous violations of the Forest Conservation Act (1980) and the Bombay High Court’s orders on mangrove conservation in Maharashtra by CIDCO, reveal the minutes of the REC’s last meeting on September 16, a copy of which was accessed by Hindustan Times this week.REC in its considerations noted that CIDCO had already obtained Stage-1 forest clearance for diversion of 4 hectares of forest land for Phase 2 of the Nerul-Uran Railway Corridor, but pointed out that the proposal (number FP/MH/RAIL/25112/2017 on the state forest portal) was subsequently never forwarded to the Central government for consideration. As CIDCO went ahead with the forest diversion without any prior clearances under the Forest Conservation Act (1980), “accordingly there is violation of the FCA, 1980”, the REC noted in its meeting on September 16.The REC also noted that “some construction activity and destruction of mangroves” had been carried out for the Nerul-Uran Railway as early as 2005-2008, in spite of the restrictions put forth by the Bombay High Court in its order on mangrove protection in 2005. While the High Court later allowed CIDCO to proceed with the work in 2008, this was permitted only after other requisite environmental permissions were acquired. “The CIDCO have not taken permission under the FCA, 1980, and resumed work, thus not only violating the provisions of the FCA, 1980 but also contempt of the Hon’ble High Court order,” the REC noted.With these previous violations in mind, the REC decided not to recommend CIDCO’s latest proposal seeking diversion of 23.7 hectares of forest land (mostly mangroves) in Thane district. The integrated regional office (IRO) of the forest department in Nagpur has now been asked to submit a report on CIDCO’s proposal, keeping in mind the applicability of the Forest Act and the HC’s order on mangrove conservation, after which the REC will take a decision on fresh diversion of 23.7 hectares of forest land, and whether post-facto clearance may be given for the 4 hectares which have been cleared in violation.Letters have also been sent from the IRO (Nagpur) to the state forest department (dated September 28 and September 29) seeking clarity on the shortcomings identified by the REC in both proposals. A copy of the letters has been seen by HT. “Once the state government gives us the information we need, we will examine whether the proposals are valid. It would not be appropriate to comment other than the observations which have already been recorded in our minutes,” said a member of REC, seeking anonymity.CIDCO officials, including those in the environment and public relations offices, declined to comment citing protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neral-to-uran-railway-corridor-cidco-violated-forest-act-hc-order-on-mangroves-101634050398300.html
13-10-2021||Other||Maharshtra forest dept official held for accepting ₹5.3 lakh as bribe in Thane||The Maharashtra Anti Corruption Bureau on Monday arrested a Class-I officer with the forest department for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of ₹5.30 lakh from his subordinate for releasing state funds, officials said. According to ACB officials, the accused, Baliram Kolekar (57), is an Assistant Conservator of Forests in charge of the Murbad and Thane range. The complainant is a Class II officer working under him and looks after the Tokawade area in the Murbad taluka in Thane district. “The state government had sanctioned two tranches of funds for the complainant’s area for the last two financial years. Kolekar was demanding a total of ₹6.22 lakh in exchange for releasing the funds,” an ACB officer said. The complainant approached the ACB last month to complain against Kolekar. After verifying the complainant’s claims, the ACB set a trap. Kolekar was allegedly caught red-handed while accepting ₹5.30 lakh from the complainant at his Naupada office on Monday. He was subsequently placed under arrest and charged under the Prevention of Corruption Act. “While searching Kolekar’s office, we found and seized an additional amount of ₹12.46 lakh in cash. Inquiries into this aspect are underway,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/classi-forest-dept-official-held-for-accepting-rs-5-30-lakh-as-bribe-in-thane-101634043738780.html
13-10-2021||Chandigarh||Convicted of murder, dera chief’s sentencing deferred till October 18||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court in Panchkula on Tuesday deferred the sentencing of Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who has been convicted of conspiring to murder his former manager Ranjit Singh in 2002.The CBI has sought death sentence for Ram Rahim, who in turn pleaded for mercy via video conference from Rohtak jail, where he is serving a 20-year term for raping two followers.The special CBI court had convicted the dera head and four others on October 8 in the Ranjit Singh murder case.The hearing on Tuesday began amid tight security. The authorities imposed prohibitory orders in the area in view of the violence reported after his conviction in rape cases in August 2017, in which 36 people were killed in Panchkula.While Dera chief pleaded leniency, citing social work done by him, the CBI opposed it stating that the victim treated him as God and the accused committed offences against him. He had criminal antecedents and committed offence in a cold-blooded manner without provocation.Senior public prosecutor KP Singh said the CBI demanded “maximum punishment” under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which is death penalty. Others convicted for the crime are Krishan Lal, Jasbir Singh, Avtar Singh and Sabdil.In the court, CBI cited two judgements by the Supreme Court.“The counsel of some other convicts sought time stating that they are not ready with arguments as they have to go through the judgments cited by the prosecution,” CBI special prosecutor HPS Verma told the media outside the court.On their request, the court deferred the sentencing till October 18.Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra.Murdered for revealing sexual abuse at dera: CBIAccording to the CBI, Ranjit Singh was murdered as Ram Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter that revealed the sexual exploitation of woman followers at the dera. In June 2002, Ranjit Singh was summoned to the dera and threatened with dire consequences, but he refused to seek pardon, saying he had done nothing wrong.The dera head is serving a 20-year jail term for raping two followers and has been sentenced to life for the murder of a journalist in 2002.Eight-page reply by Ram Rahim(With inputs from Dar Ovais)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/convicted-in-ranjit-singh-murder-case-dera-chief-to-be-sentenced-today-101634026514182.html
