14-10-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: October 15-22||‘Live’ at High Spirits Da High Big Gig features Cynthia backed by Mikey, Leo Mathews, Denzil and Chris. Pop, rock, R&B and Blues is on the menu.When: October 15, 7 pmWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon Park Chromatic Musings: solo exhibition This exhibition is by Vaishali Oak, a fibre artist from Pune. This series brings together a new body of fabric assemblages that explore nature-inspired forms and textures.When: Oct 15 onwards; 5pm -9pm Where: Vida Heydari Contemporary (VHC, lane number 8, Koregaon ParkWonder Woman – fashion showFashion desginer Nivedita Saboo presents custom digital prints and edgy, strong silhouettes in this collection based on ‘Wonder Woman’, and inspired by the architecture, history and spirit of Amazonian warriors.When: October 15, 7pm to 8pmWhere: Online: Instagram and Facebook @NiveditaSabooCoutureIs God A Taoist? The playAfter an overwhelming response to the premiere of the brand new production Is God A Taoist? we’re back again For bookings log on to - http://iapar.org/booking/ or email iapar.office@gmail.comWhen: October 16, 17; 7:30pm Where: Cafe Peter, Karve road Kalapentry - recycling furnitureFurniture that has been refurbished, upcycled and is cost effective will be on display at Kalapentry, in association with Mauji Cafe and Event Chronicle. Furniture that has been revamped is environment friendly, sustainable and ecological. For details email kalapentry@gmail.comPhone Number- 9011034258When: October 16, 17; 11am to 6pm Where: Mauji Spaces, 11, Sahajeevan Society ICS Colony, Bhoslenagar, Ashok nagarMonalisa Kalagram: Maharashtra editionShowcasing the inherent beauty of Maharashtra, with artisans products like Kolhapuri chappals, sarees, Warli art, ceramic and terracotta products.When: October 16, 17; 10.30am - 8.30pmWhere: Monalisa Kalagram, Koregaon parkMobile library Access this mobile library and read well-known Marathi authors, and Diwali Ank in Kothrud and Pashan. For details call 02025440555When: October 16, 10am to 1pm and 5pm to 7pm Where: Ustav chowk, Patwardhan baug Sai chowk, Sus road “Me ani Symbiosis”: an autobiography The release of this autobiography of SB Mujumdar, chancellor, Symbiosis International University, will have Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj as the chief guestFor details on attendance call +91 88888 47946 or email officerpr@symbiosis.ac.inWhen: October 18, 5 pm Where: Symbiosis Vishwabhavan, Senapati Bapat road.World Religions Conference On the occasion of World Religions Conference being held in Chicago (USA) from October 16 to 18, Dr Kalyan Gangwal, founder president of Sarvajeev Mangal Pratishthan will be a speaker from Pune. Dr Kalyan Gangwal will speak on “Karuna (compassion) in the Corona period”. This will be followed by a 45-minute panel discussion with founder of MIT, Prof Vishwanath Karad, Muslim thinker SN Pathan, and Addison Samraj .When: October 18, 11.15 pm IST. Where: Online - https://parliamentofreligions.org/civicrm/mailing/view?id=809&reset=1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-october-1522-101634236072218.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||‘AIMIM to hold rallies in west UP after Dussehra’||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul- Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi has planned to organise a series of rallies in the west Uttar Pradesh after Dussehra.Party’s state unit president Shaukat Ali said, “Party chief Asaduddin Owaisi will address a ‘vanchit-shoshit samaj’ (deprived and victimised communities) conference in Ghaziabad on October 17, Meerut on October 23, Muzaffarnagar October 27 and in Saharanpur on October 31.”To strengthen its support base, the AIMIM has organised the rallies in the districts of central and eastern UP, including Bahraich, Barabanki, Sultanpur, Balrampur, Azamagarh, Kanpur and Prayagraj, too.On September 22, Owaisi addressed a rally at Sambhal. There was a heated exchange of words between the BJP and AIMIM leaders after Owaisi called Sambhal the land of the “Ghazis”.An AIMIM leader said the party had decided to field its candidates on 100 seats in the 2022 UP assembly election. “Along with galvanising the party cadre for the polls, Owaisi is also assessing the support base of the party by organising “vanchit, shoshit samaj” conference in various districts. The party has focused on the Muslim dominated areas of the state to strengthen its base,” he added.The AIMIM has mobilised its resources and cadre for the success of the rallies in west UP that has become the centre of farmers’ agitation led by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU).Addressing a rally in Baghpat recently, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait attacked Owaisi calling him “chacha jaan” (uncle) of the BJP. Owaisi countered Tikait’s allegation stating that Tikait supported the BJP in the 2017 UP assembly election. During the Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013, Tikait remained a mute spectator to the atrocities committed on Muslim community, he alleged.Owaisi said he will take the fight for the justice and empowerment of the Muslim community to west UP by organising rallies there. The AIMIM plans to challenge the might of the political parties like the BJP, the SP, the BSP and thew RLD that have strong presence in the assembly seats located in west UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aimim-to-hold-rallies-in-west-up-after-dussehra-101634235892108.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||Bail plea of ex-IPS officer Amitabh Thakur rejected||The court of additional district judge (ADJ) on Thursday rejected bail application of former IPS officer Amitabh Thakur who was arrested in August this year after a rape victim died by suicide after accusing him of allegedly protecting the accused BSP MP from Ghosi Atul Rai.Rejecting the bail application, PM Tripathi, additional district judge, observed: “The allegations against the accused are serious and the investigation is still going. In such circumstances, he is not entitled to bail at this stage.” The Lucknow police had lodged an FIR in this connection at the Hazratganj police station. The rape victim had on May 1, 2019 lodged an FIR at the Lanka police station, Varanasi, against Atul Rai. Later, several cases were lodged against the rape victim in retaliation. The rape victim had also sent an application to SSP, Varanasi, on November 20, 2020, alleging that Amitabh Thakur was creating false evidence in the case to save Atul Rai. The victim and her male friend had conducted a Facebook live session before the Supreme Court, New Delhi, on August 16. In this session, she had accused Amitabh Thakur and others of helping Atul Rai. Thereafter, both of them immolated themselves. They were rushed to RML hospital. The woman’s male friend died on August 21 while she succumbed to burn injuries on August 24.The Facebook live was considered as the victim’s dying declaration. Amit Thakur was given compulsory retirement by the Union home ministry on March 23 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bail-plea-of-ex-ips-officer-amitabh-thakur-rejected-101634235051862.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Active Covid cases in Maharashtra dip below 30,000; minor students can take trains||In an indication of decline in the Covid-19 cases, the active infections in Maharashtra have now dipped to below 30,000. As schools and colleges reopened in the state, the government on Thursday allowed children to travel on trains. The notification is significant as the state had permitted only fully-vaccinated commuters to travel by trains and so far, vaccination is allowed only for those above 18 years of age.The state on Thursday recorded 29,560 active cases. The active cases started to decline below the 30,000-mark from Wednesday, when 29,555 active cases were recorded, as compared to 30,525 active infections registered on Tuesday. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the decline in the active cases indicated a drop in Covid-19 cases. “The reduction in active cases indicates that we have been able to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. We have been able to bring down the numbers due ramping of tests, quick isolation of patients as well as timely medication,” said Dr Awate.Currently the state has 29,560 active patients, of which Pune tops the list with 8,296 active infections, followed by Mumbai (6,212), Thane (3,744), Ahmednagar (3,148) and Satara (1,424).Pune has been leading in the number of active cases, followed by Thane, for months together. The third position has been alternated by Mumbai, Ahmednagar or Satara. However, in recent days, owing to a surge in the cases, Mumbai has now overtaken Thane and has the second-highest number of active cases.The number of active cases in the peak season had reached 600,000 this year.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, said “We are seeing the thick tail of the second wave which was prolonged for a very long time. The history of the pandemic shows that we will be getting multiple waves but the severity will all depend on the behaviour of the citizens as well as the government.” “While citizens have to adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour, the government has to ramp up all the medical infrastructure in anticipation of the future waves,” said Dr Shaikh.On Thursday, Maharashtra recorded 2,384 Covid-19 new cases and 35 deaths. Mumbai recorded 558 cases and five deaths.The total number of Covid-19 patients since the outbreak in March last year has now reached 6,586,280.The state conducted 136,952 tests on Thursday and clocked 2,343 recoveries.The toll reached 139,705, with Pune recording the highest fatalities – 19,529 – followed by Mumbai (16,172) and Thane (11,398).Meanwhile, the state government relaxed some more restrictions on Thursday. Till now, the government regulations for closed halls only allowed for 50% of the seating capacity or maximum 200 attendees, whichever more. The new notification has removed the 200-limit and has allowed 50% of attendees of capacity in closed halls. This will be beneficial for bigger establishments as they will get to accommodate more people which was not possible owing to the 200-people cap. The rule will be applicable for public/private, ticketed or any event. The government, however, has made it mandatory for all organisers, attendees as well as the staff to be fully vaccinated. They have also decided to fine the organisers as well as facility managers ₹50,000 for any violation of rules.The state has also relaxed rules for railway travel as currently only those who have taken both the doses of vaccine 14 days before their travel are allowed. With schools and colleges reopening, students below 18 years have also been permitted to travel on train. In addition, even those who are not allowed to take a vaccine due to their medical condition, will be allowed, provided they have a certificate on their condition from a recognised doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/active-covid-cases-in-maharashtra-dip-below-30-000-minor-students-can-take-trains-101634234992327.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||79 civic schools in Mumbai yet to start teaching sessions on campus for classes 8-10||Ten days after schools in Mumbai reopened for students from classes 8 to 12, 79 civic schools are yet to commence teaching sessions on the school premises, data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has revealed. Out of a total of 867 municipal schools in Mumbai for classes 8 to 10, 788 have reopened their campuses for students. The remaining schools have not been able to do so either because they house a vaccination or Covid-19 quarantine centre on their premises, or because the major structural repairs to municipal school buildings that the administration undertook during the lockdown months have still not been completed.Out of the total 71,783 students enrolled in classes 8, 9 and 10 in the 867 municipal schools, 24,023 students attended classes on the school premises on Thursday, while others opted for online classes, data has shown. A senior civic official from BMC’s education department said, “The attendance of students varies. Some students attend schools a few days a week and chose to attend lectures online on other days. We have also given schools the option of conducting lectures on alternate days for different classes. So only class 9 and 10 students may attend on one day, while class 8 students go to school on another, to ensure social distancing.”Assistant commissioners of the respective wards with jurisdiction over schools where Covid-19 quarantine or vaccination centres are operational have been looking for alternate feasible locations to shift the centres, so that schools can restart. A deputy municipal commissioner said, “In my zone, we have a large number of slums where schools had vaccination centres on their premises. It is not easy to find alternate locations within the slums. In such cases, we have located open spaces, and are putting up temporary structures there to shift these centres.”While schools which had vaccination or quarantine centres within their premises may be able to restart lectures by early next week, others – where building maintenance and repair work are ongoing – may take longer to reopen. The official from the education department, quoted above, said, “We have to think of the safety of students first. We have shortlisted some buildings where lectures can start in adjoining classrooms, while repair work goes on in a neighbouring wing, or alternate floor. But some other schools may remain closed for the rest of the month until the repair work is over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/79-civic-schools-in-mumbai-yet-to-start-teaching-sessions-on-campus-for-classes-810-101634234932030.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||What do medical experts from Mumbai say on ‘long-Covid’ definition given by WHO?||The World Health Organization (WHO) last week defined ‘post-Covid’ or what is commonly known as ‘long-Covid’, a term used for Covid-19 patients who suffer from prolonged after-effects of the infection. The health agency used Delphi methodology – a structured exercise to arrive at a group opinion or decision by surveying a panel of experts. Five groups of stakeholders, including patients, patient-researchers, external experts, WHO staff and others were involved in formulating the definition. What does the definition state? The WHO definition of long-Covid states: “Post-Covid-19 condition occurs in individuals with a history of probable or confirmed SARS CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) infection, usually three months from the onset of Covid-19 with symptoms and that last for at least two months and can’t be explained by an alternative diagnosis. Common symptoms include fatigue, shortness of breath, cognitive dysfunction but also others and generally have an impact on everyday functioning. Symptoms may be new: onset following initial recovery from an acute Covid-19 episode or persist from the initial illness. Symptoms may also fluctuate or relapse over time.” It has also clarified that a separate definition may be applicable for children. Was such categorisation important? The absence of both a single terminology and a clinical case definition have been repeatedly signalled as drawbacks to advance on research and management of these patients, according to WHO. Experts say categorisation is also important for patients to accept their condition. “When there is a certain categorisation, patients learn to group themselves and come forward to seek help,” said Dr Nitin Karnik, head of medicine at the civic-run Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital in Sion. “In the absence of categorisation, patients often get lost in follow-ups. Starting of post-Covid out-patient departments (OPDs) has, therefore, been a crucial step taken by most hospitals, where patients with lingering issues can seek help,” he said. Critical care specialist Dr Kedar Toraskar from Wockhardt Hospital said that the definition is helpful, but doctors should not haphazardly label symptoms as post-Covid. “Patients may have health issues due to some underlying conditions that may not be Covid-related. Thus, a thorough diagnosis is a must before labelling the symptoms as post-Covid,” he said. Commonly, effects lingering on for more than eight weeks were identified as post-Covid by doctors. Some patients, who suffered from the after effect beyond three to six months, were identified as long-haulers. What is the estimated number of long-Covid? Estimates on long-Covid vary a lot. About 5% of Covid-19 patients suffer from the severe form of infection requiring a longer hospital stay, oxygen support and intensive care unit (ICU) admissions. Patients who have moderate to severe forms of infection are more likely to have residual health issues say doctors. However, some patients with mild Covid-19 have long term lingering after-effects too. “Conservatively, I would say about 10 % patients have long-Covid, requiring follow-ups for physical and mental rehabilitation,” said Dr Toraskar, who is also a member of the Covid-19 task force of Maharashtra. While fatigue, myalgia (muscle pain), hair loss, body ache, poor appetite, muscle wastage are some of the common long-term impacts, patients also have frequent episodes of low-grade fever and effort intolerance wherein minutest efforts to walk from one room to another are not tolerated by the body. “When patients suddenly find themselves struggling to do their daily chores, they panic,” said Dr Karnik. “They need a lot of reassurance that their body will recover gradually with good diet and physiotherapy. The worst impacted are families where all members got Covid-19 and all the adults developed long-Covid. In such cases, we have seen patients struggling as there are no caregivers,” he said. Dr Karnik estimates that nearly 30% of patients suffer from long-Covid. “The long-term sequelae clear out in most patients gradually,” he said. A study published in the medical journal JAMA Network Open on Wednesday has estimated that more than half of the patients diagnosed with Covid-19 globally will experience post-Covid or long-Covid symptoms, up to six months after recovering. The study was carried out by researchers from the Penn State College of Medicine. The team conducted a systematic review of 57 reports that included data from 250,351 unvaccinated adults and children who were diagnosed with Covid-19 from December 2019 through March this year. The researchers identified many long-term health issues involving general well-being, mobility, neurological conditions, mental health disorders, lung abnormalities, cardiovascular issues, skin conditions and digestive issues among the survivors. “Our results indicate that clinical management of persistent post-acute sequelae of Covid-19 (PASC) will require a whole-patient perspective, including management tools like virtual rehabilitation platforms and chronic care for post-acute Covid-19 symptoms in conjunction with the management of pre-existing or new comorbidities,” the researchers stated in the study, further recommending one-stop multidisciplinary clinics to avoid multiple referrals to different specialists and encourage comprehensive care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/what-do-medical-experts-from-mumbai-say-on-long-covid-definition-given-by-who-101634234872062.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body cancels vaccination drive at public centres for Friday||There will be no vaccination drive at public vaccination centres in Mumbai on Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said in a statement on Thursday. However, the civic body said that the drive has not been cancelled owing to shortage of vaccines and that it has sufficient vaccine stock. A senior civic official said, “We have halted the vaccination drive at public vaccination centres only for one day on Friday. This is not because of shortage of vaccine doses. The drive will continue on Saturday.”The festival of Dussehra will be celebrated on Friday.The drive will resume in the city on Saturday. There are over 300 BMC vaccine centres in Mumbai, and 20 state or Central government-operated vaccination centres. There are 145 private vaccination centres.Until Thursday, out of the target population of 9,236,500 citizens, 8,578,685 (92%) had received their first dose, while 4,780,983 citizens (51%) were fully vaccinated.On Thursday, a total of 46,540 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the city across 309 municipal vaccination centres, 20 state centres and 145 private vaccination facilities, operating a total of 509 vaccination sessions of one hour each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-cancels-vaccination-drive-at-public-centres-for-friday-101634234811958.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||Apna Dal (S) gives political twist to deputy speaker’s election||The BJP government may have made up its mind to get Nitin Agarwal elected as the deputy speaker of the legislative assembly, its alliance partner Apna Dal (S), however, appears to have thrown a spanner in the party’s works giving a political twist to the exercise demanding that the deputy speaker should be elected from among the MLAs of Dalit or OBC community in Uttar Pradesh.“No Dalit or OBC member occupies the post of speaker of legislative assembly or chairman of legislative council in the state. Under such circumstances, a member of Dalit or OBC community should be elected as the deputy speaker. This will be a good message from the government,” said Ashish Patel, an MLC and Apna Dal (S) national working president.“We have raised our demand to the government on the issue. The government has numbers and will take a call on the issue,” said Patel, who is also the husband of Union minister of state Anupriya Patel.UP minister for finance and parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna, while speaking to Hindustan Times here on Wednesday, confirmed that Nitin Agarwal will be his party’s choice for the post of deputy speaker of UP assembly.A Samajwadi Party MLA, Nitin Agarwal along with his father former MP Naresh Agarwal had joined the BJP in 2018. The Samajwadi Party’s petition seeking Nitin Agarwal’s disqualification was recently rejected. A divided opposition has also not worked out any joint strategy to counter the BJP’s decision for election to the post. The Samajwadi Party apparently is not happy with the BJP government’s move and may consider fielding party MLA Narendra Verma for the post.When contacted, Verma said he was not aware of any such move. Samajwadi Party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said SP national president Akhilesh Yadav would take a call on the issue. BSP legislature party leader Shah Alam alias Guddu Jamali said he would seek directives from BSP chief Mayawati on the issue. Congress Legislative Party leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’ has already said her party would take a call once the assembly’s agenda was finalised.Meanwhile, a meeting of the business advisory committee has been convened on October 17 (Sunday) to decide the state assembly’s agenda. State assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit has already fixed October 18 (Monday) as the date of election of deputy speaker’s post. The nomination papers may be deposited in the office of principal secretary, state assembly, Pradeep Dubey on October 17.Nitin Agarwal, if elected as the deputy speaker in the legislative assembly of Uttar Pradesh, may not have the shortest ever term. The seventeenth assembly was constituted on March 14, 2017 and end of its term would mark end of term of the deputy speaker.A list of 17 deputy speakers posted on the state assembly’s website shows that deputy speakers have worked for less than four months to less than 10 months in the past. While Waqar Ahmad Shah held the deputy speaker’s post from November 14, 2003 to July 26, 2004 while Ammar Rizvi was in office from September 28, 2001 to January 20, 2002.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/apna-dal-s-gives-political-twist-to-deputy-speaker-s-election-101634234391612.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Finding hostel room will prove a challenge for new DU students||With admissions to Delhi University colleges currently underway, finding a place in the college hostels is likely to become more difficult and financially challenging as several colleges are considering converting their rooms into single occupancy in order to adhere with Covid-19 protocols.Currently, the university is only holding in-person practical classes for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students, with no clarity on when or how classes will begin for first-year undergraduate and postgraduate students once the admissions are over next month.Of the around 280,000 applicants to DU this year, only 40% aspirants (115,000) are from Delhi-NCR areas and the remaining are from across India. Of the 20 DU colleges offering hostel facilities (till 2019), six offer both male and female hostels, while 12 colleges offer only female hostels and the rest offer only male hostels. Apart from these, the university also has a hostel for undergraduate students on the north campus.While the university hasn’t provided any data on the number of seats available in these hostels in the past two admission cycles due to the pandemic, in 2019, a total of 3,752 seats were available in these hostels – far fewer than the number of outstation students (146,955) that year.This year, several colleges with hostels for its undergraduate students such as Hansraj College, Kirori Mal College, Indraprastha College, Lady Shri Ram College, and Miranda House said there have been deliberations on converting hostel rooms to single occupancy which would reduce the capacity of hostels. However, a final call will be taken once they receive guidelines for reopening from the university, the officials said.Vibha Chauhan, principal of Kirori Mal College, which has nearly 200 seats in its male hostel, said this will be reduced when rooms are converted to single occupancy to ensure safety of students. “Since hostel admissions happen on merit, we will wait for the admission cycle to be over [to initiate the process]. However, since the double occupancy rooms have to be converted to single occupancy to ensure physical distancing, the capacity will be halved. Some of our rooms are still locked as many third-year students still have their luggage there,” she said.Colleges such as Kirori Mal and Miranda House have had a handful of students on their campus, including foreign students, who couldn’t go back home owing to various reasons, including travel restrictions.Babli Moitra Saraf, principal of Indraprastha College for Women, which accommodated around 450 students in its hostels before Covid, can now accommodate only 225 – of which half are already enrolled students further reducing the intake of the first-year batch.“We are facing a dilemma because it is inherently discriminatory to open to only Delhi-based students when we have a large group of outstation students. With the Covid protocol reducing intake by half in our case, there are significant financial implications for hostel aspirants as well as for the college. Colleges have to organise housekeeping, catering and all other services regularly. We also have to have mechanisms to ensure protocols are observed with regards to Covid-appropriate behaviour, contact tracing, and other safety protocols,” she said, adding that parents too were being cautious and the college wasn’t receiving many queries about hostel facilities.Registrar Vikas Gupta said while the university administration had advised colleges that outstation final-year students returning to hostels after September 15 could be allowed to stay in single occupancy rooms, the decision pertaining to other students will be taken later.“Once outstation students have isolated themselves for a week in the hostel, they could stay with other students while reducing physical interactions; colleges may take a call on that. Authorities will take the final decision [on room occupancy] once more students start coming in. Factors such as the prevailing Covid situation, vaccination status, and a negative Covid test report will also be taken into account,” he said. Many applicants, especially female students, often rely on college hostel facilities during admissions due to their affordability and safety. Assam’s Jorhat district resident Namrata Kalita, 18, who will be studying political science at Indraprastha College for Women, said college hostels are “safest” for women.“I need a hostel admission because it is better than rented accommodations where we have to manage food, cleaning, and other chores. For a young woman moving out of her home to Delhi for the first time, safety and security are of paramount concern. College hostels are always safest. Getting a hostel seat has always been difficult and with Covid, it becomes more important for colleges to devise ways to help outstation students,” she said.Manoj Khanna, principal of Ramjas College, said they are waiting for university guidelines on the matter. “We can only plan [how to reopen hostels] once we receive guidelines from the university on which students will be called to campus and then calculate the number of seats available for each year-wise batch. While single occupancy rooms are safer, it will halve the strength. We also have to plan how other facilities, such as mess, will work. If the mess is overcrowded, there will be a safety risk. We have to decide if we can have a schedule for meals or arrange room service,” he said.Vice-chancellor Yogesh Singh told Hindustan Times that the university will reopen gradually due to the concerns over a third wave of Covid. “The previous two waves have been during March. So we have to be careful before taking any decision as our priority is the health and safety of students. A decision will be taken only after considering all aspects,” he said.Several candidates who have taken admission in undergraduate courses have expressed concerns over finding accommodation in the capital. This is the second admission cycle wherein college and university hostels will remain out of bounds to new students.Bengaluru resident Tisha Mondal, who has taken admission in BCom (Honours) in Kamala Nehru College under the second cutoff, said she plans to stay at a rented accommodation. “For outstation students, it has always been difficult to verify the safety of rented accommodations or the facilities being offered by landlords. Parents would need to personally check these when they come for admission. Covid has disrupted that. Since there is an impending risk of a third wave, I will be opting for online classes till at least the year-end even if colleges reopen. We are hoping that the university will allow blended mode of learning,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/finding-hostel-room-will-prove-a-challenge-for-new-du-students-101634234152842.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||Time for eco-friendly idol immersion after Durga Puja||LUCKNOW The immersion of idols to mark the end of Durga Puja festivities will be carried out in a traditional, but eco-friendly way this year too. The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has set up mega ponds on the banks of river Gomti to facilitate green immersions and Durga Puja samitis have also given their thumbs-up to the arrangements, assuring full cooperation for the cause. Piyush Mordia, joint commissioner of police (law and order) said the committees have been allowed to carry out idol immersion in an eco-friendly way at the existing points on the banks of river Gomti. “We have established mega ponds at several places, including Jhulelal Vatika, Lakshman Mela ground, Kudiya Ghat and other points on the banks of Gomti,” said Ajay Kumar Diwedi, municipal commissioner, who is taking care of the arrangements for idol immersion on the riverbank. LMC officials said these mega ponds roughly measure around 30 x 18 ft, 20 x 15 ft, 50 x 20 ft and 30 x 20 ft that are enough to meet out the requirements of devotees. This is the third consecutive year when artificial ponds have been established for idol immersion instead of allowing immersion into the river. Durga Puja samitis have assured they will follow government guidelines and also ensure Covid protocols are strictly followed during the immersion ceremony. “We will ensure that the immersion is carried out in an eco-friendly manner and Covid protocols are followed strictly. But, the government is yet to inform us how many people will be allowed in the immersion ceremony. Last year, only five people were allowed,” said Sushanto Ghosh, secretary, Bondhu Mahal. Other Durga Puja committees have also assured to carry out the idol immersion in an eco-friendly manner. Of the others, two samitis would be carrying out idol immersion at their respective places. “We have decided to carry out idol immersion ceremony on our own premises at Shivaji Marg. This is perhaps the second consecutive year when we will be carrying out the immersion on our premises. We have made elaborate arrangements to ensure that social distancing and other Covid protocols are followed strictly,” said Arun Kumar Banerjee, president, Bengali Club, which is more than 100 years old. Similar arrangements have been made by the Ramakrishna Math where idol immersion ceremony would be held at their own pond on the outskirts of Lucknow. “In view of the government restriction regarding idol immersion into the Gomti, the math has decided to organize immersion ceremony on our private pond. All arrangements have been made to ensure that Covid protocols are followed,” said Swami Muktinathananda, adhyaksh (head of the Math).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/time-for-eco-friendly-idol-immersion-after-durga-puja-101634233913034.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||Feeling of faith, sanctity can curb crime against women: Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath performed “Kanya Pujan” at the Gorakhnath temple here on the occasion of Maha Navami on Thursday. “Kanya Pujan” is ritual in which nine minor girls are worshipped as manifestations of Goddess Durga on eighth or ninth day of Navratri festival. They are offered delicacies and given gifts. Yogi, who is also the chief priest of the Gorakhnath temple, washed the feet of the girls, performed “Aarti” and offered them delicacies along with the gifts amid the chanting of mantras. Later speaking to media persons, the CM stressed on the need of inculcating the same feeling of faith and devotion for sisters and daughters as people have for Goddess Durga. “If we all have a feeling of sanctity and see them (girls and women) as manifestations of goddess, many frequent incidents happening against sisters and daughters can be curbed,” he said in apparent reference to crime against women.The CM further said people will have to jointly work for the cause of women education, their health and self-dependence. Yogi, who will lead a customary grand victory procession on the occasion of Dussehra (Vijay Dashami) from Gorakhnath temple on Friday, also praised PM Narendra Modi for launching “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” flagship scheme which paved the way for women empowerment by promoting education among women and protected the future of girl child by curbing practice of abortion.Moreover, Yogi said several schemes of the state government, including Kanya Sumangala Yojana, were working for women empowerment in Uttar Pradesh. He said under the “Mukhya Mantri Samuhik Vivah Yojana”, the state government had so far solemnised marriage of over 1.75 lakh poor women.Later, the chief minister extended Dussehra greetings to people saying the festival reminded us of the victory of Lord Rama over demon king Ravana and thus inspired us to walk on the path of truth and justice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/feeling-of-faith-sanctity-can-curb-crime-against-women-yogi-101634233911829.html
14-10-2021||Other||Shivpal says option open for alliance with SP||Pragatisheel Samawadi Party president Shivpal Singh Yadav said here on Thursday that the option for alliance with the Samajwadi Party was still open.“The path for alliance is still open, it is not closed,” he said in Saifai where he reached this morning with his Samajik Parivartan Yatra.He said the Yatra had started from Mathura with the objective of ousting the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from power. “This is the time of Dharm Yuddh (holy war) and our sole aim is to defeat the BJP,” he said.Yadav said his party was hopeful of having an alliance with a big political party and the chances of a truck with the SP remained a possibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shivpal-says-option-open-for-alliance-with-sp-101634233611435.html
14-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida authority sets up control room to mitigate air pollution in city||The Greater Noida authority has set up a control room to handle issues related to air pollution in the city, officials said on Thursday. The authority has divided the city into eight zones for all the stakeholders to better implement the rules, and appointed a nodal officer who will seek reports from all zonal heads on a daily basis and inform top officials to take timely action against the violators.Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority, has directed all zonal officials to act immediately if they come across any violation of rules. The authority has also released numbers: 01202336046, 47, 48 and 49 where people can call and inform about violations of rules. Apart from this, the authority has also released WhatsApp number: 8800882124 where people can send pictures of unattended construction material or waste anywhere in the city.“A resident can call at these phone numbers to file a complaint about violations of construction guidelines or a complaint about dumping waste at undesignated sites. Similarly, zonal officials concerned will address the WhatsApp complaints. If the zonal officials do not act on these, the nodal officer will take action,” said AK Arora, general manager of Greater Noida authority.Greater Noida is spread over around 38,000 hectares comprising 124 villages. Nearly 600 construction sites of developers and other individual construction projects are located at different areas of the city. According to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, guidelines on construction material should not be left uncovered, sand should not be ferried without covering it with sheet, construction site should be covered with green sheet, and green belt should be developed around large size construction sites to make sure that dust is not mixed with the air, causing pollution.“We have directed all developers having construction sites of area more than 20,000-square-metre to have anti-smog guns to reduce the air pollution levels. If the developers fail to do so, action will be taken against them,” said Bhooshan.Under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to tackle air pollution in Delhi-NCR from October 15, authorities will annually ban diesel-run electricity generators, specific instructions for washing of roads, and increased patrolling of known hotspots among other measures. Grap is a set of curbs triggered in phases as the air quality deteriorates, which is typical during October-November. Farm fires in neighbouring states and cooling weather typically combine at this time of the year to blanket the region in smoke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-authority-sets-up-control-room-to-mitigate-air-pollution-in-city-101634232952302.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Autorickshaw fares to increase in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad from November 8||Rising CNG and fuel prices have a ripple effect: the minimum fare for Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad’s autorickshaws will be ₹20 instead of ₹18 for the first 1.5 km and thereafter ₹13 for every kilometre, according to the revised rates approved by the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) of Pune division. The revised fares for three-seater autorickshaws will come into effect from November 8 onwards in Baramati as well besides Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, according to RTA. The decision by RTA was taken on the recommendations given by the Khatua committee report as auto unions were also demanding fare hike following the rise of ₹4 per kg of CNG in the past few days, including the latest hike of ₹2 per kg on Thursday. The existing autorickshaw fares are ₹18 for first 1.5 km and ₹12 for every kilometre thereafter. A review meeting of the Pune RTA was held at Pune district collector office on October 12, in which discussions over the recommendations given by the Khatua committee report were made. As per the information given by the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO), staring November 8, in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Baramati jurisdictions, the revised rates of 25 per cent additional charges will be applicable for fares between midnight and 5am. Apart from these three jurisdictions, additional 40 per cent charges will be applicable during night hours for the rest of the district. “While for the passengers traveling along with luggage will have to pay ₹3 per luggage bag of 60 by 40 centimetre. At the same time, auto drivers have been given additional period between November 8 and December 31, 2021 for meter calibration for the revised auto fares. And most importantly, only those auto drivers will be allowed to take the revised fares from the passengers who will have their meter calibrated for revised fares,” said Pune regional transport officer and RTA member secretary Ajit Shinde. According to Shinde, if the auto drivers do not make the necessary changes in the fare meter even after the deadline, action such as suspension of license or fine will be charged. Autorickshaw unions from the city have welcomed the decision of fare hike. Bappu Bhave, president of Pune auto-rickshaw federation said, “It was much needed for auto drivers in Pune district. Due to the pandemic, already we are suffering from financial crisis although the fare hike will somewhat help us to earn more in the coming days. We would look after the meter calibration work of all our union members to be completed in the given deadline.” The residents, however, have expressed disappointment to the fare increase. Atul Namekar, secretary of Sinhgad Road - Warje residents association said, “Already the auto fares are pretty high and compared to it most of the auto drivers deny to come to nearby places, or charge double or triple from new people coming to city. At least the distance of first 1.5 km for ₹20 should not have been increased by the RTO.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/autorickshaw-fares-to-increase-in-pune-pimpri-chinchwad-from-november-8-101634232951061.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||Demolish all illegal structures having no legal issue: LDA VC to officials||The vice chairman (VC) of the Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) Akshay Tripathi on Monday instructed officials to demolish all such illegal structures against which demolition orders have been issued and no legal issue is pending against them. Presiding over a meeting, Tripathi reviewed the drive being carried out by LDA officials for sealing of illegal constructions across the city. During the meeting, the LDA vice chairman issued a warning-notice to an engineer of zone -5 who was not able to provide information about illegal structures in his areas. The development authority has divided the city into seven zones and each zone has an officer in-charge to take action against illegal constructions. Tripathi has also sought a detailed list of illegal constructions from all engineers. On the issue of sealed buildings, Tripathi instructed officials to inspect such buildings regularly to make sure no construction work was going on in these establishments. While reviewing legal cases related to illegal constructions, Tripathi directed officials to expedite all such cases that were pending for more than a year. LDA secretary Pawan Gangwar and other officials were present in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/demolish-all-illegal-structures-having-no-legal-issue-lda-vc-to-officials-101634232831162.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||Distribution of tablets to higher education students in UP: process set in motion||The Uttar Pradesh government is set to distribute mobile tablets and smartphones to students across the state for their ‘technical empowerment’, officials said. The government has already started the process of collecting data of the eligible students for the same.A letter dated September 30 by additional chief secretary Arvind Kumar to additional chief secretaries of Higher Education, Technical Education, Skill Development, Medical Education, MSME has asked them to collect data on the eligible candidates. HT has a copy of the letter.The collected data will be used to develop a portal for distribution of the tablets to beneficiaries. Newly appointed Technical Education minster Jitin Prasada said, “The move is aimed at enabling our youths with cutting edge technology to help them choose better future. Technical empowerment has become a must for students of all streams today. Our government is dedicated to ensuring better facilities to the youth of the state. ”The technical education department will play a pivotal role in the exercise that is expected to be completed before election code of conduct is imposed in the state.“We have started full scale preparations for collecting information on eligible students enrolled in various higher education institutions across the state. The respective institutions have started sending details which will be complied and uploaded in the portal after verification,” said the minster.Beside collecting information about eligible students, the higher education institutions have also been asked to verify the data of beneficiaries before forwarding it for upload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/distribution-of-tablets-to-higher-education-students-in-up-process-set-in-motion-101634232291033.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Mobile App to book parking slots online launched in Delhi. What you should know||Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Anurag Thakur on Thursday launched a mobile application for booking of online parking slots and hassle-free parking. With the launch of 'MyParkings' app, the Union government hopes to resolve parking issues and congestion of vehicle parking in South Delhi. “Parking is a difficult issue and this app is an effort to reduce stress and help people plan their trips better,” Thakur said during the launch event, which was also attended by Mukkesh Suryaan, Mayor, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC); Gyanesh Bharti, Commissioner, SDMC and George Kuruvilla, CMD, BECIL.-Not only will the app offer people in Delhi smart parking solution, but also help reduce pollution from vehicles as it will minimise the time spent searching for parking spots.-This app has been developed by Broadcast Engineering Consultants India Limited (BECIL) with SDMC with the purpose to digitise all authorised parking under the civic body's municipal limits, a report by PTI said.-Enabled with IoT technology, ‘MyParkings’ app will be available for use for mobile apps on both Android and iOS platforms.-People can book vehicle parking in South Delhi on the spot or in advance with the help of the app. They will also have the flexibility of selecting slots.-Among other features, the app will also give people the option of paperless check-in and check-out of vehicles, shared parking for safety and recall, display of amenities and facilities in and near parking locations.-The app will provide options for electric vehicle charging stations and integration of card with DTC/Delhi Metro; smart QR code for slot booking, check in and checkout and Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) system.-Anurag Thakur hoped that other municipal corporations in Delhi will also adopt similar solutions to hassle-free parking.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mobile-app-to-book-parking-slots-online-launched-in-delhi-what-you-should-know-101634228522207.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Sanjay Raut targets next Pune mayor from Shiv Sena; BJP says numbers don’t add up||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut claimed that the next mayor of Pune would be from Shiv Sena. Raut made the bombastic claim on his visit to Pimpri-Chinchwad on Wednesday. Speaking to Sena workers in the industrial twin townships, Raut said, “As municipal elections are scheduled, the next mayor of Pune, and of Pimpri- Chinchwad, will be from the Shiv Sena.” The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), currently in power in the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) were quick to remind the Shiv Sena about its numbers in the civic body. Current mayor Muralidhar Mohol said, “The Shiv Sena has 10 elected members in the 165-member Pune municipal corporation. To become mayor, any political party will require the magic number of 85. There is nothing wrong with big ambition, but there is a need to check the ground reality. Shiv Sena must introspect whether achieving the number of 85 in Pune is in their capacity?” With the civic elections early next year, the confrontations between the two parties is only likely to escalate. Recent agitations have seen workers of each party stage protests in front of the other party offices, in particular a first for the BJP in Pune when it comes to taking on the Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sanjay-raut-targets-next-pune-mayor-from-shiv-sena-bjp-says-numbers-don-t-add-up-101634232110844.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Western Railways to use surveillance drones to boost security||In a bid to tighten security, Western Railways is planning to use surveillance drones to keep a bird's eye watch on railway assets, disaster management, and crowd management, said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer (CPRO), Western Railways."Western Railway is planning to use a new method for the bird's eye watch of certain locations. For that, we are using unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) to keep an eye on yards and tracks," said the CPRO.Thakur said the use of drones will help us in reducing the response time in case of any emergency."We will use the technology for crowd management and disaster management. We are procuring two drone cameras for now and we are training our staff to operate them," he said.The CPRO further informed that the two drone cameras will be equipped with advanced technology, and can be flown at the height of 200 meters above the ground."They can cover a radius of 2 kilometres. The drone camera can be in flight for 25 minutes. The cameras also have modern GPS based technology and can be switched to autopilot mode. They can return to their base station in case of any emergency," he said.For last-mile connectivity, Thakur said the work of certification and permission for the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is underway. "Soon the cameras will be in our service," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/western-railways-to-use-surveillance-drones-to-boost-security-101634231688396.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 510 fresh Covid cases and three deaths on Thursday||As per the authorities, Pune district reported 510 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours on Thursday. Three Covid deaths were reported in Pune district. One death was reported from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and two from Pune rural in the last 24 hours. No deaths were reported from the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 519,323 Covid cases and 9,182 deaths as of Thursday. PCMC has reported 267,705 cases so far, and a total of 3,499 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 362,715 total cases so far and 6,848 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,149,743 Covid cases. Of this, 1,121,569 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 19,878 deaths and presently, there are 8,296 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 2,343 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 6,413,418. The recovery rate in the state is 97.38%.Across Maharashtra, 2,384 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 35 deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.Currently 226,249 people are in home quarantine and 1,070 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-510-fresh-covid-cases-and-three-deaths-on-thursday-101634231810800.html
14-10-2021||Gurugram||Expedite land acquisition for AIIMS in Rewari: Manohar Lal Khattar to agencies||The Haryana government on Wednesday issued directions to the revenue department and the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) to expedite the process of land acquisition for the construction of an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) at Majra village in Rewari.A meeting in this regard was held in Chandigarh on Wednesday under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who told officials that a dedicated budget has been sanctioned for the project, and asked the revenue and disaster management departments to start the process of making payments to agricultural landowners at the earliest, officials privy to the development said.In the meeting, it was also decided that farmers giving land for the project would be allotted shopping-cum-office complexes and residential plots, depending upon the proportion of area offered for the project. The rate for the allotment would be decided later, an official said.Khattar also directed DTCP and the panchayat department to complete all the necessary works and to expedite the work on the issues related to farmers, concerning this project.A spokesperson for the state government said that Khattar also met a delegation of farmers from Majra village and gave in-principle approval for their main demand, seeking ₹40 lakh per acre and development of commercial complex along with AIIMS.Rewari deputy commissioner Yashendra Singh said that the registration process for setting up a cooperative society of farmers, whose land is being acquired, has been started in the village and as per the directions of the government, an official from the registrar of cooperative society has been assigned. “The members of the society will decide the other works related to their second demand with mutual consent,” he said.Gurugram member of Parliament Rao Inderjit Singh, who attended the meeting, said, “AIIMS in Rewari will give a boost to the health infrastructure and help people of entire south Haryana,” he said.State cooperative minister Banwari Lal and other senior officials also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/expedite-land-acquisition-for-aiims-in-rewari-manohar-lal-khattar-to-agencies-101634231634727.html
14-10-2021||Gurugram||Police to crack down on modified vehicles, curb road races||The traffic police will launch a drive to crack down on modified vehicles from next week as part of a safety measure to reduce accidents and fatalities on city roads, officials said on Thursday.According to the police, teams will keep a check at identified speeding spots as part of the drive, as the modifications, generally made to facilitate higher speeds, are undertaken by motorists for road races.“We have observed that the engine, body parts and exteriors of a large number of vehicles in the city are, at times, completely modified. Often, such vehicles are found to be speeding. We will be stopping such vehicles to check their registration papers for model type and accordingly, issue fines against violators,” Ravinder Singh Tomar, the deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gurugram police, said.According to the traffic police, around 900 such modified vehicles were found to be plying across the city last year and so far this year, they have found around 110 such vehicles.“We are in the process of constituting teams to check for motorcycle and car racing on Gurugram roads during the weekend. We have observed that on stretches such as Golf Course Road and parts of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, vehicles race one other, especially, on the weekends. We will be keeping a close check on these stretches,” a senior traffic police official said.Tomar said that the decision to concentrate on modified vehicles is part of the traffic police’s long-term measure to reduce accidents and road fatalities across the city.According to the Gurugram traffic police officials, there were 236 road fatalities recorded from January 1 to August 31 this year. For the same period last year, 227 road fatalities were recorded.Tomar said that since mid-August, traffic police have started extensively using around 250 red-light violation detection (RLVD) cameras at various signals across the city to keep a check on traffic violations to bring down the number of accidents.“We have started extensively using RLVD cameras since mid-August to keep a round-the-clock surveillance on traffic violations across 30 major points in the city. As soon as a commuter commits a violation, an e-challan is generated. Commuters have started becoming wary at these points, which, in return, have started reducing accidents,” Tomar said.According to Tomar, Gurugram traffic police used to issue around 100 fines per day but since the installation of RLVD cameras, the number has increased to around 1,000 per day.Fines for signal jumping, seat-belt violation and incorrect registration plates are issued through such cameras, he said. “The issue with enforcement is that it cannot have long-term success unless it remains continuous. For road fatalities and accidents to come down, engineering changes are the only main solution. Traffic police should divert most of its resources towards this, while simultaneously, continuing with its enforcement measures,” Sarika Panda Bhatt, road safety expert, Nagarro, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/police-to-crack-down-on-modified-vehicles-curb-road-races-101634231633558.html
14-10-2021||Gurugram||SGT University murder: Prime accused arrested from Delhi||The police on Thursday arrested the prime suspect in the murder of a student of SGT University, in an incident of shooting on the varsity campus in Budhera on October 8, from Chhawla village near Najafgarh in Delhi.According to the police, the suspect, also a student of the university, was arrested when he had gone to meet his father to get money from him.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “The accused will be taken on police remand and questioned in detail about the role played by other accused in the murder. The weapon of offence will also be recovered. Preliminary investigation has revealed that there was a tussle between the two over a girl student, which led to the crime.”He said that the role of three others is being verified and they would also be arrested based on subsequent investigation and ascertaining their roles in the crime.The suspect, 21-year old Punkit Kumar alias Lucky, is a law student in the university. He is alleged to have shot 24-year-old Vineet Kumar, a fourth-year student of BAMS (bachelor of ayurvedic medicine and surgery) course in the same university, in the abdomen in an argument, following which Kumar died at SGT Hospital.Three associates of Lucky, identified as Nitesh, Rahul and Himani, all students of the same university, were also booked for murder in a case registered at the Rajendra Park police station.A senior police official said that Lucky has had a brush with the law as a juvenile, when he was allegedly involved in a murder in Mundka village of Delhi in 2016, in an incident of road rage. A case of murder was registered against him under sections 302 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act at Mundka police station in Delhi, the police official said. The case is still under processSangwan said that they are still probing whether the crime was planned and if the three associates were involved in it. “The accused was given shelter by his associates and was hiding from the police to evade arrest,” he said.According to details shared by the police, Vineet Kumar was allegedly shot in the abdomen by Lucky, while Nitesh held him from behind on the campus of SGT University on October 8.Kumar, who was along with his friends at the time of the shooting, was taken to the SGT Hospital but he succumbed to his injuries. Lucky and his associates, who were named as suspects, fled the spot following the melee and were evading the police since.The murder took place around 12.30pm, when Kumar, along with his friends, was returning to his hostel room when he was confronted by Lucky and with his associates, the police said.In his complaint to the police, a student said that Lucky and his associate, Nitesh, who is also his brother, came to their class earlier in the day (October 8) and asked for Kumar, but their teacher refused to excuse him. Sensing danger, Kumar asked his classmates to accompany him but the accused waylaid him near the parking lot and shot him dead, the complainant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sgt-university-murder-prime-accused-arrested-from-delhi-101634231631952.html
14-10-2021||Gurugram||Grap to be enforced in Gurugram to check pollution, air quality||Officials of civic agencies in the city said they would start implementing the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) from Friday as part of the annual exercise to check deteriorating air quality during winter months, even as Gurugram recorded an air quality index (AQI) of 172 (moderate) on Thursday.Vivek Gill, the superintending engineer of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) and the nodal officer for Grap implementation, said that six teams have been formed for looking into polluting activities.“Directions have been issued to officials concerned to start implementing all concerned Grap measures from Friday. Each team has specific instructions and they will be submitting daily reports and weekly reports on all measures executed for further perusal,” Gill said.Grap was drafted by the Supreme Court-mandated Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (Epca) and enforced on October 15 every year since 2017, amid the stubble burning season across the National Capital Region (NCR).Officials of the Gurugram agencies said that even as pre-emptive Grap measures were under consideration for implementation, they will enforce all measures listed by the CPCB on Tuesday.“Grap is already there and to implement the same, a subcommittee has already been formed. However, whether any modified Grap unlike what used to be in earlier years will be there, is still under consideration,” a senior official of the ministry of environment, forests and climate change, who did not want to be named, said.Kuldeep Singh, regional officer of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said, “All Grap measures as listed by the CPCB [Central Pollution Control Board] in its meeting on Tuesday will be implemented in the city from Friday onwards. Besides this, the CBCP had also asked brick kilns to be closed in the city. However, this latest direction will have little impact in Gurugram district.”In a meeting chaired by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) with the government agencies in Delhi-NCR on Tuesday, the pollution monitoring body recommended Grap measures listed under the poor category and some measures under the very poor category should kick in pre-emptively from October 15.A CAQM member, requesting anonymity, said, “We are considering if it’s (pre-emptive Grap measures) feasible and we do want to take strong action.”“All conventional Grap measures will be followed as per norms, unless directions are issued otherwise,” Gill said.According to MCG officials, measures such as extensive use of mechanised road sweeping and sprinkling of water have already been initiated since Monday. “Since we already had the necessary machinery for sprinkling water and road sweeping, it was decided to initiate it as soon as the air quality started deteriorating,” an MCG official privy to the matter said.From Friday, the MCG will take action against hotels and eateries found burning coal and wood, besides curbing open waste burning.Gill said officials will have the responsibility of identifying pollution hotspots, carrying out night patrolling to check Grap enforcement, ensure scientific disposal of construction and demolition (C&D) waste, identify stretches with high dust accumulation, and ensure environmental rules are followed by MCG contractors in the construction of roads, stormwater drains and sewerage line projects.Officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said that their role in controlling pollution will start next week. “Tenders have been issued for procurement of water sprinkling machines as well as for hiring outsourced staff to initiate Grap measures in the city. We are expecting to start on-ground operations from next week,” a senior official with the GMDA’s environment wing, requesting anonymity, said.The GMDA official said that 71 wind augmentation purifying units (Wayu), which were installed last year, will be individually assessed to check if they are operating properly and 48 more machines will be added.Wayu machines are primarily located at pollution hotspots that witness heavy traffic congestion. The machine filters primary pollutants, such as particulate matter (PM 2.5 and PM 10), and convert them into carbon dioxide, or carbon monoxide.GMDA officials said that these machines can help reduce PM 2.5 levels by around 35% and PM 10 by around 65% in a 500 square-metre zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/grap-to-be-enforced-in-gurugram-to-check-pollution-air-quality-101634231630727.html
14-10-2021||Bhopal||Two labourers fall into gas tank at bottling plant in Madhya Pradesh, die||Two labourers died after they fell into a tank at a gas bottling plant in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, on Thursday, a police official told news agency PTI. The incident reportedly took place at a GAIL factory in Ghattia tehsil of Ujjain district.The deceased were identified as Rajendra Singh, 30, and Lakhan Singh,27, informed sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP) RK Roy.According to initial probe report, two safai karamchari or labourers were cleaning the gas tank when they accidentally fell into it. Following the incident, the gas tank was being emptied out and once that process is completed, their bodies will be retrieved, the police said.An investigation is underway and a case of negligence will be registered in the matter, Roy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/two-labourers-fall-into-gas-tank-at-bottling-plant-in-madhya-pradesh-die-101634229810025.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Grievance committees to ensure disbursement of ex-gratia payment to Covid victims’ kin||In compliance with a Supreme Court order, the state administration on Thursday issued a government resolution constituting Grievance Redressal Committees (GRC), which can be approached by next of kin of deceased Covid patients, if any problem is encountered with the ex-gratia assistance of ₹50,000. Pune district authorities have formalised the formation of this committee on Thursday. “I have signed the file constituting the committee. The guidelines about the disbursement of the funds and application process are yet to be received,” said Rajesh Deshmukh, collector, Pune districtIn its judgment, the SC has laid down the criteria for considering death due to Covid for the purpose of disbursement of this ex-gratia assistance of ₹50,000. The government resolution published by the public health department specified that there shall be two committees, one for municipal corporations chaired by a deputy municipal commissioner and another for the area outside the municipal corporation, chaired by the collector.The Supreme Court has directed payment of ex-gratia assistance of ₹50,000 by the state from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to the next of kin of the deceased due to Covid. The kin of the Covid victim can approach the GRC in case of any grievance with respect to the ex-gratia payment. The relief and rehabilitation department of the state government is expected to announce separate guidelines about format, process and mechanisms to be followed for scrutiny and disbursal of the payment for district disaster management authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/grievance-committees-to-ensure-disbursement-of-ex-gratia-payment-to-covid-victims-kin-101634231510739.html
14-10-2021||Noida||Noida: 2 arrested from Sector 63 over fraud case, probe on to nab more suspects||The Noida police arrested two persons on Thursday from Sector 63 in connection with a fraud case, officials said.The suspects -- identified as Vishal Katiyar, 35, and Gaurav Sharma, 30 -- both residents of Raj Nagar Extension in Ghaziabad, worked at a Noida-based developer company, police said.Vivek Trivedi, station house officer (SHO), Phase 3 police station, said a developer filed a complaint on August 10, 2021, informing that some staffers of his company had embezzled nearly ₹12 crore.The company director, Vipul Giri, said in the police complaint that his company has been developing residential projects in the national capital region (NCR) for the past 16 years. “The company in Noida Sector 63 was developing a residential project in Raj Nagar Extension in Ghaziabad. We had a team in the sales department to collect money from the buyers. It issues letters for property registrations when buyers make payments. Recently, we conducted an audit and found that some company staffers had issued letters for a property registration after forging the documents. They also collected nearly ₹12 crore and kept the money in their personal accounts. The staffers had violated the standard operating procedure of the company,” Giri said, adding that when he filed the complaint with the police, the suspects resigned and fled.A case was registered against the suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 467 (forgery) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) at the Phase 3 police station, Trivedi added.“The two former employees were arrested from the Noida Sector 63 area on Thursday. They were produced before a court and sent to judicial custody,” Trivedi said, adding that the police are conducting searches to arrest more people involved in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-2-arrested-from-sector-63-over-fraud-case-probe-on-to-nab-more-suspects-101634231450736.html
14-10-2021||Noida||With ‘zero waste wards’, Ghaziabad plans further reduction in solid waste output||In order to reduce the generation of daily solid waste, the Ghaziabad municipal corporation will soon be initiating the concept of ‘zero waste wards’ which will include 10 residential wards on a pilot basis. Officials of the corporation said that the generated waste from the wards will be fully processed at a pre-identified location in the ward. “Teams from NGOs will help us segregate the daily waste into dry and wet waste. This activity will be done in a pre-identified area in each of the wards. We are in the process of selecting the 10 residential wards to initiate the pilot project. We expect this concept to likely start in another 7-10 days,” city health officer Mithilesh Kumar said. The corporation is also getting an app developed, which will be able to track the corporation’s door-to-door solid waste collection vehicles as they pass houses, commercial establishments and shops. The move comes after residents complained that the door-to-door collection vehicles do not follow a regular routine and do not pick up waste on daily basis. “The app is being developed and can be downloaded through the Play Store. The door-to-door collection vehicles will be fitted with devices to track their movements once they pass a street or house in different wards. We will be able to check if the daily waste collection activity in each ward has taken place,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. He added that the corporation will also be starting a capacity-building exercise soon. It will scale up the number of solid waste collection vehicles from 200 to 500. “We will rope in a private agency for the purpose. Most of the vehicles will be e-vehicles or CNG-based vehicles. The pilot project for this will be initiated soon from the Vasundhara zone,” Tanwar added. The corporation has five zones, city zone, Kavi Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Mohan Nagar and Vasundhara, under its jurisdiction and each zone comprises 100 residential wards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-zero-waste-wards-ghaziabad-plans-further-reduction-in-solid-waste-output-101634231330919.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Southwest monsoon has withdrawn from Maharashtra: IMD||Going a little beyond its usual October 10 date, the southwest monsoon this year withdrew completely from the state of Maharashtra, including Pune and Mumbai, on Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD considers the period between June 1 and September 31 as the monsoon season. However, many parts of the state including Pune witnessed intense spells of rainfall even in October this year.About the monsoon withdrawal, Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department at IMD Pune, said that as forecasted by the IMD, the southwest monsoon has finally withdrawn.“As a result of monsoon withdrawal, Pune city is likely to experience clear skies with afternoons becoming partly cloudy. Whereas, Konkan and Goa and central Maharashtra are likely to witness dry weather till October 18,” he said.Pune district received 83% excess rainfall while Maharashtra received 34% excess rainfall in October alone.“We have forecasted that day temperatures are likely to be around 34 degree Celsius in the next few days at Shivajinagar, Pashan and Lavale. Day temperatures may go as high as 36 degree Celsius in Chinchwad, Lohegaon and Magarpatta in the next few days. Night temperatures in parts of the city may also rise as high as 23 degree Celsius,” Kashyapi said.The withdrawal line of the southwest monsoon passes through Kohima, Silchar, Krishnanagar, Baripada, Malkangiri, Nalgonda, Bagalkot and Vengurla. “However, the southwest monsoon has not completely withdrawn from the country yet. The southwest monsoon withdrew from west Rajasthan on September 28 in 2020, and on October 9 in 2019,” according to IMD officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/southwest-monsoon-has-withdrawn-from-maharashtra-imd-101634231211009.html
14-10-2021||Noida||To reduce air pollution, Ghaziabad to implement Grap measures from today||Starting Friday, the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) will implement Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures listed for areas with ‘very poor’ air quality in Ghaziabad, even though most of the district is reporting ‘poor’ air for now.An air quality index (AQI) reading between 0 and 50 is considered good, between 51 and 100 is considered satisfactory, between 101 and 200 is considered moderate, between 201 and 300 is considered poor, between 301 and 400 is considered very poor, and above 400 is considered severe. On Thursday, Ghaziabad recorded an AQI reading of 22--in the ‘poor’ category.UPPCB officials said that the decision was taken in a video conference meeting held by the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas on October 12, adding that the implementation of Grap in the district will include different measures, except for the ban on diesel generator (DG) sets. They added that as part of Grap measures, the Ghaziabad municipal corporation chalked out a comprehensive plan for mechanised road sweeping and water sprinkling, which will be implemented at all the major roads in the city every day.The road stretch network identified for the two activities measures about 526km.“We will also implement other Grap measures listed under the ‘very poor’ air quality category, except for the ban on diesel generator sets. We have also asked development agencies such as the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) and UP Awas Vikas to ensure projects in their jurisdiction comply with construction site norms,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.In 2016, the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority had conducted meetings with state government representatives and experts, and come up with a plan, Grap, that listed different measures to be taken when air quality deteriorated.Officials said that they initially will focus on dust reduction and prevention of garbage and crop residue burning incidents.“We asked UP Awas Vikas to specifically check vacant plots where unauthorised occupants often burn garbage. We also asked GDA and the corporation to ensure proper lifting of garbage else we will not hesitate to impose penalties. Both UP Awas Vikas and GDA will conduct fortnightly inspections at construction sites and upload their data on the dust control audit portal,” Sharma added.Officials of the corporation confirmed they will start with intensive road sweeping and dust control measures.“The entire plan has been chalked out and we will be working in close coordination with the UPPCB to ensure that air pollution remains low this winter season. The responsibilities given to us as part of the ‘winter action plan’ will also be taken up throughout the season,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.According to official statistics of the pollution board, Ghaziabad in 2019-20 recorded an annual average PM10 concentration level of 218 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm), which reduced by 14.5% to 186mpcm in 2020-21.Likewise, the officials said that Ghaziabad recorded an annual average PM2.5 concentration level of 53.04mpcm from April 2021 to September 2021, and an average of 64.20mpcm during the same period in 2020.The standard limit for PM10 and PM2.5 is 100mpcm and 60mpcm, respectively. They are considered the main pollutants in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/to-reduce-air-pollution-ghaziabad-to-implement-grap-measures-from-today-101634231150533.html
14-10-2021||Noida||1 booked for duping Noida man of ₹4 lakh on pretext of buying furniture online||The Noida police has booked an unidentified person for cheating a resident of Sector 107 of ₹4 lakh on the pretext of buying an old furniture through an advertisement on a website.The 30-year-old victim -- Shantanu Sinha -- is a resident of Sector 107 in Noida. Sinha, who had posted an advertisement to sell his old furniture a few days ago, said, “I received a phone call from a person, who identified himself as Mukesh, on Monday. He told me that he liked the furniture, and we fixed the price ₹33,000.”The suspect said that he will make the payment through Unified Payments Interface (UPI) as he did not have cash. Sinha said that he shared his UPI ID with the suspect, and to gain his confidence, the suspect transferred ₹200 to his account.Later, the suspect later said that he will send a QR code, and after Sinha scans it -- as the code is necessary to make large amounts of transactions, the money will be transferred to his account. When Sinha scanned the code, the suspect took away ₹4.03 lakh from his account via multiple transactions.Sinha immediately informed the bank, and filed a complaint at the cyber police station in Noida Sector 36.Reeta Yadav, station house officer (SHO), cyber cell police station, said a case has been registered against the suspect under IT Act sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and 66-D. “We are trying to arrest the suspect and an investigation is underway,” Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/1-booked-for-duping-noida-man-of-4-lakh-on-pretext-of-buying-furniture-online-101634231032357.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Good to satisfactory air quality till October 17: Safar forecast||As the monsoon exits for this year, the air quality in Pune has remained satisfactory, as per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar).The Air Quality Index (AQI) for Pune is forecasted to be in a good range on Thursday. On Thursday, Kothrud and Pashan has good air quality, whereas Shivajinagar showed moderate air quality. Various reports by Safar showed that a major contributor to worsening air quality in the city is pollution by vehicles. “AQI is forecasted to remain good to satisfactory till October 17,” stated Safar officials.On Thursday, PM 2.5, that is, particles in the air with a diametre of less than 2.5 micrometres, is 46 and falls in the satisfactory range. Whereas, PM10, particles in the air with a diametre of less than 10 micrometres, was at 76 on Thursday.Dr BS Murthy, director of Safar and scientist at IITM said that as the temperature lowers, there is a chance of rise in pollution.“Overall AQI on Thursday was 76 which is satisfactory. In winter, as the air settles the pollution tends to rise. And hence, we see air quality worsens during winter. As of now, Pune city will have good to satisfactory air quality in the next few days,” said Murthy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/good-to-satisfactory-air-quality-till-october-17-safar-forecast-101634231031116.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||Dengue on the rise, 27 fresh cases in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The state capital reported 27 fresh dengue cases on Thursday, the maximum in a single day, taking the total count of cases close to 600 this year. Fresh cases were reported from Indira Nagar, Etaunja, NK Road, Aishbagh and Aliganj areas. Notices were served to owners of 24 houses where health teams spotted conditions favourable for mosquito breeding. Health teams visited different areas, including Rajajipuram, Husainabad, Faizullaganj, Triveninagar and Kesrikheda. “Dengue cases are now rising every day. People need to follow the preventive measures such as use of mosquito net and covering the body, particularly arms and legs, well while going out, to avoid mosquito bite,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Among the total about 600 dengue cases, 87 were reported between January and September while from September 1 to October 14, over 510 cases have been reported. “Dengue can trouble till mid-November due to the extended monsoon, hence precaution against mosquito bite is the best way to avoid dengue,” said Dr Shukla. Meanwhile, the 19-year-old youth who died in a private hospital on October 9 was suffering from both dengue and renal failure, confirmed the death audit by the district health department. “Dengue in this case is a chance finding. The youth tested positive for dengue and was suffering from renal failure too,” said Dr KP Tripathi, in charge, vector-borne diseases, in Lucknow. “The cause of death is renal failure,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow. The health department had sought detailed report of the patient after the private hospital had declared him dead after testing positive for dengue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dengue-on-the-rise-27-fresh-cases-in-lucknow-101634230912452.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Petrol crosses ₹110/litre mark, diesel at ₹99.36/litre and CNG hiked by ₹2.6/kg in Pune||After a break of two days, fuel prices in the city rose again, with a litre of diesel now at ₹99.36 in Pune on Thursday.On Thursday, a litre of petrol cost ₹110.25, while CNG now costs ₹62.10 per kg in Pune. CNG users are the most disappointed with the price hikes as what was once the “affordable fuel” refuge has now begin to walk the fossil-fuel path of regular price hikes.After staying stable for a period of time, thee price of a a kg of CNG first increased on August 2, to hit ₹57.50. On October 4, CNG prices increased again by ₹2 to reach ₹59.50 per kg. Now, effective from Thursday midnight, CNG prices have been further hiked by ₹2.6. According to officials from the Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL), the hike in CNG prices is caused by an increase in the prices of natural gas. The incessant hike in petrol and diesel prices is likely to impact transportation rates. Transport associations have asked the central government to fix the same transportation rates for the entire country. “There is a provision in the Motor vehicles act which allows for this. We have sent a proposal to the centre and our apex association has been conducting meetings with officials. Increasing fuel prices has made it difficult for transport business operators to survive,” said Baba Shinde, director, All India Motor Transport Congress (Maharashtra). Rickshaw unions have claimed that the hike in CNG prices impacts profits of rickshaw drivers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/petrol-crosses-110-litre-mark-diesel-at-99-36-litre-and-cng-hiked-by-2-6-kg-in-pune-101634230851295.html
14-10-2021||Noida||Dengue tally in Gautam Budh Nagar reaches 178, door-to-door campaign to start||The total number of dengue cases in Gautam Budh Nagar has reached 178, with 21 new cases reported on Wednesday, of which 14 are currently under treatment at various hospitals in the district, according to official data.The number of dengue cases in the district has been rising steeply this past week, with 78 new cases reported in the district since October 10. “The cases are being monitored and while the number of cases is increasing, the situation is under control as patients are recovering quickly and the number of critical cases is low. We are carrying out testing in areas where new cases are being reported and conducting extensive fogging and anti-larvae medicine spraying drives,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.The health department is gearing up for a two-week ‘Dastak’ programme or door-to-door campaign for the identification and treatment of patients affected by various diseases like dengue and malaria. Under the Dastak programme, healthworkers of ASHA and Anganwadis will go door to door and educate residents on measures to be taken to prevent vector-borne and communicable diseases. The ‘Dastak’ programme will run from October 18 to November 1.“The healthworkers will also destroy any breeding sites of mosquitoes they find during the campaign by eliminating unnecessary water collection in the houses. Also, all local bodies and district panchayat raj officers have been requested to prevent unnecessary waterlogging, ensure regular cleaning of drains, regular lifting and disposal of garbage, regular chlorination of drinking water and trimming of bushes and vegetation,” said Sharma.He added that the malaria department has been tasked to ensure that there is no unnecessary waterlogging in government offices by cleaning and emptying water coolers and tankers at the offices every Saturday. A similar programme is carried out in Uttar Pradesh every year in March, July and October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dengue-tally-in-gautam-budh-nagar-reaches-178-door-to-door-campaign-to-start-101634230192190.html
14-10-2021||Pune||10 solid waste plants not functional, PMC to recover ₹9.71 crore from firm||At least ten thermal composting plants are non-functional in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits from the last five years. The civic body has now decided to recover Rs9.71 crore from Ecoman Enviro Solutions Pvt Limited and demanded 12 per cent interest on the amount.The standing committee of the PMC had given nod to file a case of recovery from the concerned company.It is to be recalled that the same company did the cartel for getting the tenders in PMC. HT had exposed severe strictures passed by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) on cartelisation and bid-rigging in the PMC in October 2017.Hemant Rasne, chairman, standing committee, said, “The PMC had appointed Ecoman Enviro Solutions Pvt Limited for erecting ten thermal plants. It was expected that they would do processing on wet garbage and plants were erected at Peshwe Park, Ghole road and others, but they have failed to do so. It is decided that the company would do its operations and maintenance.”“Standing committee has asked to recover Rs9.71 crore from the company as well the interest rate on the amount. PMC would file suit for it. The company erected eight plants of five metric tonnes per day capacity and the rest two plants have three metric tonnes per day capacity. But they are not functional, it is not able to do the process the garbage,” he said.Civic activist Maj Gen (Retd) SCN Jatar filed a complaint with the Competition Commission of India (CCI). It then imposed a fine on the contractors for rigging the bid over five thermal composting plants.The CCI in its final order has imposed a fine of ₹3.57 crores on six firms for colluding with PMC and undertaking bid-rigging while filing tenders for thermal composting garbage plants in 2014. The CCI conducted an enquiry on the basis of a complaint from Nagrik Chetna Manch, an NGO of alert citizen activists.HT had reported in detail the nexus citing how the contractors and officers had telephonic conversations on multiple occasions and how the tender documents were uploaded from a computer belonging to the PMC.The tenders pertained to the five thermal composting plants at various locations including Kharadi, Ghole Patil road and Peshwe Park, and were worth ₹14 crores. In their order, the commission observed that various individuals including the proprietor, partner and director of the firms coordinated to “rig the tenders by way of submitting proxy/cover bids.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10-solid-waste-plants-not-functional-pmc-to-recover-rs-9-71-crore-from-firm-101634230190886.html
14-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad flyover accident: Tree broke bus’s fall, saved lives, locals say||A pipal tree growing through the retaining wall of the Bhatia Morh flyover sustained severe damage after a speeding bus fell off the flyover on Wednesday night. However, the tree may have saved several lives by breaking the bus’s fall.The private chartered bus was ferrying six employees of a Noida company to Ghaziabad. One person was killed and four passengers injured when the driver of the bus hit a two-wheeler and lost control of the vehicle. The bus then careened off the flyover, the police said.“One person died, while four were injured. One of the injured is still on ventilator support. We have lodged an FIR on the basis of a complaint filed by the deceased person’s brother. The driver of the bus also sustained severe injuries and is under treatment,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city).“It seems that the driver lost control of the bus after hitting a two-wheeler. The bus broke through the central verge as well as the crash barriers on the other side of the flyover before falling off the structure. It hit the tree first, which broke its fall to the ground,” he said.The bus fell from a height of about 15-20 feet, witnesses said.Residents of the Daulatpura locality nearby said that had the tree not broken the bus’s fall, there may have been more casualties. “It was around 9.10pm on Wednesday. I was at my shop when I heard a thunder-like sound that lasted for a couple of minutes. Then I saw a bus crash into the pipal tree and fall to the ground. Had the tree not been there, the bus would have hit our shops and nearby houses. This tree was damaged, but it saved a lot of lives,” said Dheeraj Soni, the owner of a jewellery shop near the incident site.He said the tree is estimated to be about 15-20 years old, and has been growing through the retaining wall of the flyover.Sanjay Chaudhary, who owns a medical store, said that the area was crowded at the time of the incident. “We are thankful for the tree that prevented further damage,” he added.“As soon as the bus fell, locals came running and broke the windowpanes of the bus to pull out passengers,” he said.Ghaziabad district magistrate RK Singh has ordered an inquiry into the incident. “The inquiry will be headed by the city magistrate, and will highlight reasons behind the incident as well as suggest measures to prevent such incidents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-flyover-accident-tree-broke-bus-s-fall-saved-lives-locals-say-101634230130670.html
14-10-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar reports its 1st Covid-19 death in four months||A 67-year-old resident of Sector 50 in Noida succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday night at a private hospital becoming the viral disease’s first casualty in Gautam Budh Nagar in the last four months, according to official data.The woman had come to the private hospital in Sector 62 on Sunday for a regular health check-up as she was suffering from hypothyroidism, hypertension, diabetes and a cardiac ailment, said a senior official of the district health department.“The patient had come to the hospital to be checked up for a cardiac ailment on Sunday. As all hospitals have made Covid-19 tests mandatory before admission, she was also tested. On Monday, her report showed she was positive for Covid-19 and she was admitted to the hospital. However, her condition worsened because she had several comorbidities and she passed away on Tuesday night due to multi-organ failure,” said the official.Her 70-year-old husband also tested positive for Covid-19 and has been isolating himself at home, said officials.“After the patient tested positive, the hospital informed the health department and we tested her husband and her domestic helper for Covid-19. Her husband tested positive and is in home isolation while the domestic help’s report was negative,” said the official, adding that the department does not have information on whether the patient was vaccinated or not.According to official data, the last Covid-19 death was reported in the district on June 13, 2021, while the first-ever Covid-19 death in the district was reported on May 6, 2020. Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer of Gautam Budh Nagar, said the district currently has 16 active Covid-19 patients.“After Tuesday’s Covid-19 casualty, the death toll in the district has reached 467. The total number of positive cases in the district so far is 63,333, while the total number of people recovered is 62,850. As is the norm with all cases that are found positive for Covid-19, the health department is tracing and testing the contacts of the Covid-positive patients,” said Dr Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-reports-its-1st-covid-19-death-in-four-months-101634229950869.html
14-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: BJP protests changing Atal scheme’s name||Criticising the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) for changing the name of the Atal Apartments scheme to Sahir Ludhianvi Apartments, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders staged a symbolic protest near the foundation stone of the Atal Apartments project in Shaheed Karnail Singh Nagar on Thursday. Holding placards in their hands, the leaders termed the move to change the name a political vendetta.BJP leader Vineet Pal Singh Monga said the Atal Apartments scheme was launched in 2011 and the foundation stone was laid by the then local bodies minister Tikshan Sood. The scheme has been dropped twice by the department in the last 10 years and now it has been relaunched by changing the name.“We are not against naming any place in the name of Sahir Ludhianvi, but the name of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee should not be removed. If LIT Apartments in B block, SBS Nagar, can be named after former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, then why not the apartments in Karnail Singh Nagar be named after Atal Bihari Vajpayee,” said Monga. He said they had also written to deputy commission Varinder Sharma and local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra and they would be forced to start an agitation if the apartments were not named after Vajpayee.Despite attempts, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam could not be reached for comments. However, he had earlier said the name had been changed to pay tribute to legendary poet Sahir Ludhianvi and there was no political vendetta behind the move. He said the Atal Apartments scheme had been dropped and the design of the apartment had also been changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-bjp-protests-changing-atal-scheme-s-name-101634229350297.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Mula-Mutha riverfront development project approved without discussion||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given nod for the Mula-Mutha riverfront development project worth Rs2,619 crore within a few minutes and without enough discussion, debate and consultation.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar submitted the proposal at the eleventh hour, and all parties have given a nod for the same.Many elected members have raised voice against the decision of the standing committee.Vandana Chavan, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP, has raised objections against the ‘hasty’ decision regarding the megaproject.NCP’s former standing committee chairman Vishal Tambe said, “This is the city’s biggest project, but the municipal commissioner did not send any brief to elected members, and many are not aware of the project. How can he submit a proposal without following a proper channel? Even the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ruling party, approved the project within few minutes.”“We are not opposing the project, but there should have been proper discussion and debate, and experts should have been involved,” he said.BJP’s senior leader Ujwal Keskar said, “The Mula-Mutha riverfront development project is a megaproject. Ideally, in such cases, it is expected that there should be consultations with elected members, experts in the field, citizens and media.”“I am surprised how the municipal commissioner brought the proposal at the eleventh hour. If it came on the docket, elected members would get time at least to read and study it. It will even create awareness among the citizens,” he said.Congress leader Arvind Shinde said, “These are the side effects of massive majority in the PMC. BJP got a huge majority, and now they are considering that they know everything. Without any consultation, a project got approved.”Shinde said, “The project will impact the city in the long term. Pune has many experts, and they can give suggestions to improve it. We oppose how the project was bought in at the eleventh hour and approved without proper discussion. Ideally, the municipal administration should send brief to all elected members.”Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The general body had given nod for the project in 2017 and submitted it to state government when I was standing committee chairman. The state government has given approval for forming Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for it. Now we need to start execution. The proposal came in front of standing for starting work on ground. How many days we should wait?”Pune municipal commissioner was not immediately available for comments.Many elected members within BJP alleged that they were not aware of the project. But only a few leaders are making decisions.Many senior leaders raised questions about the municipal commissioner’s role. Elected members from across parties said that it is understood that the ruling BJP had a clear majority, but why commissioner coming under their pressure. Ideally, for any proposal, the municipal commissioner submits it a few days before. It will then appear in the agenda and the meeting subjects will be announced to all party members and the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mulamutha-riverfront-development-project-approved-without-discussion-101634229230331.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||40% cut to development outlay in Maharashtra; lawmakers get whopping rise in local development fund||Amid the financial crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has initiated a cut to the development funds by 40%. This means the state government would be able to spend around 60% of the ₹1.30 lakh crore budgeted outlay for the development works. The state government issued a government resolution (GR) on Friday, directing all the departments to plan the expenditure on development works (scheme expenditure in government parley) in such a way that it is restricted to 60%. The departments have also been instructed that 50% of the outlay for the development works will be released by December-end while the remaining will be released till the end of the fiscal year 2022. The committed expenditure, meant for wages, pension, the interest of the loans, repayments of the loans will however be released cent per cent of the outlay. “In first two quarters, we had released only 30% of the outlay for development works. It has been increased to 50% by the end of the third quarter due to the improvement in the revenue receipts in the second quarter ended in September. If the receipts improve further, we may take the expenditure to 70 to 75% by the end of the year. We are in a better position this year, as last year the funds of the development works were released only for the inevitable heads like district development funds, expenditure related to public health and schools etc. We had to borrow heavily for committed expenditure and it led to the fiscal deficit of around ₹46,000 crore in 2020-21,” said an official from the health department. The revenue receipts of the state by end of September were merely 35% or ₹1.29 lakh crore against the annual estimates of ₹3.69 lakh crore. All the major sectors including excise, stamp duty and registration, taxes on vehicles and GST have received beating due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We cannot cut short the expenditure on the committed expenditure on salary, pensions and other establishment cost, interests and repayment of borrowings, which is collectively more than 60% of the revenue receipts of ₹3.69 lakh crore. Result of it, the development works get hampered,” another official said. Meanwhile, the state government also increased the local area development fund for legislators to ₹4 crore a year from the existing ₹3 crore a year. The rise was announced in a budgetary speech by finance and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. This has been the consecutive rise of ₹1 crore each for the past two years as it was rose to ₹3 crore in 2020-21 from ₹2 crore existed since 2011-12. The decision announced on Friday will burden the state exchequer by ₹350 crore more. Around 288 MLAs and 62 MLCs will get ₹1,400 crore in the ongoing financial year. “This is the compliance of his assurance given during the budget session. The rise in the local area development fund will help to boost the development works at the local level,” reads the statement issued by the office of Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/40-cut-to-development-outlay-in-maharashtra-lawmakers-get-whopping-rise-in-local-development-fund-101634227369745.html
14-10-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata’s ‘Burj Khalifa’ pandal sealed, trains cancelled to control crowd||Kolkata Police on Thursday stopped the entry of visitors to the ‘Burj Khalifa’ pandal in Salt Lake, which was drawing thousands of visitors every day, even as the Eastern Railway had to cancel a few trains to prevent pandal hoppers from arriving in the city from adjoining areas. “As the crowd was swelling every day, a decision was jointly taken by the police and the puja committee to stop pandal hoppers from visiting the pandal to avoid any kind of accidents. We have facilities to showcase it virtually. That would continue,” said Sujit Bose, state fire minister. Patronised by Bose, the Sreebhumi Sporting Club puja pandal was built resembling the Burj Khalifa skyscraper in Dubai and had become a major crowd puller this year. Earlier on Monday, the laser show of the pandal had to be called off after at least three pilots complained to the air traffic control (ATC) tower at the NSCBI airport that they were having difficulties while landing. The airport is located close to the venue of the popular puja. “Nothing is more important than human lives. A joint decision was taken with the puja committee to ban visitors from going near the pandal. This will continue for the next few days. Only local residents will be allowed,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Police. Even though the Calcutta high court had banned the entry of visitors inside pandals and had ordered organisers to put up barricades, thousands of people were gathering outside the barricades of the ‘Burj Khalifa’ pandal and other pandals in the city to have a glimpse of the idols and decorations. The Eastern Railway had to cancel some special trains to stop people from the districts arriving in Kolkata and Salt Lake. The weeklong-Durga Puja is the biggest festival in West Bengal. “Though local trains are not running yet, some special trains were running for railway employees and health workers. But people, mostly pandal hoppers, were boarding them to come to Kolkata. Around 13 pairs of such trains in Sealdah and Howrah division had to be cancelled to check the flow of people. Health experts have warned that a third wave of Covid-19 may hit,” said a senior railway official. In 2020, there was a major spike in the daily count of Covid-19 cases after the festive season. Health experts had blamed it on the movement of people without adhering to safety norms like wearing masks. On Wednesday, the daily count of Covid-19 cases in Kolkata had shot up to more than 200 after a gap of almost four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkatas-burj-khalifa-pandal-sealed-trains-cancelled-to-control-crowd-101634226109176.html
14-10-2021||Pune||IT engineer duped to the tune of ₹73.59 lakh by online fraudster||PUNE The Wakad police have lodged a complaint against a person who met an IT engineer on social media site, promised marriage and cheated her to the tune of ₹73.59 lakh.According to the police, the incident took place between June 2021 and July 2021.The 35-year-old victim lodged a complaint on Wednesday against the accused identified as Siddhartha Ravi.The accused got the victim to transfer money to eighteen different bank accounts.The investigators said that the victim works with a prominent IT company and had begun searching for a probable bridegroom on different apps. She got in touch with Ravi who shared his contact number with her. He told her that he stayed abroad but would come back and settle in India. He sent her expensive gifts, won her confidence and promised to marry her.He later told her that he would be coming to India to meet. He called her and said that he had been stopped at Delhi airport by the customs department as he had cash of ₹1 crore with him. He told her that in order to free himself from the custody, he will have to pay different charges, Goods and Services Tax (GST), fines and taxes estimated to be worth ₹73.59 lakh and took the money via online transfers in different accounts.The woman later learnt that she had been cheated and approached the cyber cell of the police and lodged a first information report (FIR) against the accused.Police sub-inspector MB Jagtap said that an offence under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) 420 ( cheating) and 34 ( common intention) has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/it-engineer-duped-to-the-tune-of-rs-73-59-lakh-by-online-fraudster-101634225929116.html
14-10-2021||Patna||Darbhanga priest gunned down inside Kankali temple; public lynch 1 suspect||DARBHANGA: Four armed men shot dead Darbhanga’s Kankali temple priest, Rajiv Kumar Jha, early on Thursday morning, police said. Three of them were caught by local people and thrashed. One of them died later, people aware of the matter said.One person, Shambhu Choudhary, who sustained injuries when he tried to intervene, was in the initial shooting, has been admitted to a local hospital and is said to be out of danger.According to people who were out on a morning walk, the four suspects drove down to the temple located in the Darbhanga Raj Fort complex, popularly known as Ram Bagh campus, in a blue car, and walked right in.It was 4am, and the priest was inside. Rajiv Kumar Jha spent the night at the temple because the puja for the Navratra festivities had continued well past midnight.Witnesses outside heard multiple gunshots. Rajiv Kumar Jha, the priest said to be in his late forties, was their target, a police officer said.Passers-by and devotees reacted immediately and caught hold of three of them; the fourth escaped.The young man who died in the mob lynching was identified by the police as Pulkit Singh, son of a clerk at the LN Mithila University. The other two are being treated at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital.Darbhanga senior superintendent of police Babu Ram said a special team has been set up to carry out the probe and track down the fourth man involved in the shooting. “The assailants were not career criminals, contract killers or involved in robberies,” he said.The SSP said the shooting appeared to be linked to an altercation on Wednesday night.Two of the four suspects were sitting by the pond near the temple. “Due to some reason, the two had an altercation with the priest, his family and some others.”The two left the complex but were back six hours later with two more accomplices when they allegedly gunned down the priest.A pistol and six spent cartridges have been seized from the spot.“Instructions have been given to conduct raids at places where anti-social elements gather in the evening”, the SSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-priest-gunned-down-inside-kankali-temple-public-lynch-1-suspect-101634225868991.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi's pollution control campaign to start on October 18, car fumes top agenda||Delhi Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday said 2,500 civil defence volunteers will be deployed under the city government's 'Red Light On, Gadi Off' campaign starting October 18 for curbing vehicular pollution. The drive will be prominently carried out at 100 traffic intersections spread across 13 police districts in the city, he said, adding that a mock drill of the campaign will be conducted on Sunday.Rai said that the decision was taken after a joint meeting with the Delhi Police, civil defence officials, environment department officials and SDMs on Thursday."In the meeting, it was decided that this campaign to check pollution will be carried out on 100 crossings in 13 police districts. At 90 crossings, batches of 10 civil defence volunteers each will be deployed. At the remaining 10 major intersections, batches of 20 civil defence volunteers each will be engaged," Rai said.Major crossings where 20 volunteers each will be deployed include ITO, Bhagwandas crossing on Tilak Marg, Tolstoy crossing on Barakhamba Road, Chandgi Ram Akhara crossing, near Moti Bagh Metro, Peeragarhi Chowk, Prithviraj Road crossing, Rajesh Pilot Marg, Madhuban Chowk, Pitampura metro crossing and Karkari Mor. He said these civil defence volunteers will work as 'Paryavaran Marshals' and also hand out pamphlets carrying information regarding Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's three appeals to the public. To help fight pollution in Delhi, Kejriwal had on Tuesday appealed people to actively participate in 'Red Light On, Gadi Off' campaign and also avoid using their car at least for one day in a week. He had also appealed to Delhiites to report any case of violation of pollution norms on the Green Delhi App. The minister further said that the main aim of this campaign is to cut down on vehicular pollution. He said the campaign will continue for a month till November 18. The civil defence volunteers will be deployed in two shifts of 8 am to 2 pm and 2 pm to 8 pm. He said that Delhi government will do whatever it can to keep the levels of pollution considerably low in the city."As per a PCRA (Petroleum Conservation Research Association) report, switching off engines on red lights can reduce pollution by about 13-20 per cent and can save around ₹2,500 crore annually. Last year this campaign was a success so we appeal the public to make it a success again this year," Rai said. Later in a statement, the government said that by switching off cars at red lights, ₹250 crore can be saved annually.He said that to make this campaign successful, RWAs, market associations, clubs and NGOs are also being reached out so that they can spread awareness about the campaign through their platforms. Rai said that Delhi has to bear two kinds of pollution -- one, that comes from within, and the second, that comes from other states. "Our responsibility is to reduce the pollution that we internally create to keep ourselves healthy. We are in dialogue with other states and the Centre as well, and have appealed to them to reduce stubble burning pollution, but we do not know when they will hear us," Rai said. He said that the government was making all-out efforts and if the people of Delhi work together to implement 'Red Light On, Gadi Off' initiative, then it will be successful in reducing pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-pollution-control-campaign-to-start-on-october-18-car-fumes-top-agenda-101634224045725.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Sinhagad Express train to resume operations from October 18||The Sinhagad Express train will resume operations from Monday, October 17 on the Mumbai-Pune route. For almost last four months the train service was closed by the Central Railways (CR).The special train (train no. 01009) will leave Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 17.50 hrs daily with effect from on Monday and arrive at the Pune railway station at 21.50 hrs the same day.While on its return journey, the special train (train no. 01010) will leave Pune railway station at 06.05 hrs daily and arrive at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 09.55 hrs the same day.The train will halt at Dadar, Thane, Kalyan, Karjat, Lonavla, Chinchwad, Pimpri, Khadki and Shivaji nagar. And the seating composition for the same train is one AC chair car and 13-second class seating coaches.“The bookings for both the special trains on normal fare will open on October 15 at all computerised reservation centres and on website www.irctc.co.in. Only passengers having confirmed tickets will be permitted to board this special train. And it is appealed to the passengers to follow all norms, standard operating procedure (SOPs) related to Covid during the boarding, travel and at the destination.” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sinhagad-express-train-to-resume-operations-from-october-18-101634225688937.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||CISH helps Rataul mangoes get GI tag||Lucknow : The famous Rataul mango, cultivated in Baghpat district of Uttar Pradesh was awarded the Geographical Indication (GI) certificate by the Geographical Indication Registry, Chennai in a programme held in Varanasi on Tuesday. The mango got its name Rataul from the village where it originated. Popular for its special aroma and taste, the mango is also claimed by Pakistan as its native produce. The claim is contested by Rataul Mango Producers’ Association which had been making efforts to get the Geographical Indicator (GI) tag for the mango variety for over a decade. . Its GI certification process was accelerated by the Central Institute of Subtropical Horticulture (CISH), Lucknow as a facilitator since 2020. Director of CISH Shailendra Rajan said, “A GI tag provides a true identity to a produce that ensures that people of the region from where the produce originated profit from it. The Malihabadi Dussehri mangoes are among the first varieties to get a GI tag.” Counted among the excellent mangoes of north India, Rataul is known to only limited people in western UP despite its origins from the same region. The variety was taken by Pakistan and is grown as Anwar Ratoul and exported to West Asian countries. Although the variety originated in India, its export market had been exploited by the neighbouring country. “CISH submitted applications for registration of Chausa of UP and Gaurjit from eastern up. Registration of these two varieties is also in progress. The registration process for Banarasi Langra is on and in the near future the certificate may be given to these renowned mangoes of India,” said Rajan. The mango varieties from UP are significant in terms of intellectual property rights, as they are grown in Pakistan which exports cargoes to several nations. GI protection can help in the establishment of markets internationally for Indian products because of the country of origin. “With the GI certification, the demand for this mango will increase in foreign countries as well in the domestic market and the farmers who produce it will benefit from it,” said Rajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cish-helps-rataul-mangoes-get-gi-tag-101634225568932.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||13-year-old Ulhasnagar girl raped by man she met on social media||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her social media friend whom she met for the first time in Shahad on Wednesday evening.She was threatened and reached home in a bad condition after which her relatives and parents asked her about the same.The survivor, a resident of Ulhasnagar, narrated the incident, after which they reached Ulhasnagar police station to register a case. The accused was arrested immediately.The girl met the 22-year-old man on Instagram a few weeks ago. They became friends and he called her to meet near Shahad.A police officer said, “The accused lied to her that he was taking her to his house but instead took her to a lodge and raped her. He later threatened to murder her if she revealed anything about the same. The girl, who was in shock, went home and was crying constantly. Her relatives asked her what happened. That was when she narrated the incident. Later, her parents filed an FIR against the man under IPC Section 376 and POCSO Sections. We have arrested the accused immediately from the Ulhasnagar area.”The police refused to reveal the name of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/13yearold-ulhasnagar-girl-raped-by-man-she-met-on-social-media-101634225088959.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices hiked again in Mumbai: Petrol costs Rs110.75 a litre, diesel Rs101.40||After a gap of a day, the upward graph of fuel prices continued on Thursday with an increase of 34 paise in petrol prices and 37 paise in diesel. One litre of petrol now costs ₹110.75 in Mumbai, while a litre of diesel is available at ₹101.40. On Wednesday fuel prices remained stable as petrol was priced at ₹110.41, while diesel was priced at ₹101.03 in the city. In Maharashtra’s Parbhani petrol crossed ₹113 on Thursday and was priced at ₹113.30, while a litre of diesel was available at ₹102.95 in Amravati. On Sunday, petrol crossed ₹110 in Mumbai, while diesel crossed ₹100 on Saturday. In Mumbai’s neighbourhood, Thane fuel prices hiked as well on Thursday and petrol inched closer to ₹111. A litre of petrol was priced at ₹110.89 while one litre of diesel was available at ₹101.54.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-hiked-again-in-mumbai-petrol-costs-rs110-75-a-litre-diesel-rs10140-101634224968802.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Sena chief to sound bugle for civic polls in Dussehra rally||Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to sound the bugle for the Mumbai civic polls at the party’s annual Dussehra rally on Friday. For a second year in a row, the traditional Dussehra rally of the party would be held indoors. The Sena has organised the gathering at Shanmukhananda Hall in Sion, where key party leaders, ministers, key functionaries, Mumbai Mayor, among others, will remain present. For Sena workers, the rally will be broadcast online. With the BMC elections around four months away, the rally will be a platform for Thackeray to launch the party’s campaign for the civic body election. Traditionally in the Dussehra rally, the Sena chief gives directions to the party cadre on its programme for next year. Mumbai, Thane and other key local body polls will be held early next year. Sena insiders said a presentation will also be made, showcasing various developmental work undertaken by the Sena-controlled civic body in Mumbai over the past five years.A party functionary said, “Over the past five years, the BMC has taken up several projects, including civic infrastructure roads and bridges, sanitation, the coastal road project, and started municipal schools with ICSE curriculum, among other things. A detailed presentation of all the various development work carried out by us will be made in the gathering.”Thackeray’s speech on Friday evening will also be the first time where he will address a gathering as the party chief after a gap of few months. He is expected to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the BJP-led central government over the alleged use of central agencies against Sena ministers and key party functionaries.Senior Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that Thackeray will give a befitting reply to political opponents who were engaged in a “campaign” against the Shiv Sena leader in the past few months. “In the last two years, some people did not have any other work and had started a campaign [to defame Shiv Sena]. A befitting reply will be given to this [by Thackeray]... Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray will speak on national politics and about Maharashtra. Besides that, he will also speak about developments in the State,” said Raut, who is also the chief spokesperson of the party. In an apparent attack on the Centre over the rising fuel prices, Raut said that the Dussehra rally will mark the beginning of the end for the government. He said, “We have to burn the Ravana of the rising fuel prices in 2024. We will start this from tomorrow’s ‘Ravana dahana’ (the ritual of burning effigies of demon king Ravana).”Shivaji Park lit upShivaji Park has been completely illuminated with the use of MLC funds of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The project includes illumination of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Statue, for the first time since it was installed in 1966. Its illumination includes LED projector lights, which will highlight the various facets of the statue, linear wash lights to highlight the pedestal of the statue, LED strips along groove of the pedestal, LED ‘mashal’ lights on four sides of the statue, which will give the effect of a burning flame, spike lights along the statue for beautification of plants, among others. 42 LED multi-colour globe lights along the pathway have also been installed, along with colour changing projector lights to highlight waterfall and trees near Bengal Club, 25 decorative bollards along the pathway, LED up lights to highlight facade of Meenatai Thackeray statue, The lights and fittings have been imported from Italy and will be a permanent feature of the park. Lights will be operated online like change of colours of light of statue, globe lights. Cost of the project, including annual maintenance, is Rs1.25 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-chief-to-sound-bugle-for-civic-polls-in-dussehra-rally-101634224792518.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena versus BJP in Maharashtra: Pune, Thane and Nashik civic polls will see tough battle||Not just the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), Pune, Thane and Nashik local body polls too are likely to see an intense battle between the Shiv Sena and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the two parties that have better influence over the state’s urban population compared to the Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). The civic polls in these cities are significant in the context of the next assembly elections, as these cities together have 40 Assembly constituencies and cash-rich civic bodies. The NCP and Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) are also likely to be key players in these cities. Although retaining power in the Mumbai civic body will be Sena’s top priority, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party is also planning to wrest power in civic bodies of Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Nashik, which are controlled by the BJP. It will also try to ensure it retains power in the Thane civic body. For the BJP, the challenge is to retain power in Pune, Nashik and Pimpri-Chinchwad, especially if the Shiv Sena and NCP join hands to contest polls in these cities. The NCP has a strong presence in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and sizeable presence in Nashik. Next year, over 190 municipal councils, 11 municipal corporations and over 20 zilla parishads will go to polls, which are being touted as mini-assembly elections. The battle for Pune Pune district has two civic bodies – Pune and its neighbouring city, Pimpri-Chinchwad. In 2017, the BJP won both the civic bodies. For the Sena, the victory in civic polls will be needed to expand its foothold in Pune, where it has no legislators. Over the past few months, senior Sena leaders have been visiting Pune city and holding meetings with party functionaries. In September last week, Sena scion and minister Aaditya Thackeray visited Pimpri and Pune cities. He also chaired a review meeting with Sena’s corporators of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies. Sena leader Sanjay Raut also toured Pune earlier this week and held meetings with office-bearers, indicating the party has Pune on its priority list. This was Raut’s third visit there in the past two months. Sena insiders said senior party leaders will hold talks with NCP leaders and Congress over alliance for local body polls. The Sena has already held meetings with local functionaries to gauge the mood among the cadre on the issue of alliance. In Pune city, the Sena currently has 10 corporators, while the BJP has 99 in the 164-member body. The NCP, meanwhile, is stronger in the city with 42 seats. In the 128-member Pimpri-Chinchwad civic body, the Sena has nine seats, while the NCP and BJP have 36 and 77 seats, respectively. Internal discussions between Sena leaders and local functionaries suggested the Sena is unlikely to go above 15 to 18 seats in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, given its limited presence in assembly constituencies. “We will try [for an alliance] so that there is no division of votes. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi will try to remain together [for local body polls]. I have said this earlier as well that the next mayor in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad will be ours (Sena’s). Puneiites also wish that the saffron flag of Shiv Sena should fly atop the municipal corporation,” Raut said during his visit to Pune earlier this week. Traditionally, a large chunk of seats from Pune district went to the BJP in Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, when the two parties were in an alliance. The constituencies there have more Brahmin voters than any other cities in the state. With major seats in their side, coupled with caste equations, the BJP was successful in gaining control of the Pune civic body in 2017 from NCP, which held sway in the region. The Sena was not able to expand electorally in Pune despite a good presence at the grassroots. Not just the BJP, it also faced tough competition from the NCP over the years. Currently, the Shiv Sena does not have a single MLA from any of the 21 assembly seats in the Pune district. Thus, gaining control of local bodies, including rural and urban bodies, is crucial for the party, Sena insiders said. “For several years we have been working in Pune. [Sena Supremo] Balasaheb [Thackeray] too spent a lot of time in Pune. But we were never able to have our mayor in Pune, and we regret it. We feel that this time we can fulfil our dream to install a Shiv Sena mayor,” Raut added. In a bid to fulfil this “dream”, the party has carried out organisational changes in September. It appointed two key people in Pune to coordinate with the workers in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and the party leadership. According to party insiders, Aaditya Thackeray handpicked Sachin Ahir as Sampark Pramukh for Pune district, as well as Aditya Shirodkar, who quit MNS’s student wing to join the Sena in July, as deputy Sampark Pramukh. Meanwhile, the BJP is confident of keeping control of local bodies in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Jagdish Mulik, a former legislator from Vadegaon Sheri in Pune, and in charge of the BJP unit in Pune said, “Traditionally, the Shiv Sena never had any hold in Pune. People will vote us back to power. Sena has about nine of 10 corporators, which will come down to four or five.” A BJP functionary from Pimpri-Chinchwad, who did not wish to be named said, “The challenge before the BJP here will be the NCP and not Shiv Sena. The NCP has been strong in the region. They (NCP and Shiv Sena) have an advantage of being in power, but we are prepared for the challenge.” Raj Thackeray’s MNS could be a player in Pune and is likely to be part of BJP’s strategy. Nashik Nashik is controlled by the BJP with 66 seats in the 122-member body. The Sena has 35 seats while the NCP and Congress have six seats each and MNS has five seats. Raut, who is in charge of the Nashik district, has visited Nashik and engaged with Sena workers to mobilise them ahead of the crucial civic polls. In Nashik, the tussle between the Sena and NCP was in the open in the last few weeks with Sena MLA Suhas Kande engaging in a war of words with NCP minister and Nashik guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal over the allotment of development funds. Kande, who defeated Bhujbal’s son Pankaj in the 2019 assembly polls in Nandgaon, even moved the court over seeking the removal of the senior NCP leaders as the guardian minister. Bhau Chaudhari, Sena Sampark Pramukh of Nashik district, said the party is focusing on strengthening itself at the organisational level. The MNS was in power in Nashik civic body before it was won by the BJP in 2017 polls. The MNS is hoping to regain the only civic body it had control on but it will fight a crowded battle with the BJP on one side and probably a Shiv Sena-NCP alliance on the other. MNS chief Raj Thackeray has started tours of Pune and Nashik. Thackeray’s son Amit too has been touring the two cities. Raj has held meetings with party brass in Pune and Nashik. MNS held the Nashik municipal corporation in 2012, but it lost to BJP in 2017. The BJP is undecided on alliance with MNS here. Thane In Thane, the Shiv Sena controls the civic body. Like Mumbai, control over Thane civic body is a matter of prestige for the party. The Sena has 67 seats in the 131-member body. The NCP is the second largest with 34 seats, followed by the BJP with 23 seats. The Congress has three seats. A Sena functionary said, “The TMC has traditionally been our bastion and we will regain control of it.” BJP gameplan According to party insiders, the BJP is gearing up for next year’s mini-assembly polls in a major way. Party campaign will be spearheaded by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. “Fadnavis has a good reputation in these cities due to the infrastructure work undertaken by him during his tenure as chief minister. Besides, Prime Minister Modi has huge following among urban voters which will help us more than the 2017 civic polls,” said a key party leader. The party is putting together massive election machinery and unleash a campaign which will be much bigger than its rivals’. Besides, the party is considering a tacit understanding with MNS to dent Shiv Sena’s numbers, as the voter base is largely the same for the two parties. MVA front a non-starter The MVA allies have not formally decided to forge an alliance in any of the civic or district bodies that are scheduled to go to polls early next year, but the Sena and NCP are considering joining hands in Thane, Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Nashik, according to MVA insiders. Leaders said they would assess the situation and the mood of the functionaries and decide. The recent bypolls to district councils have given a boost to the MVA but they are yet not clear on how they will fight the elections. An alliance between the MVA partners could help them keep control of these important civic bodies, and more importantly, keep BJP out of power. The recent move by the MVA government to reintroduce the multi-member ward in the municipal corporation and municipal council areas will help them force an alliance. In municipal corporation areas, a three-member ward panel has been adopted, which could ease out alliance issues for the Sena, NCP and Congress. In the new system, voters will elect a three-member panel in each of the wards in municipal corporation areas. “It can prove to be helpful to iron out alliance if it is decided on. We can accommodate alliance partners in a 2:1 ratio depending on each party’s strength in that area,” the leader added. NCP state president Jayant Patil said they would try and work out an alliance with MVA partners wherever possible for local body polls. “We will try and come together for the municipal corporation, municipal council elections. I am confident that wherever possible, there we will have an alliance. It may not happen for all [elections] but largely we can try to have,” he said. He added that despite no alliance in the Zilla Parishad and Panchayat Samiti bypolls the three parties could keep BJP away from growing. Political analyst Hemant Desai said that the Sena and NCP has the advantage of being in power while going into the civic elections. Desai however dismissed Sena’s claim to install its mayor in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. “It was a childish statement, given the fact it it only has nine or 10 corporators. However, the MVA allies can join hands in Pune district. In Nashik, it will be a contest between BJP and Shiv Sena. The Sena will be able to regain Thane on the back of work done by the civic body and the mass popularity of Eknath Shinde. BJP will, however, get central ministers like Narayan Rane, Kapil Patil to campaign to use PM Modi’s popularity. Overall, the ties between Uddhav Thackeray and Sharad Pawar is good so ironing out issues over alliance will not be an issue.”Madhav Bhandari, vice president of Maharashtra BJP, said that the party will retain ground in Pune and Nashik civic bodies. He added that BJP will take control of the Thane municipal corporation as the people of the city are tired of the corruption and hooliganism of Shiv Sena. “Shiv Sena has negligible presence in Pune, whereas NCP has some strengthen in local bodies. We have done good work in the last five years and especially in the Covid period. We are sure of getting the mandate of the people. We are organisationally strong in Pune and Nashik right down to booth level, while the MVA will use its power unabashedly. The people of Thane are fed up of the corruption and hooliganism of the Shiv Sena for years now, and they will not be able to keep this bastion of theirs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-versus-bjp-in-maharashtra-pune-thane-and-nashik-civic-polls-will-see-tough-battle-101634224429209.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Oil tanker overturns in Thane; major traffic jam averted with quick police action||A major traffic jam that could have stretched into most of the day was averted in a coordinated operation between the Thane, Navi Mumbai, Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar police in the early hours of Thursday.According to the Thane Traffic Police, a tanker carrying furnace oil lost control while negotiating the Gaimukh turn at high speed and overturned on the Ghodbunder-bound lane of the road at around 2.30am on Thursday. At the same time, a truck travelling in the opposite lane developed problems with its booster and broke down.“The oil from the tanker spilled out on the road, rendering it unfit for driving, while the broken down truck on the other lane also brought traffic to a standstill,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Balasaheb Patil, Thane Police said.Several teams of policemen from the Traffic Police as well as the Kasarvadavli police station, along with a fire brigade team were rushed to the spot. Officials said that the incident was all the more urgent because it happened during the time that heavy vehicles are allowed to pass through Thane. As per the existing rules, heavy vehicles can ply between 11pm and 5am in Thane city limits.“We contacted the Traffic Police officials in Navi Mumbai, Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar commissionerates, and asked them to not allow any more heavy vehicles towards Thane till the issue was resolved. Meanwhile, the fire brigade used pressure pumps to hose the road with water in order to wash the furnace oil away. Next, the road was covered with a layer of sand,” Patil said.He added that the entire process took close to three hours, and traffic started moving at around 5.15am on Thursday. The backlog that had accumulated over the night took over an hour to clear with a bottleneck being created at the Fountain Hotel. However, by the time peak commuting hours began, the traffic had resumed to its normal movement, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/oil-tanker-overturns-in-thane-major-traffic-jam-averted-with-quick-police-action-101634224128825.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||Mystery shrouds bulb holder box fitted with SIM cards, 5 detained||PRAYAGRAJ: The Kaushambi police have detained five people for questioning in connection with the bulb and holder boxes allegedly fitted with circuit boards, SIM cards, transmitters etc. Although, police are still clueless about the suspected device that was distributed in different areas of Kaushambi, the suspects are being thoroughly questioned by ATS, STF and intelligence agencies. Police officials said that the device had been sent to Bengaluru and Lucknow to be examined by experts to establish if it was being used for some illegal purpose. After investigations, police traced and detained the workers of the company which distributed the bulbs and holder box in different areas of Kaushambi in the past one month. On the basis of questioning, police prepared a list of people with whom the workers were in contact. It is believed that all people connected with the distribution of the suspected device will be traced and probed. Police officials said investigations till now had revealed that the LED bulb and holder boxes were being distributed by a Hyderabad-based company under Gramin Ujjwala Yojna, the objective behind which was to save electricity. However, the workers of the company offered the bulb and holder box to only selected people. The company officials claimed that the device read the carbon emitted by LED bulbs. However, the officials did not comment on why the consumers were not informed about the details of the device that was given to them. Police called the experts for examining the holder box but none of them could establish the motive behind the SIM card, circuit board, SD card etc found in the device. STF, ATS and officials of other agencies also examined the device for several hours after which ADG zone Prem Prakash issued instructions to send the device to Bengaluru and Lucknow for detailed examination. The report from these laboratories will reveal the exact objective of the device and whether or not it was capable of recording and transferring data. DSP STF, Navendu Kumar said prima facie it did not appear that the device could be used for ulterior motives. However, a conclusion would be drawn only after proper examination of the device by experts at Bengaluru and Lucknow. The workers and employees of the company were being questioned further in this connection, he added. Meanwhile, the intelligence wing of Kaushambi police recovered at least 80 holder boxes and 200 LED bulbs from the workers who were traced and detained on Wednesday night. The detained youths informed police that they used to work for JSN Company. The workers are based in Prayagraj but used to supply the holder box to consumers in Kaushambi and other districts. On the basis of questioning, raids are also being carried out in Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Mirzapur and other districts. To note, a team of youths approached people in market places in Kaushambi area around a month back and offered 12-watt bulb along with a holder box for only ₹10. The youths claimed that the original price of the bulb was ₹175 but it was given to selected people as an offer. A trader Brajesh Kesarwani of Nayi Bazar was also approached by two youths with the same offer. Brajesh took the holder box and bulb and started using it. However, the holder became defunct two days back. On Tuesday, Brajesh took the holder to an electrician who opened it for repair but was shocked to find a circuit board inside with a SIM card of a big telecom company. Moreover, the electrician claimed that an aerial, SD card and transmitter device was fitted in the holder along with three chips and some other devices. He claimed that device was capable of storing and transmitting audio and video recordings to another device. Brajesh Kesarwani then informed the police about the holder box, suspecting that the device was being used for surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mystery-shrouds-bulb-holder-box-fitted-with-sim-cards-5-detained-101634223948653.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Fisherfolk mount protest as BMC starts work on coastal road-sea link interchange||Roughly 200 fishing boats from Worli koliwada on Thursday morning gheraoed a temporary jetty built by the civic body at its coastal road construction site in Worli, to protest against ongoing work to build an interchange bridge between the coastal road and the Bandra-Worli sea link. In the wee hours of Thursday morning, the Hindustan Construction Company (HCC) anchored three buoys in the fishing waters, just off Worli Koliwada to facilitate the movement of barges and tugboats in the area, which fisherfolk say will damage their nets and severely hamper their work. Nitesh Patil, a representative of the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Vyavsay Cooperative Society, said the anchors were dropped with no prior warning to the fishermen. “On October 8 we had a meeting with BMC at their site office near Worli Dairy. We were told they need to create some facilities to allow for the movement of barges and tugboats in our fishing waters, and that a thorough survey will be done in the next 10 days so that it doesn’t cause us any inconvenience. Despite this assurance, they have dropped their anchors in the same area where we cast our nets. Movement of large tugboat in our waters will cause a lot of disturbance. The anchors have already damaged three nets.” Starting 6.30am Thursday, fishing boats from four different bunders in Worli Koliwada began to surround the jetty and refused to vacate until the anchors were removed. The anchors were later shifted to an appropriate location in the evening, but not before officials from BMC and local police converged on the jetty to negotiate with fisherfolk. A second meeting between fisherfolk and BMC officials has been scheduled on October 28. Hindustan Times spoke to two BMC officials privy to the matter, who requested anonymity while commenting. “There seems to have been some miscommunication between Hindustan Construction Company, which dropped the anchors, and the fisherfolk. I wouldn’t call the event a protest, but yes, there seem to be genuine complaints. We have agreed to shift the anchors for the time being and will meet with community members to understand their demands. Besides, we have already appointed the Tata Institute of Social Sciences to conduct a survey and determine the compensation amount which can be given to fisherfolk. That will take some time,” said one of the officials. Another confirmed that the ongoing work — against which fisherfolk protested Thursday — is being carried out for the purpose of building a connecting bridge between the Coastal Road and the Bandra-Worli Sea Link. “The anchors are there to support barges that will carry construction materials and machinery from our jetty to the construction site. We are just about to start digging the foundations of the bridge.” Shweta Wagh, an architect and researcher who has been closely tracking the impact of the Coastal Road on fishing communities, said, “The livelihoods of fisherfolk have suffered due to the Coastal Road, but they are clear that they want to continue practicing fishing despite this. The BMC has not shown any regard for their requests, imposed barriers in their fishing zone, and keeps diverting the issue by talking about compensation. The BMC has not shown any regard for their requests, imposed barriers in their fishing zone, and keeps diverting the issue by talking about compensation. The Coastal Road-Sea Link interchange threatens to cut off Cleveland Bunder from the sea entirely, and despite several requests to authorities for a redesign the BMC has not responded with any willingness to hear them out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fisherfolk-mount-protest-as-bmc-starts-work-on-coastal-road-sea-link-interchange-101634223228779.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Neglecting maintenance of vehicles leads to frequent breakdowns, traffic jams in Thane’||The Central Government’s repeated extensions granted to the validity of vehicle fitness certificates have had a cascading effect on the traffic situation in Thane. With no compulsion on checking the fitness, motorists have been found to be neglecting maintenance of their vehicles, leading to frequent breakdowns and consequently daily traffic jams.The Thane City has several important roads passing through it including the Eastern Express Highway, the Mumbai Nashik Highway and the Ghodbunder Road, all of which witness a collective traffic of lakhs of vehicles every day. Even a single vehicle breaking down can cause a traffic backlog and the bigger the vehicle, the longer the traffic jam.In the early hours of October 8, a truck carrying 17 tonnes of apples from Kashmir lost control and overturned on the Manpada stretch of the Ghodbunder Road. This is the time when heavy vehicles going to and from Gujarat carrying all kinds of cargo take this road. At such a crucial time, the accident caused a traffic jam that lasted for four hours. A subsequent investigation into the incident by the police revealed that the truck’s steering had developed a fault; something that could have been avoided had the truck’s fitness been checked on time as per the earlier rules.The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has set certain time limits for validity of vehicle fitness, which are different for private vehicles and commercial ones. On September 30 this year, the Central Government, owing to the ongoing COVID 19 pandemic, extended the validity of all vehicles till October 30. Prior to that, on June 30, the validity was extended to September 30 for the same reason. “According to the data collected from our control room, 10 to 15 vehicles have been breaking down in Thane City jurisdiction on a daily basis, leading to traffic jams all over. The situation becomes particularly bad when it is a heavy vehicle like a truck, and even worse when such a vehicle overturns and spills its cargo on the road. We have been attending to daily calls of vehicle breakdowns and resultant traffic jams for the last six to seven months,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Balasaheb Patil, Thane Police, said. He added that in majority of such cases, the fitness of the vehicles has not been checked for over a year or in some cases since the pandemic began. Since the extension of the fitness is a Central Government decision, local transport authorities or police cannot enforce a policy different than the Centre’s. “We have held repeated meetings with around 25 transport unions based in Thane, urging them to ask their union members to check their vehicle fitness even though getting a fresh certificate is not mandatory. We also send timely reminders to all of them through WhatsApp and other platforms. However, the daily instances of vehicle breakdowns continue and so do the traffic jams,” Patil said.When contacted, Ravi Gaikwad, Regional Transport Officer, Thane, declined to comment saying he would have to consult the latest data on the issue first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neglecting-maintenance-of-vehicles-leads-to-frequent-breakdowns-traffic-jams-in-thane-101634222871283.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||British Council to promote UP’s ODOP articles||LUCKNOW The British Council will help promote articles under UP’s ‘One District, One Product’ (ODOP) scheme in craft exhibitions in Britain and also display them at an event proposed next year in Britain on completion of its Craft Council’s 50 years. The Yogi Adityanath government has appointed Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut as the brand ambassador of the ODOP scheme. Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, micro small and medium enterprises (MSME), on Thursday, held a virtual meeting with members of the British Council, India, to discuss promotion of ODOP articles. Jonathan Kennedy, director, arts, British Council (India) and others were present at the meeting. The British Council offered to train ODOP artisans to market their articles online and also proposed to provide them digital tool kits for this purpose. In a bid to promote ODOP articles, the British Council offered to exhibit products selected under the ODOP scheme, in Britain. Kennedy also assured to display ODOP articles at an event proposed in Britain next year on completion of 50 years of the Craft Council. On the occasion, Sehgal apprised the British Council about steps taken by the Uttar Pradesh government to help ODOP artisans sell their products. He also informed that around 20,000 ODOP articles had been put on various online platforms to help them reach national and international markets. Sehgal also informed that around 56,000 ODOP artisans had been trained and loans were made available to them through banks for financial assistance. The state government had launched the ODOP scheme in January 2018 and identified 75 indigenous products in as many districts. These products made the respective districts famous. In the long list of 75 products are the world famous carpets of Bhadohi, brassware of Moradabad, locks of Aligarh, famous black pottery of Mirzapur, crockery of Khurja, leather of Agra and Kanpur among other products. Now, a large number of products have been added to the ODOP scheme. Others present at the meeting, included Rashi Jain, director, North India, British Council; Devika Purandare and head of arts (North India), British Council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/british-council-to-promote-up-s-odop-articles-101634222869111.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Navratri brings together Kalyan transgender community and help one another||More than 60 transgender persons from Badlapur, Ambernath and Kalyan have come together to set up Navratri pandals in their cities and bring the community together. Since the onset of the pandemic, the community has faced a lot of hardships with respect to access to healthcare centres, vaccination and also earning two square meals. Most persons are discouraged or depressed and the aim of the community is to bring them together and help those in need through Navratri celebrations. The community set up two pandals –in MHADA colony of Badlapur (E) and Kachoregaon in Kalyan (E). Sridevi, a transgender from Badlapur, said, “This is a special festival for our community. We believe the Goddess gives us strength to fight all the pain and suffering. It was difficult even to get one square meal during the pandemic. The government makes decisions for us late, by then life becomes difficult for us. We have kept food for the people in the pandal during Navratri as our small help to them.”The community in Kalyan was sailing in the same boat and to create positive vibes in the society and their families, it has decided to celebrate Navratri.Guruma Shalini of this group said, “We have been celebrating this festival for the past 14 years and this time it was impossible for us to arrange all festivities due to the financial constraints but we all decided not to feel sad and spread joy by doing all things as possible as we could. We have arranged on a very small scale but it is very important for us as we all come together during this festival to play games, dance for the deity and perform rituals to forget all our worries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navratri-brings-together-kalyan-transgender-community-and-help-one-another-101634222455154.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Hike taxi fares, unions demand; threaten to go on strike in Mumbai||With the hike in the prices of compressed natural gas (CNG) for the second time in 10 days on Thursday, the taxi unions in the city have demanded a hike in taxi fares. The unions have also threatened to go on a strike if CNG prices are increased any further.Unions approached the additional chief transport secretary Ashish Kumar Singh on Thursday demanding that the base fare of taxis be increased by ₹2 to ₹27.The Maharashtra government in February had increased the fare of autorickshaws and black and yellow taxis in the city. The minimum fare of black and yellow taxis in the city is now ₹25 as opposed to ₹22 earlier.“Due to the increase of ₹5.56 of CNG price the taxi operators are incurring a loss of ₹60 per day. The price of CNG was increased from ₹51 to ₹54 and again after 10 days the price was increased to ₹57.54,” said a statement from Mumbai Taximen’s Union that has the maximum number of city’s taxi drivers as members.The union has also threatened to go on a strike if the prices of CNG hiked further. “We will discuss with our members and if the prices increase, then we will go on a strike. We are also discussing internally with people from the transport fraternity about the steps that can be taken,” said AL Quadros, leader, Mumbai Taximen’s Union.The Mahanagar Gas Limited (MGL) on Wednesday had announced the hike in prices of CNG and domestic piped natural gas (PNG) from Thursday.The price of CNG is now ₹57.54 per kg and was hiked by ₹2.30 per kg. Earlier on October 5, the prices of CNG was hiked and was priced at ₹54.57 per kg. Before that CNG was priced at ₹49.40 per kg in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hike-taxi-fares-unions-demand-threaten-to-go-on-strike-in-mumbai-101634221488210.html
14-10-2021||Pune||PMC expects to collect more property tax from 15 wards via digitisation||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started using artificial intelligence (AI), satellite imagery and the supporting software permissions to track issues such as property tax evasion and mushrooming of unauthorised slums and dumping yards.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday said that Pune is following the path of digitalisation as the probability of mistakes is negligible when using technology as compared to human resources. The civic body has roped in private firm, Elixir AI, for its digitalisation plans.“We are tracking problems such as evasion of property tax and excess of unauthorised slums and dumping yards via satellite imagery that gives us easy access to the map of the entire city. So far, our test case at Yerawada has been successfully completed and we expect to collect more tax from 15 wards for the betterment of Pune and its citizens. We have also identified chronic dumping spots despite spending Rs400 to Rs500 crore every year, based on which we are looking to bring efficiency in solid waste management procedures,” Kumar said. He was addressing a conference on AI solutions and his plans to make Pune a ‘smarter’ city held at the PMC premises.Seconding Mr Kumar, Kunal Khemnar, additional commissioner estate, said, “Using data analytics, AI, machine learning (ML), satellite imagery and e-governance, we are collecting data to regularise property tax, illegal constructions, etc. Under the guidance of Mr Kumar, we have more such projects in the pipeline.”In her opening remarks, Mayurakshi Das, founder and chief executive officer, Elixir AI, said, “We are grateful to be associated with the PMC and work under the guidance of the hon’ble municipal commissioner, Vikram Kumar, IAS, to boost the ‘digitise India’ initiative and align with the Swacchh Bharat mission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-expects-to-collect-more-property-tax-from-15-wards-via-digitisation-101634221188179.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Minister’s son and 3 others taken to site,crime scene recreated||LAKHIMPUR KHERI The investigation committee probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence on Thursday took Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son and three others arrested in the case to the site to recreate the sequence of events leading to the violence in Tikunia village of this district. The four included Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, his gunner Kaale and driver Shekhar Bharti. Amid tight security, they were taken to the site of the incident on the Tikunia-Banbirpur road, around 60 km from Lakhimpur city, said police. The investigators recreated the scene by placing mannequins as per the information collected from eyewitnesses to the incident before making three four-wheelers run on the narrow road of Banbirpur village, where the four farmers were allegedly mowed down, leading to the violence killing four others. Three vehicles were placed one after the other to repeat the exact sequence of events on the day of violence, said a police official privy to the investigation. He said the entire exercise was video recorded for thorough analysis.The investigators were reported to have also visited neighbouring places to verify the statements of the accused. Media were not allowed near the spot of crime.The police official said the investigation committee later visited the MoS’s village (Banbirpur) where the wrestling competition was to be inaugurated by UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya during his visit to Kheri on the day of incident.Eight people died in the October 3 violence and of them, four were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Infuriated farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver. In the incident, a journalist was also killed.So far, the police had arrested six accused, including the Union minister’s son, his two accomplices, Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey, in connection with the case. The minister’s son, Ashish Mishra, was arrested on October 9 after 12 hours of questioning, and a court accepted his police custody from October 12 to 15. Das, Latif and Bharti were in police custody from October 14 to 17. On Thursday, investigators reached the district jail premises in the morning to take Das, Latif and Bharti into police custody.Meanwhile, family members of deceased BJP worker Shubham Mishra reached crime branch office and demanded arrest of his killers. Shubham, a resident of Shivpuri locality of the city and reported to be a BJP booth in-charge, was killed in subsequent violence after the killing of four farmers in Tikunia on October 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-sit-takes-minister-s-son-and-3-others-to-spot-recreates-sequence-of-events-101634221128255.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||2 from Pune arrested for various theft cases in Raigad||The Raigad Local Crime Branch (LCB) has arrested two accused from Pune for breaking into various houses in Raigad in the last few months.According to police, the accused used to come to Raigad as tourists, do a recce of the area and then break into locked houses. Rasayani, Khopoli and Neral were the most frequented places by the accused.“It was easy for them to access these places on bike via the old highway and hence they used to visit Raigad for house breaks,” police inspector, Dayanand Gawade from LCB, said.A total of four accused worked as a team. While two have been arrested by the Pune police red-handed there, the other two have been arrested by Raigad police.This is the second major operation carried out by Raigad police in two days. Superintendent of police, Ashok Dudhe, and Additional Superintendent of Police, Atul Zende, had directed a thorough investigation into all the house-breaking cases registered in Raigad.During the investigation of the case filed on September 16 in Khopoli, one of the accused identified as Irfan Rasul Sheikh (30) was arrested. He revealed the details of the three accomplices, of which Ailansingh Shyamsingh Kalyani (31) was taken into custody from Hadapsar in Pune. Gold jewellery worth ₹10.73 lakh and a motorcycle worth ₹35,000 were seized from them.Police had seized CCTV footage during the investigation into the theft in Khopoli. The footage had a motorcyclist behaving suspiciously. With the help of the bike number, Sheikh was traced. Their two accomplices Ravisingh Shamsingh Kalyani and Lakhansingh Rajputsingh Dudhani are currently in the custody of Shikraur police in Pune and Raigad police would soon seek their custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-from-pune-arrested-for-various-theft-cases-in-raigad-101634220828052.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court grants pre-arrest bail to NCP leader Eknath Khadse’s wife||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday granted interim anticipatory bail to Mandakini Khadse, wife of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse, in connection with the Pune land deal, being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The court has asked ED to file a reply to her anticipatory bail application and posted a hearing of the anticipatory bail application on December 7. The single-judge bench of justice Nitin Sambre, while hearing the anticipatory bail application was informed by senior advocate Raja Thakare that the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court had issued a non-bailable warrant against Mandakini on Tuesday after she failed to appear before it in connection with the charge sheet filed by ED. The ED has in its charge sheet named Khadse, Mandakini and son-in-law Girish Chaudhari and two others as accused in a money-laundering case. The ED has alleged that in 2016 when Khadse was the revenue minister in the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, he had misused his position in the Bhosari land deal to benefit his family. While Chaudhari is in custody, another co-accused Ravindra Muley was granted bail last week Thakare informed the bench that the special court had earlier rejected the anticipatory bail application of his client in the first week of October after she had received summons from the ED. The special court had held that the application was not maintainable before it. Thereafter, on Tuesday, a non-bailable warrant was issued against her. In its warrant, the special court had noted that despite giving an undertaking that she would appear, Mandakini was “wilfully avoiding” appearance before the court. It held that the medical ground given for her exemption from appearance on Tuesday was not satisfactory and issued the warrant against her. When the bench asked as to why she was not appearing before the special court, Thakare assured that she would do so on October 21 and was also willing to cooperate with the ED. The bench then directed her to appear before ED on every Tuesday and Friday from October 17 till further orders. However, advocate Sandesh Patil for ED objected to the maintainability of the pre-arrest bail plea but the bench noted that it had not gone into the details or the merits of the plea and kept ED’s contentions open to argue further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-grants-pre-arrest-bail-to-ncp-leader-eknath-khadse-s-wife-101634220467872.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Bombay high court rejects Anandrao Adsul’s plea against ED proceedings||In a setback for Shiv Sena leader and former Member of Parliament (MP) Anandrao Adsul, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday rejected his petition challenging an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) registered against him by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with banking fraud.Adsul has been named as a suspect in the alleged ₹980-crore fraud at City Co-operative Bank. The HC, however, granted liberty to Adsul to move an anticipatory bail application for protection against coercive action and arrest and directed the court which would hear the application to decide it without being influenced by the HC ruling.The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing Adsul’s petition, was informed by advocate Dr Abhinav Chandrachud that he sought quashing of the proceedings arising out of the ECIR and also challenged the summons issued to his client. Dr Chandrachud argued that the action by the agency was arbitrary and smacked of political vendetta and selective approach by the ED at the behest of Navneet Kaur Rana, an independent MP from Amravati as the HC had cancelled and confiscated her caste certificate in June after he challenged it. The petition further stated that Kaur-Rana’s husband Ravi Rana and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya had prompted the ED to take up the case in which he had himself filed a first information report (FIR) against fraudulent loans.Adsul who was the former chairman of the bank had filed a case with the economic offences wing of the Mumbai Police alleging misappropriation of funds by bank officials. The complaint had claimed that loans were doled out to entities and individuals with very low or no collateral.The ED is now also probing the role of Adsul and his son Abhijeet who is a director in the board of the bank, as they have allegedly found that Adsul had been the beneficiary of some of the loans given by the bank.Apart from seeking quashing of the proceedings arising out of the ECIR, Adsul sought a copy of the ECIR, pending hearing of his petition in HC and he be granted interim protection from coercive action.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for ED submitted that the ECIR had no connection with the political rivalry and elections and was based on the case of the fraudulent loans. Singh added that though Adsul may have been a complainant, the ED has to trace where the proceeds of crime had gone and hence had summoned Adsul for questioning. He added that providing a copy of the ECIR was the prerogative of the agency and the petitioner could not claim it as a right. In light of these submissions, Singh sought dismissal of the petition. After hearing the submissions, the court held that as the ECIR was an internal document of the ED, it could not quash it and hence rejected Adsul’s petition with liberty for him to file an anticipatory bail application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-high-court-rejects-anandrao-adsul-s-plea-against-ed-proceedings-101634219989142.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Two friends arrested for killing IT engineer||The Kondhwa Police investigation into the gunshot injuries case involving a software engineer has revealed that his two friends had pumped a bullet into his neck and murdered him.Earlier, the two accused had alleged that their friend had committed suicide while they were partying together in the flat.Ganesh Yashwant Tarlekar (47), an IT software engineer and a resident of Sunflower society, Kondhwa, was found dead with a gunshot injury in his neck on October 11.On Wednesday, the police arrested the duo, who have been identified as Sagar Dilip Binawat (33), a resident of Shraddhanagar in Kondhwa and Dattatreya Devidas Hajare.They were arrested after the wife of the deceased lodged a first information report (FIR) against the duo.The police had detained Binawat and Hajare who were present with him during a party inside the flat on the day of the murder. The duo during their preliminary inquiry said that Tarlekar had shot himself. After the incident, the accused fled from the spot with the pistol and locked the flat from outside. The two then threw the pistol into a well. Police later seized the pistol with the help of a magnet.Tarlekar was married and had a 14-year-old son. He was not getting along well with his wife who was staying at her mothers’ house from the past one year.Sardar Patil, Kondhwa police station incharge, said “We were doubting their story from day one as everything was suspicious. They have confessed to their involvement in the murder and Indian Penal Code (IPC) 302 has been invoked against them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-friends-arrested-for-killing-it-engineer-101634218967614.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cops begin probe into NCB officer Sameer Wankhede's 'stalking' complaint||Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale has ordered an inquiry into the complaint lodged by NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede that he was being stalked by two policemen and some other unidentified persons, an official said on Thursday. Wankhede, currently in news after leading a raid on a cruise ship during which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested in a drug case, had filed a complaint on Monday that two police officials were following him. "The inquiry into Wankhede's complaint is being conducted by Additional Commissioner of Police (West)," the official said, adding that statements of the policemen, who allegedly stalked the NCB officer will be recorded along with others. As per the city police commissioner's orders, the inquiry report is expected in seven days, he said. In his complaint, Wankhede had said that he was stalked on October 7, when he visited a cemetery in Oshiwara, where his mother was buried after her death. He had alleged that his movement was being monitored and provided CCTV footage of the Oshiwara cemetery in support of his claim, an official had earlier said. Wankhede had also met state DGP Sanjay Pandey to raise the issue. Wankhede had also investigated the 2020 drug case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cops-begin-probe-into-ncb-officer-sameer-wankhede-s-stalking-complaint-101634217596812.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Vistadome coach on Pune-Mumbai route a hit among passengers||The Vistadome coach on the Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express has received an overwhelming response from passengers. According to the Railways, there was a 100 per cent response initially when the coach was launched on June 26 this year. In July, the Deccan Express had 95 % occupancy, and in August, it was 97 % and in September 92%.Looking at the initial response to the train service, the Central Railway (CR) had added the Vistadome coach to Mumbai-Pune Deccan Queen Superfast Express on August 15, 2021. Deccan Queen saw 92% occupancy in August and 79% in September.Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officers (CPRO), Central Railways, said, “There is a huge demand for the Vistadome coach on Deccan Express and also Deccan Queen. Many passengers like to enjoy the panoramic view through the gallery.”The officials also added that weekends see full occupancy, with Deccan Express offering 44 seats priced at ₹835 per seat and Deccan Queen offering 40 seats priced at ₹905 per seat.Jaydeep Hinge, a passenger, said, “Features like toilet occupancy indicators, foldable trays in seats, charging point for each seat, curtains for windows, automatically operating doors, seat numbers and other important information in Braille is helpful. But the best part about this coach is the viewing gallery.”Kaushik Lele, another passenger, said, “I liked the wide windows which give a panoramic view of the ghats through the coach.”Alka Pathiyan, a passenger, said, “The timing of the Deccan Express is better for viewing the scenery which is the primary reason for the coach.”Another passenger Pallavi Shirish said, “The rates are high, as compared to the distance and not suitable for a family of four to five members.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vistadome-coach-on-pune-mumbai-route-a-hit-among-passengers-101634218307543.html
14-10-2021||Other||Half of the children with special needs out of school: UP tells centre||Almost half of the total number of children with special needs (CwSN) do not go to schools in Uttar Pradesh (UP), as per a report sent by UP to the union education ministry. As per the report, 2,63,984 CwSN in the 3-18 years age group are out of school in the state. Against total estimated number of 5,32,040 CwSN, only 2,68,055 (amounting to 49.62%) are currently enrolled in government-run and aided schools of UP. These findings were discussed during the last meeting of the Project Approval Board (PAB) of Samgara Shiksha Abhiyan held in New Delhi. Minutes of that meeting have been confirmed just recently. As per report, inclusive education for Divyang (specially abled) children was being ensured through ‘Samarth’ program. More than 3.15 lakh such students were identified, enrolled and tracked on ‘Samarth’ tech system. “Aids/appliances have also been distributed to CwSN children through camps and 2.2k special educators are regularly tracking the learning outcomes and attendance of students till Class 8 through more than 1.3 lakh nodal teachers,” said senior education department officials aware of the contents of the report. Individual Education Plans (IEP) were made by nodal teachers and special educators for each child and being tracked online, the report states. Accessible worksheets and training videos have specially been designed for Divyang children of Classes 1 to 8 even as home-based learning too has been designed for severely disabled students, the report states. For the 2021-22 academic session, a provision of ₹5.13 crore has been made for the construction of toilets in 540 government-run primary and upper primary schools of the state. Centre’s Suggestions After going through UP government’s report, the centre has suggested that state government should ensure that learning content is accessible to the needs of all CwSN. “In areas with low internet connectivity, the UP government should deliver the content through radio and TV to reach the remotest location,” is among the suggestions made by the centre. The centre has said that mother tongue/local language may be used where possible and the state government may tie up with telecom services to increase access by improving connectivity, lowering costs and increasing coverage to mitigate access inequities. Stressing on assessment of each identified CwSN, the centre has asked that a team should be set up at the block/cluster level for the purpose. “The assessment team will ascertain the extent and type of disability, the child’s ability to develop, nature of support services required, assistive devices required and identifying special training apt for the child,” as per the details of the PAB meeting, a copy of which is with HT. The UP government has been asked to ensure that no child, including CwSN, should be left behind in terms of textbooks, enrolment, learning resources and learning guidance. ACADEMICIAN SPEAK Noted academician and former vice-chancellor of Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU) Prof MP Dube said that more efforts were required to ensure that children with disabilities get education. “There is a shortage of special educators and special schools in UP as schools like State Deaf and Dumb School (Sanket) running in Lucknow, Agra, Bareilly, Farrukhabad and Gorakhpur or Government School for Visually Impaired girls/ boys (Sparsh) in Lucknow, Gorakhpur, Banda, Saharanpur and Meerut or State School for Mentally Challenged boys/girls (Mamta) in Lucknow and Prayagraj along with State School for physically disabled children (Prayas) in Lucknow and Pratapgarh are limited both in terms of their numbers and capacity,” he said. He suggested budgetary push for education to CWsN.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/half-of-the-children-with-special-needs-out-of-school-up-tells-centre-101634217828383.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||The devil in the detail can be seriously funny||The cavalier and corona go hand in hand. Or that is what health organisations had us believe, and with good reasons. Let go of your guard only at the risk of getting cornered by the viral storm. Amid the paranoia of masks, physical distancing and sanitisers, it was the age-old ritual of handwashing that took the tussle between the perfunctory and thorough to a new high. Social media was flooded with infographics on the foolproof way to wash hands. For proper cleaning, handwashers were advised to sing the happy birthday song twice. Trendier lyrics soon flooded the internet. Covid-19, it appeared, was here to teach us lessons on anti-anthropocentrism, universalism, transcendentalism and…detail. I learnt about precious detail while editing articles for an academic journal. While originality, structure and scholarship played their part in every essay, the NOC was finally issued by the comma, semicolon, apostrophe and the other little devils of the gang. A small miscreant invariably showed up, or went missing, like a naughty elf, after you had scanned every sentence under the microscope. As with handwashing, so with editing – one is never really done. Though there is no denying that success has an awful lot to do with thoroughness, in personal interactions, detail can sometimes entail serious comedy. A few summers ago, our daughter and son were home for vacations from their boarding schools. In addition to friends, it was only the movies that allured the home-birds out of their pigeonholes. So, we planned an evening around a movie show that would begin at 6pm. Taking into account the travelling time, we decided to move out a little before. One shout out and we huddled into the car at the fixed time, except my son. After a few minutes of hopeful patience, we called him to discover that he was still tying his ‘pagg’. Parents with young turbanators at home must have guessed that our movie plan was running into rough weather. The vibe in the car was fast turning restive. When was the last time you heard of a teenager missing out on a chance to irk a sibling? Not before long my daughter stretched out her arm to press(urise) the horn, and for how long. I prayed the neighbours took the honking for an electrical glitch. In a last-ditch effort, I was assigned the onerous task of running up to his room to escort him down. I reached to find him caressing the last pleat of his turban, tucking it in with utmost care and pinching the folds around the forehead for linearity. “How is it, Ma?” he asked. “Perfect,” I was quick to reply. The hurry in my voice betrayed me. “You didn’t even look properly,” he said, drawing closer to the mirror as he arranged the folds with the ‘baaj’. Alas, they fell short of the high bespoke standards. And, before I could stop him, he lifted the well-engineered ensemble from his head. There we were, back to the ‘pooni’ – tying the turban length to the door handle, rolling in the side-folds, stretching it till feet slipped, folding it zig-zag, and further on. Now, the episode is a comic page in the family chronicles; then, we sat in the car, clenching our teeth, cursing the devil in the detail. manindersidhu7@gmail.com The writer teaches English at Government College for Girls, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/the-devil-in-the-detail-can-be-seriously-funny-101634217587390.html
14-10-2021||Patna||Bihar priest shot dead over 'mobile phone dispute'; locals lynch 1 assailant, 2 others arrested||A 45-year-old priest was shot dead over a dispute regarding a mobile phone in Bihar's Darbhanga district on Thursday, following which one of the alleged assailants was lynched by locals and two others were arrested by the police.The incident took place early in the morning when four armed men barged into Kankali temple in the University police station area and shot dead priest Rajeev Kumar Jha and injured a devotee, Station House Officer Satya Prakash Jha said.The injured devotee, identified as Shambhu Choudhary, has been hospitalised and his condition is stated to be stable, he said.After the incident, locals chased the alleged assailants and nabbed three of them, while one managed to escape. The trio was brutally thrashed by the locals, as a result of which, one of them – identified as Pulkit Singh – died, while the other two were arrested by the police, the officer said."Preliminary investigation suggests that the deceased assailant had some dispute over a mobile phone with the priest's son," he said, adding further investigation is underway.Locals, however, claimed that the slain priest had lodged a police complaint against the lynched man a few days ago but no further action was taken against him. Police, though, remained tight-lipped over the charge. PTI COR PKD ACD ACD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-priest-shot-dead-over-mobile-phone-dispute-locals-lynch-1-assailant-2-others-arrested-101634217276878.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body gives ex-gratia payment to its permanent employees||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) will give an ex-gratia payment of ₹25,000 to the permanent employees of the civic body. Those working on contract basis will be given ₹19,000.The decision has been announced by municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar.Others who will get the bonus include all the personnel employed under education and health mission who will also get ₹19,000 and ₹9,000 will be given to Asha workers. The ex-gratia payment is given every year by the civic body during the Diwali festivities, for which allocation is made. The bonus announcement will benefit 4,582 officials and personnel of the civic body.Bangar said “Our officials and personnel have worked selflessly during the Covid pandemic period. This payment has been announced to ensure they have good Diwali celebrations amidst all the concerns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-gives-ex-gratia-payment-to-its-permanent-employees-101634217167290.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||SCDRC penalises pvt airline for forcing passenger off plane||The State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (SCDRC) has imposed a fine of ₹85.5 lakh on IndiGo Airlines. The penalty was imposed by SCDRC member Rajendra Singh on the complaint of poor services and misbehavior made by Vinay Shankar Tewari, a contractor and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA from Chillupar assembly constituency of Gorakhpur.Of the total fine, ₹35 lakh was awarded as compensation, ₹50 lakh for causing mental agony and ₹50,000 as expenses of the case along with interest. Tewari, had booked a ticket from Lucknow to New Delhi on IndiGo flight number 6 E -141 on April 15, 2013, from an online air ticket booking portal. Tewari’s flight from Amausi airport in Lucknow was scheduled at 10.50am. He reached the airport and boarded the flight but just before the takeoff, the cabin crew reportedly informed Tewari that his ticket had been cancelled. In his complaint Tewari said he was forcibly removed from his allotted seat 5A. Tewari was told by the online booking portal that his ticket was valid even though IndiGo authorities informed him that that his ticket was cancelled by one Shailendra at around 7.38am, hours before the scheduled take off. During proceedings of the case, the SCDRC held that even if the ticket was presumed to be cancelled then why did the airlines allow Tewari to board the flight. The Commission also asked why the airlines failed to share screenshot of the message with Tewari conveying cancellation of the ticket and pointed out that the airlines also failed to submit the mobile number before the court from which the ticket was allegedly cancelled. In its order, the SCDRC held that the airlines indulged in unfair trade practice, caused mental agony and financial loss to Tewari, who is a contractor and was going to New Delhi for a meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/scdrc-penalises-pvt-airline-for-forcing-passenger-off-plane-101634216567294.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Southwest monsoon withdraws over Mumbai, expect rise in temperatures||The southwest monsoon on Thursday withdrew over Mumbai, six days after its official date of withdrawal on October 8, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has confirmed. The withdrawal has taken place across the state, having begun on October 12. The withdrawal line as of Thursday afternoon continued to persist over Vengurla in the southernmost part of the Konkan coast and is expected to withdraw entirely within the next day. “With the monsoon having now exited Mumbai completely, citizens can expect clear skies and rising temperatures over the remaining period of October. The maximum temperature has been between 33 and 34 degrees Celsius over the past three days, but it will quickly climb now. It may touch 35 degrees Celsius or more by the end of the week,” said a meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. They also added that there may be a slight chance of unseasonal rains toward late October. Monsoon withdrawal in Maharashtra first began from the easternmost tip of the Vidarbha region between October 9 and 11, subsequently progressing over parts of Marathwada and then Madhya Maharashtra. Withdrawal over the Konkan region began on October 12. Last year, the monsoon’s withdrawal over Mumbai had taken place on October 28, nearly three weeks after the official date, making it the season’s most delayed retreat since 1975. In 2019, the withdrawal was recorded on October 14. The 2021 monsoon season also marks the third consecutive year in which Mumbai received over 3,000mm of rain, and follows 2020’s seasonal total of 3,759.7mm (which was just 70mm short of being the wettest September on record), as per the met department’s monitoring station in Santacruz. This year, the city saw three ‘extremely heavy’ rainfall days (one in June and two in July), receiving over 204.5mm in 24-hours. The first of these events occurred on June 10 (231.3mm), coinciding with the arrival of the southwest monsoon two days prior to the official onset date of June 11. The highest amount of rain — 1,222mm — was received in July. The month also saw two consecutive, atypical thunderstorms which dumped more than 500mm of rain over the city, resulting in the second and third ‘extremely heavy rainfall’ events of the season. A convective thunderstorm, described by meteorologists as “monstrous”, deposited a whopping 235mm rain between 12am and 4am on July 18, less than 48 hours after a similar high rainfall event resulted in the season’s highest daily rainfall on July 16 at 253mm. July rains saw a 48% departure from the monthly normal of 822mm. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature on Thursday rose to 34.8 degrees Celsius at the IMD’s monitoring station at Santacruz. This was up from 33.7 degrees Celsius the day prior, and is expected to rise consistently over the rest of the month. The highest temperature recorded in Mumbai this year touched 35.8 degrees Celsius on October 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/southwest-monsoon-withdraws-over-mumbai-expect-rise-in-temperatures-101634216507591.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||No road widening proposed in Aarey, clarifies BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday clarified that the tender it floated earlier this month for proposed road work at Aarey will not include any road widening, and only road upgradation of the carriageway from a tar road to a concrete one will be carried out. While environmentalists have expressed relief, they remained sceptical of the BMC’s clarification as the tender calls for construction of a nine-metre wide road, as opposed to the existing seven-metre wide carriageway. They also highlighted that BMC intends to lay concrete pipes on either side of the road, which seems unnecessary in an area with sufficient natural drainage. Zoru Bhatena, environmentalist with the Save Aarey movement, who had filed a detailed complaint in the matter with authorities, said, “Grateful that BMC has clarified that no trees will be touched in Aarey. But, it doesn’t answer the question as to why they want to add concrete drains in a natural area, or why they want to create facilities to increase traffic in the forest. Nor does it answer why they are doing such work without statutory forest and eco-sensitive zone clearances as is mandatory in notified forest areas.” BMC for its part has now said that there will be “no proposal of widening of existing asphalt road” and that “due care will be taken to protect existing trees and the adjoining Aarey forest.” “Necessary mitigation measures will be taken care of as per the direction of chief conservator of forest,” BMC added. Sanjiv Valsan, another Save Aarey campaigner, said, “It is a relief to know they aren’t going to widen Aarey road but converting a tar road into concrete isn’t going to solve the real and current problem of Aarey road, that of unacceptably high vehicular congestion in an eco-sensitive zone. There needs to be a heavy toll on private vehicles entering Aarey, as was the case a few years ago.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-road-widening-proposed-in-aarey-clarifies-bmc-101634216387511.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Bengalis celebrate Durga Puja with traditional village theme||The Navi Mumbai Bengali Association (NMBA), one of the largest associations of Bengalis in Maharashtra, is celebrating its 42nd Durga Puja at Sector 6, Vashi. The theme of the pandal is a traditional ‘Village Puja Pandal’ depicting rural celebration under Banyan Tree. The celebrations are digital in view of the Covid threat.NMBA president, Nemai Gorai, said, “Sharod Utsav 2021 is presented digitally through a web portal and NMBA’s YouTube Channel. The live broadcast of puja and cultural events is available in India and the world over. Devotees can worship from home and also book prasad and bhog through the website. There are also live performances by Tollywood and Bollywood singers from their studios.”Funds raised through the event would help cancer patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-bengalis-celebrate-durga-puja-with-traditional-village-theme-101634215607302.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||47% of people above 60 years in Navi Mumbai yet to get first vaccination against Covid||Even as the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has vaccinated 98% of its eligible population, as per the statistics, around 47% of the people above the age of 60 years are yet to get even their first jab.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, claimed that a door-to-door survey would be conducted to check how many beneficiaries were remaining while a call centre would also be set up to check with families to ensure no senior citizen is left out.Currently, 11.07 lakh population of Navi Mumbai is estimated to be eligible for the vaccination, of which 1.76 lakh is estimated to be above the age of 60 years. Till now, only 92,894 people above the age group of 60 years have got their first jab, which is 53% of the total estimated population of this age group. Around 34,445 people under the category of Health Care Workers were also jabbed with the first dose.“Currently, we do not differentiate the beneficiaries as per the health care workers and front line workers, and each person is reported under their respective age group. Hence, when the vaccination had started for the health care workers, many medical professionals who were above 60 years got their vaccination under that category,” a medical officer from the corporation said.Meanwhile, Bangar said that the data of estimated target is notional and not the exact number. Hence, it is important to get the exact numbers of the people above the age group of 60 in the city to conclude if there is anyone remaining.“Even when there was low supply of vaccination, we have always had at least one slot for the first dose of 60 years-plus. So, this age group was never neglected and was always given priority. There is no reason why anyone from 60 years and above would be left out. There was never any reluctance from this age group and they were always eager to get the vaccination done. Accessibility, too, is not the reason as the drive for them was always available. In fact the queue for the first dose is declining slowly and even after we reach 100% target, the first dose drive will continue for those with no proof of being a resident of Navi Mumbai,” Bangar said.He said that the target statistics is a notional figure and to get the exact figure, a door-to-door survey would be done, and simultaneously will have call centres verifying the exact number of 60 years and above existing in the city.“Through various drives and initiatives, we have collected the data of the families in Navi Mumbai and their family members. The call centre staff will be asked to call up the families and check if the senior citizens at their residences have been vaccinated. Besides, we also have around 3,500 housing societies registered with us who are also connected via WhatsApp. The housing societies, too, would be asked to provide the information.”In many cases, the elderly were shifted to their hometowns when the pandemic started and while some might have still not come back, some others might have returned after getting their vaccination done, due to which their record is not registered with the NMMC.According to the corporation, the target given by the State to Navi Mumbai is to vaccinate 11.07 lakh population, of which 10.95 lakh have been vaccinated with the first dose and 12,000 are pending. In the age group of 45 years to 59 years, the target given to the corporation is to vaccinate 2,49,600 beneficiaries, of which 2,25,510 (89%) have been vaccinated with the first dose and 11% are remaining. Meanwhile, for the age group of 18 years to 44 years, the target is to vaccinate 6,81,300 beneficiaries while the corporation has vaccinated more than that with 7,12,087 getting their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/47-of-people-above-60-years-in-navi-mumbai-yet-to-get-first-vaccination-against-covid-101634213086812.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Eye on elections, Punjab CM wants pensions, dues cleared||With an eye on the elections, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday asked deputy commissioners of all districts to organise suwidha camps to clear the backlog of social security pensions and dues of widows and Ashirwad Shagun scheme beneficiaries. Also read: ‘Captain is with BJP’: Punjab minister alleges Amarinder behind govt’s BSF moveHe ordered that property cards (sanads) for 5 marla plots be given to the homeless under the state’s Basera scheme and proprietary rights to slumdwellers occupying government land on Diwali on November 4. This was earlier scheduled for November 15. Punjab goes to the polls by February next year and the Channi government wants the administration to focus on people-centric works. During the meeting with the district chiefs in Chandigarh, the CM asked for starting the process to waive arrears of electricity bills of up to 2-kilowatt load. To speed up ongoing development works and welfare schemes, Channi told the DCs to meet the MLAs concerned and redress concerns related to their constituencies. CM wants panel of revenue officers for reforms He suggested amendments in the law to protect ownership rights of people’s property that have become obsolete and ensure timely clearance of driving licences, birth and death certificates and disability certificates. He said this initiative would streamline the existing procedure of girdawari, mutation, jamabandi and land division to save people from fraudulent practices to divest them of their rights. Channi directed chief secretary Anirudh Tewari to constitute a committee of revenue officers to suggest reforms and make a proposal to abolish the girdawari system to ensure ownership rights only vests with the legitimate owners. Hussan Lal, the principal secretary to the CM and special principal secretaries to the CM, Rahul Tewari and Kamal Kishor Yadav, also attended the meeting. Calls to end corruption in registry offices Channi asked DCs to be punctual and not to function from camp offices. He asked them to clamp down on corruption in registry offices. He asked the DCs not to allow tehsildars to undertake property registration after office hours and unnecessarily cause delay on frivolous grounds. He suggested DCs conduct surprise checks in offices to ensure punctuality and any employee found absent be suspended. The CM instructed the CS to direct all heads of departments, too, in this regard. “Ensure that none from the public is forced to give bribe for getting their work done whether it’s approval for building plans or driving and arms licences,” Channi said. He asked them to keep a vigil on drug trafficking and illegal mining. He called for protection of NRI properties and ensuring timely payment to farmers during paddy procurement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eye-on-elections-punjab-cm-wants-pensions-dues-cleared-101634212726699.html
14-10-2021||Kolkata||Political row erupts in Bengal over move to extend BSF jurisdiction||A political row erupted in West Bengal after the Centre decided to extend the area under the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in three state’s - West Bengal, Punjab and Assam. While the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state hit out at the Centre on Thursday alleging that it is an infringement on the state land through back doors, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders welcomed the move saying that BSF should be given more powers. The Congress echoed TMC’s stance. “This is a condemnable decision. This is infringing upon the state’s land through the back door. The party is seriously looking into this,” said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson and the party’s state general secretary. On Monday, the Union government amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of the existing 15 km, from the International Border (IB) in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Among all states, West Bengal has the longest and one of the most porous international borders. The state shares a 2216-km-long international border with Bangladesh. It also shares around a 100-km border with Nepal and a 183 km border with Bhutan. “The expansion of #BSF area of jurisdiction up to 50 km from border of some states amounts to brazen infringement upon the territory of states. @HMOIndia, you should not indulge any ‘Chherkhani’ else will face the consequences,” tweeted Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha. The Indo-Bangladesh border, particularly in West Bengal, is also one of the most porous borders. Data placed by the Union ministry of home affairs before the parliament in March 2020 shows that in 2017, 2018 and 2019, security agencies arrested 1175, 1118 and 1351 people along the entire stretch of the Indo-Bangla border in India. “We welcome this decision. But just giving more jurisdictions to the BSF won’t help. The BSF cannot arrest anyone independently. Whenever a smuggler, trafficker or terrorist is held, they need to be handed over to the local police. The BSF should be given more teeth so that they can work independently and also should be given more manpower,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal. In Gujarat, which shares a border with Pakistan, the same limit was reduced from 80 km to 50 km, and in Rajasthan, it was kept unchanged at 50 km. “This is simply infringing upon the sovereign rights of the state. There are allegations of links between BSF and smugglers. To let them increase their area of operation would be suicidal. The state should oppose this,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP. In Bengal, some BSF officers are under the scanner of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in a 2020 transborder cattle smuggling case. Senior BSF officials refused to comment on the developments and the political row that followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/political-row-erupts-in-bengal-over-move-to-extend-bsf-jurisdiction-101634210747998.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||In seeking bail for Aryan Khan, his lawyer praises NCB||Aryan Khan's lawyer on Thursday put in a word of praise for the officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) as he sought bail for the eldest son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, who was arrested after a raid on a cruise ship by the central agency on October 2. Senior counsel Amit Desai was responding to the NCB lawyer’s arguments in the special court under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The special NDPS court on Wednesday adjourned the hearing for a day on bail applications of Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were arrested along with Aryan Khan.“There can be no doubt on the importance of a statute on the nation. There is no doubt that the world is fighting the drug menace. We got our freedom, we must protect it, and ensure the development of society,” senior counsel Amit Desai said in the court, according to Bar and Bench. "I don't think there is any debate or doubt that the entire world is fighting drug menace… Kudos to the NCB for doing this job and just hope that they continue the investigation in a legal manner. I am appreciating that the officers are risking their lives for protecting their country,” Desai said.Also read | Many countries have legalised these drugs: 5 things Aryan Khan's lawyer saidHe said Aryan Khan can still be granted bail without affecting the ongoing investigation into the cruise ship drugs bust case. “As bail doesn't take away their right to continue their investigation,” he said. He also alleged that the NCB may have crossed a legal line in an endeavour to convince the court to oppose Aryan Khan’s bail application.“By no stretch of the imagination, the boy is involved in illicit drug trafficking or international drug trafficking. These allegations are fake. He has nothing to do with illicit drug trafficking,” he continued.Also read | Aryan Khan regular consumer of drugs, says NCB; compares with Rhea-Showik caseOn Wednesday, Desai called the NCB's contention "inherently absurd" and argued that when there was no recovery of drugs from him, then he should not be penalised at the stage of granting bail. Desai also told the court that the accused in the case are young adults and not drug peddlers, traffickers or racketeers. "In many countries, these substances (drugs) are legal. Let us not penalise them at this stage when bail is sought. Let us not make it worse for them (accused). They have suffered enough and they have learnt their lesson, if at all," he said.The central agency in its reply filed in the special court said that its investigation has revealed Aryan Khan's role in illicit procurement and distribution of contraband. The NCB said that Aryan Khan used to procure drugs from Arbaz Khan. "It is also revealed in the investigation that accused number 1 (Aryan Khan) used to procure drugs from accused number 2 (Arbaz Khan) and people connected to Arbaz. Six gm of charas was removed from the accused number 2 from his shoes during the raid by NCB," the NCB said in its reply.Also read | Aryan Khan chatted about drugs in bulk quantity with a foreigner: NCB"Accused numbers 1 and 2 are associated and worked in close collaborations so the offences are attracted against them especially section 29 of the NDPS Act ( Criminal Conspiracy to commit an offence)," the agency added in its reply.Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3 following the NCB raid on the cruise ship and is currently in judicial custody. He is lodged at the Arthur Road prison in Mumbai. He approached the special court seeking bail after a magistrate's court rejected his plea last week. As many as 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, have been arrested so far in the case related to the seizure of drugs following a raid at a party on the Cordelia cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2.￼||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-seeking-bail-for-aryan-khan-his-lawyer-praises-ncb-101634209321987.html
14-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan government transfers 39 IPS, 18 IAS officers||In a late-night development, the Rajasthan government transferred 39 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, including two ADGs and 18 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, officials said. The transfer list was released by the department of personnel late Wednesday night. The 39 IPS officers who have been transferred include two Additional Director General (ADGs) and the Superintendent of Police (SPs) of 15 districts. ADG, Police, law and order, Saurabh Srivastava has been appointed ADG police headquarters while ADG Traffic, Smita Srivastava, was shifted to Civil Rights. Inspector-General of Police (IG), Jaipur range, Hawa Singh Ghumariya has now taken over as the Inspector General (IG), law and order. He was replaced by IG chief minister’s security, Sanjay Shotriya. The SPs of Bikaner, Baran, Jhunjhunu, Barmer, Ajmer, Sriganganagar, Pali, Bundi, Jhalawar, Jalore, Banswara, Kota rural and Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCPs) of Jaipur West and Jodhpur West have been transferred. The list of 18 IAS officers also includes two officers - secretary Labour, Skill and Entrepreneurship, Niraj K Pawan, and managing director of Rajasthan Skills and Livelihood Development Corporation (RSLDC) Pradeep Gawande. The duo is in controversy after the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) arrested two RSLDC employees with a bribe of ₹5 lakh in September. Pawan is replaced by Bhanu Prakash Atru and Gawande by Nalini Katotiya. Director of secondary education, Saurabh Swami has been transferred to a state health insurance agency, he is replaced by Kana Ram. Secretary, Rajasthan Public Service Commission, Shubham Choudhary, was transferred to Commissioner Labour department. He is replaced by Kumar Pal Gautam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-government-transfers-39-ips-18-ias-officers-101634209427758.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Raigad district administration gives nod to reopen Elephanta Caves for tourists||The residents of Elephanta Island have now heaved a sigh of relief as the Raigad district administration reopened its ancient caves for the tourists earlier this week.The caves were shut for tourists since April 1, when the government announced the second lockdown. Last year too, they were shut for almost eight months (from March 19 to November 6) during the first lockdown.Mahendra Kalyankar, collector of Raigad district, said, “As the scenario of Covid is better now, we have given consent to reopen the caves on the island.”Elephanta Island or Gharapuri is a popular tourist spot 10km off the city of Mumbai. The island houses three villages – Rajbunder, Shetbunder and Morabunder – and its population collectively is around 1,200. Due to lack of other sources of income on the island, its residents are heavily dependent on the tourism industry.Kailash Shinde, conservation assistant of Archeological Survey of India (ASI), said, “With the reopening of the caves, the tourists have started visiting the island, but their number is very less. Every year, a huge number of tourists from across the world visit the island during the Christmas vacation and the weeks after that. We hope this year, too, we will receive the same response.”According to the local gram panchayat officials, 7 lakh to 8 lakh tourists would visit the island every year to see its ancient caves before the pandemic. Around 30% of the tourists were foreigners.Sunil Padte, 60, a shopkeeper from the island, said, “I had no income ever since the caves were shut for tourists. So, my household was entirely dependent on my son’s income who works as a boat contractor. Others, who had no such options, went out of the island to take up jobs of security guards, salesmen among others. They have now started coming back.”Baliram Thakur, sarpanch of the island, said, “We have some farming land on the island and the residents would cultivate on them till mid-2000s. However, monkeys started spoiling our crops and hence everyone stopped doing it. The number of monkeys has increased manifold on the island over the past two decades. The monkeys cannot be relocated as it is violating the Animals Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raigad-district-administration-gives-nod-to-reopen-elephanta-caves-for-tourists-101634208528025.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: World War 2 air raid shoots Pune street food into public acclaim||Food traditions are often messy, complicated, and mostly a confluence of other varied traditions. There is usually little by way of purity or simplicity. In April 1942, Pune was preparing itself to face an aerial attack. When war seemed inevitable and it was realized that aerial attack would be the greatest threat posed by any coming conflict, the British government established a volunteer organization – Air Raid Precautions or ARP – that would stand at the centre of the wartime civil defence. Members of the ARP in Britain distributed gas masks to the population and policed the blackout. After the war started in September 1939, they played a vital role in shepherding people to shelter, reporting on damage, and rescuing people from wrecked buildings. In India, ARP Law came into force in 1939. Each city had multiple ARP wardens, and they had a troop of volunteers to help them with their wartime activities. Regular drills were carried out by the ARP wardens in conjunction with the police, local hospitals, and the fire department. There was a provision to arrest people who did not cooperate with the ARP volunteers. When Vishakhapatnam, Kakinada, and Colombo were bombed in the first week of April 1942, Pune panicked. A black-out was enforced, and the Municipal Corporation supplied each house with jute sandbags. Several practice drills were held, and air-raid sirens would wail at ungodly hours. The local populace was supposed to rush into air-raid shelters upon hearing the sirens. But since there were only a handful of them in Pune, and almost none for the common public, it was expected that people would rush into their homes instead. One such drill was held in Sadashiv peth on April 10, 1942. Though it was supposed to be a routine affair, there was an unusual commotion on the streets that day because a gentleman refused to obey. His name was Mr Gopal Thakur, and he sold “Bhel” in an open cart. According to a report published in “Jnanaprakash” on April 11, 1942, when the ARP volunteers requested Thakur to move his cart immediately to a “safe” location, he not only refused to listen to them, but also manhandled the volunteers, and later, the police. The next day, he was ordered to spend a day in jail, and pay a fine of ₹50. Thakur refused to pay the fine, and as a result, had to be imprisoned for a month. It is unclear why Thakur did not obey the ARP volunteers. Maybe he did not want to go home and lose his earnings. Or he did not want to obey the volunteers who were helping the British. “Jnanaprakash”, a month later, reported that a small crowd had gathered outside the jail to welcome him when he stepped out. It seems that Thakur was known for his “Bhel” because the newspaper referred to him as “Bhelwale Thakur” in all the reports. The last one about his release also mentions something very interesting. One Mr Narhari Shintre was released from jail 4 days prior. He too was imprisoned for not obeying the ARP law. Shintre sold “Santosh Wada” near SP College. The report mentions that his regular customers crowded at his roadside cart once he was back. I wouldn’t have been able to find out what “Santosh Wada” was, had Mrs Lakshmibai Vaidya not written the recipe in her cookbook “Paakasiddhi”. Vaidya’s cookbook, first published in 1969, has a recipe for “Breadcha Wada” where a chutney sandwich is coated with a seasoned gram flour batter and deep-fried. There’s another version where the sandwich is stuffed with a savory potato filling. She mentions that bread could be replaced with pao, provided the crusts are cut. “Santosh Wada” is a slight modification of the recipe where the gram flour batter also has soaked bread. Vaidya states that the gram flour batter could be replaced by a mixture of eggs, milk with salt, and pepper. “Santosh Wada” and “Breadcha Wada” seem to be inspired by various versions of the French toast. There are several savory versions of the same in the UK, of which “Gypsy Toast” is a close relative of “Santosh Wada”. It is unclear when “Breadcha Wada”, and “Santosh Wada” lost their identity to “Bread Pattice”, the now popular snack in Maharashtra, which is also known as “Bread Pakoda” in the north of India. Though called ‘pattice’, this dish has nothing to do with, perhaps, the more popular Indian chicken and mutton “pattice”. The “Chicken / Mutton Pattice” made famous by Irani bakeries and cafes are a version of French puff pastries. Their resemblance to Cornish Pasties is striking. The humble “Bread Pattice” is not a pocket pie. It is not baked, but deep-fried in oil. The word “pattice” comes from “patties”. During World War II, after the rationing of food grains, sugar, and kerosene came into effect, many men resorted to eating out while their wives were working in offices. Dishes like Misal, Samosa, and “Bread Pattice”, which were never cooked at home, gained popularity. The opening of bakeries operated by Hindus also played a role. Vaidya has included these in her cookbook. “I wonder who came up with the name “Santosh Wada”. Was it cooked in a restaurant named “Santosh”? The famous eatery in Pune, “Santosh Bhuvan”, did not serve the dish in 1942. Mr Ratnakar Soman, who ran “Maharashtra Bhuvan” in Budhwar Peth told me in 2014 that their restaurant served “Breadcha Wada” in 1950. He had never heard the name“Santosh Wada”. Where exactly did the dish originate? Did Shintre himself come up with the name, and the recipe? Did he use sliced bread or pao? Which chutney did he smear the bread slices with? And did he use potatoes? Were there others who sold the same dish around that time? I wish I knew. No dish is ever “authentic”. The origin is always obscure. Within a few years, at the most decades, culinary origins become blurred, and are lost in the mists of time.May be because of our motley heritage, there is a tendency to fixate and obsess over foods that have a more clear lineage. It would help if we understand that the history of food is the history of invention in times of necessity and inheritance from diverse cultures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-world-war-2-air-raid-shoots-pune-street-food-into-public-acclaim-101634208286712.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy stubble burning picks up in Punjab’s border areas||Stubble burning has picked up pace in Punjab’s border belt of Majha, including Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran districts, where the harvest of paddy is on in full swing. This year, crop residue burning is delayed as paddy harvest was behind schedule due to the late withdrawal of the monsoon. Also watch: MHA expands BSF’s powers in border States & why Punjab CM wants move rolled backOn October 13, a total of 132 events were captured by the satellite in Punjab. On the same day in 2019, 117 active fire events were captured, while there were 240 active fire events in the state on October 13, 2020. According to the cumulative figure from September 15 to October 13, a total of 1,057 incidents took place this year, while 3,123 fields on fire were recorded during the corresponding period in 2020. Of the 132 fire events recorded on Wednesday, Tarn Taran recorded 37 incidents, while Amritsar witnessed 26 farm fires. Officials dither to act against farmers in protest mode “Don’t expect that number of fire incidents to come down. It’s now an annual phenomenon, as in-situ utilisation of paddy straw is expensive, while there are only few takers for paddy straw bales in ex-situ management of the straw. Amid the ongoing farmers’ protest against the new farm laws, no official dare act against farmers. Officials are at the receiving end both from farmers and the government,” said a senior official of Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), requesting anonymity. PPCB experts said that the maximum number of fire incidents are expected from the last week of October till Diwali. The Punjab Government has so far appointed 8,000 nodal officers in Punjab to check stubble burning. “There is no viable solution for the management of paddy straw. If the government wants farmers to adopt in-situ or ex-situ management of paddy straw, it must pay ₹200 as incentive per quintal of paddy,” said Thakur Mann, a farmer of Patiala. He said that farmer unions will oppose any punitive move by the government. PPCB begins penalising defaulters In Punjab, setting fire to a field of less than two acres attracts a fine of ₹2,500, while a penalty of ₹5,000 is imposed if the field is between two and five acres. If the field on fire is over five acres, then the fine shoots up to ₹15,000. “The PPCB has started the process to identify farms where stubble burning has been identified by satellite and fines have been imposed,” said PPCB secretary Krunesh Garg. Air quality in moderate range in Amritsar Despite the farm fires, the air quality index (AQI) in the state is better than it was during the corresponding period in 2020. The AQI of Amritsar and Tarn Taran, where farm fires have started, is 150, which is in the moderate range. The AQI measures particulate matter and four harmful gases that pollute the air and converts the measured pollutant concentrations in the air to a number on a scale of 0 to 500. 0-50 is good air quality with minimal impact on health; the 51-100 range is satisfactory but may cause minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people; 101-200 AQI is the moderate range that may cause breathing discomfort to people with lung and heart disease; 201-300 is poor quality air that causes breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. The 301-400 range is very poor AQI range that can cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure; and 401-500 is the severe range that affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-stubble-burning-picks-up-in-punjab-s-border-areas-101634206786354.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Doctors assaulted at Delhi hospital by family as newborn dies, case registered||Three doctors were allegedly assaulted by the family members of a woman after her baby died during a caesarean procedure at Kuber Hospital in northwest Delhi's Pitampura on Wednesday, police said on Thursday. The family claimed “negligence” on part of the doctors. They were later detained by the police for misbehaviour.Sakshi Sharma, a 26-year-old resident of Rani Bagh, was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. However, the doctors performed a caesarean or C-section on her to deliver the baby due to complications. The baby was stillborn, however, a senior police officer said.According to the police, some of her family members had an argument with the doctors, hurled abuses and manhandled them, blaming them for the child’s death. One of the doctors lodged a police complaint against the patient's family members. “A written complaint was given by the Dr Kanti Shamsukha alleging that some persons belonging to the family and relation of the patient misbehaved, beat the doctors and also tried to cause damage to the hospital,” deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said.Based on the complaint, a case has been registered against the family members under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The accused were also booked under the Delhi Medicare Service Personnel and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage of Property) Act, 2008. They have been detained and the matter is being investigated, the police said.The body of the baby has been shifted to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital for a post-mortem examination, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doctors-assaulted-at-delhi-hospital-by-family-as-newborn-dies-case-registered-101634201020329.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Southwest monsoon withdraws over Mumbai, 6 days after official date||The southwest monsoon on Thursday withdrew over Mumbai, six days after its official date of withdrawal on October 8, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has confirmed. The withdrawal has taken place across the state, having begun on October 12. The withdrawal line, as of Thursday afternoon, continued to persist over Vengurla in the southernmost part of the Konkan coast, and is expected to withdraw entirely within the next day.“With the monsoon having now exited Mumbai completely, citizens can expect clear skies and rising temperatures over the remaining period of October. The maximum temperature has been between 33 and 34 degrees Celsius over the last three days, but it will quickly climb now. It may touch 35 degrees Celsius or more by the end of the week,” said a meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. They also added that there may be a slight chance of unseasonal rains toward late October.Monsoon withdrawal in Maharashtra first began from the easternmost tip of the Vidarbha region between October 9 and 11, subsequently progressing over parts of Marathwada and then Madhya Maharashtra. Withdrawal over the Konkan region began on October 12. Last year, the monsoon’s withdrawal over Mumbai had taken place on October 28, nearly three weeks after the official date, making it the season’s most delayed retreat since 1975. In 2019, the withdrawal was recorded on October 14.The 2021 monsoon season also marks the third consecutive year in which Mumbai received over 3000mm of rain, and follows 2020’s seasonal total of 3,759.7mm (which was just 70mm short of being the wettest September on record), as per the weather department’s monitoring station in Santacruz.This year, the city saw three ‘extremely heavy’ rainfall days (one in June and two in July), receiving over 204.5mm in 24-hours. The first of these events occurred on June 10 (231.3mm), coinciding with the arrival of the south-west monsoon two days prior to the official onset date of June 11.The highest amount of rain, 1222mm, was received in July. The month also saw two consecutive, atypical thunderstorms which dumped more than 500mm rain over the city, resulting in the second and third ‘extremely heavy rainfall’ events of the season. A convective thunderstorm, described by meteorologists as “monstrous”, deposited a whopping 235mm rain between 12am and 4am on July 18, less than 48 hours after a similar high rainfall event resulted in the season’s highest daily rainfall on July 16 at 253mm. July rains saw a 48% departure from the monthly normal of 822mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/southwest-monsoon-withdraws-over-mumbai-101634206488160.html
14-10-2021||Other||Manipur launches scheme for early identification and diagnosis of diseases||Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh on Thursday launched “CM’s Health for All” scheme, saying it will be mainly focused on early identification and diagnosis of diseases through check-ups at the people’s doorsteps, treatment, and follow-ups. He added the beneficiaries will also be given free medicines if diagnosed with any disease. Singh said 64 villages spread across the state’s 16 districts will be covered under the scheme.The chief minister distributed standard portable medical equipment and other gadgets to the healthcare workers for the implementation of the scheme.Additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) V Vumlunmang said, “We are using IT platform, National Health Mission, NCD, eSanjeevani for telemedicine and all these will be combined to give doorstep services to the people of Manipur.”The state government earlier in 2018 launched a scheme under which eligible households were provided health cover up to ₹2 lakh annually for seven critical diseases. Until August, around 41,9000 beneficiaries were enrolled for the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-launches-scheme-for-early-identification-and-diagnosis-of-diseases-101634203066714.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects HDIL promoter Rakesh Wadhawan’s plea for bail on health grounds||The Bombay high court on Thursday rejected the application by the Housing Development and Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL) promoter Rakesh Wadhawan, who was arrested in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative Bank Ltd multi-crore fraud case, seeking bail on medical grounds. The court was informed that the dual-chamber pacemaker implantation had been successfully carried out on him at state-run KEM Hospital. The HC has, however, granted him liberty to approach it for further relief if the facilities required for post-surgery recovery were not available at the hospital. The single-judge bench of justice Nitin Sambre, which had been hearing the application for bail on medical grounds, was informed that the doctors at the KEM hospital, as well as a private cardiologist consultant, had confirmed that Wadhawan required dual pacemaker implantation due to fluctuations in his heart rate. After KEM hospital had informed that it did not have the facility to carry out the dual-chamber pacemaker implantation, the court sought to know from the state whether any government hospital had the facility and, if not, whether the state would consider allowing Wadhawan to undergo the same at some private hospital at his own cost. After the state informed the bench that Sir J J Hospital had the facility for the implantation, Wadhawan’s counsel based on the recommendation of the private consultant for multidisciplinary approach for patient’s recovery had sought shifting Wadhawan to a private hospital for recovery. On Wednesday additional public prosecutor Prajakta Shinde informed the bench that arrangements were being made to set up a cardiac ICU in KEM Hospital. Shinde further submitted that the claim that the applicent was immunocompromised as he was being treated in a government hospital were unfounded as his situation had become such due to the severe Corona infection which he had suffered. Shinde had also submitted that already regular I.C.U. was operational at KEM Hospital where applicant could be treated in case of emergency and a Cardiac I.C.U. would be ready in all respects within a period of one week. She further claimed that application should be rejected as applicant was provided the best of the treatment by expert doctors. After hearing the submissions the court observed in its order, “What is noticed is, best possible treatment at well-known Government/Corporation Hospital is made available to the applicant. There is nothing on record to infer that the applicant is not treated for his ailment. As regards comorbidities are concerned, this court expects that KEM Hospital authorities shall be taking appropriate precaution for the same.” In light of this observation the court held that the claim put-forth by the applicant that he is immediately required to be released on temporary bail on medical ground is not justified and as his application lacks merit, it is rejected. The court however permitted Wadhawan to approach the court afresh in case of an emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-hdil-promoter-rakesh-wadhawan-s-plea-for-bail-on-health-grounds-101634202526851.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||NCB framed my son-in-law, will move court: Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik on Thursday accused Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) of framing his son-in-law Sameer Khan and two others in a drug peddling case in January and delaying the process for their bail. He added they are moving court against the agency, the harassment meted out to them, and for quashing the case.Malik alleged the NCB showed 200 kg herbal tobacco as ganja and produced photographs of seizures taken at its office. He added the NCB found nothing in the raids conducted at Khan’s office. Malik said wrong information of seizure of 200-kg ganja was given to the media. He accused NCB of selectively leaking information involving big names for cheap publicity.Malik said he has been getting threatening calls since he exposed NCB’s raid on a cruise in Mumbai. He added his security has been beefed up and he will file a complaint about the threats.In its detailed bail order, a special court on Wednesday ruled there was no case of illicit drug trafficking and conspiracy against Khan. The bail was granted last month.“The court order clearly says the wrong sections... were applied against the accused. It also says the intention of the investigative agency was malafide,” said Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-minister-says-ncb-framed-his-son-in-law-will-move-court-101634200066227.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Petrol crosses ₹110 mark in Pune; diesel at ₹99.36||After a break of two days, fuel prices have gone up once again in the city with diesel prices just a step away from ₹100 mark. Petrol price has breached the mark of ₹110. Just in a manner of 10 days, CNG prices have also been hiked again in the city by more than ₹2.6. On Thursday, the petrol price in Pune stood at ₹110.25 per litre. The diesel cost ₹99.36 per litre and CNG now cost ₹62.10 per kg in Pune. The CNG users have also been disappointed as the CNG prices have soared again. After remaining stable for a long period of time, the CNG price was hiked on August 2 to cost ₹57.50 per kg. On October 4, CNG prices rose again by ₹2 and to cost ₹59.50 per kg. Effective from Thursday midnight, CNG prices have been hiked by ₹2.6. The incessant hike in petrol and diesel prices is likely to impact the transportation rates. Last Saturday, all transport associations in the state held a meeting in Pune to discuss various issues. The point of increasing the rate of goods and passenger transportation was also discussed. However, the associations refrained from increasing the rates. Many from the transportation business said that the continuous hike in diesel prices would leave no option but increase the transportation rates. Hike in CNG prices may also make rickshaw rides costlier for the passengers. In the city, most of the rickshaws run on CNG and riskha unions are considering increasing the fare..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/petrol-crosses-rs-110-mark-in-pune-diesel-at-rs-9936-101634199466659.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal urges Baijal to allow Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal urging him to allow Chhat Puja celebrations in Delhi with adherence to Covid-19 protocols. “People of Delhi celebrate Chhath Puja every year with a lot of devotion with a strong belief that it would bring good health and prosperity. In Delhi, the Covid-19 situation has been under control for the past few months. In my opinion, people should be allowed to celebrate Chhath Puja with the necessary regulations. Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, and other neighbouring states have allowed it with necessary protocols. I request you convene a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and consider allowing Chhath Puja in Delhi too,” said Kejriwal in his letter to Baijal. He shared a copy of the letter on Twitter.Baijal is the DDMA chairperson and Kejriwal vice-chairperson.On September 30, the DDMA issued an order prohibiting the celebration of Chhath Puja at riverbanks, near water bodies, open grounds, in temples, and other public spaces. Limited restrictions were imposed on other festivals such as Durga Puja and Dussehra.Chhath Puja in public spaces was prohibited last year too because of the pandemic. This year, it will be celebrated on November 10. The festival involves collective dips in water bodies and worshipping the Sun. It is a major festival for people from Bihar, Jharkhand, and Uttar Pradesh, who have a sizeable presence in Delhi.The Bharatiya Janata Party has protested against restrictions on Chhath Puja celebrations. On October 9, Kejriwal said the DDMA prohibited the celebrations because of the inherent risk of transmission in the rituals which involve gathering in large numbers. His deputy Manish Sisodia wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya three days later, urging the Centre to draft protocols and issue necessary orders with regard to the festival.President of Delhi-BJP Adesh Gupta said: “It is because of the pressure created by the BJP that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal -- whose government was against Chhat celebrations -- has today written to the lieutenant governor to allow Chhat celebrations to take place. I congratulate all devotees from Poorvanchal who live in Delhi and celebrate the festival.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-urges-baijal-to-allow-chhat-puja-celebrations-in-delhi-101634196827355.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||‘Corona in control’: Delhi CM Kejriwal urges LG to allow Chhath Puja celebrations||Amid protests by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) against the ban on public celebrations of Chhath Puja in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday he has written to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to allow public celebrations of the festival, as the situation of the coronavirus pandemic in the national capital is “in control.” Kejriwal tweeted, "I have urged the honourable LG to allow Chhath Puja in Delhi. Corona is now in control and many other states have allowed it (the festival). I have urged Hon’ble LG to allow Chhath pooja celebrations in Delhi. Corona is now in control and many other states have allowed it. pic.twitter.com/110ZZtpBMlThe chief minister's letter to LG Baijal comes just two days after deputy CM Manish Sisodia wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, urging the Centre to issue guidelines for Chhath “as soon as possible.”Also Read | Manish Sisodia urges Centre to allow Chhath celebrations, says Covid-19 situation in Delhi is ‘under control’On September 30, the Baijal-headed Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) prohibited Chhath Puja celebrations in public places in Delhi, including at grounds, river banks and temples. This was for the second straight year that such an order was issued, due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read | Delhi allows muted Dussehra, Durga Puja celebrations, curbs to remain in placeHowever, in the recent past, the city has seen less than 50 daily Covid-19 cases on several days. There have also been a number of days when no new death took place due to the viral illness. Due to the improvement in the situation, schools reopened for classes 9-12 on September 1. The remaining classes, from nursery to Class 8, will resume physically from November 1, as per a DDMA order.Also Read | Delhi schools to reopen remaining classes in phased manner from November 1Chhath Puja, a three-day festival, falls after Diwali, and is most popular in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and parts of Madhya Pradesh. This year, it will be celebrated from November 8-10. A large population of migrants from these states reside in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/corona-in-control-kejriwal-urges-delhi-lg-to-allow-chhath-puja-celebrations-101634194053002.html
14-10-2021||Other||‘Naga issue not monopoly of any group or politicians’: Committee||A committee of seven Nagaland political groups has said the Naga issue is not a monopoly of any group or political leaders. “Political solution cannot be designed to appease, quench and inflate the pride, ego, and ambition of any leader,” said N Kitovi Zhimomi, the panel’s convener, in a statement.This comes as Nagaland’s top politicians are in Delhi for a series of meetings and consultations related to peace talks. The talks were stalled in October 2019 over differences on issues related to the 2015 Framework Agreement, and a separate Naga flag and constitution.Zhimomi said the problem with today’s leaders is that many have developed a sense of personal ownership of the issue at the cost of the Naga people. He said that “overindulgence in self-glorification and self-crowning exercises with relentless media hype” since 1997 have not helped the Nagas. He said they have avoided “this deadly trap”. “We chose to be practical and transparent with the Naga tribes and with the Gol (government of India). We changed the concept of Naga political talks from secrecy mode to transparent and inclusive mode.”Zhimomi said they have made it clear to the Centre the significance of a separate flag and constitution. The rival Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim has remained unyielding to date about the two issues.“On the Naga Flag, the Gol has been clearly told there is a historical, cultural, and spiritual side to it which is too dear to the Naga people. The Gol has assured that the Naga Flag would be given the appropriate respect and position it deserves. The Naga flag’s unrestrained political usage would be pursued post solution democratically. Gol will not object to the use of the Naga flag for cultural purposes and in customary institutions,” Zhimomi said.He maintained there should be no claim for “championship prize” on this. “As for the Naga Constitution, the precise shape, form, and source of authority will come from the Naga tribes. Each Naga tribe has conventions that govern the conduct of individuals and villages as miniature republics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/naga-issue-not-monopoly-of-any-group-or-politicians-committee-101634196106931.html
14-10-2021||Other||UDA consensus candidate wins Nagaland by-poll uncontested||The Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) in Nagaland retained the Shamatore-Chessore assembly constituency as the party candidate S Keoshu Yimchunger was declared elected uncontested on Wednesday.Yimchunger, a newcomer in the state electoral politics, was the consensus candidate of the newly-formed opposition-less United Democratic Alliance (UDA) in Nagaland where the NDPP, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Naga People’s Front (NPF) and two independent MLAs are partners.State Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) V Shashank Shekhar issued a press release informing Yimchunger’s uncontested victory to fill the vacancy in the Nagaland Legislative Assembly which was necessitated by the demise of the then sitting MLA Toshi Wungtung in July this year.Yimchunger was the sole candidate to file nomination papers to contest the by-poll, the CEO stated, adding that following scrutiny of the candidate’s documents which were found to be valid and after the last hour for withdrawal of candidature on October 13, he was handed over the certificate of election.With Yimchunger’s uncontested victory, the NDPP’s total strength in the house of 60 now stands at 21, while the NPF has 25 MLAs and the BJP has 12. There are two independent legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uda-consensus-candidate-wins-nagaland-by-poll-uncontested-101634195507313.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Durga Puja in Delhi: No immersion of idols at public place or in water bodies, rules DPCC||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has issued directions for the Durga Puja festivities in the national capital, which includes, among others, prohibition on the immersion of idols at any public place, or water bodies. “It has been a tradition to immerse idols in water bodies like rivers, lakes, ponds, wells etc. As a result, the pollution of such water bodies has been a matter of concern. In addition to silting, toxic chemicals used in making idols tend to leach out and pose serious problems of water pollution,” a DPCC letter, dated October 13, stated, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Idol immersions shall not be allowed in any public places including the river Yamuna during the forthcoming Durga Pooja, says Delhi Pollution Control Committee pic.twitter.com/E2LHVX8CL9Here are the SOPs as issued by the pollution control body:For general public: (1.) Ban on idol immersion at any public place, including River Yamuna, or in any other water body.(2.) Idols to be kept in a bucket/container, and immersion to be performed within home premises.(3.) Worship material (like flowers) and decorating material to be removed from the idol before immersion. These should be collected separately for disposal in an environmentally safe manner. For idol makers/sellers: (1.) Only natural materials, as described in the holy scripts, should be used in making idols. Use of traditional clay for this is permitted, while baked clay, plaster of Paris etc. cannot be used.(2.) Ideally, painting the idols should be avoided. However, if painting, only water soluble and non-toxic natural dyes should be used. Toxic and non-biodegradable chemical dyes strictly prohibited. For local bodies/authorities: (1.) General public should be informed about the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) circular, dated September 30, which bans religious functions and other large congregations due to Covid-19.(2.) Municipal bodies, Delhi Police to check vehicles entering the city carrying prohibited idol as cargo.(3.) Municipal bodies should issue relevant directions to zonal offices to take action against illegal idol making.(4.) Delhi Police to issue relevant directions to police officials to take action against violators.(5.) Biodegradable and non-biodegradable materials should be collected separately for recycling/composting and disposal in sanitary landfills, respectively.(6.) District Magistrates shall enforce directions pertaining to idol immersion. Violators liable to pay ₹50,000 per default to the DPCC.(7.) All local bodies to ensure wide publicity of these SOPs, as well as Do’s and Don’ts for the festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/durga-puja-no-immersion-of-idols-at-public-place-or-in-water-bodies-rules-dpcc-101634190209423.html
14-10-2021||Bangalore||Rain lashes Bengaluru, several areas flooded as Madiwala lake overflow||The Madiwala lake in Karnataka's Bengaluru on Thursday overflowed as heavy rainfall lashed the city, leading to flood-like situations in several areas including BTM Layout, HSR Layout, Anugraha Layout and Madiwala. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Karnataka for the next three days.On Wednesday, a four-storey building in Bengaluru's Mahalakshmi Layout limits was demolished by the civic authorities after it started tilting following the heavy rain. This is the fourth building collapse incident in Bengaluru in a little over two weeks. Residents of the building were evacuated to safety and the municipality was alerted on Tuesday night when it started tilting.According to experts, the rapid and unplanned expansion of Bengaluru has led to encroachment of lakes and stormwater drains (SWD) that lead to flooding in these parts. Residents have also raised complaints regarding the constant digging roads, saying it makes it difficult even to commute.Meanwhile, Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said 21 people have died due to rains since early this month. Bommai said that the local administration has been directed to provide compensation to the rain-hit families. About 2,500 houses have also been partially damaged, he also informed, adding, further assessment is on.About 2,300 electricity poles have been damaged but the chief minister promised he will ensure there are no power cuts. Roads, bridges and school buildings have also been damaged in the rain.After taking stock of the situation, the chief minister also informed that the state recorded 30-50 per cent excess rain in October so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/rain-lashes-bengaluru-several-areas-flooded-as-madiwala-lake-overflow-101634190701912.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Lookout notice for man in viral selfie with Aryan Khan||Pune Police have issued a lookout circular against a man, who was seen with Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan at Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) office in a now-viral selfie, officials have said. The lookout circular, a notice that prevents a person from leaving the country, has been issued in connection with a 2018 cheating case. "We have issued a lookout circular notice against KP Gosavi, who has been absconding in a 2018 cheating case registered against him with the Faraskhana police station," Pune Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, according to new news agency PTI.The NCB has said that Gosavi is one of the nine independent witnesses in the cruise ship drugs case involving Aryan Khan and others. The central agency has also clarified that Gosavi was not an officer or employee of the agency. Maharashtra Minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik raised objections to Gosavi's presence at the NCB office after the arrest of Aryan Khan in the drugs case.Also read | NCB witness whose selfie with Aryan Khan went viral has cheating complaints against him in PalgharPolice have said Gosavi was booked for allegedly duping a Pune-based man on the pretext of offering a job in Malaysia on May 19, 2018. Chinmay Deshmukh, who was allegedly cheated of ₹3.09 lakh by Gosavi, registered the complaint against him. Deshmukh said in his complaint that he contacted Gosavi, who had put up an advertisement on social media about some vacancy in the hotel industry in Malaysia."While promising a job in Malaysia, Gosavi collectively took ₹3.09 lakh from him in instalments. However, he neither offered any job to him nor paid his money back," an official from Faraskhana police station said, according to PTI.Also read | Aryan Khan drugs case hearing to continue today. Here's where things standAryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, is escorted to court by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) officials for a bail plea hearing in Mumbai after his arrest in connection with a drug case. (Photo by Punit PARANJPE / AFP)The complaint against Gosavi was registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 420 (cheating), and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act. A chargesheet was also filed in court as Gosavi was not found. He is still wanted in the case.Gosavi, who is also a private detective, has allegedly cheated other men by promising them to give them work abroad and embezzled millions of rupees. Four FIRS have already been registered against him in various police stations in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lookout-notice-for-man-in-viral-selfie-with-aryan-khan-101634187084056.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Pune airport to remain closed for 14 days starting Saturday||The 14-day closure of Pune airport began on Thursday morning. It has been closed due to runway resurfacing work being undertaken by the Indian Air Force (IAF). According to the airport officials, the decision was taken after receiving a communication from the IAF.All commercial flights operating from the airport will remain suspended from October 16 to 29 due to the closure.The aerodrome is part of the IAF's airbase at Lohegaon. The runway maintenance work was earlier proposed to be undertaken in April, but was postponed and will now be carried out later this month.This is the second shut down within a span of 13 years.The travellers were shocked by the announcement, which they said was made at a very short notice. Many of them had planned to fly as the festive season has begun.The existing airport at Lohegaon is owned by the IAF. It said that shutting down the airstrip was "inescapable" as the condition of the runway is rapidly deteriorating and it needs re-carpeting.Meanwhile, a greenfield airport was inaugurated by the Centre in Sindhudurg on the same day the IAF made announcement about closure of the existing airport.Operationalisation of the airport at Chipi in Sindhudurg has opened the horizon of additional connectivity of costal Maharashtra with other cities, directly connected with bigger places like Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-airport-to-remain-closed-for-14-days-starting-saturday-101634187325521.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 12 candidates in fray for Deglur assembly bypoll, details here||As many as 12 candidates, including of main contenders Congress and the BJP, are left in the fray for the October 30 bypoll to the Deglur-Biloli assembly seat in Nanded district of Maharashtra, said an official of the Election Commission of India (ECI) on Wednesday. As many as nine candidates opted out of the race on the last day of withdrawal of nominations on Wednesday.“There were 34 nominations filed by 23 candidates for the Deglur-Biloli by-election necessitated after the death of sitting Congress MLA Raosaheb Antapurkar a few months back. After the withdrawal of nominations, 12 candidates are left in the fray,” the official said.Out of the 23 nomination forms which were received, two were found to be invalid, another official said.The Congress has fielded Jitesh Raosaheb Antapurkar, the son of the deceased MLA, while the BJP has nominated Subhash Sabne, a former Shiv Sena legislator who recently joined the main opposition party in the state.The counting of votes will take place on November 2.The constituency, which is reserved for SC candidates, has 2,94,035 voters and shares a border with Telangana. Besides Jitesh Antapurkar and Sabne, the candidates in the fray are Uttam Ingole of the Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi, Vivek Kerkar of the Janata Dal (Secular), Parmeshwar Waghmare of the Bahujan Bharat Party, and D D Waghmare of the RPI (K). Others are independents, the second official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-12-candidates-in-fray-for-deglur-assembly-bypoll-details-here-101634182795464.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs 90mn Covid-19 vaccine jabs, low positivity rate this week||Maharashtra achieved a milestone of administering 90 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to its citizens as well as recording a lower Covid-19 positivity rate this week, officials said.Aaditya Thackeray, state environment minister and son of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, tweeted, “The Good News: Maharashtra has crossed mark of 9 crore covid vaccination doses at 5:30 pm today. Till date, Maharashtra has fully vaccinated 2.76 crore population, highest for any State in the country.”Maharashtra administered 676,223 doses on Wednesday, thus totalling 90,030,923 doses, administered from January when the vaccination drive started. A total of 27,612,674 citizens have been fully vaccinated, the highest in the country.In addition, the state showed a slight improvement in containing the Covid-19 virus as the weekly average positivity rates slipped, compared to last week.The state has currently eight districts showing a higher positivity rate than the state average, compared to 10 last week.The current state average positivity rate is 2.49% and these eight districts, led by Sindhudurg, have a higher rate. The only problem is at Sindhudurg, where the positivity rate was recorded above 5%, which means Covid-19 is not under control there.Positivity rate is the percentage of tests returning positive.The districts having high positivity rates include Sindhurdurg (6.93%), Pune (3.69%), Nashik (3.40%), Palghar (3.20%), Osmanabad (2.58%), Ahmednagar (2.46%), Ratnagiri (2.34%) and Sangli (2.13%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-logs-90mn-covid-19-vaccine-jabs-low-positivity-rate-this-week-101634182725188.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Misty morning, open skies in store for Delhi on Thursday||Delhi is likely to see a generally clear sky with the possibility of mist in the morning on Thursday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature is likely to be at 21 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature is predicted to touch 34 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Wednesday was recorded at 20.6 degrees Celsius, which was slightly above normal, and the maximum temperature was 33.9 degrees Celsius, which was around one notch above normal. And humidity oscillated between 37% and 80%.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 125.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/misty-morning-open-skies-in-store-for-delhi-on-thursday-101634181345395.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A room of his own, his dream||He is 23. He has a dream. “I want to live in a house that has more than one room,” says Muhammed Anas. A bangle seller, he has spent all his years, so far, in a single-room house in Old Delhi’s Pahari Rajaan. This slow afternoon, while waiting for customers at his shop near Khajoor Wali Masjid (the khajoor tree vanished long ago), Mr Anas tells of his present house, as well as about the dream home in which he wishes to spend the rest of his life.On his present house:“It’s not really a room but a large hall on the ground floor, with a kitchen and a bathroom. We live across the lane from a meat shop. My late father bought the house some 30 years ago. Six of us are living in it—my mother, my sister, and we four brothers. The house has two beds, one small dining table, a fridge, a LED TV, and a window AC. In case of a power failure, there is ghup andhera (pitch darkness) inside even at midday—because there is no window! I feel no air, no oxygen in our home. I’m lucky to be able to spend the entire day in the shop. Sometimes, while at home, I pass the time looking at the walls, which are covered with photos of our family trips to various dargahs in Delhi and in other cities. Once we went to Haji Ali’s shrine in Mumbai. We also have many pictures of our trip to Kashmir.”On his “khwabgah,” his dream home:“It has to be within our Old Delhi, because we are proper Purani Dilli wale and will never leave this area. I’ll prefer Daryaganj’s Lal Wali Gali, which is a very spacious street. There one easily sees the sky, unlike in Pahari Rajaan where I live. Ours will be a top floor flat and will have five rooms, one for each brother, and one for our mother (our sister will hopefully be married by then). Every room will be fitted with a window. Despite living in a bigger house, we will remain a closely knit family. All things will stay the same, except for the fact that at night we will not sleep in the same room.”Mr Anas now falls silent. He will shut the shop at 9pm after which he will walk back home. Post-dinner, he will hang out with friends along the neighbourhood’s crowded alleys. (That’s his daily routine.) He will return by midnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-room-of-his-own-his-dream-101634165158093.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Gangster Gogi knew of plots to kill him in court||Gangster Jitender Gogi, who was shot dead in a shocking and sensational killing in the Rohini court by his rivals last month, knew that there was a threat to his life every time he went to the court premises, and specifically of at least two previous attempts, according to people aware of the matter and official documents reviewed by HT.Gogi, 30, made these revelations in his last confession, recorded four months before he was shot 18 times in courtroom number 207 on September 24 by members suspected to be from the Tillu Tajpuria gang.His 30-page confession also details his life in crime going back to when he was just 17.According to the confession, Gogi said that the first plan to kill him at Rohini court was hatched in March 2013, when, a day before the hearing, he got a tip-off that his rival Tillu Tajpuria (actual name Sunil Maan) would be waiting to murder him when the police brought him to the court premises. Gogi claimed he survived because he gathered “more than 40-50 men as his security guards” to escort him to the court, and Tajpuria’s plan could not be carried out.“In 2013, an informer told me that I would be murdered in Rohini jail by Tillu. So, on the date of hearing, I went to the court along with gang members Jelly, Gullu, Yogesh, Monu Nepali, Rohit Moi, Monu, Digvijay Saroha alias Nanu, Monu Nepali, Rohit Moi and about 40 more boys. We spotted Amit alias Dabang of the Tillu gang at gate number 5. Tillu, Sannata, Umesh Kala, Deepak alias Raju, Chigla and total around 9-10 boys were standing on the stairs of the court.”At the court, Gogi said that while his henchmen outnumbered Tajpuria’s gang, two members of their gangs clashed, and a pistol belonging to one of Gogi’s gang member’s fell on the ground, and went off accidentally. Gogi claimed that Tajpuria and his gang fled the spot.The second such attempt, he told police, was in 2016 when Gogi was in Rohini jail. This time, after learning that Tajpuria was planning to kill him in court the next day, Gogi fled custody before reaching the court.On July 30, 2016, when a police team was taking him to the Jind court for a hearing in a government public transport bus, his accomplices in two different cars -- a Hyundai I 20 and a Maruti SX4 -- stopped the bus at Bahadurgarh. Other gang members inside the bus (posing as passengers) assaulted the police personnel, and then snatched their MP-4 guns, helping Gogi escape.HT has seen a copy of the confession, recorded on April 8 , after police registered a new case against Gogi and his gang members under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (Mcoca) to rein in its organised crime network.A senior officer of the special cell, which is probing Gogi’s case, said, “Gogi may have died but there are many members of his gang who benefitted financially from the crimes they committed. The investigation against them will continue. Also, a special cell team was accompanying Gogi on the day of the murder and also shot the two gunmen dead within seconds that morning.”In his confession, Gogi, for the first time, also revealed that his first brush with crime was not at the Swami Shraddhanand College in 2010 after a dispute with Tajpuria during the college elections as is widely believed.At 17, he confessed that he “broke open a man’s head” after a quarrel between his mother and a neighbour. Gogi’s mother and elder brother were convicted for a year in the case, but Gogi was released in days because he was a minor. This case was never reported papers because the law does not permit police to release the records of juvenile offenders.Gogi and Tajpuria, who were once friends, later got embroiled in a bloody gang war that has resulted in the death of over two dozen men from both gangs in the last decade. Gogi’s murder in the Rohini courtroom on September 24, was the last confirmed death in this crime saga.On Monday, another member of Tajpuria gang was shot dead in Rohini. Delhi Police, which is on high alert after Gogi’s murder, are checking if the murder is related to Gogi’s killing.Police have arrested four people, including Tillu Tajpuria, for Gogi’s murder. Police said that Tajpuria and other gangsters hired gunmen who posed as lawyers on the morning of September 24; entered the courtroom; waited for an hour inside, and then shot Gogi dead within a minute of his entering the courtroom.Ironically, one of the murders planned by the Gogi gang, too, was in this same court and carried out the same way. On January 16, 2018 one of Gogi’s associates posed as a lawyer, and entered the Rohini court to kill a rival Ravi Bhardwaj. Though the plot could not be executed, Gogi’s men followed Bhardwaj and shot him 15 times outside a local eatery.LN Rao, who retired as the special cell’s deputy commissioner of police, after working in the Delhi police for over three decades said, “Attacking rivals during their court production is relatively easy. The date of the court production, the route which they take and the specific courts that prisoners have to attend is known.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangster-gogi-knew-of-plots-to-kill-him-in-court-101634163265409.html
14-10-2021||Bhopal||MP govt defers bull castration drive amid opposition||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday deferred a drive to castrate 1.2 million bulls of the so-called nondescript variety after BJP member of Parliament from state capital Bhopal, Pragya Thakur, and leaders of the opposition Congress demanding that the move be scrapped, claiming, erroneously, that it could harm efforts to increase the population of indigenous varieties.Cattle belong to non-descript breeds are not of any particular strain and the cows of this variety are usually very low producers of milk.According to the state’s livestock count, Madhya Pradesh has 29 million bovines (18.7 million cows and 10.3 million buffaloes) , 9.73% of the total population of bovines in India in 2019. The state’s bovine population has increased by over 2.5 million since 2017. In terms of milk production , MP stands third in 2020-21 after Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan with 17.1 million tonnes of production; it accounts for 7% of the total milk production in the country, according to the ministry of food processing.Castration driveAccording to the state, at least 2.6 million bulls were castrated over the past three years in Madhya Pradesh. However, there are still close to 4 million nondescript bulls and their population is increasing every year. The high number was behind the animal husbandry department proposing a massive castration drive.“The reason behind poor yield of milk is that more than 80% of total population of cows belong to nondescript (not well defined breeds). When nondescript bulls mate with cows, the result is usually nondescript calves of either sex. The cows so produced give just around one litre milk per day. When farmers fail to realise the money of cow feed from milk production, they are compelled to abandon them,” said JN Kansotia, additional chief secretary animal husbandry department, MP.To control the rising population of nondescript cattle, the department proposed a mass castration drive to be held between October 4 and 23.Kansotia added that the department is trying to improve the quality of cows through artificial insemination but using semen of Indian breeds only. “This drive is to stop the increase of population of nondescript cattle, not to promote any foreign breed but some people misguided MP Pragya Thakur about it and we tried to explain the same to her on Wednesday,” he said. He added that the drive has been abandoned for now.Improving milk yield of the cows is part of the central government’s programme to improve farm incomes . Niti Aayog estimated in 2017 that farm incomes can double by 2022 if income from cattle and poultry increased by at least 60%. And, for that, experts say, states need to control the rising population of nondescript bulls.The controversyEarlier, Thakur spoke to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan protesting against the drive, calling it “an act against nature” and saying it was aimed to end the breed of Indian cows and invoked Hindu God Shiva in her claim. Shiva’s steed is the bull. “...I objected to it and talked with the chief minister that it will finish the population of many Indian breeds and promote foreign breeds.”Thakur got support from an unlikely quarter, the opposition Congress. spokesperson Narendra Saluja said the order clearly showed that the government is against Indian breed of cows and wants to finish them off.BJP spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal, however, defended the government and said, “The state government takes any decision for the welfare of cows so we shouldn’t interfere in the working of the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-defers-bull-castration-drive-amid-opposition-101634159245776.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir will never become a part of Pakistan: Farooq on Kashmir killings||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Wednesday visited a gurdwara in Srinagar where a prayer ceremony for slain school principal Supinder Kour, who was killed by suspected militants on October 7, was held. Abdullah said that Jammu and Kashmir will never become a part of Pakistan, even if the “killers pump bullets into him”.“We have to fight these beasts. Never will this place become Pakistan. We are part of India and will remain so, whatever the circumstances,” the former J&K chief minister said at Shaheed Bunga Sahib gurdwara in Baghat. Kashmir has been restive since October 3 owing to the targeted killings of seven persons, including three belonging to Pandit and Sikh communities of the UT and forth one a non-local.On October 7, suspected militants had shot dead two teachers of a government school in Srinagar’s old city. The duo were killed two days after Makhan Lal Bindroo, a 68-year-old chemist, street vendor Virender Paswan from Bihar’s Bhagalpur, and Muhammad Shafi Lone, a taxi driver, were shot dead in Srinagar and Bandipora districts on October 5. On October 3, two persons were killed in two separate incidents in Srinagar.Abdullah reminded that when people left from J&K, Sikh community remained here.“It was you. We have to live here and die here. And I am proud of that. You gave me confidence that time,” he said.He said that the killers did not serve any religion by killing innocents. “A teacher would teach our children and show them the path. Killing her and then thinking that they are serving Islam. No, they are definitely serving the devil,” he said.“The devil will go into hell and they will also go into hell,” he said.The senior leader said that the whole country is “burning”. “Attempts are being made to divide us . But those who are doing this won’t be successful. For some time we will get a setback but the almighty won’t allow them to succeed. Those who are doing it will get some benefit for the time being but will ultimately perish ,” he said.Later while talking to media persons on the targeted killings, Abdullah said that all the Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs and Christians have to fight the perpetrators together.“We have to live courageously and not fear them. They will never succeed. Whatever they are thinking they will fail. But all of us have to stand strong – Muslims, Sikhs, Hindus and Christian. Whosoever we are, we have to stand together to fight them,” he said.He said that a storm of communal divide is emerging in India where Muslims, Hindus and Sikhs are being divided. “And this politics of division needs to be stopped. If it is not stopped then the Indian won’t survive. If India has to be saved then we have to live together and only then India will progress forward,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-will-never-become-a-part-of-pakistan-farooq-on-kashmir-killings-101634159802293.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||NGT denies permission to Himachal HC for reconstruction of its old building in Shimla||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has denied permission to the Himachal Pradesh High Court for reconstruction of its old building block saying that construction in core area of Shimla is a serious hazard to public safety and environment.A bench of NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, undoubtedly, the requirement of the High Court is highest priority but in view of danger to the public safety, it cannot modify its earlier order.With regard to the recommendation of the supervisory committee, constituted by NGT, the tribunal said it has merely considered the exceptional requirement but not the issue of public safety and desirability of prohibiting constructions in view of vulnerability of the area.“Constructions in core areas of Shimla being serious hazard to public safety and environment, any modification as suggested in the application will not be viable,” the bench said in its October 8 order.The NGT was hearing a fresh plea filed by a Himachal Pradesh High Court in a decided matter to permit reconstruction of its old building block which is in the core area of Shimla, by modifying its November 16, 2017 order. The NGT in 2017 had banned all construction, residential or commercial, in any part of the “green, forest and core areas” of Himachal Pradesh and within three metres of the national highways.It had also formed the supervisory committee to consider and evaluate the need for construction of buildings of exceptional nature and make recommendations, if necessary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-denies-permission-to-himachal-hc-for-reconstruction-of-its-old-building-in-shimla-101634159622397.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP: 18 candidates in fray for bypolls||Chief electoral officer, Himachal Pradesh, C Palrasu said that the nomination process for the byelections to Mandi Lok Sabha constituency and Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituencies were completed on Wednesday. No candidate has withdrawn his/her nomination till October 13, the last date for withdrawal of nomination papers. Symbols have also been allotted to all the candidates, he added. He said the six candidates from Mandi parliamentary constituency are Brigadier Khushal Chand Thakur (BJP), Pratibha Singh (Congress), Ambika Shyam (Rashtriya Lokniti Party), Munshi Ram Thakur (Himachal Jankranti Party) and Independents Anil Kumar and Subhash Mohan Snehi.BJP’s Rattan Singh Pal, Congress’ Sanjay and Independent Jeet Ram are candidates from Arki.Palrasu said from Fatehpur, Baldev Thakur (BJP), Bhawani Singh Pathania (Congress), Pankaj Kumar Darshi (Himachal Jankranti Party) and Independents Ashok Kumar Somal and Rajan Sushant are in fray. In Jubbal-Kotkhai, the candidates are BJP’s Neelam Seraik, Congress’ Rohit Thakur, Independents Chetan Singh Bragta and Suman Kadam.BJP trying to deflect core issues: PratibhaIt’s astonishing that CM Jai Ram Thakur is objecting to the Congress seeking votes on Virbhadra Singh’s name and legacy, said Pratibha Singh during a meeting in Sarkhaghat. “It appears that BJP leaders are seeing that writing is clear on the wall and they would face defeat in the elections,” she said. “Himachal BJP leaders tried hard to postpone the byelections, but now their speeches are reflecting their helplessness,” Pratibha said, adding that Mandi Lok Sabha seat will set the trend in the country for ending the misrule of the BJP government. The Prime Minister made lots of promises on providing jobs to two crore unemployed people in the country, “but nothing happened in reality”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-18-candidates-in-fray-for-bypolls-101634159442483.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine: Himachal Pradesh’s Kinnaur achieves 100% target||Authorities in Kinnaur in Himachal Pradesh completed on Wednesday their target to vaccinate 100% of its adult population with Covid vaccine, which reportedly made it the first district across the country to achieve this feat. “It was difficult, but the district has achieved a feat. Vaccines have been administered to the entire eligible population,” said Kinnaur DC Abid Husain Sadiq. The administration had set a target to administer two doses of vaccines to 60,305 people. He said that health workers trekked through the mountains to vaccinate a sizeable number of shepherds in the pasture land and also in the small dogris (isolated houses in the orchards. Himachal Pradesh government had in August announced that it has met its 100% first dose vaccination target against Covid-19 for all above 18 years. Meanwhile, Jammu and Kashmir recorded 75 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. Also, for the seventh consecutive day, no death caused by the virus was reported. Of the total cases, 60 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 15 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 122 with active cases reaching 946.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 16 districts of the UT — Rajouri, Poonch, Ramban, Samba, Jammu, Doda, Kathua, Baramulla, Srinagar, Anantnag, Shopian, Budgam, Bandipora, Kulgam, Pulwama and Ganderbal — have managed to vaccinate 100% of its adult population with the first dose after more than 96,550 vaccines were administered on Wednesday. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 417 followed by Poonch and Budgam districts with 99 and 85 such cases, respectively.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,25,369, prompting the recovery rate to climb up to 98.37%. Since the pandemic started, the total cases in J&K have reached 3,30,741 and the death toll stands at 4,426.The officials said that 49,726 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,144 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 842 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-himachal-pradesh-s-kinnaur-achieves-100-target-101634159262127.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls: BJP expels Chetan Bragta||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday expelled Chetan Bragta, the convener of its IT cell, for a period of six-year for contesting the byelection against the party’s official candidate in Jubbal and Kotkhai assembly segment, said party’s office secretary Pyar Singh in a press release issued here. Earlier, the state party chief, Suresh Kashyap, said that he himself had spoken to Bragta many times and urged him to withdraw his name. “The decision against allocating tickets to the kin of deceased leaders was made by the central high command,” he added. Now, the contest in the apple affluent Jubbal and Kotkhai segment will be a triangular one. There are four candidates in fray, but the major competition is between Congress’ Rohit Thakur, BJP’s Neelam Seraik and Independent Chetan Bragta, who’s the eldest son of former horticulture minister Narendra Bragta, a popular leader in the region. Narendra Bragta, who had been a minister twice, was the chief whip of the party with a cabinet rank when he died due to post-Covid complication in June this year. Narendra is largely credited for strengthening the apple economy in the state. Soon after his death, the party projected Chetan as his apparent political successor and asked him to step into campaign field. Chetan remained at the forefront of electioneering with the party’s ministers who repeatedly toured the constituency. As many as seven ministers, including CM Jai Ram Thakur, were canvassing in the Jubbal-Kotkhai segment to improve prospects of the party. However, the BJP’s central election committee took the principal decision to discourage dynastic politics while selecting candidates. The party denied ticket to Chetan and preferred Neelam over him. She has been a three-time zila parishad member from Tharola ward and pradhan from Baghan panchayat. She has served the party in different capacities. Chetan’s candidature has now added difficulties to the BJP as majority of the party cadres and office-bearers of the block unit are supporting with him. The party is also likely to take action against the office-bearers and workers who ‘defied’ the party dictates in Jubbal and Kotkhai.“My father lived for apples and served the party for many years. I will work towards strengthening the horticulture economy besides development of the area. I will live up to the dreams of my father,” Chetan said. “Fortunately, I have been allotted apple as my election symbol,” he said, adding that he didn’t want to comment on what the BJP did to him. “That chapter is closed now. All I know is that there was a big conspiracy against me,” Chetan said. The party had placated Govind Ram Sharma, former legislator from Arki, who was demanding a ticket. The party had denied ticket to Govind in 2017 and pitted Rattan Pal Singh against former CM Virbhadra Singh who shifted to Arki after vacating Shimla Rural seat for his son Vikramaditya Singh. Despite repeated persuasion, Sharma has refused to campaign for the party nominee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypolls-bjp-expels-chetan-bragta-101634159082148.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ashu, Ludhiana mayor hand in glove with advertisement mafia: SAD||Accusing cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu and mayor Balkar Sandhu of being hand in glove with advertisement ‘mafia’, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) led by former cabinet minister and SAD-BSP candidate from Ludhiana west, Maheshinder Singh Grewal criticised the Congress leaders for causing a revenue loss of crores to the state exchequer/municipal corporation (MC) by benefitting the outdoor advertisement contractor in the city. Addressing a press conference at his residence in Model Town area on Wednesday, Grewal claimed that the advertisement contractor had been given an annual relief of ₹9 crore in the advertisement contract for seven years citing the pandemic. As per the original contract, the contractor had to pay ₹23 crores as annual fee, but the fee has now been reduced to around 14 crores. Further, he alleged that the government was paying ₹32,000 per month for every board installed in the city to the contractor for government advertisements. However, the contractor was only paying ₹16,000 for every board to the MC. The MC is also not auctioning the vacant advertisement media/furniture in the city to benefit the contractor.Accusing minister Ashu’s wife, councillor Mamta Ashu of allegedly exercising extra-constitutional powers in the MC, Grewal also accused the MC of adopting a pick-and-choose policy while removing illegal hoardings from the city. Grewal statd that Ludhiana MC has turned into ‘Corporation of scams’ under the congress rule. However, refuting the allegations, the mayor said the relief had been provided by the state government. “Many other sectors have also been provided relief due to the pandemic and the MC has no role in the same,” he said.The state government had directly approached the contractor for government advertisement and the MC recovers the amount from the contract as per the contract, he added.The minister could not be reached for comments despite repeated attempts.Grewal making derogatory remarks: CouncillorPosting a video on social media, councillor Mamta Ashu accused Grewal of making derogatory remarks against her during the press conference. She said,” During the conference, Grewal said that one Mamta Ashu, who claims to be the wife of minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.” Does this show the mentality of Grewal towards the opposite gender, questioned Mamta.Speaking on the allegations of issuing orders to MC officials, Mamta said she did not issue any orders, rather appealed to the MC and Congress supporters to remove illegal hoardings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ashu-ludhiana-mayor-hand-in-glove-with-advertisement-mafia-sad-101634157341978.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Youth power will decide next government in Punjab, assert NSUI leaders||Underscoring the power of youth and their potential to make Punjab the numero uno state in the country, NSUI state president Akshay Sharma on Wednesday asserted that the government in 2022 will be formed by Congress with a stamp of approval from the youngsters. Addressing a gathering during Congress’ ‘Nawan Punjab Naujwanan Naal’ rally, where deputy chief minister OP Soni also spoke, Akshay said that over the last four-and-a-half years, the Congress had fulfilled the aspirations of youngsters with several pathbreaking initiatives. “Youth power is at the core of Punjab’s future trajectory, and they will decide our state’s growth, initiated under the Congress party in 2017 after a 10-year spell of misrule under the Akalis and the BJP,” said Akshay, adding “There is no opposition to Congress in Punjab and all other parties, including SAD, will be written off in the forthcoming polls.”Speaking on the occasion, NSUI national president Neeraj Kundan said, “Punjab has always led the way in ensuring India’s prosperity and success. The next five years will belong to Punjab’s youth and the state is poised to leverage immense gains made in the present tenure of Congress government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youth-power-will-decide-next-government-in-punjab-assert-nsui-leaders-101634157101978.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Victim had saved motorist’s life hours before being shot dead by his brother in Ludhiana||Hours before being killed by his brother over a property dispute, Gagandeep Singh had arranged for an ambulance for a motorist who had met with an accident on Dugri Road on Monday evening. Little did he know that another ambulance would be ferrying him to the hospital later in the day. It was the Molotov cocktail of a property dispute, the presence of a weapon, and a short temper that led to a brother snuffing the life out of his sibling. A pall of gloom has descended on the victim’s house in Basant Avenue. Friends and families of the victims are in a sate of disbelief and say the brothers shared a “very strong bond and it boggles the mind that one would kill the other over a property dispute.” While the victim’s eight-year-old daughter is inconsolable, his widow, Rupinder Kaur, an eyewitness, is in a state of abject shock. The victim’s father Harjeet Singh, the owner of a chain of bakeries, is devastated by the tragedy that had befallen both his sons. Life had been good until a few yeas ago when Harjeet Singh had been running a flourishing bakery business near Deepak Cinema. However, the chasm between the father and son widened as Palwinder was more interested in politics. Later, Harjeet and the victim decided to shift and began running a bakery on Dugri Road. Meanwhile, the bakery business run by Palwinder near Deepak Cinema crashed, and the division of property, in which Palwinder felt he had received the short end of the stick brought things to a head. Both brothers short-tempered: Family friends Family, friends and relatives, who were visiting the family to express their condolences said the presence of the firearm in the house had led to the regrettable outcome. A family friend, requesting anonymity, said, “Both brothers were short tempered and would lose their cool at the slightest provocation. Had there been no fire arm, the maximum the brothers could have done was to injure each other in a fight. The presence of a firearm in the house has led to an irreparable loss. Now, one brother is dead and the other jailed, neither has any use for the property.” As condolences poured in on social media, friends re-shared old posts of Palwinder ironically wishing a long life for his brother, whose birthday was in 22 days. however, it was not to be. Station house officer Jasdev Singh said the accused was presented before a court and sent to a two-day police remand. “We are yet to recover the weapon that was used in the crime,” said station house officer Jasdev Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/victim-had-saved-motorist-s-life-hours-before-being-shot-dead-by-his-brother-in-ludhiana-101634156861995.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||Men on 2 bikes open fire at Ayodhya’s Durga Puja pandal; 1 killed, 2 injured||Lucknow: One man was killed and two girls sustained pellets injuries when a group of armed men opened fire at a Durga Puja pandal in Ayodhya late on Wednesday night, said Ayodhya senior superintendent of police (SSP) Shailesh Pandey.Pandey said the incident took place within the jurisdiction of the town’s Kotwali police station.The SSP told reporters that some people came on two motorcycles and opened fire in which one person identified as Manjeet Yadav was killed. He said two minors sitting near by were injured in the firing. He said the young girls are undergoing treatment at a hospital.The SSP said the police are yet to ascertain the motive behind the shooting.He said the assailants left behind their vehicle which has been seized and one suspect was taken into custody.Four teams have been set up to work out the incident at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/men-on-2-bikes-open-fire-at-ayodhya-s-durga-puja-pandal-1-killed-2-injured-101634156561935.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Warring asks officials to expedite process of issuing driving licence||Taking up complaints received on his Whatsapp number regarding the delay in delivery of driving licences, registration certificates and high-security number plates, Punjab transport minister Amarinder Singh Raja Warring, on Wednesday, issued strict instructions to authorities to expedite the process.Presiding over a meeting at his office at Punjab civil secretariat, Warring asked officials to extend the time-limit given to applicants, from 30 days to 45 days, for completing the process of securing a driving licence. The minister also directed officials to work on Saturdays and open all 32 driving-test tracks till the pending cases of driving licences are settled. Instructing the officials of Chandigarh-based centralised company “Smart Chip”, which provides smart driving licences, to meet the deadline of three days, Raja Warring asked the transports department to impose a penalty on the company in case of delay in issuing licences. The minister also asked postal authorities to explore modalities to increase the time of receiving licences from post offices from 7 days to 15 days, adding that there will be a significant reduction in complaints. The transport minister, after resolving the complaints, called up Jagbir Singh of Issru village of Ludhiana district and Avinash Goyal of Budhlada in Mansa district and informed them of the status of their registration certificates. He again appealed to people of the state to share complaints or suggestions on his personal WhatsApp number 94784-54701.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/warring-asks-officials-to-expedite-process-of-issuing-driving-licence-101634156501932.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Uncertainty prevails over firecracker wholesalers in Ludhiana||The ban on sale of firecrackers in Delhi and Chandigarh has put Ludhiana-based wholesalers in a fix with Dussehra and Diwali, the most profitable festivals, just around the corner. It does not matter that Punjab has not banned sales as the businessmen feel the ongoing farmer agitation and the pandemic have caused a slump in the business.Wholesalers say that on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court in the past, the number of licences issued in the city has already been reduced and they can only set shop a week before Diwali, as opposed to a month before the festival of lights as was done before. A wholesaler, Tribhuvan Thapar, said, “Earlier, 66 licences had been issued for setting up a firecracker market in the Grain Market near Jalandhar bypass. However, after the court’s directions, only 40 licences have been issued in the city, and only 13 sellers will be able to setup vends at the grain market.”The wholesalers say they have already made huge investments and may run into losses if sales do not pick up. “Our business has been going through a slump for the last few years,” said Thapar.They have demanded that the validity of licences should be increased, and a few permanent markets be alloted in the city for the sale of firecrackers.People may not buy crackers due to financial constraintsWholesaler Ramesh Aggarwal said financial constraints and rising inflation amid the pandemic are also a major concern as the public will not purchase crackers. There is uncertainty in the market and we cannot predict the response we will receive this year. “Each year, the craze for firecrackers reduces among the youth, and this year people will not purchase firecrackers in solidarity with the farmers’ stir.”Another wholesaler, Taranjit Singh Bunty, said the administration may carry out a draw of lots for providing licences on October 25 this year, following which the markets will be established. “The administration should allot the licences a little earlier this year, so that the business can get back on track.Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian said no fresh directions have been issued by the state government regarding the trade and use of firecrackers and licences will be issued for sale of crackers in the coming time, as per the instructions received from the state. “The process to allot the licences will begin in a few days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uncertainty-prevails-over-firecracker-wholesalers-in-ludhiana-101634156202663.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing anniversary: Govts only formed probe panels, justice remains elusive after 6 years: Victims’ families||The families of Gurjeet Singh and Krishan Bhagwan Singh, who were killed in the police firing at Faridkot district’s Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, say that the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Congress governments in Punjab have only formed probe panels and justice remains elusive even after six years of the incident. The trial in the case is yet to start in the court, they rued. Sukhraj Singh, son of Krishan Bhagwan of Niamiwala village who along with Gurjeet of Sarawan village was protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari village two days earlier, said, “During the 2017 assembly elections, the Congress promised justice in the police firing cases but it failed to provide justice even after remaining in power for more than four years. Replacing Amarinder Singh with Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister is merely an eyewash as there is no change in the situation. Even now, the counsel of the accused (former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini) was appointed as advocate general. How do we expect justice?” Krishan Bhagwan and Gurjeet had joined the villagers in holding a demonstration at the Behbal Kalan bus stand. The trial, Sukhraj added, has not even started in the Faridkot court so far as charges were not framed against the accused even more than two years after filing of the first chargesheet. “Moreover, the Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed proceedings against Saini. So, I doubt there will be any significant development in this case,” he said. They are going to hold ‘shaheedi samagam’ (martyrdom congregation) at Bargari on Thursday, he said, adding that they will not allow political parties to participate in the event. Disappointed over delay in delivery of justice, Gurjeet’s father Sadhu Singh said political parties are again playing politics over the sacrilege and firing incidents. “They are just running for political gains but I am the one who lost a son. Even after six years, those responsible for this are roaming freely. I have lost all the hope for justice now,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/behbal-kalan-firing-anniversary-govts-only-formed-probe-panels-justice-remains-elusive-after-6-years-victims-families-101634155791899.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police under scanner yet again for ‘falsely implicating’ retired principal in drugs case||The family of a physically challenged retired principal, who was arrested for drug peddling with her elder son, has produced CCTV footage, which ostensibly proves that she had been implicated in the case. The accused, Chandar Kanta, 74, of Sardar Nagar, and her son Monu alias lovely, 36, had been arrested with 70g heroin, 1,500 intoxicant pills, five mobile phones, an electronic weighing machine, a scooter and two toy pistols on April 3.  The police had claimed that the accused had been arrested from Sardar Nagar after receiving a tip-off, when they were crossing the area on a scooter. However, the CCTV footage allegedly shows that Monu had been arrested from a Shivpuri locality, at a time when his mother was not accompanying him.Accused lost hand in a mishap The complainant, Arun Kumar of Shimla Colony, who is Chandar Kanta’s younger son, said the polices aid his mother was sitting on the pillion with a packet of drugs in her hand. However, his mother had lost her left hand in a road mishap and as a septuagenarian she could not sit without either holding the scooter or the person riding the scooter, thus she could not be holding the drugs as claimed by the police. He alleged the police had framed his elderly mother for arguing with the police officials and said that he had also raised the matter before the then commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal, who had marked a probe to additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 1) Pragya Jain, but to no avail.He also claimed that on April 3, his brother was in Shivpuri in the house of one of his friends. The police had nabbed him from Shivpuri. The police personnel were captured in the CCTVs installed in the street while arresting and taking away his brother and later implicated him and his mother in the drug peddling case.“I have submitted the CCTV footage to the police, but no progress has been made in six months,” he said. When contacted, ADCP Pragya Jain said the matter is under investigation and they will take appropriate action as per the report.Déjà vuIn a similar case, sub-inspector Simranjit Kaur, the former Meharban station house officer, had been suspended for implicating a man in a drug peddling case and the police had also initiated the process to cancel the FIR. On July 25, the Meharban police had arrested Gurdeep Singh, a farmer from Noorwala village for drug peddling. In the FIR, police said that Gurdeep had been arrested from a check post with 100g opium. However, the family had produced CCTV footage showing that the accused had bbeen arrested from his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-under-scanner-yet-again-for-falsely-implicating-retired-principal-in-drugs-case-101634155782891.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Political slugfest in Punjab over BSF’s new jurisdiction||Chandigarh/Amritsar Political leaders from Punjab, including chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, on Wednesday reacted sharply to denounce the Centre’s move to widen the jurisdiction of Border Security Force (BSF) for seizure, search and arrest up to 50km from the international border with Pakistan. Other than the BJP leaders who hailed the move, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was the only exception to support the step.“I strongly condemn the GoI’s unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on the federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately roll back this irrational decision (sic),” Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Chani tweeted. “It’s an attack on federalism and an unseen emergency,” said deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa who holds home portfolio, asking the Union home minister Amit Shah to withdraw the decision. He clarified that the chief minister never asked the Centre for enhancing the BSF’s jurisdiction in Punjab. “Without obtaining the concurrence of the state government, the amendment in the law amounts to encroachment on the powers of the states,” added Randhawa. Earlier, in a tweet, senior Congress leader Sunil Jakhar had taken a dig at the chief minister over the issue. “Be careful what you ask for! Has @CHARANJITCHANNI unwittingly managed to hand over half of Punjab to Central govt. 25000sq km (out of total 50,000sq km) has now been placed under BSF jurisdiction. Punjab Police stands castigated. Do we still want more autonomy to States (sic)?” he tweeted. Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) described the move to hand over almost half of the state to the BSF akin to “imposition of the President’s rule through back door”. This virtually turns the state into a de-facto Union Territory and the devious attempt to place the state under the central rule will be opposed, a party statement said. “It is most unlikely that the Centre would have taken such a drastic decision without the prior consent of the state government and all the noise which Channi and his colleagues are making is an attempt to hide their complicity in this decision,” party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said in a statement. He said chief minister Channi’s unscheduled meeting with Amit Shah last week apparently cleared the decks for the “dangerous move. However, former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh supported the move. His media adviser Raveen Thukral in a message on Twitter quoted him saying, “Our soldiers are being killed in Kashmir. We’re seeing more & more weapons and drugs being pushed by Pak-backed terrorists into Punjab. BSF’s enhanced presence & powers will only make us stronger. Let’s not drag central forces into politics”. He further quoted the ex-CM: “partisan considerations can’t and shouldn’t dictate our stand on issues of national security. I’d said that at the time of 2016 surgical strikes and am saying it again; we have to rise above politics when India’s security is at stake, as it is now.” BJP national general secretary Subhash Sharma said national security was of utmost importance and leaders should refrain from politicising the issue. “Keeping in view of the drones entering Punjab from Pakistan, former chief minister Amarinder Singh had on record termed the situation dangerous. In the past few months, many terrorist modules have been busted that shows the seriousness of the situation in the border state,” he said. “We hope that political parties would rise above their political interests and not create a precarious situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-slugfest-in-punjab-over-bsf-s-new-jurisdiction-101634155601964.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab short of 4.8 lakh tonne DAP ahead of wheat sowing season||Punjab is facing an acute shortage of agro-chemical di-ammonia phosphate (DAP), a key ingredient during the wheat sowing season, which starts in October and November immediately after paddy harvesting.At least 5.5 lakh tonne of DAP is required by Punjab but the state currently has only about 74,000 tonne in its inventory. During the corresponding time last year, the state had a stock of about 3.5 lakh tonne DAP.Agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha, said, “I have sought time from the Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers. I will hopefully meet him this week and request him for adequate supply of DAP.” “DAP is an essential input for ensuing optimum productivity of wheat and it is to be applied at the time of sowing,” the agriculture minister said in a demi-official letter to the central minister.” “In Punjab, wheat is sown over 35 lakh hectares. Potato sowing has also started, for which at least two quintal per hectare DAP is needed and for wheat, the per hectare requirement is one quintal,” it was further stated. After Punjab government took up the matter with Centre, an allocation of 2 lakh tonne was made. An official with the state agricultural department revealed that the usually, the department starts building stocks in the months of August and September, and Markfed is the state agency that procures DAP. “This year too, Markfed tried to buy stocks but owing to fluctuation in prices in the international market and the policy of subsidy that ended on September 30, Markfed could not buy the stocks,” said the officer. In the previous season, DAP was imported from China, however, this year, most of the stocks are coming from the United States. The Centre may have assured Punjab for timely supply of stocks, but it takes 10-15 days for the stocks to reach the state. “How will the Centre fulfill the state’s demand in such a short span? The only saving grace is that paddy harvesting has been delayed by a week to ten days’ this time due to late rainfall. So we hope that by then, the DAP supplies will start reaching the farmers,” the official further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-short-of-4-8-lakh-tonne-dap-ahead-of-wheat-sowing-season-101634155543407.html
14-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC plans to generate electricity by putting up solar panels along Mumbai Coastal Road||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has plans to generate electricity from the 10-km-long stretch of Mumbai Coastal Road Project by setting up solar panels.State environment minister and Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray has asked the BMC to identify space for installing solar panels on the coastal road project between Nariman Point and Worli that has been under construction since October 2018. According to the plan, the BMC will have to identify space on the cycle track or median (divider) that will be constructed as part of the ongoing Coastal Road project. The plan was revealed by Thackeray last week at the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MOU) relating to climate change along with BMC officials.Thackeray told HT, “The Coastal Road will have more than 90 hectares of green space. We want to have carbon sequestration by means of multiple measures. The first and foremost is we would be having a global call for design for landscape and trees to have dense urban forest, enough for carbon capture. There is already a cycle track and walking pathway, along with a huge promenade towards the sea, and I have asked the BMC to explore the idea to have solar panels either over the cycle track or the median to see if we can generate solar energy.”Thackeray added, “However, none of the open space would be encroached on by the solar panels. For Mumbai- Nagpur, I have pitched for solar farms along the Highway alignment, because of which we would have the potential of 250 mw generated. This is different, we may give the electricity to the grid as well.”Similarly, the Maharashtra State Development Corporation (MSRDC) which is constructing the Mumbai-Nagpur Expressway has proposed to install solar panels on the Expressway which is expected to be thrown open fully next year. The plan to install solar panels was mooted by the MSRDC in July 2016. Mumbai Coastal Road might be the first intra-city road to have solar panels generating electricity for public consumption. A month ago, National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) also signed an MoU with Energy Efficiency Services Ltd.(EESL) to conduct feasibility studies of establishment of Solar Power projects on the available vacant land parcels with NHAI and rooftops of NHAI buildings/ structures at Toll Plaza and other NHAI owned buildings/ structures.In Mumbai, the Coastal Road will be the first intra-city road to get solar panels and later other arterial roads also might be considered. However, currently the BMC’s focus when it comes to the 2,000-km-long road network it handles in the city is to concretise around 80% of the total road network in the next six to seven years to bring down the menace of potholes. Mumbai-based architect Rahul Kadri of IMK Architects who is working with the BMC on the Malabar Hill walkway project said, “It is a good idea to have solar panels say on the cycle track, medians, on top of the tunnels or on the entrance of the tunnel when it comes to Coastal Road project. This will go with the design also. However, the solar panels should not be installed on green space considering that space will not be usable later.”The construction work of the ₹12,700 crore coastal road was started in October 2018, and since then the project has been headlines for environmental issues. In July 2019, the Bombay high court (HC) put a stay on the project citing that it needed to have environmental clearances. The coastal road project measuring around 10km between Princess Street flyover and Worli-end of Bandra-Worli sea link was earlier expected to be ready by July 2023. However, owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, which initially delayed the delivery of the Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) from China. Also, the BMC had to tweak its plan to not use Chinese experts for the assembling of the TBM in the backdrop of border tensions between India and China.Currently, the BMC has completed over 40% of the civil works for the Coastal Road Project and over 1-km tunnel works out of the total 1.9-km tunneling is completed. The BMC recently also appointed Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) for carrying out a comprehensive scientific survey to scrutinise the loss of lives of the fishing communities due to the ongoing Coastal Road Project.Meanwhile, the coastal road project was originally planned between Nariman Point and Kandivali, claiming it will ease traffic for those travelling between north and south Mumbai. However, now there is a question whether there should be a coastal road or a sea link beyond Versova to connect to the suburbs. The state is yet to take a call on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-to-generate-electricity-by-putting-up-solar-panels-along-mumbai-coastal-road-101634155542035.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Day on, missing three-year-old reunited with family in Ludhiana||A three-and-a-half-year-old girl who had gone missing from her house in Vijay Nagar on October 11, was reunited with her parents on Tuesday evening. Investigating officer Avtar Singh said the girl’s parents were migrant workers who worked at factory unit in the locality and had left their daughter with a relative living in the area, while they went to work. However, their daughter was nowhere to be found when they returned. Desperate inquiries to neighbours, relatives and acquaintances bore no results and the family registered a complaint with the police the next day. Police said the girl had lost her way, while playing with children in the locality and had reached Dholewal Chowk where a woman spotted her and gave her shelter.“We had learnt that a woman in the Dholewal area had rescued a child and after we ascertained that she was indeed the child that had gone missing from Vijay Nagar, she was handed over to her parents,” the police said, adding that the girl’s parents said they had to leave their child in the care of a relative as they both needed to earn to run the house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-on-missing-three-year-old-reunited-with-family-in-ludhiana-101634155423162.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Call records belie Punjab cops’ claim, high court grants bail to 2 drug case accused||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted bail to two persons accused in a Faridkot drug seizure case upon finding that the call records of a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and a sub-inspector (SI) did not match with the location they showed as place of arrest. The bench of Justice Gurvinder Singh also directed the trial court that it should scrutinise the evidence meticulously as “some kind of doubt in the conduct of the police has been created”. The court was dealing with two bail petitions of Sahil Kumar and Ajay Kumar Jindal and another plea from Sahil’s brother seeking transfer of the probe to the CBI in the case registered on November 11, 2020 at Kotkapura police station. The police had claimed that synthetic drugs were seized from Sahil and Jindal was arrested on his disclosure statement. Sahil was purportedly arrested by SI Kulbir Singh in the presence of DSP Jaspal Singh, according to the FIR. Sahil’s counsel had produced in the court both the officers’ call records that showed neither the SI nor the DSP were in the places of arrest at the time. He had argued that no disclosure statement was given to police and that it was a false implication upon his vehicle hitting a car with some police officials, which was being driven by SHO, Sanjeev Kumar. Jindal’s counsel had claimed that he was falsely implicated by SI Kulbir Singh in another drug seizure case in December 2019. The trial court had asked police to preserve the CCTV footage of police station on the date of arrest. But the order was not complied with. In a subsequent inquiry he was exonerated. It was also informed that in March 2020 he moved the high court seeking action against the SI for false implication. “The police will also be required to explain their conduct, particularly with regards to their failure to preserve the CCTV footage despite the trial court order,” the HC bench said. It, however, declined to the transfer the probe to the CBI since chargesheet had been presented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/call-records-belie-claims-of-punjab-cops-high-court-grants-bail-to-2-drug-case-accused-101634155421852.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||PAU experts confirm efficacy of mating-disruption technique to prevent pink bollworm in cotton||After two years of field studies conducted by Punjab Agriculture University (PAU), experts have expressed confidence in the efficacy of the innovative ‘mating-disruption technique’ (MDT) in preventing the attack of the deadly pink bollworm (PBW) in cotton crop.After the worst-ever attack of PBW this year, Punjab government has decided to adopt MDT as an integrated pest management solution from the next kharif sowing season.Following approval by the Central Insecticide Board (CIB) of the union ministry of agriculture and farmers’ welfare, MDT was tested in several parts of the country over the last year including, at PAU’s research farms in Bathinda and Faridkot.Principal entomologist of PAU, Vijay Kumar said the results in the last two seasons were overwhelming. MDT involves the application of a pea size of pheromone paste on cotton plants. It is recommended to put the paste at 400 spots per acre.He said MDT is an advanced technology of the currently used pheromone trap, which contains chemicals secreted by insects to lure male moths. These traps mainly help in identifying the presence of PBM in the fields.“A pheromone scent in MDT confuses the male adults, preventing them from finding and mating with female adults and reduces the number of eggs laid and PBW population in subsequent generations. It was observed that the first application of the bio-safe paste should be made after 50-55 days of sowing. Next two applications should be done after a period of 30 days each. For best results, the maximum area should be covered to ensure that moths do not invade from the adjoining unprotected fields,” said Kumar.State agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha said it must be accepted that PBW is now a major threat to cotton in Punjab and ways should be explored to contain it.“MDT is a simple safeguard that costs about ₹1,200 per acre and it would be made available to maximum farmers. It is widely used in European countries to protect horticulture crops, particularly apples from pest attacks. This is an environment-friendly method where MDT targets only PBM’s population cycle and other insects remain completely unharmed,” he said.The government is trying to pursue an entrepreneur to establish a plant in Punjab to ensure higher availability at a competitive price, added the minister.Nabha said deputy commissioners have been asked to submit a list of enterprising farmers who can act as community leaders to sensitise farmers about measures to protect the cash crop.“Farmers will be taken to Telangana and Karnataka to expose them to practices adopted by cotton-growers there to check PBW infestation and earn better,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-experts-confirm-efficacy-of-mating-disruption-technique-to-prevent-pink-bollworm-in-cotton-101634155241926.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hold camps for quick redressal of people’s grievances: Punjab CM to MLAs||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday asked the MLAs to organise “suwidha camps” with the help of district administrations for quick redressal of people’s grievances so as to instill their confidence in the government. He said this during a one-to-one interaction with nearly 60 MLAs to get their feedback about various development and welfare schemes being implemented in their assembly segments. Channi said clean, transparent, and corruption-free administration is the hallmark of his government and nobody from the state should feel ignored as far as their day-to-day problems are concerned. Channi also urged the MLAs to personally supervise the development projects in their constituencies. He also asked them to review welfare schemes in their constituencies so that the benefits of these initiatives reach to the last person in the row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hold-camps-for-quick-redressal-of-people-s-grievances-punjab-cm-to-mlas-101634155181815.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure cleanliness, fogging: Ludhiana MC chief||: With the arrival of the festive season, municipal corporation (MC) staff has been directed to ensure cleanliness in the city, especially around religious places and Dussehra fair sites, across the city. Conducting a meeting with zonal commissioners and health branch officials at the MC Zone-D office on Wednesday, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal directed the officials to ensure regular fogging in the city. Citing the rising cases of dengue in the city, the officials have been directed to avoid water accumulation, especially near religious places and Dussehra fair sites, to stop mosquito breeding. With the heavy rush of visitors being witnessed in the markets and the Dussehra fair sites, the MC staff has been directed to commence night sweeping wherever possible. Teams of sweepers should be formed, and the main roads of the roads should also be cleaned on a regular basis. Also, the MC should conduct meetings with religious organisations and take up sanitisation drives in and around religious places. One of the officials said Sabharwal also directed the health branch staff to ensure timely lifting of garbage from the city. Heaps of garbage can be seen at the secondary dump points in the city, which gives a filthy look to the city. Further, the councillors have also been raising concerns over irregular fogging in their respective areas. The staff has been directed to pull up their socks. Sabharwal said directions have also been issued to keep MC offices clean and create a friendly atmosphere for visitors. Office furniture should be in good condition and the officials should ensure reaching offices on time. Surprise inspections would also be conducted to check punctuality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-cleanliness-fogging-ludhiana-mc-chief-101634155122330.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal promises 24-hour power supply, steps to boost industry if AAP voted to power||Amid the ongoing power crisis due to coal shortage, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is on a two-day visit to Punjab, promised round-the-clock electricity supply in the state if his party is voted to power in the 2022 polls. He said the power scarcity in Punjab was man-made and once the transmission system is upgraded, half the problem will be solved. “We faced similar problem in Delhi during our initial years in government. We changed the transmission system and the situation has improved to the point that people don’t buy inverters now,” Kejriwal said. He was speaking during an interactive session with the Jalandhar-based industrialists at a private resort. He unveiled a 10-point agenda for the development of industry, trade and commerce. He underlined the need to give special focus on MSME and small scale industry sectors. “Ek mauka saanu vi (give us a chance too). I assure that you will forget others,” Kejriwal said.After listening to the grievances of industrialists, Kejriwal pledged to end red-tapism and ‘inspector raj’. “Corruption runs in the system because the intentions of the governments are not honest. If the CM and ministers are honest, the entire system will fall in place. We did this in Delhi,” he said. He said the problem of delay in VAT refunds will be solved within 3-6 months after coming to power and an instalment system will be introduced. To prove his point, the AAP leader said his government in Delhi had stopped “raid raj” and reduced VAT rate that led to doubling of tax revenue at ₹60,000 crore. It happened because the government trusted the traders, he said. Kejriwal also promised the formation of a trade and industry body and its decisions will have to be implemented by the state government. He also underlined the need to make the change of land use (CLU) process transparent to eradicate corruption. AAP Punjab president and MP Bhagwant Mann, MLA Aman Arora and other senior leaders of the party were also present. Meanwhile, a group of farmers opposed Kejriwal’s event but the police kept them at bay. Leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said they don’t organise rallies as advised by the Samuykt Kisan Morcha. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-promises-24-hour-power-supply-steps-to-boost-industry-if-aap-voted-to-power-101634155061921.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Retired Punjab power engineers blame private plants for crisis||Accusing the successive governments in Punjab of privatising the power generation sector, a forum of retired Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) engineers on Wednesday sought to reverse the policy and asked the utility to take electricity generation under its direct control. “The PSPCL can buy private thermal plants in Punjab by monetising its assets. The land attached with the Bathinda thermal plant which has been closed is worth ₹20,000 crore. Using these funds, the corporation can buy the three thermal plants at Rajpura, Mansa and Goindwal Sahib,” said PSPCL retired deputy chief engineer Bhupinder Singh, who is convener of the forum. He said cancellation of power purchase agreements (PPAs) with the private power plants would lead to acute power shortage and long-drawn litigations. “There is no provision of cancellation of the PPAs,” Singh said. Due to insufficient generation on its own, the PSPCL was dependent on outside sources to supply power to consumers as the state-run thermal plants contribute merely 3% of the total energy, the lowest in the country, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/retired-punjab-power-engineers-blame-private-plants-for-crisis-101634154881799.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||LIT chairman inspects road construction work||: At a time when the residents have been raising concern over the quality of development works, chairman of the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) Raman Balasubramaniam conducted a surprise inspection to check the ongoing work to reconstruct the main Bhai Randhir Singh (BRS) Nagar main road on Tuesday night.Officials checked the quality of hot mix material and the thickness of the under-construction road. The officials said the road was being constructed during night hours as heavy traffic was witnessed on the road during the day and people also visited markets ahead of the festive season. The chairman said the quality of work was satisfactory and directions had been issued to the contractor to maintain the quality of work. The project is being taken up at a cost of ₹1.5 crore. “I inspected the work at 10.30 pm. Regular sampling of the construction material is also done by LIT. It is expected that all major road construction works being taken up by LIT will be completed within two weeks,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lit-chairman-inspects-road-construction-work-101634154821973.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bhola drugs case: No objection to opening of sealed reports, Punjab tells HC||The Punjab government on Wednesday told Punjab and Haryana high court that it has no objection to opening sealed-cover reports on drugs menace in the state while alleging involvement of influential persons. State’s advocate general APS Deol told high court bench of justices AG Masih and Ashok Kumar Verma that prior to taking up other issues, the issue of opening of sealed cover reports can be taken up on priority so that state’s prosecution agencies can proceed as per law. Interestingly, the state’s advocate general in his submissions on Wednesday also referred to another set of reports submitted in 2018 by an SIT led by Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, to probe the role of police officers in the drugs racket. Three reports were signed by all SIT members and one report only by Chattopadhyaya. On May 23, 2018, the high court had also taken this report on record, observing that all these reports need to be examined in conjunction with reference to the issues formulated by the court or the task assigned to the SIT by way of orders passed from time to time. These submissions were made during the resumed hearing in a 2013 suo motu petition, initiated into an alleged ₹6,000 crore drug racket case in which the court is monitoring the probe by various agencies. On October 5, the high court had advanced the hearing by a month on an application moved by an advocate Navkiran Singh, who is an intervener in 2013 suo motu petition. The three crucial reports which Navkiran is demanding that they be opened are: One by then special task force head HS Sidhu, another of then enforcement directorate assistant director Niranjan Singh and third of a committee headed by then additional chief secretary (home) Nirmaljeet Singh Kalsi. All these reports are lying in a sealed cover before the high court since 2018. The reports are mainly on allegations of involvement of some high-profile politicians of the state. The hearing on Wednesday was conducted through virtual mode and started at around 4:30 pm. The court while deferring the matter for Thursday observed that the drugs menace PIL has a number of issues associated with it and all the issues cannot be taken up simultaneously. Hence, issues to be adjudicated, including that of sealed cover reports, would be formulated first and then specific dates would be given to conducting hearings on different issues. On Thursday, the court is likely to frame various issues associated with the case. Earlier, the court was apprised by different lawyers about the proceedings so far. Central government sought time from the court to get an update on probe by central agencies, including that of bringing back NRIs, who have been named in drugs cases. Senior advocate Anupam Gupta highlighted the importance of issue, especially in view of change of dispensation in Afghanistan and how Punjab has become more vulnerable. Meanwhile, state Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday tweeted again on the state government’s resolve to fight drugs menace. “STF report on multi-crore Drug racket linked to Majithia will be opened today by Hon’ble High Court. After more than 3.5 yrs of wait Judiciary will name the main culprits A Priority among High Command’s 18 Point Agenda yet Mothers of Punjab are still awaiting action by the State (sic),” he tweeted. Sidhu had led the charge against former CM Captain Amarinder Singh for a tardy probe into drugs cases. After Captain’s ouster, Sidhu and Punjab CM Charanjit Singh Channi had announced a speedy probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bhola-drugs-case-no-objection-to-opening-of-sealed-reports-punjab-tells-hc-101634154762841.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||50,000 pending VAT assessments, new scheme on the anvil: Manpreet Badal||Lending an ear to the Ludhiana industry, state finance and taxation planning minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Wednesday announced that the state government will unveil a new scheme to settle all VAT assessment cases pending for the last few years and bring a faceless system for taxpayers before Diwali this year. Hundreds of industrialists from across the district attended the meeting chaired by Badal, along with state industries minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli and food and supply minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. Making a call to the industry to re-impose their faith in Congress in the upcoming elections, Badal said all issues pertaining to VAT will be elaborately discussed in the next cabinet meeting. “A scheme will be effectively rolled out to settle around 50,000 pending VAT assessments,” he said, adding, “A faceless system would also be rolled out to assess the taxes to ensure industrialists do not face any kind of harassment in the government offices.” Manpreet said he would be touring all major industrial towns in the next 10 days to address issues of the industrialists. ‘Unfortunate that 80% state dependent on coal for power’ Manpreet said the state government has taken up the coal-shortage issue with the union government. “It is unfortunate that 80% of the state is dependent on coal for power. Coal is not the future, solar and gas is,” he said. Food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the Ludhiana municipal corporation would spend ₹15 crore and Improvement Trust would give ₹10 crore for infrastructure development in industrial areas/focal points. Industries and commerce minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli announced to set up a new focal point in Khanna soon and a grant of ₹20 crore would be issued for the infrastructure development of the existing focal point. Factionalism evidentFactionalism in Congress came to the fore when a number of leaders, including KK Bawa, chairman of Punjab State Industrial Development Board (PSIDC), and Amarjeet Singh Tikka, chairman of Punjab Medium Industrial Development Board (PMIDB) were left fuming, claiming that they were not invited for the event even though they hold important posts pertaining to industry. “As many as eight of us holding important posts were not invited,” said Tikka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/50000-pending-vat-assessments-new-scheme-on-the-anvil-manpreet-badal-101634154761776.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana players bag 30 medals in north zone karate championship||Karate players brought laurels to the district as 30 players won medals, two gold, 11 silver and 17 bronze, at the north zone karate championship organised at Chandigarh University, SAS Nagar, from 8 to 10 October.The winners were felicitated by the district sports officer, Ravinder Singh at the Guru Nanak Stadium on Wednesday.As many as 500 players from various states of the north zone participated in the tournament.Thirty-one players from Ludhiana represented Punjab in the championship. The state bagged the second spot in the championship.General secretary of the Ludhiana district karate association Ashok Chohan said Ludhiana players played a key role in clinching the second spot for the state.District sports officer Ravinder Singh congratulated the players and the coaches.Vice-president of the association Rakesh Kumar along with coaches Raju Bharti, Gagandeep Kumar, Manoj Kumar, Chuninda Chauhan, Harkaran Singh, Sahil Kumar were present at the prize distribution function.Results: Kabir Malhotra and Nikhil won the gold medal.Vidhi Gulati, Chuninda Chohan, Sahil Kumar Harmanveer Singh, Gursahib Singh, Sahajleen Kaur, Vivaan Jindal, Rihan Malhotra and Mahesh Kumar Kanda clinched the silver medal.Kanishk Gupta, Ayansh Nitin Kataria, Tanush Lekhi, Magar Singh, Hunar Goswami, Arhaan Malhotra, Parth Goswami, Paramvir Singh, Rishit Bhatia, Mohit Kumar Kanda, Uttkarsh Jain, Arth Antwal, Hiya Sarkar, Inayata Arora, Anushka Antwal, and Shatakshi Singh won the bronze medal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-players-bag-30-medals-in-north-zone-karate-championship-101634154584065.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s coal-fired power plants left with just 2-day stock||The coal stock situation in Punjab continued to remain critical on Wednesday as the private and state-owned thermal plants were left with fuel reserves for not more than 2 days.Punjab State Power Corporation (PSPCL) chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said that despite shortage of fuel, the utility supplied 9,352 megawatt (MW) in the state the previous day.“We will purchase about 1,800 MW from the power grid at ₹10.55 per unit on Thursday. The coal stock situation is still critical in all thermal power plants in Punjab. Just 13 rakes of coal were received on Tuesday against the total requirement of 22 rakes. The supply is less but it is consistent,” he added. The coal situation will improve in the coming days, he claimed. “The duration of power cuts was lesser on Tuesday due to improved power availability as an additional unit each of the Ropar thermal plant and the Anandpur Sahib hydel project started 84 MW power generation after repair of channel. Besides, a unit of GVK Project was made operational,” Prasad said. He appreciated the efforts of engineers and officials for their “hard work, effective planning and continuous monitoring” for the repair of channel of the Anandpur Sahib hydel project. Per unit cost from the project is 25 paise. Sufficient power was being supplied to basmati and vegetable-related feeders, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-coal-fired-power-plants-left-with-just-2-day-stock-101634154521664.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Poonch encounter: Thousands converge on Kapurthala village to pay homage to slain naib subedar Jaswinder Singh||Naib Subedar Jaswinder Singh, who laid his life in a gunfight with terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district, was cremated with full military honours at his native village Mana Talwandi in Kapurthala district on Wednesday. The body of Jaswinder Singh, a Sena Medal awardee for bravery, was brought to Mana Talwandi, where thousands of people gathered to have a last glimpse of the slain soldier. Besides army officers, Punjab cabinet minister Rana Gurjeet Singh and district civil and police officials paid tributes to Jaswinder Singh. Deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal handed over a condolence message of Punjab governor Banwari Lal Purohit to the bereaved family. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has announced that Jaswinder Singh’s family would be given ₹50 lakh as ex gratia besides a government job. Describing the sacrifice of as a milestone for the younger generation, Rana Gurjit said people of Punjab have inherited a deep legacy of sacrifices for the country. He also urged the Union government to extend maximum assistance to the family. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Jagir Kaur also laid wreath on the body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poonch-encounter-thousands-converge-on-kapurthala-village-to-pay-homage-to-slain-naib-subedar-jaswinder-singh-101634154343598.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Poonch encounter: Naik Mandeep Singh cremated with full state honours at Gurdaspur village||The mortal remains of Naik Mandeep Singh, who was killed in a gunfight with terrorists in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, were cremated with full state honours at his native village Chatha in Gurdaspur district on Wednesday.A contingent of the Sikh regiment along with the soldier’s mother Manjit Kaur and wife Mandeep Kaur gave salute to the slain soldier’s mortal remains. People of the area gathered at the village in large numbers to pay tributes to the braveheart as soon as his mortal remains reached there. On behalf of Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and the state government, cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa attended the funeral. He also offered condolences to the bereaved family.Brigadier Narinder Singh and other officers of the Sikh regiment paid their tributes.“The Punjab government stands with the soldier’s family in this hour. The CM has already announced ex gratia of ₹50 lakh and a government job to one of the members of the family. Besides, a memorial will be raised after the soldier as per the family’s wishes,” the minister said on the occasion.Mandeep’s brother Jagroop Singh, who is also an armyman, attended the funeral rites. People raised slogans hailing the supreme sacrifice of Mandeep. His mother also shouldered the coffin when being taken to the cremation ground. Garlanding the mortal remains, she said she was proud of her son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poonchencounter-naik-mandeep-singh-cremated-with-full-state-honours-at-gurdaspur-village-101634154101766.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||With resumption of sports activities, Ludhiana receives ₹52,000 grant||With the resumption of all sporting activities in Punjab, the state director sports has released an initial grant of around ₹51,900 for the district, which will be used for the purchase of equipment for sports centres. Sports centres in the state, which had been shut down to contain the coronavirus pandemic, were allowed to open from October 11 and state director sports DPS Kharbanda had released a collective grant of ₹8.5 lakh, a portion of which had been transferred to district sports officers. A senior district sports official said, “An estimated budget required to update and purchase equipment at sports centres was sought from each district. We had sought ₹51,900 to buy equipment for athletics, volleyball, and football among other things. Since the budget has been sanctioned, we have placed an order for the equipment.” In a recent order, the Punjab state institute of sports directer had asked Punjab Institute of Sports (PIS) coaches to direct players aged 14 and above to report to their respective centres, while directing the centre to ensure that Covid norms are followed. “All the trainees are directed to bring an RT-PCR test report along with vaccination certificates attesting that they have been administered at least one dose of the vaccine. Trainess who do not fulfil the requirement will not be allowed to enter the hostel”, read the order. Meanwhile, Jasbir Singh, centre in-charge of the local training centre of the Sports Authority of India (SAI) has sought permission from the local deputy commissioner to open the sports training centre (STC) hostel and resume routine sports activities.He has also requested the DC to issue guidelines or SOPs for the same at the earliest.“The sports staff and the coaches will also undergo mandatory RT-PCR test”, said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-resumption-of-sports-activities-ludhiana-receives-52-000-grant-101634153621847.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Classical dancer Mallika Sarabhai holds session at Chitkara College of Education||Renowned Indian classical dancer, actor and activist Mallika Sarabhai and author, educator and historian Vikramjit Singh Rooprai conducted expert sessions on performing arts at the Chitkara College of Education on Tuesday. They helped the new batches of bachelor of education and master of education get conditioned to the use of performing arts as a classroom pedagogy-restructuring tool, through highly enriching and engaging sessions on “edutainment katha” and “the art of storytelling in teaching.”The speakers said, “Theatre and performing arts are evocative teaching methodologies, which not only engage the creative side of the brain, but also provide an ideal balance in the students’ patterns of study. As it us easy for children to become swamped in a sea of theory, experiential learning helps to rejuvenate and engage the students.” Addressing the new batches at the orientation programme, the pro-chancellor Madhu Chitkara said it is very important to keep pace with the latest educational trends and techniques when teaching the millennial and digital natives. “The students these days have a very short attention span and it becomes exigent for an educator to formulate captivating lessons for the dynamic learners. However, the inclusion of performing arts in education provides pupils with an excellent opportunity to enthral their mind, body and emotions into a collaborative expression. Our pedagogy maestros for the day, Mallika Sarabhai and Mr Vikramjit Singh Rooprai, magnificently depicted the same in their instructive expert talk and workshop,” Chitkara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/classical-dancer-mallika-sarabhai-holds-session-at-chitkara-college-of-education-101634153261838.html
14-10-2021||Pune||Focus on students, not hotel with liquor licence: Bombay HC to Pune school||MUMBAI:It is better that educational institutions inculcate students with strong moral values to prepare them to face challenges in life rather than worry about the effect of a hotel with a liquor licence in the same neighbourhood as the school, the Bombay high court has said“It is thus more important that an endeavour of an educational institution should be to impart education, so that the basic human values and good virtues are inculcated in the students, to make them ideal citizens,” justice GS Kulkarni said, his parting advice as the court on Tuesday rejected a request by school management’s executives against the liquor licence.“It is thus a sincere hope, that these words fall on the receptive ears of the institution and the institution creates a situation for itself, that it would feel proud of its students.”The case revolved around an attempt by a hotel located in a village in Pune district’s Junar subdivision to shift the business to the town within the limits of Junar municipal council. The request for transferring the liquor licence was rejected by the district collector. The hotel owner went in appeal to the Maharashtra commissioner of excise, who reversed the collector’s order and granted him permission.Some office-bearers of the school petitioned the high court, challenging the new order.Justice Kulkarni rejected the argument that cited the likelihood of a law and order problem due to the hotel’s liquor licence, noting that there was no such apprehension expressed by the police and this was “a total figment of imagination of the petitioners”.“In the present facts, the petitioner’s institution ought not to have formed such opinion that the education being imparted by their educational institution was so fragile that the students would get easily influenced by a restaurant serving liquor in the vicinity,” he said.This, the court said, was for two reasons.Firstly, this educational institution was never bothered about a similar restaurant having a liquor licence functioning in the vicinity for the last 10 to 12 years. Secondly and most importantly, the court said, if the quality of learning and inculcation of moral values in the children was of a standard, the institution ought not to worry at all about any student being adversely affected by any such place in the vicinity of the school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/focus-on-students-not-hotel-with-liquor-licence-bombay-hc-to-pune-school-101634153149009.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab police reshuffle: 14 SSPs shifted, Rai posted as intelligence chief||In a major reshuffle in Punjab Police, the state government on Wednesday transferred 14 SSPs and posted ADGP AS Rai as the new intelligence chief. Rai will replace Varinder Kumar, who has now been posted as director, bureau of investigation, replacing ADGP Arpit Shukla. Shukla will now be ADGP (welfare), replacing V Neerja who has now been transferred as ADGP (NRI). The order states that Jitendra Jain will now be ADGP (Powercom) under DGP Powercom, whereas Shashi Prabha Dwivedi has been posted as ADGP (HRD). Rakesh Chandra has now been posted as ADGP (policy and rules) whereas Mohnish Chawla will now be IGP (border range) replacing SPS Parmar, who has now been transferred as IGP Ludhiana Range. Mukhwinder Singh Chinna has now been posted as IGP Patiala range, Shive Verma as IGP (law and order), Rakesh Aggarwal as IGP (counter Intelligence and OCCU), Kaustabh Sharma as IGP (headquarters), Babu Lal Meena as DIG PAP, Gurpreet Toor as DGI MRS-PPA Phillaur, Gurpreet Singh Gill as DIG commando, Sanjeev Rampal as DIG (training). Harcharan Singh Bhullar will now be SSP Patiala, replacing Sandeep Garg who has now been posted as SSP, Mansa. Rakesh Kaushal will now be SSP (Amritsar rural), Varun Sharma as SSP Faridkot, Harmandeep Singh Hans as SSP Ferozepur, Kanwardeep Kaur as SSP (SBS Nagar) replacing Harmanbir Singh Gill, who is the brother of Khadoor Sahib MP, Jasbir Singh Dimpa. Gill had recently had a tussle with Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh over a case against one of his supporters following which the MLA even staged a dharna outside the SSP office. Gill has now been posted as AIG PAP. The orders posted Alka Meena as SSP Barnala, Ravjot Grewal as SSP Malerkotla, Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar as SSP Batala, Surjit Singh Mand as SSP Moga, Sarabjit Singh as SSP Muktsar Sahib, Harwinder Singh Virk as SSP Taran Taran, Rajbachan Singh Sandhu as SSP Ludhiana Rural and Kulwant Singh Heer as SSP Hoshiarpur. SSP Mansa Narendra Bhargav will now be Commandant 3rd Battallion Ludhiana whereas SSP Moga, Dhruman Nimbale has now been posted as AIG (counter intelligence and OCCU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-reshuffle-14-ssps-shifted-rai-posted-as-intelligence-chief-101634153141608.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana identifies spot for heli hub in Gurugram||The Haryana government has identified a spot in Gurugram for establishing a heli hub. A proposal in this regard will soon be sent to the central government.An official spokesperson said Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday met Union civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya M Scindia in New Delhi regarding various civil aviation projects of Haryana.The spokesperson said discussions regarding reduction of VAT rates on air turbine fuel, setting up heli hub in Gurugram, civil aviation university, drone school, and a satellite centre in the state were held.The state government has also decided to reduce the VAT rates on air turbine fuel from 20% to 1%.Besides, development of integrated aviation hub in Hisar, airstrips in Karnal and Ambala, pilot training schools in Bhiwani and Narnaul and air services routes in Haryana were also discussed.Later, the CM said the state government will soon identify land for setting up a heli hub. He said the heli hub in Gurugram will facilitate intercity and intracity helicopter service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-identifies-spot-for-heli-hub-in-gurugram-101634152721726.html
14-10-2021||Lucknow||UP assembly to elect deputy speaker on October 18||It’s official now. The Uttar Pradesh assembly will elect Nitin Agarwal as its deputy speaker on October 18, with the new deputy speaker holding office for less than five months.“Yes, Nitin Agarwal will be the choice for election to the post of deputy speaker of state assembly,” said Suresh Khanna, minister for finance and parliamentary affairs.The state assembly was constituted on March 14, 2017 and the end of its five-year term will mark the end of term of the new deputy speaker.“The Hon’ble Speaker has fixed the date of 18th October, 2021 for the election of Deputy Speaker of the seventeenth Vidhan Sabha of Uttar Pradesh. Accordingly this election will be held at the Vidhan Sabha hall, Lucknow on the 18th October, 2021 at 11AM,” said Pradeep Kumar Dubey, principal secretary, legislative assembly, Uttar Pradesh, in a press statement, here, on Wednesday.Dubey further said the nomination papers to be obtained from his office may be submitted to him on October 17. “Any member of the house may nominate another member for this election by submitting the prescribed nomination paper, duly filled in, to the Principal Secretary, Vidhan Sabha, 11AM to 1PM, on 17th October 2021. Nomination forms may be obtained from the office of Principal Secretary Vidhan Sabha,” said Dubey.As per tradition, the Deputy Speaker is elected from among the members of the main opposition party. Will Samajwadi Party member Nitin Agarwal be elected the deputy speaker of state assembly?“I have no indication about my likely election to the post of deputy speaker. But if given any responsibility, I will perform duties to the best of my ability,” said Agarwal, who is being considered the frontrunner for the post. Along with his father, Naresh Agarwal, Nitin joined the BJP in 2018. The Samajwadi Party’s petition seeking disqualification of Nitin Agarwal was rejected recently.“The Deputy Speaker can be elected from any political party, though traditionally, a member of an opposition party is elected to the post. It’s not late for the election of deputy speaker though the same should have been done much earlier. No Deputy Speaker was elected till the end of term of state assembly during the term of many assemblies in the past,” said Ammar Rizvi, who was UP assembly deputy speaker from September 28, 2001 to January 20, 2002. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who completes his five-year term on March 19, 2021, recently expanded his ministry by inducting seven new ministers. New ministers will be effectively in office for a few weeks as the Election Commission of India’s model code of conduct is likely to come into force in the last week of December 2021 or early in January 2022.Will the opposition support the move? “We are not aware of the agenda of the assembly session. A meeting of the business advisory committee has been apparently convened on October 17, 2021. As per tradition, the deputy speaker is elected from the main opposition party. The election is done in consultation with leaders of opposition parties. If they want to elect a member of Samajwadi Party as the deputy speaker they would have consulted our leadership,” said leader of opposition, Ram Govind Chaudhary.“We are not aware of the state assembly’s agenda so far. We will take a call once the agenda is finalised,” said Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’.The state government, meanwhile, proposes to table replacing bills to the ordinances that have been promulgated by the governor after the last session of the state assembly.“Everything is being done keeping in view forthcoming assembly elections. Rajesh Agarwal was dropped as minister for finance earlier. The BJP government wants to appease the ‘bania’ community and the likely election of Nitin Agarwal as deputy speaker is a move in the same direction,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-to-elect-deputy-speaker-on-october-18-101634152421742.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal DC takes action over irregularities in procurement||Taking a strict note of contravention of the procurement norms, Karnal deputy commissioner (DC) Nishant Kumar Yadav has ordered registration of an FIR against a mandi supervisor, auction recorder, two computer operators and 28 arhtiyas of Gheer grain market in district.The action was taken after the DC, after an inquiry, found that the arhtiyas, with the help of officials, had procured paddy of non-registered farmers in violations of the procurement norms.An official statement issued by the DC office stated that the DC has also directed the procurement agencies to serve show-cause notices to 18 other commission agents for mismatch of the stock and procurement record.Irregularities were also detected in records of nine rice millers, who were procuring paddy for government agencies, and action has been recommended against them.The DC had found that paddy of farmers from outside (non-registered) was being procured with the help of mandi officials including mandi supervisor Dheeraj Kumar, auction recorder Dharamvir Singh, computer operators Deepak and Ansul and 28 commission agents.Besides registration of the FIR, the DC has also ordered cancellation of license of these arhtiyas.During investigation, it was found that the officials helped the farmers generate gate passes, read the statement.Kaithal farmers hold protestAccusing the procurement agencies of forcing farmers to sell their produce below the MSP, farmers held a protest outside the new grain market in Kaithal.Farmers alleged that the rice millers, who were procuring paddy for government agencies, were procuring paddy at ₹1,700 to ₹1,900 against the MSP of ₹1,960.The farmers continued their protest for around five hours and following an assurance from the mandi officials, they ended the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-dc-takes-action-over-irregularities-in-procurement-101634152245193.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dhankar gives ‘break false anti-farm law narrative’ call to BJP rank and file||Haryana BJP president Om Prakash Dhankar on Wednesday called upon the “vigilant” rank and file of the party to take a pledge to counter the “false narrative” against the Centre’s three farm laws and applauded the state government for its “political will” while taking a slew of pro-farmer steps.In his presidential address during the day-long Haryana BJP’s regional council meeting at Panchkula held for the first time after 1982, Dhankar set the agenda for expanding organisational base on strength of “service, ideology and ideals” and the “dedicated” foot soldiers of the party, besides good governance of the Manohar Lal Khattar-led government.“Let’s take a vow to break the false narrative against the farm laws. Vigilant BJP workers will counter this misinformation against the farm laws... keep the Hindi version of the law with yourself and spread it across the state,” Dhankar told the gathering in his near hour- long address.Taking a dig at those terming the three farm laws as black laws, he quipped: “Kali to hamari murrah bhi hai (Our murrah buffalo is also black)... but see the milk yield... colour doesn’t matter... we should focus on the usefulness...”During the day, BJP held three sessions till late evening to formulate the road map for the party activities and discussed the strategy to reach out to people informing them about policies and programmes of the state government that will complete seven years in power on October 27.Among those attending this programme were key BJP leaders and workers including chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, cabinet ministers, MLAs, MPs, heads of frontal organisations, districts presidents, etc.The state BJP chief said the farm laws were brought in for the welfare of the cultivators, but a “misleading narrative” was launched and the Opposition started spreading lies that MSP will be stopped and mandis will be disbanded.“Now, they have stopped talking about MSP and mandis. It is our responsibility to break the back of this false narrative. The MSP had started from Haryana and there is no question of stopping MSP and closing mandis. They should demand MSP for bajra in Rajasthan and MSP in the states where it is not given. Haryana procures the highest number of crops under the MSP,” he said.Pats CM KhattarDhankar said by transferring MSP directly to the bank accounts of the cultivators despite protests from “a particular lobby”, the Haryana government had displayed its “political will”.He said Haryana was the first state that started releasing the MSP money directly into the farmers’ bank accounts and discontinued the earlier practice of releasing the money to arhtiyas.Not just this, he said, the Haryana government was also the first in the country to start paying interest to farmers and others for delay, if any, in releasing payments related to food grain procurement.The state BJP chief told the gathering that in the past seven years, the BJP had launched “numerous” pro-people programmes and asked the party workers to popularise “seven key reforms of seven years” rule of the party in Haryana among people.Ahead of October 27, when BJP will complete seven years in power in Haryana, he said 70,000 party workers will call on seven lakh people in a day, while seven ministers will hold press conferences.“Our government has done an extraordinary job. The scenario of Haryana has changed. Our sports policy is being discussed across country and other states are copying our transparency driven policies. Our government has been rolling out policies and programmes to benefit every section of the society,” Dhankar said. wrapping up his speech amid applause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dhankar-gives-break-false-anti-farm-law-narrative-call-to-bjp-rank-and-file-101634151884175.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||19 candidates in fray for Ellenabad bypoll||As many as 19 candidates are in fray for the Ellenabad bypoll which is scheduled on October 30, said election officials after two candidates withdrew their nominations on the last day. Counting of votes will take place on November 2.The seat fell vacant after Indian National Lok Dal (INLD)’s lone MLA Abhay Singh Chautala resigned from the Ellenabad constituency on January 27 in favour of farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws. He is seeking re-election for a fourth consecutive term from this rural dominated seat, which is considered his family’s bastion. He is pitted against BJP’s Gobind Kanda and Congress’ Pawan Beniwal, both turncoats.Farmers protesting against the farm laws have installed banners, banning the entry of BJP candidate Gobind Kanda, in more than half a dozen villages of Ellenabad. These villages are Amritsar Kalan, Raipur, Budi Mari, Moju Khera, Sant Nagar, Damdma, Jivan Nagar, Sant Nagar and other villages.Rakesh Kumar, of Amritsar Kalan, said they have decided to boycott the entry of BJP-JJP joint nominee Gobind Kanda in their village on directions of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM).“We have decided to teach BJP a lesson in this bypoll. Farmers are upset with the saffron party as they have failed to end the deadlock with the protesters. We never thought this agitation will continue for such a long time as we had faith in the BJP government that they will resolve the issue,” he added.Ravi Azad, state youth president of Bharatiya Kisan Union, said many leaders of the SKM are canvassing the villages of Ellenabad constituency and asking people to boycott the BJP candidate.“We will not campaign in favour of any candidate but will oppose BJP’s Gobind Kanda. More than 10 villages have installed banners in the constituency banning entry of BJP-JJP leaders,” he added.Sirsa deputy commissioner (DC) Anish Yadav on Tuesday had conducted a meeting with former sarpanches and nambardars of all 74 villages of Ellenabad constituency and urged them to cooperate with the administration in conducting the bypoll peacefully.“As many as 15 companies of paramilitary forces have been deployed in the constituency. We have urged the former sarpanches and nambardars to ensure that no untoward incident takes place. We have also appealed to the general public not to create hurdles in canvassing of candidates,” the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/19-candidates-in-fray-for-ellenabad-bypoll-101634151702629.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||13-year-old girl raped in hotel at Delhi’s Paharganj by family friend||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 22-year-old family friend who lured her to a hotel in Paharganj on Sunday after promising to buy her a new school uniform.Police said they have registered a case under IPC sections related to rape and relevant section of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, and are on the lookout for the accused. Police said they are also examining CCTV footage from the hotel for clues.According to police, the suspect promised to buy the girl a new school uniform, as her old one was in tatters, and allegedly asked her to accompany him to get her measurements taken. Police said her mother, who was unwell, asked the girl to go with the suspect as the family trusted him. The victim told police that her family became acquainted with the accused, Anil, during their visits to a community kitchen at a nearby temple.Investigators said the suspect reportedly took the girl to the hotel around 10.30am on Sunday and made her sit in a room as he said he has to finish some work.She claimed that after a while, she reportedly got suspicious of Anil’s behaviour and screamed, but the latter allegedly covered her mouth and sexually assaulted her.However, she managed to escape from the room when Anil stepped away from her a few moments later. Anil allegedly tried to chase her but gave up soon.According to police, she reached her house and told her mother about the episode after which they approached the police station. The police took the girl for medical examination where she was also counselled.“We are scanning the CCTV cameras in and around the hotel and raids are being carried out to nab the accused,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/13yearold-girl-raped-in-hotel-at-delhi-s-paharganj-by-family-friend-101634151701605.html
14-10-2021||Other||Akhilesh says BJP will never act against Union minister||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has said that the BJP will never act against the Union minister whose son has been arrested in connection with the killing of four farmers, as the party solidly backs criminals.Yadav was speaking in Hamirpur on Wednesday as part of his ongoing Vijay Rath Yatra, which moved through Jalaun and Kanpur Dehat, where he addressed workers at meetings.Yadav said Adityanath has a liking for two things - the bull and the bulldozer - but the people of Bundelkhand have decided to bulldoze the BJP with their votes in next year’s assembly elections.“They will run the bulldozer of votes on the BJP in the coming polls,” he said.Yadav was apparently referring to the stray cattle menace in Bundelkhand and the government’s drive to raze buildings mostly of criminals and politicians in various parts of the state.“The BJP will never act against the union minister because it stands with criminals. If criminals are the happiest anywhere, it is under the BJP government,” he said.Eight people, including four farmers and a journalist, were killed in the October 3 violence that erupted during a farmers’ protest in Lakhimpur Kheri. Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra’s son, Ashish Mishra, is among those arrested in connection with the incident.In an indirect attack to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, but without taking any names, Yadav said the ‘chillumjeevi’ was to distribute tablet computers among students now and wondered why it was not done in the last over four years. ‘Chillum’ is a clay smoking pipe often used by sadhus.He warned the people against the ‘chillumjeevi’ and asked them if they had understood who he was referring to.The UP chief minister distributed tablet computers and smartphones among youngsters recently.Addressing a public meeting later, Yadav said, “When farmers protested against agriculture laws, they were crushed under the wheels of vehicles.” Hitting out at the ruling BJP over three contentious farm laws of the Centre, he said, “I want to tell the farmers of Bundelkhand, Uttar Pradesh and the country that the manner in which the BJP has brought the three black laws, it will crush you like the (four) farmers were crushed and killed in Lakhimpur Kheri.”“As of now, farmers and laws have been crushed, and the Constitution might also be crushed. So, the BJP needs to be removed with the strength of votes,” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister added.On the state of affairs in the water-scarce Bundelkhand region, he said, “Maximum number of farmers have committed suicide in Mahoha, Hamirpur, Banda and the surrounding areas and after coming to power, the SP government will extend all facilities to farmers here, be it irrigation or mandis.” He alleged that the three new farm laws brought by the Centre will force farmers to quit farming and make them labourers.“There is very little time left for the election. The BJP does not want to give backward classes and Dalits their rights, and therefore, a caste-based census has not taken place till now. It should be done as the BJP says that Yadavs have benefitted the most. I want to tell them that they are misleading the people,” the SP chief said.Reiterating his charge that projects launched during his tenure as chief minister have been re-inaugurated and renamed by the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, Yadav alleged that the current regime has sold government assets.He also alleged that in the name of a defence corridor in the Bundelkhand region, the land of farmers has been acquired but no industry has come up here.“This is a ‘sutli bomb’ (damp squib) of the BJP. They had shown the dream of a defence corridor and betrayed the poor people of Bundelkhand. These are people who tell lies and there is a need to be alert. Just think, if a yogi is telling lies, where will the people go?” Yadav said.Talking about the ‘Samajwadi pension scheme’ launched by his government, he said that if needed, the amount under the scheme will be increased three-fold after the SP comes to power again.The scheme, started by Yadav in 2014, provides a monthly pension of ₹500 to families falling below the poverty line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akhilesh-says-bjp-will-never-act-against-union-minister-101634151642015.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||13,500 admissions under DU second cut-off||New Delhi: Delhi University has admitted over 13,500 students under the second cut-off list for which registrations closed on Wednesday. The number of admissions is expected to rise further as colleges can approve applications till Thursday and students can pay the fee till Friday evening. For instance, principals of different DU colleges have accorded approvals to 7,245 students who have time till Friday evening to clear their payments.According to data shared by DU officials, the university received a total of 115,490 applications, under the first and second cut-off lists, for its 70,000 undergraduate (UG) seats till Wednesday evening. The university had said that around 5,300 students had paid their fee in the first two days of admissions under the second cut-off.The third cut-off will be released on Saturday and students can take admission under this list between October 18-21.This year, eight DU colleges announced a 100% cut-off in 11 UG courses due to a rise in the number of top-scorers. Of these, only three had closed in the first cut-off list and the remaining saw a marginal drop in the second cut-off.Officials across top DU colleges, including South campus and off-campus colleges, said admissions were likely to close in subjects such as Political Science, English, Economics, and Science courses.For instance, officials at Aryabhatta College said admissions to English, History, Computer Science, Mathematics, and Economics are likely to be closed in the third cut-off list for the unreserved category. “The admissions have already breached the seat limits in aforesaid subjects,” said an official from the college.However, officials added that a clearer picture will only be available when the course fee payment window closes on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/13500-admissions-under-du-second-cutoff-101634151582751.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Woman stabbed to death, husband, daughter injured after attack in Narela||A 42-year-old woman was stabbed to death in outer Delhi’s Narela area on Monday evening, allegedly by a group of eight, following an argument they had with her and her family, police said on Wednesday. The woman’s husband and daughter also suffered stab wounds and are undergoing treatment at a hospital, police said, adding that they have arrested four persons in connection with the murder and attempts to murder.According to the police, the police control room received a call on Saturday to alert them that a woman was stabbed in Narela area following a scuffle with a group of men. Soon, a team reached the spot and found blood trails on the ground. Further inquiry with the locals revealed that three people were injured in the stabbing and all were taken to the hospital for treatment.Police said that the victims were identified as Lal Mohammad (50), his wife Gulshan (42) and their daughter Reshma (24), all residents of a slum colony in Narela Industrial Area.“Gulshan was declared brought dead at the hospital while the others sustained deep wounds for which they are being treated,” a police officer, associated with the case, said. A case under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Narela police station.Following investigations, four people were arrested, police said. They were identified as Jahid, Aayan, Shamim and Saddam. According to a senior police officer, the incident took place after a quarrel broke out between the accused and victims after the group gathered outside the victims’ house.“The place where the incident took place is congested. The eight accused were standing near the victim’s house. One of the victims objected to them standing there and that led to an argument. The accused attacked the family with sharp objects and left them wounded,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwoman-stabbed-to-death-husband-daughter-injured-after-attack-in-narela-101634151581551.html
14-10-2021||Noida||5 murders that destroyed the Tyagi family, and shook a Ghaziabad sleepy hamlet||Located off the dusty national highway in Ghaziabad, Brajesh Tyagi’s rundown house in the middle of Basantpur Saitli village is completely unremarkable. Five airless, dark rooms with chipped paint on the walls and exposed brick for floors earlier supported a family of four, now reduced to two. Charpoys are spread for visitors to sit but the house is barely furnished otherwise.Tyagi, 60, is a garment worker who cycles to the factory in Muradnagar every day, returning after dark. He earns roughly ₹9,000 a month, and a negligible amount from the 1.5 acre of land he owns. The family has lived in the area for at least three generations.The Tyagi household is a strange sight in a village with wide cemented roads and dotted with swank farmhouses. Yet, looks can be deceiving. The shabby home is built on a plot worth at least ₹50 lakh, and is ringed by agricultural land with a current market value of nearly ₹3 crore.The reason: The land lines the Eastern Peripheral Expressway and the Meerut Expressway that form the backbone of commercial traffic into the Capital, and where plot prices have appreciated as much as 20 times over the past two decades. Police say the value of the land was the main reason behind five grisly murders in the Tyagi family over the past two decades. The victims include Tyagi’s two sons, two nieces and his brother.The suspect: Tyagi’s youngest brother Leelu, 48, who dropped out of school in class eight, and allegedly killed his brother, two stepdaughters and his brother’s children using deceit and contract killers. But what’s intriguing is the family’s puzzling reticence in involving the police when three children disappeared over a period of 10 years.“Neither did the Tyagi family realise Leelu could be involved, nor did they have the courage to entertain such thoughts,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police, Ghaziabad (Rural).Leelu is currently in police custody and police say he is owning up to the older killings as well, though it will be difficult to try him for crimes allegedly committed over 20 years ago, given the lack of evidence and timely investigation.The stout, short man makes no bones about why he carried out the murders: for the sake of his 19-year-old son Vibhor, known to the family as Shanky. “I did it to ensure my son gets the property,” he told journalists shortly after his arrest on September 23.MURDER 1The middle Tyagi brother, Sudhir, was Leelu’s first target, say police.In 2000, Sudhir went missing from Meerut where he lived with Anita and two daughters, Parul and Payal. The family launched a brief search, but the police were not approached. Sudhir was never traced. Within a year, Leelu married Anita and soon they were living at Sudhir’s Muradnagar home with the two girls.Police say Leelu has confessed to shooting Sudhir dead with a countrymade pistol with the help of a Meerut-based contract killer, Subhash. Subhash, who was allegedly paid R1 lakh, died five years ago. Sudhir’s body was allegedly dumped in Gang Nahar canal, but never recovered. “Sudhir killed two birds with one stone. He got to marry Anita and own Sudhir’s share of the property,” said Satish Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Muradnagar.Tyagi said Sudhir’s disappearance didn’t draw the family’s attention because he was already estranged and had moved away to Meerut. “Anita herself didn’t show much interest in finding him, so we did not either,” he added. MURDER 2With Sudhir out of the way, Leelu was assured of a higher share in the family property. But he was still worried, police say. “While Leelu wished to spend his life with Anita, he feared that someday her daughters would seek their share,” SHO Kumar said.Sometime in 2003, Leelu allegedly poisoned his older stepdaughter, eight-year-old Payal, while Anita was away at her parents’ home in Ghaziabad. When she came back, he was able to convince her that it was a natural death and cremated the girl without involving the police. Leelu told the family that Payal died of an insect bite. “We didn’t see any reason to not believe him, especially when Anita seemed satisfied,” said Tyagi.Police say Anita’s behavior was suspicious but add that they’ve not been able to question her because she is on the run, along with her son Shanky.MURDER 3Three years after Payal’s death, her 15-year-old sister Parul went missing. “Leelu convinced Anita that Parul had eloped. The police weren’t involved and Parul never returned home,” SHO Kumar said.The police claim Leelu has told investigators that he strangled Parul while Anita was again at her parents’ home in Ghaziabad and then dumped her body in the Gang Nahar canal in Muradnagar itself. Again, Anita didn’t mention her suspicions to the rest of the family, or speak to the police. Family members remember that Leelu was so convincing in talking about Parul’s alleged elopement that no one suspected foul play. “Leelu is very intelligent,” said SP Raja.For years afterwards, the Tyagi family hoped for Parul’s return but took solace in Anita’s behavior that nothing had gone wrong. “If there was anything suspicious about the death or disappearance of the daughters, wouldn’t a mother (Anita) have stood up against Leelu?” asked Rajni, Tyagi’s wife. Leelu later told reporters that he killed the girls to avoid having to bear their wedding expenses.MURDER 4With his stepdaughters dead, Leelu showered his affection on Shanky, born to Anita and him in 2002. Villagers said Leelu spoilt Shanky, who was arrested in June for allegedly robbing a foreign woman and released on bail in a month. Despite the brush with police, Leelu bought him a Royal Enfield motorcycle.Leelu also grew increasingly greedy about the share of property for his beloved son – and set his eyes on his eldest brother’s family. His first target was Tyagi’s 14-year-old son, Neeshu.In 2012, Leelu allegedly paid two locals to strangle Neeshu and dump his body in the Gang Nahar canal. Leelu told police that he always needed people to assist him since he didn’t know how to drive – a curious flaw that later helped police piece together the murder because there were so many accomplices. This time, Tyagi went to the police and filed a missing person’s complaint. But it never translated into an FIR and Raja said the police failed to trace Neeshu. The Tyagis continued to harbour hopes of Neeshu’s return but neither murder nor Leelu’s role in his disappearance ever occurred to them. “Leelu actively helped me search for Neeshu. He was an ideal brother,” said Tyagi.MURDER 5Emboldened , Leelu apparently set his sights on the one person standing between his son and the Tyagi fortune: Tyagi’s elder son Reshu, 24.Reshu worked as a decoration services provider for banquet halls in Ghaziabad, but was looking out for better jobs. Leelu used Reshu’s desperation to lure him away from the house on August 8. “Leelu called up Reshu and told him that he had a new business idea in which he would make my son a partner,” said Rajni.On the main national highway outside the village, five men in a Hyundai i20 awaited Reshu, said police. The five men included Leelu, a retired UP Police sub-inspector Surender Tyagi, Surender’s associate Rahul Sharma and Leelu’s friend, Vikrant Jat and his nephew, Mukesh.“They set out for Bulandshahr. They barely travelled three-four kilometres before the gang used a chain and a rope to strangulate Reshu. They kept his body in an upright position between them in the rear seat for the next two hours of the drive,” SHO Kumar said.In Bulandshahr, they visited an agricultural field belonging to Mukesh where the five men got drunk, police said. They then allegedly stuffed the body in a sack, loaded it in the car’s boot, and dumped it in Gang Nahar canal. The retired policeman was allegedly paid R3.5 lakh and Vikrant R1.3 lakh.THE UNRAVELLINGRajni sensed something was amiss when her son didn’t return home that evening on August 8. “I didn’t want to believe it, but something in me said that Leelu had something to do with Reshu’s disappearance,” she added.When Tyagi returned from the factory that evening, Rajni made her suspicion clear. Tyagi cycled to Leelu’s home, some three kilometres away, and blamed him for Reshu’s disappearance. “He offered no defence, he just silently stared,” Tyagi said.Unlike previous occasions, however, the villagers stepped in to offer advice. “We asked him if he didn’t care about Reshu. That triggered him (Tyagi) to file a missing complaint on August 15,” said a neighbour, requesting anonymity.In his complaint, however, Tyagi, didn’t even mention Leelu. “My head said Leelu killed my son. But I loved Leelu,” he said.After August 8, Leelu stopped visiting the Tyagi home or even calling his brother. But police said that he made at least two visits to the local police station to enquire about the progress in the investigation. “He was gauging if he was in trouble,” said Kumar.Eventually, police’s probe narrowed down to Leelu after Reshu’s friends said the victim was last seen with his uncle. The last call on Reshu’s phone was also from Leelu. Villages told the police about the previous deaths and disappearances in the Tyagi family.Police realised that in the case of each death, Leelu was the sole benefactor. “The police finally persuaded me to file a case against Leelu. I didn’t believe he was involved, but people around me kept warning that I would be killed next,” said Tyagi.On September 22, a murder case was registered and Leelu was arrested the next day. Arrests of the retired policeman and his assistant Rahul Sharma followed on September 24. THE INVESTIGATIONPolice primarily used Leelu’s confession and his brother’s statements to explain the unusual behaviour of the Tyagi family in never reporting earlier disappearances to the police. “Leelu wielded great influence over the family. Brijesh loved as well as feared his brother. He wouldn’t even entertain such thoughts about Leelu until he actually heard his confession,” Raja said.The only time Leelu’s composure broke is when he begged investigators to not involve his son Shanky, said police. “He repeatedly requested us not to target his son,” Kumar said.Police have little hope of recovering Reshu’s body but say they have enough evidence in recordings of phone calls between Leelu, the retired policeman and his assistant Rahul Sharma. “In the call recordings, Leelu is heard telling the two men that they must go underground since they have been busted. He also tells them that the body is unlikely to be recovered,” said Raja.Police say that these recordings, recovered from each of their phones, could either be recorded automatically, or saved with a purpose of blackmailing later. Other evidence includes the phone locations of the victim and the suspects.The rope allegedly used in the murder has been recovered, the iron chain and the car remain untraced. Two alleged accomplices, Vikrant Jat and Mukesh, have surrendered to the Bulandshahr police in connection with other previous crimes. Ghaziabad Police have sought their remand for interrogation.Villagers and neighbours said they did hear about the earlier disappearances but avoided interfering. “This is an urban village. The family did not seem interested in accepting our theories,” said a villager requesting anonymity. “The deaths were spread out over several years. That helped him (Leelu) avoid suspicion,” the villager added.THE RECKONINGOn September 23, police brought the brothers face to face for the first time since the night Reshu disappeared.The story was so improbable that Tyagi refused to believe the police at the Muradnagar police station as investigators narrated the sordid saga of five murders. “I wanted to believe that he was being framed and forced to make these confessions,” said Tyagi.Thirty minutes later, he was hurtling himself at Leelu’s throat in rage as policemen struggled to hold him back. He cursed his brother and his own stupidity in never involving the police earlier. “I don’t know if I was angry at him for being a remorseless killer, or at myself for believing him to be an ideal brother all these years,” said Tyagi.In the half-an-hour, he had to come to terms with the revelations that his two missing sons would never return, that he had remained blind to three other murders in his family, and that he and his wife were probably next on the list.He also found out that police had almost no hope of gathering evidence in the previous murders. “We are focused on the latest murder. Whether he is convicted for one murder or five, it’s the same,” SP Raja said.Leelu quietly stood and heard his elder brother’s curses and words of anguish, said policemen present at the time. “I am sorry,” he said, before being dragged back to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-murders-that-destroyed-the-tyagi-family-and-shook-a-ghaziabad-sleepy-hamlet-101634151521636.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar cancels Gohana visit after farmers take control of helipad area||Farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws on Wednesday took control of the helipad area at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sonepat’s Gohana where Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s chopper was expected to land.People associated with ‘Bhagwan Valmiki Trikaldarshi Society’ had invited Khattar to take part in a state-level programme in memory of Lord Valmiki at Gohana but the farmers reached in large numbers and occupied the helipad area.Police had installed barricading at various points in town but the farmers managed to take control of the helipad area.Earlier in the morning, Gohana ASP Nikita Khattar had invited farmers for parlays but farmers left the meeting which lasted nearly an hour before giving any assurance to the administration regarding not opposing the meeting of the CM.Bharatiya Kisan Union state vice-president Satywan Narwal said farmers had gathered to oppose the CM’s visit as he had been ‘making attempts to divide people on caste lines’.“We have a lot of respect for Lord Valmiki and have no rift with the organisers. We will continue to oppose the meeting of the BJP-JJP leaders,” he added.Bhagwan Valmiki Trikaldarshi Society president Deepak Aditya accused the protesters of taking control of the helipad area, and eventually forcing the administration to cancel the CM’s visit in view of the law and order situation.“Earlier, the farmers had assured us that they will cooperate with us but they had taken control of the helipad area,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-cancels-gohana-visit-after-farmers-take-control-of-helipad-area-101634151402292.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM’s son wedding: Cop suspended for security breach||Mohali senior superintendent of police Navjot Singh Mahal on Wednesday suspended inspector Sukhbir Singh, posted with the crime investigating agency, for breach in the Punjab chief minister’s security during his son’s pre-wedding ceremony at a marriage palace in Kharar on October 8. The action has been taken after the additional director general of police (ADGP, intelligence) wrote a letter to the inspector general of police, pointing out various lapses in the CM security.The inspector was on duty with three constables — Jaskaran Singh, Darshan Singh and Satbir Singh — at the entrance during the sangeet function. He had suspended the three constables, who went inside the palace after consuming liquor, even reaching near the chief minister (CM). The SSP said the inspector has also been suspended for negligence of duty as he was the in-charge at the main gate. According to the ADGP’s letter, when CM Charanjit Singh Channi arrived at the venue around 9.30 pm, no one was present at the gate to identify the guests. Due to weak checking, many armed employees also entered the venue. Some cops posted at the metal detectors even left for dinner, while some in uniform were consuming liquor. Even women personnel deployed in civil dress were seen enjoying the function, it said.The letter further stated that one uniformed CIA personnel posted in Kharar, who was drunk, crossed the security cordon of the CM and reached close to him to show his closeness, and no attempt was made to stop him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-s-son-wedding-cop-suspended-for-security-breach-101634151347823.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records no new Covid case after 69 days||For the second time since the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year, Chandigarh on Wedneday recorded no new case. According to data available with the UT health department, it was last on August 4 this year when no fresh case was reported.Even Panchkula reported no new case on Wednesday, while four people testing positive in Mohali. Also, for eighth consecutive day, the tricity recorded no fatality due to the virus.Meanwhile, tricity’s active caseload saw an uptick to 63 from 61 on Tuesday. There are 37 patients in Chandigarh, followed by 19 in Mohali and just seven in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,285 positive cases, of which 64,428 have been cured and 820 patients have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded to date are 68,765. Among these, 67,678 patients have recovered and 1,068 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,745 includes 30,360 recoveries and 378 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-no-new-covid-case-after-69-days-101634151346660.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||MPLADS: Chandigarh admn gets ₹2.5 crore windfall||The Chandigarh administration has got another shot in the arm after the Union government released ₹2.5 crore funds under the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS). It is the residual amount for the 2019-2020 fiscal and can be used for works other than those related to Covid-19 relief.Each MP is allocated ₹5 crore discretionary funds annually. Before the pandemic hit Chandigarh in March 2020, the Centre had released ₹2.5 crore for 2019-20.  MP Kirron Kher had allocated these funds mainly to health institutes, including the PGIMER, for buying medical equipment, such as ventilators.In view of the Covid-19 crisis and nationwide lockdown, the Government of India in April 2020 decided to suspend MPLADS for two years (2020-2021 and 2021-2022).The release of the pending funds has come at crucial time for the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is eyeing to retain power in the upcoming municipal elections.The Chandigarh administration had recently revised the grant-in-aid (GIA) estimates for the municipal corporation for the current fiscal by 40%. Closely following the decision, the administration got another windfall as the Centre lifted the 20% mandatory cut on spending that was imposed last year as part of austerity measures due to the pandemic. It will add at least ₹520 crore in the UT’s kitty this fiscal, and boost development works being executed by both the administration and MC. “We are putting the funds to use according to the demand and requirements. For instance, recently Arun Sood (BJP state president) requested funds for development in some areas, which has been approved,” said MP Kirron Kher.Sood said as the funds cannot be used for new projects, they are being spent on expanding works in the existing projects. “For instance, we are laying road tiles and upgrading sewerage system in some areas,” he said.The MPLADS funds are also being used for setting up gyms in parks and for installation of lights, said an official.The official, who did not wish to be named, said that there is a greater urgency in the ruling dispensation to spend the funds before the model code of conduct is enforced.“We have already allocated ₹1 crore to the MC for extension of development works sanctioned in 2019. The remaining ₹1.5 crore will be allocated once the projects are approved,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mplads-chandigarh-admn-gets-2-5-crore-windfall-101634151345345.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Idol immersion not allowed in public, including in Yamuna: Delhi pollution body||Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on Wednesday issued a detailed set of guidelines for idol immersion, including a ban on immersions in public places such as water bodies, ponds, ghats or Yamuna river. The order also specified that idol immersion can take place in people’s houses or community centres where there are arrangements for immersion in buckets or other containers. “Worship material like flowers, decorating material (made of paper) etc, be removed before immersion of idols and may be collected separately for disposal manner and in an environmentally safe manner and be handed over to the door-to-door waste collection vehicles,” the order said. The order added, “No idol immersion shall be allowed in River Yamuna. Violators shall be liable to pay ₹50,000 per default, to be deposited with DPCC.” The DPCC also directed municipal agencies and the Delhi Police to ensure strict checks around all important immersion points in the city to ensure that vehicles carrying idols are stopped. Vehicles coming from neighbouring states also need to be checked for idols, the state pollution control authority said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/idol-immersion-not-allowed-in-public-including-in-yamuna-delhi-pollution-body-101634151344067.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||28 Tihar officials suspended, 2 sacked, for helping ex-Unitech bosses||Twenty-eight Tihar jail officers were suspended, and services of two contractual employees were terminated by the director general of prisons on Wednesday evening for their alleged role in helping jailed Unitech ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra violate prison rules and run a “secret underground office in south Delhi” from inside the jail, officers aware of the matter said on Wednesday.The prison department has also written to the Delhi government’s home department to suspend one superintendent and a deputy superintendent, who were named in the case. Prison department comes under the Delhi home department.These 32 officers were named in an inquiry report submitted to the Supreme Court by Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana.To be sure, officers of the rank of superintendent and deputy superintendent can only be suspended by the home department and not the prison headquarters. “The process to suspend them has begun. The director general has already written to the home department. It is likely to happen soon,” one prison officer, who asked not to be named, said.HT contacted a Delhi government spokesperson for a comment, but they did not respond.The prison department said that all these 32 jail officials were posted in jail number 7 of Tihar, where the Chandra brothers were lodged until the morning of August 28, when they were shifted to Arthur Road and Taloja jail in Maharashtra on the orders of the Supreme Court.The accused officers included one superintendent, one deputy superintendent, seven assistant superintendent, 10 head warders, 11 warders and two contractual employees. One of the contractual employees is a data entry operator, another is a nursing orderly, the officials said.After suspension, the accused will have to face an investigation by the Delhi Police crime branch which filed a first information report (FIR) on Tuesday in the case under sections of Prevention of Corruption Act. The case was registered on the basis of an inquiry report that Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana’s submitted to the Supreme Court.On October 6, the Supreme Court, after going through the police commissioner’s report, ordered the government to suspend the officers named in the report.On August 26, the apex court directed the Delhi Police chief to “personally look” into the role of prison officials after the Enforcement Directorate(ED) informed the court that Sanjay Chandra and Ajay Chandra violated prison rules and ran a “secret underground office” in south Delhi from inside Tihar jail with the help of jail officers.When contacted, director general (prisons), Sandeep Goel, said,” We have received the letter from Delhi Police with the names of the 32 jail officials who have been found prima facie complicit in the matter, during the inquiry. We are taking further action.”A mid-level prison officer, who asked not to be named, said in the coming days many prison officers would be transferred within the prison. “This is the first time that so many officers have been suspended in one day, and in a single case. They will also be questioned by the crime branch for their alleged role. Maybe this case will serve as a lesson to jail officials to not to get involved in corrupt practices or help prisoners violate rules by extending favours,” the officer added.The Chandra brothers were arrested in April 2017 for duping homebuyers in 74 Unitech projects. The two were also being probed by the ED.The ED, in a report to the apex court, had said that the two businessmen used the prison complex to transfer the proceeds of crime, and were instructing their people to dispose of their properties. The ED had said that it also unearthed a secret underground office’ in Delhi, which was being operated by erstwhile Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra and visited by his two son – Sanjay and Ajay – when they were on parole or bail.The Delhi Police have also named the Chandra brothers and their father, Ramesh Chandra, in the FIR for bribing jail officers.“We will start questioning the jail officers. The inquiry found evidence against them indicating they accepted money to extend the favours. This is why we also added sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act,” a crime branch officer, who asked not to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/28-tihar-officials-suspended-2-sacked-for-helping-ex-unitech-bosses-101634151343045.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jobless youth arrested for stealing smart bike in Chandigarh||A 21-year-old man belonging to Bihar has been arrested for stealing a smart bike, which was a part of the Chandigarh administration’s public bike-sharing project.Identified as Tuntun Kumar, the suspect used to work as a labourer at shops and is currently unemployed.The UT administration had rolled out public bike-sharing system across the city on August 12. The smart bikes are operated through a mobile app. A rider is able to locate the closest bike station with the help of the app, unlock a bike, and ride and return the bike at any dock station. The system offers GPS-based tracking of bicycles and online collection of fare. The suspect was arrested on the intervening night of October 12 and 13 after he was stopped by a patrolling team for regular checking at the Sector 36/37 light point. He was riding a smart bike, but could not reveal how he managed to open its lock as he did not posses any mobile phone. Kumar told police that he had picked the bicycle from near Sindhi Sweets in Sector 37D. A case under Sections 379 (theft) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the police station in Sector 39.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jobless-youth-arrested-for-stealing-smart-bike-in-chandigarh-101634151293378.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Police zero in on three men for theft from cash van||Even after five days, Chandigarh Police have made no arrest for the theft of a trunk carrying ₹39 lakh from a cash van on October 8. However, making the first breakthrough, police have zeroed in on three youths who can be seen taking the trunk while the cash was being loaded at an ATM in Sector 34.The CCTV footage shows their faces clearly, but they don’t match with any of the previous or present employees of the security firm that transports cash to various ATMs in the tricity.A senior police officer privy to the investigation said it seems to be the handiwork of a gang from out of town and efforts are on to identify the trio. Bhupinder Singh, who works as a custodian with the security firm based in Sector 47, had lodged a complaint regarding misplacement of a trunk carrying ₹39 lakh from the van.He told police that on October 8, he along with three others had left the office with ₹1.9 crore around 10 am. While ₹70 lakh were put in one bag, the remaining ₹39 lakh were in an iron trunk that was already sealed by the company.After loading cash at various ATMs, when they reached Nayagoan, the trunk was found missing. The company checked the vehicle’s location through CCTV cameras and GPS, but there was no unusual stoppage or deviation from the route. Under stress after being questioned by police, the driver of the cash van had committed suicide by jumping in front of a train on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhpolice-zero-in-on-three-men-for-theft-from-cash-van-101634151292179.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Tomato prices soar to ₹70 a kilo in Delhi as rain damages crops in states||Tomato prices in retail markets of Delhi have shot up to ₹70 per kilogram, a spike which traders attributed to excess and slightly unseasonal rainfall in large parts of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, which are the two main tomato-producing states in the country.Tomato prices in retail markets of Delhi have shot up to ₹70 per kilogram, a spike which traders attributed to excess and slightly unseasonal rainfall in large parts of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, which are the two main tomato-producing states in the country.|#+|“The price was going up since the start of October. Then the festive season began and it further shot up. The wholesale rate has gone up and that is reflected in the retail rate as well,” said Ankit Kumar, a retail vegetable vendor in south Delhi’s Mehrauli Market.About 10 days ago, traders said tomatoes were selling for around ₹40 per kilogram across retail markets in Delhi.“On October 1, we were purchasing tomatoes for ₹2,000 per quintal, which works out to ₹20 per kilogram. The rate has almost doubled now. The supply is tighter,” said Iqbal Rafi, a wholesale vendor in the agricultural produce market in Okhla.“Unseasonal rain in tomato-producing states such as Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have damaged crops due to which the supply to consumer markets like Delhi has been affected. This has led to a rise in prices,” said Ashok Kaushik, president of tomato traders’ association in Azadpur market.Tomato prices have witnessed an increase across metro cities, traders said.Among the metros, the maximum increase in the retail price of tomato was in Kolkata where the produce was as costly as ₹72 per kilo on October 12, as compared to ₹38 per kilo a month ago. In Delhi and Chennai, retail prices of tomatoes increased to ₹57 per kilo from ₹30 per kilo and ₹20 per kilo, respectively, a month ago, according to data compiled by the Union consumer affairs ministry. In Mumbai, retail tomato prices rose to ₹53 per kilo from ₹15 per kilo a month ago, the data showed.Data from Azadpur Mandi shows that the average arrival price of tomato has increased by 90% in just a month — it is ₹26.59 /kilo between the 1st and 12th of October as compared to ₹13.95/kilo in September. However, the average daily arrival quantity has fallen by around 15% in October, traders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tomato-prices-soar-to-70-a-kilo-in-delhi-as-rain-damages-crops-in-states-101634151290961.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala Olympics to wean youths away from drugs||The Ambala senior superintendent police has stressed on sports and awareness drives to wean youths away from drugs in the district. Chairing a meeting of all stakeholders to discuss measures to curb drug menace, SSP Hamid Akhtar on Tuesday listed various activities with a timeline to be undertaken by police officers in coordination with civil society members.The SSP said that to involve the youth in sports, primarily in the countryside, Ambala Olympics will be organised with games such as volleyball and kabaddi. Akhtar, a 2008-batch IPS officer who grabbed headlines for his drive against drugs during his previous posting in Sirsa, said lack of documentation on deaths due to drugs was one of the biggest hurdles there. “In Ambala, I’ll ensure that such data is prepared for the past five years and families are encouraged to reveal the actual cause of death of drug addicts,” he said. Tip-off box at all police stationsThe SSP also instructed all station house officers to install a tip-off box on the lines of suggestion box at police stations, for the locals to submit anonymous complaints against drug trade. Assistant sub-inspector Rajesh Kumar was made the nodal officer of this initiative. He will also organise awareness camps at educational institutes twice a week and meetings of drug addicts with those who have recovered once a week.Akhtar said the addicts who have recovered will be one of the biggest assets during this initiative and will be encouraged to come forward. “Other than regular drug recoveries, the crime branch will step up efforts to nab the manufacturers and suppliers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-olympics-to-wean-youths-away-from-drugs-101634151289773.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Nominations for Chandigarh MC election by November end||The filing of nominations for the municipal elections in Chandigarh will begin towards the end of November to ensure that elections can be held timely before the tenure of the present MC House ends on December 31. The draw of lots for reserved wards will be held next week.The state election commission has also issued the timelines for finalising the polling stations at all 35 wards. State election commissioner SK Srivastava chaired a meeting of all returning officers and assistant returning officers on Wednesday. He exhorted them to work sincerely to ensure transparent, free and fair elections. He also focused on strict observance of Covid protocol and the use of information technology during the electionsThe commission secretary gave details of election procedures and a brief outline of the tentative schedule. “The nomination shall commence from later part of November and the polls shall be held in December,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nominations-for-chandigarh-mc-election-by-november-end-101634151288096.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Building violations: ADC visits Zirakpur project, seeks report||Additional deputy commissioner (ADC), Mohali, has sought a report from the executive officer (EO), Zirakpur, on building violations at Victoria Heights in Peermuchalla.Hindustan Times in its report on October 7 highlighted that three 14-storey towers coming up at the residential project don’t have adequate space between each other for fire tenders to move in case of an emergency. “I have visited the site and sought a detailed report from the EO. Action will be initiated against the builder accordingly,” she said. According to the National Building Code and Punjab Municipal Bylaws, one-third space of the total height of the building should be left between two towers for sunlight, air, and movement of fire tender. Among other violations, the builder, Fortune Multitech Private Limited, has constructed 15 shops at the place earmarked for a park and parking area. While the possession of houses has not been handed over yet, the resident welfare association (RWA) has taken the builder to court over the violations.Advocate Mukesh Kumar Verma, who represents the RWA, said: “The shops have been constructed without the consent of allottees or change of land use from the competent authority. The builder has also increased the number of flats from 396 to 476 without approval under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act.”RWA president Parveen Bhadoo said: “Our association has apprised the ADC about all violations done by the builder, and will provide all the proofs.” Sunny Garg, director, Fortune Multitech Private Limited, said: “I am not aware of any such visit by the ADC at Victoria Heights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/building-violations-adc-visits-zirakpur-project-seeks-report-101634151286861.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Despite 76% fall in stubble burning cases, Haryana cities record poor air quality||Even as the Haryana government is claiming a considerable fall in stubble burning cases, the air quality of eight Haryana cities has reached the poor category.Figures provided by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board show more than 76% dip in cases of stubble burning. The cases have come down to 298 from September 15 to October 12, against 1,264 cases reported during this period last year.But the air quality measured by the Central Pollution Control Board revealed that the air quality in eight cities has turned poor as the Air Quality Index (AQI) of Panipat was measured at 280, followed by Faridabad (274), Ballabgarh (269), Gurugram Sector 51 (254), Yamunanagar (223), Sonepat (208), Rohtak (206), and Karnal (205).Of 24 cities mentioned in the AQI bulletin of the CPCB, Narnaul is the only city in Haryana which has satisfactory air quality as the air quality of several other cities including Bhiwani, Ambala, Charkhi Dadri, Daruhera, Fatehabad, Hisar, Jind, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Manesar, Panchkula and Sirsa was measured as moderate.AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, and 101 to 200 moderate. However, AQI between 201 to 300 is classified as poor, 301 to 400 very poor and it crosses over to the severe zone at 401.As per reports, the air quality of several Haryana cities got affected in the past couple of days following a sudden rise in the incidents of stubble burning.The figures revealed that around 85% farm fire incidents were reported in the last five days as Haryana recorded 51 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number for this year to 298.A major change in air quality of most Haryana cities was reported in past one week as on October 6 only Yamunanagar had poor quality with AQI of 223.The air quality of most Haryana cities including Ambala, Bhiwani, Hisar, Gurugram, Kaithal, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Manesar, Panipat, Palwal, Panchkula, Rohtak, Sonepat was satisfactory; and moderate in Bahadurgarh, Ballabhgarh, Bhiwadi, Charkhi Dadri and Faridabad.Reacting to fall in cases of stubble burning this year, HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan said the steps for ex-situ and in-situ management of the crop residue and deployment of eco-friendly equipments in large scale have brought a positive result to check stubble burning.On rise in cases in the past couple of days, he said, “Delayed harvest could be the reason behind it but before jumping to any conclusion (that the cases may rise in days to come), he said they should wait for a week as they are trying to prevent the incidences.On why the air quality of most cities has changed despite a considerable fall in stubble burning cases, Narayanan has refuted any dodging or dereliction in monitoring, saying, “monitoring is done by the Haryana Space Applications Centre. There are many factors that may be affecting the air quality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-76-fall-in-stubble-burning-cases-haryana-cities-record-poor-air-quality-101634151285103.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi residents take the e-route to mark Durga Puja from home||Ritwik Sen hurriedly did up the buttons of his crisply ironed kurta as his teenage son turned on the laptop on the centre table and logged on to the Facebook page of a prominent Durga Puja organiser in the national capital. Sen’s wife Mandira, quickly fetched a book of Sanskrit shlokas from the drawer of the small temple alcove in their Kalkaji home.Soon, the laptop screen came alive with a temple priest reciting shlokas and the Sens followed, turning the pages of the prayer book in Mandira’s hand as they missed a word or two. Around 23km away, in Dwarka’s Sector 6, Pancham Bharadwaj and family kept the rituals in a similar fashion. So did Anirban Sengupta’s family in east Delhi’s Vasundhara Enclave.“These are rituals which we cannot miss. But safety protocols are paramount in light of Covid-19. So it is safer to follow these rituals online, even though people are allowed to be physically present in venues this year,” said Sengupta.Even though the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed visitors at Durga Puja pandals this year, unlike the previous year when no visitor was allowed in pandals, several families on Wednesday chose to offer their Durga Ashtami prayers at home, while watching a live-stream of rituals being performed at a puja pandal of their choosing.The community prayers, known as pushpanjali, are marked by offering of flowers to deities during Durga Puja. It is a prominent event on Ashthami – the eighth day of nine-day rituals.In the years before Covid, pushpanjali was a grand affair with the 500-odd Durga Puja venues in the capital witnessing thousands of visitors, often compelling organisers to break the gathering into batches and urging priests to repeat the shlokas for the benefit of each batch.Last year, in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, organisers were forced to take the rituals online. They continued with the practise this year as well, even though they were allowed to entertain devotees at venues – subjected to restrictions such as a maximum of 200 guests or 50% of total seating capacity, whichever is lower.“The event was broadcast live on social media as well as on our website. We also tied up with several cable TV operators for live coverage. Even though we are following all necessary guidelines, we kept the online option open to devotees,” said Swapan Ganguly, convener of Kali Bari temple, in New Delhi’s Mandir Marg, which hosts one of the most prominent Durga Pujas in the city.In a similar fashion, most Durga Puja organisers also made arrangements for online booking for bhog – food that is traditionally distributed among the masses. “Distribution of bhog is usually a massive affair, and involves large gatherings at venues. Organisers made online arrangements this time,” said Robin Bose, general secretary of Durga Puja committee in Kashmere Gate.Durga Puja festivities are marked by cultural events, exhibitions and food, a wide range of which is often available in temporary stalls that are set up inside and outside pandals and they stay open late into the night to cater to the rush. Localities such as CR Park transform into smaller version of Kolkata, where Durga Puja is a grand annual affair.While the DDMA did not allow fairs and stalls in and outside venues, most organisers dropped cultural events from their plans, in view of a decline in sponsorships and donations. Collectively, these factors have contributed in changing the Durga Puja experience for residents in the city.“It is difficult to imagine Durga Puja without food stalls and cultural events. In other years, we used to go pandal hopping with friends till midnight,” said Ashmita Basu, a resident of Mayur Vihar Phase 1.Divya Ghosh, a resident of CR Park, said, “The fact that the festival is still being organised, shows that things are returning to normal. Safety is a priority and I am sure people are taking the necessary precautions. But things still feel different — festivities are low-key, there are no food stalls or cultural events, all much needed ingredients for a full puja experience.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/many-say-ashtami-prayers-at-home-watching-a-live-stream-of-durga-puja-rituals-101634151041667.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Proposal to shrink National Capital Region||New Delhi: The National Capital Region Planning Board (NCRPB) is considering a reduction in the area under the National Capital Region -- a region envisaged in 1985 for coordinated urban development in and around Delhi -- limiting it to within 100km radius from Rajghat, Delhi.The plan was discussed at the NCRPB’s meeting on Tuesday where the four participating states broadly agreed to it. Currently, the NCR consists of 24 districts in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan and entire Delhi, spread across an area of 55,083 square kilometres.If implemented, parts of Panipat in Haryana and Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh will be dropped from the new NCR map.According to the proposal discussed in the meeting, the geographical size of the region will be a contiguous circular region of 100km radius from Rajghat (Delhi). “Beyond 100 km radius and up to the existing NCR boundary, all notified cities/ towns along with a corridor of one km on either side of connecting expressways/ national highways/ state highways/ Regional Rapid Transit System will be included,” a statement from the Union housing and urban affairs ministry said.“The idea is to have a compact area so that the development can be planned in a better manner,” said a housing and urban affairs ministry official.A senior NCRPB official said there are a lot of rural areas which are currently part of the NCR. “Tehsil, including rural areas, coming under the 100km radius will be included in NCR. But the state government will decide whether tehsil, which are partly covered under the new NCR boundary, should be part of the NCR or not,” said a senior official.HT reported on Tuesday that the Haryana government is pushing for a one-third reduction in its area under the NCR. Officials said the proposal to reduce the state’s area was prepared keeping in view that the inclusion of areas extending to even far-flung districts such as Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendergarh, Jind and Karnal, was not serving any purpose in terms of reducing the urbanisation pressure on the national capital.“Also, the state government feels that restrictions applicable to NCR were difficult to implement in the hinterland included in the NCR,” an official told HT.NCRPB officials said the NCR delineation plan has been in the pipeline since 2017. “Over the years, new areas have been added to the NCR due to which its area has increased from 30,000 sq.km to over 55,000sq.km. We have been working on various models to reduce the area. But now a broad consensus has been reached between participating states on the matter,” said a senior NCRPB official who is aware of the matter.In June last year, when the country was facing the raging Covid19 pandemic, experts had questioned the viability of the NCR as a concept, as sealed and unsealed borders at will, failed to share or pool health care infrastructure, and not tried to evolve a common strategy in the face of rising Covid-19 cases. This prompted the Supreme Court to order the Centre to convene a meeting of member states – Delhi, UP, Haryana and Rajasthan – in order to evolve a “common programme and common portal” for easing interstate movement in the NCR.Also, even 36 years after its inception, except Metro there is no other reliable public transport between the NCR cities.Urban planning and transport experts say if the proposal to redraw the boundaries of the NCR is implemented, it will be beneficial for all cities and towns in the region.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said, “The proposed plan will include all the major NCR towns and settlements. It is rural areas in these towns that will be excluded. It will benefit the rural areas, as the state governments can plan for their development in a better manner. The area in the 100km radius can be developed as a core area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/proposal-to-shrink-national-capital-region-101634150921548.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||DDA will hold public hearings from Oct 18 to finalise master plan 2041||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will start holding public consultations for finalising the Master Plan of Delhi 2041 from October 18, officials said Wednesday. The land-owning agency said the entire process will be online and it has already received over 33,000 comments/feedback on the draft master plan. “We will put the schedule for public hearings on our website. We will also inform individuals, who gave their suggestions/comments to the master plan, through email about the public hearing dates,” said a senior DDA official, asking not to be named. DDA officials said to ensure that people don’t face any problems during the public hearings, the suggestions/objections have been divided based on the chapters in the new master plan. “Issues have been clubbed topic-wise so that we can hear the views of all people. We held public consultations online last year — when the master plan was being prepared — to get the people’s perspective. This year, we held online consultations after the MPD 2041 was put in the public domain to clarify people’s doubts related to the new plan,” said the official quoted above. The land-owning agency plans to notify MPD 2041, the vision document for city’s development over the next two decades, by end-December. The process was delayed due to the pandemic, as the land-owning agency had to extend the last date for submission of public suggestions/objections by a month following a demand for an extension from the public. While it received over 12,000 comments on its portal, a large number of people submitted their comments manually, the DDA said. Explaining the process, a senior official said based on people’s input during the public hearing, the MPD 2041 will be finalised. It will then be tabled in the DDA meeting. Once approved, it will be sent to the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for notification. The MPD 2041 focuses on regeneration of old areas (unauthorised colonies, urbanised villages), allowing mixed use development, providing affordable rental housing and small format housing, promoting walkability and non-motorised transport, and developing green-blue (green spaces and waterfronts) infrastructure and corridors, among others, for the sustainable development of the city. This time, the land-owning agency has introduced new concepts and proposals to make Delhi a 24X7 city by promoting night time economy and nightlife; increasing economic activities; allowing mixed development, especially in industrial areas; and ensuring planned development of urban extensions, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-will-hold-public-hearings-from-oct-18-to-finalise-master-plan-2041-101634150861839.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Missing child found dead in bag in neighbour’s balcony in Uttam Nagar||A nine-year-old child was found murdered in Uttam Nagar area of New Delhi. His body was found in a rucksack in the balcony of a house near his own. Police said that the child had been missing since October 11, and they had registered a case of kidnapping under Section 363 of the Indian Penal Code. Police said they received information about the body being found in the neighbourhood around 1.15pm on Wednesday. Police reached the house and called crime and forensic teams to the spot. They then sent the body to the nearest hospital for an autopsy. Prima facie, it appeared the child was strangled, police said. Whether the child was assaulted will be revealed via the autopsy report, police said. DCP Dwarka Shankar Choudhary said that they found the boy’s body and sent it for an autopsy. He, however, refused to divulge any more details. Police, on Wednesday, registered a case under IPC sections of murder. They are now investigating the case by questioning the family members of the child and their neighbours.They are also scrutinising footage from CCTV cameras in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhimissing-child-found-dead-in-bag-in-neighbour-s-balcony-in-uttam-nagar-101634150741914.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||3 civic bodies told to submit new deadlines for bio-mining of Delhi's landfills||The three municipal corporations have been asked to submit revised deadlines and action plan for the completion of bio-mining at the three major landfills at Okhla, Bhalswa and Ghazipur, a senior official overseeing the project said on Wednesday.In a recent review meeting of the state-level committee overseeing the project, chaired by the chief secretary, it was pointed out that the project progress was “very slow” and “incremental”.The data from the three civic bodies shows that almost two years after the project was started, on the orders of National Green Tribunal (NGT), only around 11% of the total legacy waste at the three sites has been excavated and treated. According to the old set of deadlines submitted to the NGT, Bhalswa landfill is to be cleared by June 2022, Okhla landfill by March 2023 and Ghazipur landfill by December 2023.Before the start of the project in July 2019, the three landfill sites cumulatively had 280 lakh tonnes of legacy waste. The bio-mining process is currently suspended on account of the monsoon. The data from three corporations shows that a total of 3.46 million tonnes of legacy waste had been bio-mined till July when the monsoon arrived.The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has managed to bio-mine 770,000 tonnes of legacy waste at the Ghazipur site which holds 14 million tonnes of waste. EDMC mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said the record-setting monsoon rain has caused the project progress to slow down. “We are changing our approach to hasten the process. Now, we will introduce bigger trommel machines. A company is being appointed to take responsibility of 50 lakh [5 million] tonnes of waste,” he said.Data submitted by North MCD shows that 1.8 million tonnes of waste was bio-mined from Bhalswa landfill, nearly 22% of the total legacy waste at the site.Similarly, South MCD has bio-mined 630,000 tonnes of legacy waste from Okhla landfill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/civic-bodies-to-submit-revised-deadlines-for-bio-mining-at-delhi-landfills-101634150681555.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||A full house for Ramlila — at Red Fort, and at homes||The scene from the Ramayana, which depicts Angad, the prince of the monkey army, trying to convince Ravana to not wage a war against Rama is about to begin and the socially distanced seats on the Red Fort grounds – the venue of the most prominent Ramlila in Delhi – are fully occupied.The tension on stage picks up. Ravana commands his guards and attendants to overpower Angad. The attempted negotiation has failed. The prince shakes off the guards and jumps on to the roof of Ravana’s palace, sending the King’s men into a tizzy. He crushes the surface where he lands. The crowd applauds and the light show begins. For those in the audience, it feels like Angad is flying off to where the monkey army has set up camp.“With a thinner crowd this year, Ramlila is a different experience. But we should be thankful that at least things are returning to normal. I am sure that thousands are watching the Ramlila from their homes, as we are live-streaming the performance every day,” said Brijesh Goyal, office bearer of Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), who essays the role of Angad in the Luv-Kush Ramlila on Red Fort grounds.The pandemic has evidently changed the way the Ramlila — a theatrical enactment of the Hindu epic Ramayana, is staged in the run-up to Dussehra. Delhi, in the pre-pandemic years, usually hosted about 100 Ramlilas of varying scales of grandeur, with the most prominent one being the Luv-Kush Ramlila on the grounds outside Red Fort.Before Covid-19 arrived, the crowd at the Red Fort ground starts swelling after sunset on the nine days of Navratri which ends on Dussehra with the burning of the effigies of King Ravana, his brother Kumbhakarna and son Meghnad.Last year, the state disaster management authority had allowed no visitors at the venue, following which several organisers went for live-streaming of Ramlila. This year, too, they have continued with the live-streaming.“It is not only about the limitations on the maximum size of the crowd, a large number of people, especially the elderly, should take necessary precautions in light of the pandemic and avoid crowded places,” said Arjun Kumar, general secretary, Luv Kush Ramlia committee.It is 7pm Wednesday and around 600 people are watching the Ramlila live on the committee’s YouTube channel and 2,000 on its Facebook page.“Ramlila is a cultural event for us and watching it with family is a tradition. We eagerly wait for it every year. It is good that the organisers are streaming it live online,” said Krishnapal Tiwari, a resident of Dilshad Garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/thinner-crowds-absent-food-stalls-fail-to-dampen-spirits-at-red-fort-ramlila-101634150503459.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 470 kg of firecrackers seized from godown in Sadar Bazar, seller held||Police on Tuesday searched a godown in north Delhi’s Sadar Bazar and recovered more than 470kg of firecrackers that were stored there illegally. The police have arrested the person who stored the firecrackers and said the suspect was planning to sell them for a huge profit ahead of Diwali.In September, the Delhi government had announced a complete ban on the storage, sale and use of firecrackers in the national capital, in an effort to control the rising pollution levels seen around Diwali every year. The ban on crackers will remain in effect till December 31, 2021.Sagar Singh Kalsi, deputy police commissioner, north, said on Tuesday, they got information regarding the illegal storage and sale of firecrackers in Sadar Bazar, following which a team was formed and sent to the godown.“The police team conducted a search of the godown where the trader, identified as Mohammad Rihan (21), was a huge cache of illegal firecrackers. He was also present in the godown at the time of the search,” said DCP Kalsi. Delhi Police and teams of the Delhi Pollution Control Board will closely monitor markets to ensure strict compliance of the cracker ban, officials had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi470-kg-of-firecrackers-seized-from-godown-in-sadar-bazar-seller-held-101634150382681.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||2023 G-20 meet at revamped Pragati Maidan: Goyal||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday said the 2023 G-20 summit will be held at the revamped Pragati Maidan in Delhi, while speaking at the launch of a national master plan for multi-modal connectivity to ensure integrated planning and implementation of infrastructure projects in the next four years.The plan — PM Gati Shakti – aims to reduce logistics costs and boost the economy with a planned National Infrastructure Pipeline of over ₹111 lakh crore.“PM Gati Shakti-National Master Plan will give a push and direction to various development plans and will also encourage investments. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the G20 summit will be held here in 2023 for the first time,” said Goyal, minister for commerce and industry.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday also inaugurated a new exhibition complex at Pragati Maidan.The ₹2,700-crore Pragati Maidan redevelopment project was started in 2018, and includes creation of six new exhibition halls, a state-of-the-art convention centre that can accommodate 7,000, and an amphitheatre, and parking space for around 4,500 cars, among other amenities.As part of the redevelopment project, a ₹777-crore traffic regulation project is being implemented by the Delhi government’s Public Works Department (PWD). The road improvement project includes the construction of a 1.2-km-long tunnel between Purana Qila Road (near Pragati Maidan Mathura Road) and the Ring Road (near Pragati Power Station), and six underground U-turns on Mathura Road and Bhairon Marg. These projects are in various stages of completion.The project was approved by the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs in January 2017. An ITPO official said that the revised deadline for the project is August 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2023-g-20-summit-to-be-held-in-revamped-pragati-maidan-piyush-goyal-101634150261599.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||165 builders in Delhi fined ₹53.5L in five days for dust violations||Between October 7 and October 12, Delhi’s environment department recommended environment compensation cess to the tune of ₹53.50 lakh from 165 construction agencies for violating dust pollution guidelines.Environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said that in the last five days, the government has conducted 522 inspections of construction sites, out of which 165 agencies were found to be violating dust control norms, following which show cause notices were issued to the firms.Rai further said that he found “minor violations” during a surprise inspection of a construction site of WHO Building at Mahatma Gandhi Marg in IP Estate on Wednesday. He said the construction agency was warned of a fine if it doesn’t comply with all the dust pollution guidelines within two days.“I appeal to the people of Delhi that if there is pollution anywhere in Delhi, please complain about it on the Green Delhi app so that immediate action can be taken. To curb vehicular pollution, the ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign will also start from October 18. To make the campaign a success, tomorrow (Thursday) a meeting will be held with the senior officials of environment, revenue departments, Delhi Police and civil defence,” Rai said.He added, “Delhi started an anti-dust campaign starting October 7 and it will go on till October 29.”SDMC fines 72 entitiesMeanwhile, the building department of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has fined nearly ₹65 lakh from 72 companies, builders and owners, civic officials said.Among them are projects carried out by the National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) which was fined ₹5 lakh , said an SDMC spokesperson who asked not to be named.The spokesperson further said many hot spots are being kept under constant surveillance and higher officials of the building department are monitoring them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/165-builders-in-delhi-fined-53-5l-in-five-days-for-dust-violations-101634150201626.html
14-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lalru hit-and-run: 28-year-old out on morning walk killed||A 28-year-old man out for a morning walk on Wednesday was killed after being hit by a car in Lalru. At around 5.30am on Wednesday, when the victim, identified as Vijay Pandey of Lehli, reached Lehli T-point chowk to Dappar, a Maruti Swift car coming from Ambala side hit him. As he fell, his head hit the pavement leading to head injuries. He was rushed to Dera Bassi civil hospital where he was declared brought dead. A case was registered. Police said they have the registration number of the vehicle and are tracing the driver.Underage couple ties knot, HC asks Panchkula police to examine
14-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s north civic body reduces fee for cell phone towers||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Wednesday approved a 40% reduction in the fee levied for installation of telecom network towers, a move that could help improve cellular connectivity in areas under the north civic body.The standing committee, the top decision making body of the corporation, approved a plan for cellular operators and telecom service providers in the area to be required to pay a fee of ₹3 lakh for five years for each tower, down from ₹5 lakh earlier.The South Delhi Municipal Corporation had also reduced rates in July, earlier this year, based on a settlement reached with the cellular operator association and telecom infrastructure providers.Earlier, the operators were expected to pay 25% extra fee, per mobile tower site, in case they plan to share the towers. “Under the new regime, the extra fee for mobile tower sharing has also been removed,” the official explained.Now cellular operators will have to pay a fee of ₹3 lakh for 5 years for rooftop and on the ground towers irrespective of sharing. For pole sites less than 12 metres high, a fee of ₹25,000 will be levied for a period of 5 years, but if the height exceeds 12 metres, the operator will have to pay a fee equal to that fixed for towers ( ₹3 lakh).Jogi Ram Jain, the standing committee chairman of the north corporation, said the rates have been reduced to bring a uniformity in the rates with the south corporation. “We had also received directions in this regard from the Union communications ministry. This may lead to reduction in revenue, but it will ultimately help to strengthen the mobile connectivity,” Jain said.Installation of mobile towers, especially the cell on wheels, has lately become a contentious issue with resistance to new installations being observed from resident welfare associations. Last month, more than 56 resident welfare associations (RWAs) in south Delhi also petitioned the south corporation on problems regarding the new mobile cellular towers while demanding a more consultative process to fix the locations.However, Delhi continues to face poor mobile connectivity issues. Last year, the Cellular Operator Association of India stated that Delhi has over 28,000 towers and 16,680 km of fiber network and in order to resolve the connectivity issues, the city needs over 18,000 additional towers by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-north-civic-body-reduces-fee-for-cell-phone-towers-101634149901563.html
14-10-2021||Delhi||High metal concentration in Delhi air putting residents at risk, says TERI study||Delhi has a high concentration of heavy metals in its air, exposing the residents, especially children, to a range of respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, a study by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) has said.
14-10-2021||Pune||Trees cut at SPPU chowk: activists, residents flay move||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Wednesday, began cutting down trees at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) chowk, heading towards Pashan road, to make space for a footpath and a cycle track. Civic activists and NGOs have strongly opposed this action. “The PMC has given permission for cutting of 25 trees on the Pashan road in front of the Pune rural police headquarters. Soon the work of new footpaths and cycle tracks will begin here and for that these trees have been chopped. Our demand is that trees should not be cut down for any reason,” said Deepak Shrote of Vasundhara organisation. “When we came to know about the tree cutting, we immediately rushed to the spot. We were around 50 people and as we went there all the workers went away,” he added. “There are several cycle tracks around the city not used. Why are these 50-year old trees being cut down, which is harming the environment. This cycle track route should be changed,” said Prashant Kadam, another nearby citizen. When contacted, Ashok Ghorpade, PMC tree department, said, “We have nothing to do with this tree cutting. The order would have been given by local ward officers. They have been given the authority to give permissions to cut down trees in their respective wards.” Aundh-Baner ward officer Sandip Khalate did not respond to HT’s calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/trees-cut-at-sppu-chowk-activists-residents-flay-move-101634147801754.html
