15-10-2021||Noida||Dengue tally tops 570 in Ghaziabad, health dept adds 80 beds in allotted wards||In the wake of the increasing number of dengue patients in the district, officials of the health department in Ghaziabad have added 80 beds in two district hospitals, including 20 beds in community health centre (CHC) in Muradnagar, said officials on Friday.According to official records, with 16 fresh dengue cases in the past 24 hours, Ghaziabad reported 577 cases of dengue till Friday evening -- of which 265 cases were reported during the first half of October, they added. Of the total 577 cases, 365 patients (63.25%) were admitted to hospitals.“Amid the spike in the number of cases, a total of 80 beds have been added in dengue wards to attend to the patients. More beds will be added if required. The capacity has been doubled against 30 beds each in MMG district hospital and Sanjay Nagar district combined hospital, and 20 more beds have been added to the Muradnagar CHC, which earlier had 10 beds,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer.Earlier, the four CHCs in Loni, Muradnagar, Dasna and Modingar had reserved 10 beds for dengue patients only.“Amid the spike, the current dengue situation in the district is worsening, but it is expected that the cases will show a declining trend in the coming days. 27 public address systems will be available, along with our dedicated teams, for creating awareness among the people. Pre-recorded audio clips about preventive measures to be taken against dengue will be played,” Dr Gupta added.Dip in cases likely after Deepawali, say expertsMeanwhile, experts said that dengue cases may see a decline following the Deepawali festival.“It is a general trend, and was witnessed during previous years too. As of now, there’s an increase in the dengue cases in the district... Due to the lengthy monsoon this year, roads across the city got waterlogged, and a sharp increase in the cases could be seen,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad chapter.Against the total 577 dengue cases reported till Friday evening, malaria and scrub typhus cases currently stand at 16 and 39, respectively. The positivity rate in dengue cases is about 29.66% as the district has, so far, conducted 1,945 tests for the same. The positivity rate in malaria cases is very low, which stands at about 0.056%, with 28,395 tests done so far, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dengue-tally-tops-570-in-ghaziabad-health-dept-adds-80-beds-in-allotted-wards-101634322600127.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hoodwinked into marrying an ‘illiterate’ woman, Ludhiana man files FIR after 11 years||Eleven years after his marriage, a Sidhwan Bet resident has alleged that he had been hoodwinked into marrying an illiterate woman and lodged a case against her and his in-laws on Friday. The accused are Amandeep Kaur of Takhtupura village, her father Gurbachan Singh and a relative, Amarjit Singh of Sekha Wala Chowk of Moga. The complainant, Jagmohan Singh of Sardarpura village of Sidhwan Bet, said initially he was supposed to marry Amarjit’s daughter, Jaspreet Kaur, on March 28, 2010. However, on the day of the marriage he was told that Jaspreet was nowhere to be found and that she had run away. He was asked to marry his niece, Amandeep, instead. He was told that she had passed Class-12. Later, he was told that she had passed Class 8 and was shown a certificate, which was found to be fake. Jagmohan said after their marriage Amandeep started saying that she would leave him in a couple of months. “On June 20, 2011 Amandeep’s mother took her to their house, saying that she would return in a day or two, but she did not return. Later, we found that she had taken all her jewellery and clothes and was refusing to return,” said Jagmohan.“In 2014, I filed a complaint with the child and women cell, but she did not return. Later, I found that she was illiterate and the certificate produced by her parents was fake. When I objected, her parents threatened to file a dowry harassment case and demanded ₹15 lakh,” he said, adding that he was hoodwinked into marrying an illiterate woman as they could not find a match for her. Inspector Bikramjit Singh, Sidhwan Bet station house officer, said a case had been registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 ( use a forged document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hoodwinked-into-marrying-an-illiterate-woman-ludhiana-man-files-fir-after-11-years-101634322359989.html
15-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram achieves only 41% target during three-day mega vaccination drive||In the recently concluded mega Covid-19 vaccination drive held from October 12 to October 14, Gurugram was able to achieve only 41% of its targeted 150,000 jabs. This is the first time that the district has not been able to meet a state-given target during a mega vaccination drive.During the three-day mega vaccination drive, 62,254 beneficiaries were inoculated--36,233 were administered the first dose and 26,021 were administered the second dose of the vaccine.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram district, said, “Due to the festive season, many people in the district were not willing to take the vaccine as they were fasting. Due to this, the pace of vaccination pace was slow in the district. This is the first time that Gurugram has not been able to meet its vaccination target, but we are continuously working to vaccinate as many people as possible to develop herd immunity.”District officials also said that many residents wanted to avoid the vaccine’s side effects, such as fever, and hence they did not get vaccinated during the festive season.So far, Gurugram has always topped the state vaccination rankings--it was the first district to have fully vaccinated its eligible population with the first dose.The district health department had planned to inoculate at least 80% of the eligible population with both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine by Dussehra, and 85% of the eligible population with both doses by Diwali. So far, 68% of the eligible population in the district has been vaccinated with both doses. Until last week, 64.5% of the eligible population in the district had been administered both doses of Covid-19 vaccines.Earlier this month, the Centre issued vaccination targets to all states so they could administer a total of 1 billion Covid-19 vaccine doses this month. India is likely to reach the milestone by October 18 or 19.In Gurugram, over 3.37 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far. On Friday, vaccination did not take place at government sites across the district due to the festival of Dussehra.On Saturday, vaccination will continue at 129 centres across the district, officials said. The first and second doses of Covishield will be administered at 122 sites and the second dose of Covaxin will be administered at five centres. Sputnik V vaccines will be administered at the Sector 31 polyclinic. A total of 57,650 slots will be available in the district on Saturday.Meanwhile, nine new cases of Covid-19 were reported and 10 persons were said to have recovered on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-achieves-only-41-target-during-three-day-mega-vaccination-drive-101634322300120.html
15-10-2021||Other||Laptop stolen from income tax office in Ludhiana||Unidentified men allegedly breached the security of the income tax office on Ludhiana-Ferozepur road near Barewal cut and stole a laptop containing crucial data.Inspector Harkesh Meena, income tax (appeal unit), Ferozepur Road, lodged a complaint at the Sarabha Nagar police station on October 12. After probing the matter, the police registered an FIR under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code on Thursday. Meena stated that the departmental laptop was stolen from the office of the commissioner of income tax (Appeal unit-4). It was last used on October 7 and was found missing on October 11. Inspector Paramdeep Singh, SHO at Sarabha Nagar police station, said that adequate security is deployed at the office of the income tax department. The cops have initiated an investigation and suspect the involvement of some insiders in the crime as outsiders have no access to the office. The police are scanning CCTVs to trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/laptop-stolen-from-income-tax-office-in-ludhiana-101634321941256.html
15-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: RSS celebrates 96th foundation day||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Ludhiana chapter celebrated its 96th foundation day on Friday. The RSS was established in Nagpur on the day of Vijaydashmi in 1925 by Dr Hedgewar.Shastra puja was organised at 22 places across the district amid tight security arrangements. This time the district unit worshipped wooden sticks instead of firearms. Covid-appropriate behaviour was followed during all programmes.The speakers called upon the volunteers to encourage social harmony and end discrimination. They said that the country should become self-reliant.Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat, in a video message from Nagpur, also wished the RSS workers on the 400th birth anniversary of Guru Tegh Bahadur.The district unit kept the shastra puja a low-key affair because the workers had fallen victim to the targeted killings in the past. On January 18, 2016, one volunteer was injured after a firing incident at the RSS Shakha in Kidwai Nagar. In October 2017, another worker Ravinder Gosain was shot dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-rss-celebrates-96th-foundation-day-101634321524123.html
15-10-2021||Lucknow||Ram temple constructionexample of people’s faith in “right leadership”: Yogi||GORAKHPUR Construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya was being undertaken on a war footing and this shrine, linked with the sentiments of billions of people, would be the grandest of all in the world, said UP chief Minister Yogi Adityanath while addressing a crowd at the Mansarovar Ramlila ground here after leading the grand victory procession on Vijay Dashmi. He said the construction of the temple was an example how people’s faith in the “right leadership” could yield good results and how India’s cultural heritage, including Kashi Vishwanath Corridor and Prayagraj’s Kumbh Fair, found a place on the world platform under the Modi Government. “Under this Government, all hurdles against bharat and bharatiyata were removed one by one,” he said. He urged people to follow the path of truth and justice shown by Lord Ram. “As long as Ram Katha is being recited in every home, no power can cause harm to India,” he said, adding that the new UP of new India was marching ahead on the path of growth and development by following the path of Lord Ram. The CM said the not only Ayodhya and Janakpuri contributed to Lord Ram’s success, but people from the oppressed sections of society, including dalits and backwards, stood by him in the time of crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ram-temple-constructionexample-of-people-s-faith-in-right-leadership-yogi-101634321220167.html
15-10-2021||Other||JEE-Advanced result: Ludhiana lad Khushang bags AIR 30||Khushang Singla, who secured an All-India Rank of 30 in the Joint Entrance Examination, the results of which were declared on Friday, swears by hard work being the key to success. Gave up social media, TV to crack testKhushang, a resident of Asha Puri, Barewal Road, says he gave up on social media and television to make sure his focus did not waver. He always dreamt of pursuing engineering in computer science from IIT, Mumbai. His father, Ravinder Singla, says that his son used to devote six to seven hours a day to prepare for the exam and played badminton to relax. Ravinder is a biology lecturer in Government Senior Secondary School, Dadhahur village, Raikot, while is wife Pooja, is a banker. Khushang attributed his success to his family, especially his elder brother Devanshu who is also pursuing engineering in computer science.“My brother guided and motivated me throughout. I was able to secure this rank because of his support,” he says.Khushang had secured AIR 203 in JEE Mains.Self-study is the key Nitesh Kaushal of Haibowal, who had secured rank 982 in JEE Mains, has bagged AIR 115 in JEE Advanced. Kaushal says that both the JEE exams have different patterns. After JEE Mains exams, he remained focused and prepared harder to score better in JEE Advanced.“I was not worried about scoring the highest in JEE Mains. I was confident that I would be able to score enough marks to clear for the JEE Advanced examination, and I did,” he says.Kaushal adds that self-study and guidance from his teachers helped him crack the JEE Advanced test. His father, Gaurav, works in a private bank and his mother, Shivani, is a school teacher.Studied for 7-8 hours dailyKanav Singla of Jamalpur, who had bagged AIR 42 in JEE Mains and topped the city, has secured AIR 315 in JEE Advanced.Kanav says he’s not satisfied with his performance this time, as he wanted to be in the top 50 and aimed to get admission to IIT, Mumbai. His brother is pursuing computer science engineering from there. Kanav adds that he had started preparing for the JEE two years ago. He used to study for seven to eight hours daily. He gives credit for his success to his parents, brother, and teachers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jeeadvanced-result-ludhiana-lad-khushang-bags-air-30-101634320924070.html
15-10-2021||Dehradun||Corbett Tiger Reserve’s Bijrani zone opens for jungle safari, night stay||The Bijrani Zone of the Corbett Tiger Reserve has been opened for jungle safari and night stay from Friday. Around 130 tourists enjoyed the safari on the first day. Dhikala zone will reopen on November 15 as per schedule, forest officials said. “Dhela, Garjiya and Jhirna were already operational for a day’s visit. Bijrani zone reopened on Friday for jungle safaris and night stay. We have received an overwhelming response on the very first day itself,” said Rahul (who uses his first name only), director, Corbett Tiger Reserve. The three zones were already opened for day’s visits. But Dhikala and Bijrani zones were closed earlier on May 1 due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and later due to the monsoon season. Since during the monsoon season, jungle roads are damaged it takes time to repair them. According to Corbett Tiger Reserve’s schedule, Bijrani zone opens on October 15 and remains open till June while Dhikala remains open from November 15 to June 15. Both have night stay facilities also, an official said. Bijrani zone was reopened on Friday and as per norms, 30 gypsies were allowed for jungle safari twice a day. “30 gypsies were sent for the safari in two trips. These gypsies were already booked by the tourists. Night stay facilities in Dhela and Jhirna also started from Friday. Only Garjiya zone doesn’t have a night stay facility,” Rahul said. He said Dhikala zone will be reopened on November 15 and the booking facility on their website for jungle safari and night stay facility will open on October 20. Tour operators, gypsy drivers, guides and other traders associated with Corbett Tiger Reserve seemed to be happy as they were sitting idle during the Covid-19 pandemic. According to officials, 360 gypsies are registered with the reserve administration which are sent for safaris on prior booking of the tourists. Vinod Papney, a social activist of Ramnagar said, “The reopening of Bijrani zone has brought smiles on the faces of tour operators, drivers, and guides even of Corbett Reserve officials. Traders and hoteliers of Ramnagar are also happy as they are also based on Corbett Park Tourism.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/corbett-tiger-reserve-s-bijrani-zone-opens-for-jungle-safari-night-stay-101634320740124.html
15-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur probe: Firearms found in Lucknow house of Ashish Mishra’s friend||LUCKNOW A day after investigators probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence recreated the crime scene in Banbirpur village of the district, they recovered a pistol and a repeater gun from the Lucknow residence of Ankit Das, the friend of the minister’s son and one of the four accused in the case.The pistol was registered in the name of Ankit Das while the repeater gun was in his gunner Latif’s name, said police officials. Officials visited a hotel in Lucknow where Ankit stayed for two days after the Lakhimpur violence and collected CCTV footage from there.The Investigation Committee was searching for the weapons allegedly used in the incident, in which four farmers were mowed down by an SUV and four others killed in the ensuing violence on October 3. On Friday, the team had taken two accused – Ankit Das and his gunner Latif -- back to Lucknow from Lakhimpur. The protesting farmers had claimed that shots were fired by the minister’s son Ashish Mishra, the main accused, at the site of incident. The police also confirmed recovering two empty cartridges from the spot. But the investigators were yet to recover the firearms from which the bullets were fired.Meanwhile, the three-day police custody remand of Ashish Mishra ended on Friday. Mishra was lodged in Lakhimpur jail on Thursday night, where he will remain in judicial custody. The police team investigating the matter was likely to appeal again in the court for the custody remand of Ashish on Monday.Avdhesh Kumar Singh, the counsel of Ashish Mishra, reiterated that the latter was not present on the spot when the incident occurred. “We will apply for his bail before the court on Monday, basing our argument on the fact that my client Ashish Mishra was not present on the spot when the incident occurred,” said Singh.On Thursday, the four accused, including Ashish Mishra, Ankit Das, his gunner Latif alias Kaale and his driver Shekhar Bharti — were taken to the site of the incident on the Tikunia-Banbirpur road to recreate the crime scene.The investigators recreated the scene by placing mannequins as per the information collected by eyewitnesses before making three four-wheelers run on the narrow road of Banbirpur village, where the four farmers were allegedly mowed down, leading to the violence killing four others, said a police official privy to the investigation.The data of the crime scene recreation will be examined by forensic experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-probe-firearms-found-in-lucknow-house-of-ashish-mishra-s-friend-101634320620131.html
15-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt changes its mind on cracker ban, says ‘green crackers’ permitted||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government on Thursday ended the ban on the use and sale of green crackers imposed just a fortnight earlier, saying the restriction will only apply in the National Capital Region (NCR). Two districts, Alwar and Bharatpur, fall under the NCR.The state government, on September 30, ordered a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers, citing danger to people with coronavirus disease and others from the toxic fumes. The ban was effective from October 1, 2021 and was to continue till January 31, 2022.On Friday, the government announced that it has amended its decision, saying that it had made amendments to the previous advisory after looking at the Covid-19 situation and keeping in mind the decision of the Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal.‘Green crackers’ are not as polluting as the conventional types of firecrackers and they contain at least 30% less particulate matters such as Sulphur Dioxide and Nitrogen Oxide.“There will be a ban on the sale and use of crackers in the national capital region. Leaving NCR, in remaining Rajasthan sale and use of green crackers will be permitted,” said the home department order. Apart from the NCR towns, the ban will be imposed in cities with poor air quality.According to the order, the green crackers will be allowed on Diwali, Guruparv and other festivals from 8pm to 10 pm; on chhath festival between 6 am to 8am; and on Christmas and New Year between 11.55 pm to 12.30 pm.It said the green crackers can be identified by scanning the QR code on the packaging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-changes-its-mind-on-cracker-ban-says-green-crackers-permitted-101634320380124.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||811K fliers travelled to 13 leisure places between July and Sept: Mumbai airport||Making the most of the decline in the Covid-19 cases in the country, 811,000 people travelled to 13 leisure destinations between July and September from Mumbai. The city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) caters to 13 leisure places, among which Goa saw the maximum passenger traffic, followed by Jaipur and Chandigarh.According to CSMIA data, 140,460 passengers departed to Goa, while 136,332 arrived from the state to Mumbai in the three months. Jaipur saw around 130,000 passengers (64,432 arriving and 65,756 departing fliers) and Chandigarh saw 127,000 (65,173 arriving and 62,296 departing) passengers from July to September. The leisure destination cities connected by CSMIA include Goa, Jaipur, Chandigarh, Udaipur, Jammu/Srinagar, Prayagraj, Amritsar, Jodhpur, Dehradun, Leh, Tirupati and Diu.According to CSMIA’s internal data, 9,006 flights operated to the 13 leisure destinations between July and September in 2019 which fell to only 1,744 flights in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result of the pandemic, the total number of passengers who flew to these leisure destinations fell from 1,319,000 to 178,000.“With over 4.49 lakh passengers, IndiGo flew the maximum travellers, followed by Go First that flew over 1.30 lakh and Air India that flew 94,466 passengers in this period,” a CSMIA spokesperson said. CSMIA recorded a significant uptick in passenger traffic in the international sector too. According to airport data, the Mumbai-Male route has emerged as one of the top international destinations for Indians and witnessed a rise in passenger traffic to a total of 31,051 via CSMIA in the past 60 days, since the reopening of the route. With 46,008 of arrival and 65,275 of departure passengers, the figures, according to the city airport officials, point towards continued interest of the Indian travellers for Maldives as the preferred international destination. “With a total of 31,051 passengers travelling to and from Male from July till October 12, August alone witnessed passenger traffic of around 24,780, the highest since the beginning of the commencement of the Air Bubble agreement with Maldives in October 2020,” the airport spokesperson concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/811k-fliers-travelled-to-13-leisure-places-between-july-and-sept-mumbai-airport-101634319779847.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Pankaja Munde to Maha BJP: Stop saying we’ll return to power, start working for people||Bharatiya Janata Party’s national secretary and prominent Other Backward Class (OBC) leader Pankaja Munde, in her annual Dussehra rally, advised her party colleagues to stop saying every day that they will return to power soon and instead work for the people of Maharashtra. She also took dig at her detractors from within the party saying that they will not be able to put roadblocks in her way for long.Munde, who is disgruntled with the party for being sidelined by the leaders at state level, addressed a huge Dussehra rally at Savargaon in Beed on Friday.She was joined by Ahmednagar Member of Parliament (MP) Sujay Vikhe Patil, her younger sister and Beed MP Pritam Munde and a number of BJP legislators from central Maharashtra. In an emotional appeal to the locals, especially voters from her Wanjari community, Munde said that her entire life was for them.Munde avoided hitting out directly at the state leaders from within BJP like she had been doing of late, but advised the state unit to avoid talking about collapse of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government every day. “Every leader from the opposition rises up each day and gives a new date to say that our government will soon come to the power. Then the leaders from the ruling parties get up and say their combine will complete the five-year term and their government is stable. Both the sides should stop indulging in the tug-of-war over stability of the government. This should not be your motive [forming the government], people are not interested in it. They want to know what you’re doing for them. The political parties should concentrate on the welfare of the people,” she said.Munde said her father and former deputy chief minister (CM), late Gopinath Munde, had left no stone unturned (in the early 1990s) to dislodge the then Congress government on the issue of criminalisation of politics.The former state minister, who is locked in a cold-war with ex-CM and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, also took a dig at her detractors from within the party. “….main sagar se gahairi hun kitne kankar tum fekoge, tum kab tak mujhe rokoge…”she uttered in Hindi to iterate that she is determined in her resolve and it was not possible to stop her for long. Munde is believably unhappy as she feels that party’s state leaders such as Fadnavis and Maharashtra unit chief Chandrakant Patil have been deliberately cutting her to size over the past few years. Munde believes that her defeat in the 2019 Assembly poll was “sponsored by people from within the party”. Other OBC leaders in the party are being promoted to reduce her importance despite she being the OBC face of BJP. Ignoring the contention of her younger sister, the party leadership inducted Bhagwat Karad, another OBC face, as Union minister and it had been like rubbing salt on the wound for Mundes.She also hit out at her cousin and social justice minister Dhananjay Munde without naming him and said the people of Beed are unhappy with his performance. Dhananjay, a Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader, had defeated Munde in last Assembly elections and is now a minister in MVA government. She said Dhananjay has failed as a minister and his department is being by someone else. She also attacked MVA government and said that the three ruling parties – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – are busy making each other happy by leaving the people of the state to suffer. “The recent package announced for the flood affected-people of central Maharashtra is inadequate. Nothing is done for the general public. Crimes against women are on the rise and women are unsafe. We expect a lot from CM Uddhav Thackeray,” she said.She also announced not to accept garlands if Marathas are given the reservation back and not wear a feta (headgear) until OBC reservation is restored.Dhananjay, while replying to her remarks against him and the state government, said, “People of Maharashtra know what Pankaja Munde has done when she was the minister. If she thinks the package given for the flood-affected people is inadequate, she should pursue the issue with the Centre and announce a special package from the Central government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pankaja-munde-to-maha-bjp-stop-saying-we-ll-return-to-power-start-working-for-people-101634319719868.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Petrol price crosses ₹111 a litre in Mumbai; transporters body to protest soon||Petrol prices in Mumbai crossed ₹111 on Friday. One litre of petrol was available at ₹111.09, while a litre of diesel was priced at ₹101.78 in the city.Fuel prices hiked for the second consecutive day on Friday. An increase of 34 paise and 38 paise was witnessed on the prices of petrol and diesel respectively. Transporters have stated that they would be going on an indefinite strike over the rise in fuel prices soon.On Thursday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹110.75, while a litre of diesel was available at ₹101.40 in Mumbai.A litre of petrol crossed ₹110 in the city on October 10 and was priced at ₹110.12, while one litre of diesel crossed ₹100 on October 9 in Mumbai.The petrol was available costliest in Maharashtra’s Parbhani district and was priced at ₹113.63, while diesel was priced costliest in Amravati and priced at ₹103.32.Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), said, “A governing council meeting of AIMTC was convened virtually on the issue of a continual surge in diesel prices. The government’s apathy to the plight of the transport fraternity, which is struggling for survival and sustenance, was discussed. It was a unanimous demand of the fraternity from AIMTC leadership to declare indefinite chakka jam to register their protest against unmindful diesel price hike and other pending issues like EMI moratorium, expressway bill issue, tax waiver etc. The house decided that there will be a nationwide protest.”Citizens have urged the state government to reduce Value Added Tax (VAT) on petroleum products and have asked the Central government to control the fuel prices.“It is a very difficult situation. I have stopped using my vehicle and started travelling by public transport. The state government should reduce value-added tax and the Central government should regulate the prices or else people will be forced to sell their vehicles,” said Ankita Bhavsar, a Vikroli resident.Fuel prices surged in the city’s neighbourhood Thane as well, wherein a litre of petrol was priced at ₹111.23 and one litre of diesel was priced at ₹101.91.Mumbai has the costliest petrol among metro cities in India, followed by Hyderabad at ₹109.37 a litre. Fuel prices hiked in national capital Delhi, wherein one litre of petrol was priced at ₹105.2 while a litre of diesel was priced at ₹93.93.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-price-crosses-111-a-litre-in-mumbai-transporters-body-to-protest-soon-101634319659940.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Sion flyover to be closed on weekends for repairs||The Mumbai Traffic Police, on Friday announced that the Sion flyover will be closed for a period of three months, every weekend owing to the repair work undertaken by the Maharashtra State Roads Development Corporation (MSRDC). The traffic police have put in place road restrictions and chalked out alternate routes for the convenience of the motorists. The flyover will be closed for the weekend — Friday evening to Monday morning, from October 15 to January 9, 2022.“The flyover will be closed for vehicles from 10pm on Saturdays to 6am on Mondays,” said a senior traffic police officer. Diversions: North-bound [Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Road]Heavy vehicles coming from Mumbai Dock or south Mumbai shall take right tum from Arora Junction towards Four Lane Road then take a right turn for Wadala bridge, Barkat Ali Naka, Chhatrapati Shivaji Chowk, Barkat Ali Dargah Road [Sevree-Chembur Lind Road], Bhakti Park-Wadala-Anik Depot road and go by Ahuja bridge towards their destination.Heavy vehicles coming from south Mumbai towards Arora Junction shall take a right turn.Heavy vehicles coming from Mazagoan Rey Road, Kalachowky, Four lane Road shall take left turm under Wadala bridge, then shall go towards Barkat Ali Naka, Shanti Nagar, Bhakti Park, Anik Depot, Ahuja Bridge and then shall proceed towards their destination Thane, New Mumbai.Vehicles coming from Bombay Port Trust or south Mumbai via BPT Road shall go by Sewree Link Road­ Wadala, Anik Depot, Ahuja Bridge and then towards Thane and Navi Mumbai.Vehicles Coming from Sion Hospital junction shall take a left turn at Sion Hospital junction and then shall go by Sulochana Shetty Marg to go towards Mahim.Heavy vehicles shall take a left turn from Sion Circle and shall go towards road No-6 (RL Kelkar Marg) then shall take left tum at Deshpande Chowk and then shall go towards Sion railway station, LBS Road, Kurla (West).Heavy vehicles coming from Mahim, Kumbharwada towards Sion hospital junction shall take a right turn, go towards MG Road left turn to Four Lane Road, then right turn at Wadala bridge to go towards Barkat Ali, Shanti Nagar, Bhakti Park, Anik Depot, Ahuja bridge and then towards their destination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sion-flyover-to-be-closed-on-weekends-for-repairs-101634319539840.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police provides security cover to NCB zonal director||The Mumbai Police have increased the security cover of Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of the narcotics control bureau (NCB) soon after he complained to Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey that some people have been following him. As per the written complaint given by Wankhede, the Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale has ordered a probe and an additional commissioner of police rank level officer has been given the task to conduct an investigation and submit a report.Wankhede claimed in his complaint that two people were following him on Monday when he visited Oshiwara to pray at his mother’s grave. The agency even submitted the evidence including CCTV footage of him being followed, said an NCB officer. The agency claims that they are suspecting that the Mumbai Police were following Wankhede in plain clothes. Sources in the agency said, “Four armed guards have been provided to Wankhede for his security. Earlier he was using a sedan car, now his official vehicle has been changed to an SUV.” Wankhede has been investigating several high-profile cases including the cruise drug bust case, in which he arrested actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan and several others. Earlier he had arrested actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother and several drug suppliers in the alleged drug connection linked to Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Wankhede had also arrested NCP leader and minister Nawab Malik’s son-in-law in a drug case from the Bandra area in January, this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-provides-security-cover-to-ncb-zonal-director-101634319299889.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai metro services to extend operation hours||Passengers from Monday will be able to take metro train services from 6.30am onwards. The Mumbai Metro One will be extending the operating hours of the train services.The first train will depart from Ghatkopar metro station for Versova at 6.30am instead of 7.15am. The last train from Ghatkopar for Versova will depart at 10.55pm instead of 10.15pm. The first train from Versova towards Ghatkopar will be at 6.30pm and the last train will be at 10.30pm.“With recent relaxations and to ensure better social distancing, the operating hours will be extended. The new improved frequency will be 4.5 minutes during peak hours and 10 minutes during off-peak hours,” said a statement from Mumbai Metro One.The metro stations will open 15 minutes before the departure of the first train at Ghatkopar and Vikroli railway stations. Before the pandemic, Mumbai Metro One operated 400 train services on weekdays between Ghatkopar and Versova railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-services-to-extend-operation-hours-101634319179826.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Plea of CFO of Nirav Modi’s company rejected by special court in Mumbai||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Thursday rejected a plea filed by former chief financial officer (CFO) of Nirav Modi’s company Firestar Diamonds International Private Limited for cancellation of a look-out-circular issued against him. The court observed that the investigation is still ongoing, the agency has found the prima facie, role of the present applicant in committing huge fraud. The court said the look-out-circular in the matter is not issued by this court and has been issued by the investigating authority, so this court does not have any inherent jurisdiction to cancel the same.Ravi Shankar Gupta, 53, a resident of Noida, Uttar Pradesh had approached the court in a plea to cancel the circular issued by CBI against him. However, special CBI judge AS Sayyad rejected the plea of Gupta and disposed of his application. Sajal Yadav who argued for Gupta had told the court, “That the applicant is not related in any manner with Nirav Modi. He was appointed as the CFO of the accused company in August 2016. Prior to working with Firestar, he worked with another company. He terminated his employment with Firestar, the moment he came to know about the alleged PNB fraud and is a reputed professional for the past 26 years. He was shocked and surprised to learn about the look-out circular issued by the CBI against him, due to which he is prevented from travelling outside India and carry work.”Yadav further told the court, “The CBI had registered a case for conspiracy, cheating and under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, wherein the applicant was named as accused number 2. They alleged that the accused persons entered into a criminal conspiracy pursuant to which the Punjab National Bank, Brady House branch, Mumbai was cheated to the tune of ₹321 crores. The agency has already carried out a search at my house on March, 7, 2018, and found nothing incriminating. I have cooperated with the investigators and have appeared before the agency more than 31 times, the CBI very fairly did not arrest me. It’s more than three years of investigations and they have not filed a charge sheet yet.”The application was opposed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Counsel Sumedh Wankhade.Wankhade told the court, “There was a criminal conspiracy pursuant to which PNB was cheated. The two companies Firestar International Limited and Firestar Diamonds International Private Limited has been sanctioned credit limits by banks under consortium arrangements. In the matter of limits sanctioned to Firestar International Limited, Punjab National Bank is the lead bank and in the matter of limits sanctioned to Firestar Diamond International Private Limited, Union Bank of India is the lead bank. The bank has found that there were fraudulent transactions with these companies and firms. As per allegations in these complaints shows the intention of the accused was to cheat a consortium of banks as a whole. Gupta was CFO of Firestar International Limited and was in a key position. The investigations are still on, there is every likelihood that the applicant might fly away if the LOC against him is cancelled. This court is not having jurisdiction to cancel LOC issued during investigations, the same is applicable only if LOC is issued during the trial. The issuance of LOC is purely an executive action, to secure the presence of a suspect. Since the court is not vested with any inherent powers the application cannot be entertained. The prosecution prays for rejection of the application.”Wankhade further argued, “That the accused is a key person working for the main accused who defrauded the banks in multiple crores. The accused was working on a key post for the main accused, an investigation is still going on and in the investigations, there is the involvement of this accused.”The court while rejecting the plea observed that in this case, it appeared that the investigation was still ongoing. While investigating the officer has found prima facie involvement of the present accused in committing huge fraud. In pursuant to the said involvement of the applicant the investigating officer has issued the LOC, the LOC is not issued by the court but it was issued by the officer. Charge-sheet against the accused is yet to be filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/plea-of-cfo-of-nirav-modi-s-company-rejected-by-special-court-in-mumbai-101634319119896.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Max temperature touches 36.4 degrees Celsius, Mumbai sees hottest October day||Maximum daytime temperature in the city touched a season-high on Friday, settling at 36.4 degrees Celsius (up from 34.8 degrees Celsius the day prior) at the India Meteorological Department’s monitoring station in Santacruz. This surpasses this month’s previous record of 35.8 degrees Celsius on October 7. In 2020, the highest October temperature was recorded at 35 degrees Celsius on three days— October 10, October 28 and October 29.The IMD had forecast a week ago that there will be a steep rise in mercury coinciding with the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon over Mumbai. “As the cloud cover clears up, there is more penetration of sunlight which heats up the surface of the earth. It is a typical phenomenon in October. With the monsoon withdrawing from Mumbai on Thursday, there was bound to be a spike in temperature today,” said an official with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.Friday’s temperature was three degrees above normal for the day and follows a period of near-normal temperatures owing to post-monsoon showers between October 7 and October 14. However, IMD officials said that citizens can expect consistently above normal temperatures over the next week. “But it may not be as high as it was on Friday. Humidity will reduce and wind speeds will also become faster and may have a cooling effect,” said the official cited above.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Santacruz, which is taken as representative of the city, the maximum temperature will hover around 35 degrees Celsius until October 21, while the minimum temperature will hover around 24 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Friday stood at 24.4 degrees Celsius.Mumbai’s highest October temperature ever was recorded at 38.6 degrees Celsius in 2015. The phenomenon of October heat is typically exacerbated by a slowing down of onshore winds after the monsoon and a reduction in relative humidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/max-temperature-touches-36-4-degrees-celsius-mumbai-sees-hottest-october-day-101634319059905.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Covid cases in Mumbai go down in October, positivity rate go up marginally||Though the number of Covid cases has dropped slightly in October compared to the previous months, there is a marginal rise in the daily positivity rate in the past few days, states the data from the state health department. Dharavi, Asia’s one of the largest slum clusters, has reported a surge with active cases doubling in the last one week.According to state health department data, in the first 14 days of September 8,894 cases and 52 deaths were reported, while the same dropped to 7,086 cases during the same period in October. Furthermore,​ in October the number of deaths went up to 56 from 52. In the case of Dharavi, the active cases have gone up to 30 cases from the previous 16 cases a week ago on October 8.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “In the case of Dharavi, there is not anything alarming that we have witnessed yet. The spike in the active cases is the result of focused testing. We are preparing for upcoming festivals.”On September 1, a positivity rate of 0.99% was reported which went up to 1.28% on September 14 and further to 1.47% on October 14. At the same time, there has been a marginal decrease in the number of tests conducted in October, compared to that of September. According to the data, in the first 14 days of September, 486,460 tests were conducted in the city that went down to 465,326 tests.According to the data, in September’s first 14 days, the city reported 8,894 cases that went down to 7,086 cases in the same period in October. Though the number of deaths went up in October, the rise is not significant. In the first 14 days of September, the city reported 52 deaths that went up to 56 deaths in October.Meanwhile, on Friday, 480 cases were reported followed by five deaths taking the case tally to 750,974 and toll to 16,177. The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 726,051 recoveries and the fatality rate is 2.15%. There are 6,255 active cases in the city. On Friday, 37,978 tests were reported taking the daily positivity rate to 1.28%.Experts said that the BMC should increase the number of tests. Dr Madhav Sathe, former professor of microbiology at BYL Nair Hospital said, “The cases may be going down, but we are witnessing a surge in daily positivity rate in urban centres compared to that of rural areas. The reason for the increased positivity rate is people moving around. In the past few days, there have been several relaxations, and this could have led to a surge. However, I feel that the number of tests in the city is low.”Sathe added, “I strongly feel that as Diwali is nearing the civic administration should increase testing.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, The testing more or less remained the same. The cases are also almost the same, but currently, the testing may be less due to festivals and again around Diwali, testing will be less, and gradually it will increase. Citizens have to continue following Covid-appropriate norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-cases-in-mumbai-go-down-in-october-positivity-rate-go-up-marginally-101634319001140.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 2,149 new Covid-19 cases, 29 deaths||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 2,149 new Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths, while Mumbai saw 480 cases with five deaths.The state’s case tally has now reached 6,588,429, while the toll stands at 1,39,734. There were 125,530 tests done on Friday, while the number of recoveries clocked 1,898. Pune leads with 19,530 deaths followed by Mumbai with 16,177 and Thane with 11,399.There are currently 29,782 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 8,079 patients, followed by Mumbai with 6,255 and Thane with 3,842 active patients.There were 25,829 vaccine doses administered on Friday, bringing the total number of doses to 9,07,84,791. Of these 2,78,64,192 citizens have been fully vaccinated with two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-2-149-new-covid-19-cases-29-deaths-101634318999857.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Hands donated from Ahmedabad, transplant on at Mumbai hospital||A team of doctors from the Parel’s Global Hospital began a bilateral hand transplant procedure on Friday night. The hands were donated by the kin of a 52-year-old man who was declared brain dead at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. The recipient is a 22-year-old man from Ajmer who had lost both his upper limbs and lower limbs after suffering from severe electrical burns while working on the farm.This is Mumbai’s third hand transplant and the second one to be carried out at the Global Hospital. The first bilateral hand transplant procedure was carried out in August 2020 on train accident victim Monika More. The second such procedure was conducted by a team of doctors at the civic-run KEM Hospital this August on 21-year-old Rahul Ahirwar from Madhya Pradesh, who had lost both his hands in a power press machine accident. The KEM Hospital doctors could transplant only the right hand as Ahirwar developed a problem with the blood vessels on the left side. The hand transplant procedure at Global Hospital began at around 8pm on Friday. The complex procedure is also known as composite allotransplantation and involves connecting the main arteries, bones, multiple veins, nerves and tendons. A doctor from Global Hospital said that it was too early to comment on the procedure. According to Dr SK Mathur, president of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC), this is second hand donation from Ahmedabad this week. “It is a good sign that families are willing to donate hands, in addition to the other organs like kidneys, liver, heart etc. It shows that there is increasing awareness among people about organ donation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hands-donated-from-ahmedabad-transplant-on-at-mumbai-hospital-101634318939796.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Only 342 new vehicles registered across Mumbai on Dussehra||The registration of the new vehicles on the occasion of Dussehra saw a significant dip in the city on Friday. A total of 342 new vehicles were registered across the city’s four regional transport offices (RTO).The number of registered vehicles were slashed by half as compared to last year. In 2020, a total of 599 vehicles were registered in the city on Dussehra, while 469 vehicles were registered during the festival in 2019.Registrations of new four and two-wheeler vehicles in the city are done at Tardeo, Wadala, Andheri and Borivli RTOs.The Borivli RTO registered 44 new vehicles, as opposed to only 28 vehicles registered in 2020. Andheri RTO registered 169 new vehicles on Friday as opposed to 241 registration in 2020.Tardeo and Wadala RTO witnessed a significant dip in the number of vehicles registered and Tardeo RTO registered 65 vehicles as opposed to 160 vehicles registered in 2020. The Wadala RTO registered 64 vehicles only as opposed to 170 vehicles registered in 2020.In a fortnight, over 7,500 new vehicles were registered in the city.Transport experts have stated that the economic crisis and the constant rise in fuel prices is the reason that the number of vehicles has significantly decreased.“One can understand the impact on four-wheelers but two-wheelers have also been impacted this year. The rise in fuel prices in Mumbai and the financial impact of coronavirus could be the reason for the lower number of vehicles being registered this year. People are investing in real estate, so the drastic decrease in the number of new vehicles is surprising,” said transport expert AV Shenoy.“The decrease has been drastic in vehicle registrations during Dussehra this year. Many people bought vehicles much before and got the delivery of the vehicle on Dussehra,” said a senior RTO official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-342-new-vehicles-registered-across-mumbai-on-dussehra-101634318879855.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||JEE Advanced Results: 18-year-old from Mumbai gets AIR 7, is Maha topper||Eighteen-year-old Kartik Nair emerged Maharashtra topper with an All-India Rank (AIR) of 7 in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced results 2021 that were announced by the National Testing Agency on Friday. Neeraja Patil, 17, from Mumbai stood first among girl candidates in the state with an AIR of 266. Both Nair, student of Kandivali-based Ryan International School (CBSE board) and Patil, student of Dixit Road Junior College of Science at Vile Parle, plan to pursue computer science at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay. A total of 141,699 candidates appeared in both papers 1 and 2 this year, of which around 41,862 candidates have qualified. This year, the eligibility and admission guidelines were tweaked owing to the pandemic. As against an aspirant having to score 75% or more in Class 12 board exams to be eligible for JEE-Adv, the criterion was tweaked, considering all school education boards in the country scrapped Class 12 exams this year. Candidates should have cleared their class 12 exams and should be among the top 2.5 lakh successful candidates including all categories in JEE-Mains 2021. The number of spare seats in various programs will be decided by individual IITs ensuring that every institute has at least 20% female enrollment in undergraduate programmes. Nair aspires to pursue research in artificial intelligence. He likes listening to music and playing football. He has been preparing for JEE for the past two years. “I enjoy studying, constantly solving assignments and focusing on a lot of practice. I studied only during the day and at night would focus on sleep and relaxing my mind and body. The most important thing was to eat healthy and use gadgets only for academics. Sometimes I would watch informative videos on music and football,” said Nair, who resides in Kandivli. Nair, whose father is an IT consultant and mother a computer science professor, is the only child. Similarly, Santacruz resident Patil has always been academically inclined. She started training for JEE from Class 9 onwards. Last year, she received a rank of 400 in JEE mains. “It has been a great leap for me in terms of my overall rank. I strictly followed my study timetable and ensured that I practised to the core. Every morning I indulged in yoga which calmed my mind,” added Patil, whose father works for Tata Power (Solar) and mother is employed with Mahagenco. “The online classes this year did not deter my spirit. To be away from excess screen time, I focused on playing chess with my twin sister. I would also play the keyboards in my free time. My parents always motivated me and ensured that I took care of my diet and sleep patterns,” said Patil, whose twin sister is pursuing medicine and both of them often discuss common subjects like chemistry and physics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jee-advanced-results-18-year-old-from-mumbai-gets-air-7-is-maha-topper-101634318762144.html
15-10-2021||Jaipur||Jodhpur college student, 17, on joyride with friends rams 2-wheeler; 1 dead: Cop||JAIPUR: A luxury car being driven by a 17-year-old allegedly rammed a hand cart and a two-wheeler in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur late on Thursday evening, killing a 30-year-old man and injuring two others, police said.The teenager, a Jodhpur police inspector’s son, was in the car with two others including a minor. The third person in the vehicle was a 23-year-old. “They are college students,” a local police officer said. The dead man was identified as Sadakat Ali, 30, said Likhma Ram, Chaupasini station house officer (SHO). The officer said a medical examination of the three suspects in the car, two of them minors, did not indicate that they were under the influence of liquor.The officer added that the police have sought access to CCTV footage on Chaupasani Road where the accident took place to verify allegations that the 17-yr-old was in the driver’s seat at around 11.30 pm.The three reportedly claimed in their statement to the police that a sharp bump on a speed breaker led to the airbag being deployed, leading to the accident, a police officer said. Police said they will get the car inspected by experts to look into this claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/jodhpur-college-student-17-on-joyride-with-friends-rams-2-wheeler-1-deadcop-101634318760166.html
15-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt allows use, sale of green crackers except in areas under NCR||Ahead of the festive season, the Rajasthan government on Friday permitted the use and sale of green crackers in the state, except in areas that come under the National Capital Region (NCR).In an order issued on September 30, the state government had banned the sale and use of firecrackers from October 1, 2021 to January 31, 2022 in view of the danger posed to patients of Covid-19 and other diseases by their toxic fumes.However, the Home Department issued an amended advisory on Friday allowing the use and sale of green crackers in the state, except in areas that come under the NCR.The sale and use of green crackers will be permitted in Rajasthan, barring the NCR, the order said.The use of green crackers will be allowed on Diwali, Gurupurab and other festivals (from 8 pm to 10 pm), during Chhath (from 6 am to 8 am) and on Christmas and New Year (from 11.55 pm to 12.30 am), it said.The ban, however, will remain in force in cities with poor air quality. The air quality index can be checked on the pollution control board's web portal, it added.Green crackers can be identified by scanning the QR code on the cracker box using the NEERI mobile application, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-govt-allows-use-sale-of-green-crackers-except-in-areas-under-ncr-101634318153958.html
15-10-2021||Gurugram||Haryana logs 14 fresh Covid-19 cases, zero deaths in last 24 hours||Haryana reported no COVID-related death, while it added 14 new infections on Friday, pushing the total case tally to 7,71,049, a state government bulletin said.According to the health department's daily bulletin, the death toll remained unchanged at 10,049.Among the districts, nine cases were reported from Gurugram district.The total active cases in the state were 93 while the overall recoveries was 7,60,884.The recovery rate was 98.68 percent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-logs-14-fresh-covid-19-cases-zero-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101634317517952.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees hottest October day yet on Friday||The maximum day temperature in Mumbai touched a seasonal high on Friday, settling at 36.4 degrees Celsius (up from 34.8 degrees Celsius the day before) at the India Meteorological Department’s monitoring station in Santacruz. This surpasses this month’s previous record of 35.8 degrees Celsius on October 7. In 2020, the highest October temperature was recorded at 35 degrees Celsius on three days -- October 10, October 28 and October 29.The IMD had predicted a week ago that there will be a steep rise in mercury coinciding with the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon over Mumbai. “As the cloud cover clears up, there is more penetration of sunlight which heats up the surface of the earth. It is a typical phenomenon in October. With the monsoon withdrawing from Mumbai on Thursday, there was bound to be a spike in temperature today,” said an official with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.Friday’s temperature was three degrees above normal for the day, and follows a period of near-normal temperatures owing to post-monsoon showers between October 7 and October 14. However, IMD officials said that citizens can expect consistently above normal temperatures over the next week.“But it may not be as high as it was on Friday. Humidity will reduce and wind speeds will also become faster and may have a cooling effect,” said the official cited above.As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Santacruz, which is taken as representative of the city, the maximum temperature will hover around 35 degrees Celsius until October 21, while the minimum temperature will hover around 24 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Friday stood at 24.4 degrees Celsius.Mumbai’s highest October temperature ever was recorded at 38.6 degrees Celsius in 2015. The phenomenon of October heat is typically exacerbated by a slowing down of onshore winds after the monsoon and a reduction in relative humidity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-hottest-october-day-yet-on-friday-101634314919602.html
15-10-2021||Lucknow||UP assembly polls: SBSP chief Rajbhar hints at alliance with BJP||Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar on Friday said that he might again form an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of the upcoming UP assembly elections.Rajbhar, who was addressing a press conference in Lucknow, said, "In the interest of the society, we went to the BJP with the report of the Social Justice Committee, but the BJP did not listen to us, now if the BJP accepts it, then we can go with them also."Rajbhar further said, "Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha was formed on the basis of various issues in the society. Whichever party accepts those issues, we will go with them.""Apart from accepting the social justice committee report, if BJP is ready to make education free till post-graduation, waiver of domestic electricity bill, prohibition of liquor, border limit of police, weekly leave to police force, give home guards the same facilities as police, then we will form an alliance," he added.A final declaration on the matter will be made on October 27 in the scheduled rally to be held in the Mau district."The name of alliance partner will be announced on October 27 in Mau," he said.Earlier, Rajbhar was a cabinet minister in Yogi Adityanath led NDA government. He had contested the 2017 UP assembly elections in alliance with the BJP but was expelled as the minister of Backward Class Welfare from the BJP in 2019 due to disagreements over seat-sharing.After his expulsion, Rajbhar formed the 'Bhagidaar Sankalp Morcha' a coalition of about 10 political parties led by his own party SBSP.Asaduddin Owaisi led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) is also a part of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-polls-sbsp-chief-rajbhar-hints-at-alliance-with-bjp-101634313287835.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||60% patients in Thane asymptomatic, under home quarantine; mild symptoms because of vaccination||Almost 60% of active patients within Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) are asymptomatic and under home quarantine. It has been noted that among the asymptomatic positive cases, most are 41 years and above. This shows an increased possibility of vaccinated individuals being asymptomatic.According to the TMC records, Thane city has around 6,60,000 people in the 45 years and above age group. Among these, 93.22% have been vaccinated till now. This includes 3,69,106 or 55% with the first dose and 2,46,194 or 37.30% with the second dose of vaccination.The increasing asymptomatic cases have also resulted in many Covid beds lying vacant. On a regular basis, TMC records around 650 to 720 active cases. Among these, more than 450 are asymptomatic and around 400 would be in home quarantine.From among the active cases, around 168 are in the 31-40 years age group, 164 are among senior citizens, 148 are among the 41-50 years age group, 102 cases are in the 21-30 years age group, 97 in the 51-60 years category and 87 are below 20 years.“With increased number of people being vaccinated in the city, most positive cases have mild symptoms and health also does not deteriorate drastically as they are vaccinated. This could be one of the reasons for the increase in asymptomatic cases,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.The case fatality rate within the city is at 1.50% currently and the weekly growth rate of positive cases within the city continues to be at 0.05%.“As most citizens testing positive have received one vaccination dose or in some cases, fully vaccinated, they are able to recover quickly. Our discharge rate is currently at 97.98% wherein we discharge around 60 to 80 patients daily. This shows that there is increased recovery in the city,” said a medical officer from TMC health department.From among the total vaccine eligible population, those above 45 years are the most vaccinated in the city. However, there continues to be around 18% who have not yet received the second dose of vaccination.“From among the target population, there could be a possibility that some may have received vaccination from outside Thane city while a few others from outside must have inoculated within the city. If we look at it in that manner, there will continue to be a certain margin that will be left. But we have reached out to as many as possible till now,” said a medical officer from TMC.Meanwhile, the number of vacant beds in the city has also increased to more than 90%. Almost 98% of ventilators, oxygen and beds for quarantine are available currently. Around 95% of beds for serious or moderate patients including the jumbo Covid facilities are lying vacant. ICU beds are still occupied as the recovery time is more. Still, 93% of the beds are available.The number of asymptomatic cases within the city is lower if compared to neighbouring cities of Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli. “Depending on the number of tests, the number of asymptomatic cases has always been between 60% and 80% across the city. Even during the peak of the second wave, we had around 75% of asymptomatic cases. So, this has been a constant figure for Thane city. The number of tests currently is at 2,500 daily, we are not forcing anyone to test unless they have any symptoms,” said a senior officer from TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/60-patients-in-thane-asymptomatic-under-home-quarantine-mild-symptoms-because-of-vaccination-101634310421811.html
15-10-2021||Dehradun||Covid-19: ‘Vaccine Mela’ in Dehradun; fridge, microwave, smartphone among prizes||The Dehradun district administration on Friday announced a mega vaccination drive against Covid-19, aimed at increasing the second dose vaccination coverage in the district. The ‘Vaccination Mela’ or the special drive would be organised between October 18 and November 2, in coordination with the state health department and the Smart City Project Ltd, news agency ANI reported.Scheduled during the festive season, the drive would encourage more vaccinations among the people. ‘Festivals are fun only when the second dose is done’ is the slogan for the drive, according to the report.Further, residents taking their second dose of the vaccine during the vaccination drive would be rewarded through a lucky draw that would be sponsored by the smart city, ANI reported citing district magistrate and the CEO of the Dehradun Smart City Ltd R Rajesh Kumar.Also read | Ahmedabad civic body announces free edible oil, lucky draw to boost vaccinations“The people to people contact is more during the festive season. So, with a view to vaccinating every individual against Covid-19 with the second dose, the administration is organizing the Vaccination Mela, and the ones who will inoculate themselves during this period will be eligible to win various prizes in the lucky draw,” he said.While almost 100% of the eligible population in the district have been administered a first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, the second dose coverage has only been 50%, Kumar said. People would be urged to get themselves vaccinated during the drive, he added.Meanwhile, the prizes in the lucky draw from the administration include electric scooty, LED TV with sound system and double-door refrigerator in addition to the consolation prizes such as smartphone, tablet, microwave, kitchen appliances, food processor, oven, induction, tracksuit, shoes etc, the ANI report showed.Earlier in the month, the Ahmedabad civic body also announced gifts such as a litre of edible oil and a lucky draw with ₹10,000-worth prizes to people who took the Covid-19 vaccine as part of its efforts to increase the vaccination rate and also to achieve the 100% coverage target.As of Thursday (October 14), Uttarakhand had reported 343,729 total confirmed infections of Covid-19 of which 28 cases were reported on the day. The death toll remained at 7,397 with no new fatalities and 175 active cases of the disease were present in the state, according to a state health department bulletin.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/covid19-vaccine-mela-in-dehradun-fridge-microwave-smartphone-among-prizes-101634309915023.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||NMMC’s tertiary plants in Koparkhairane, Airoli ready to provide recycled water to industries||After four years of starting the work, the tertiary treatment projects in Koparkhairane and Airoli are now ready to supply recycled water to industry groups in the MIDC sector.Around 40 MLD water from the two tertiary plants will be made available to the industries in MIDC Vashi, Turbhe, Mahape, Airoli and Rabale from December. Currently, MIDC is providing 50 MLD at ₹22.50 per cubic metre rate while NMMC would now provide 40 MLD water to industrial areas at ₹18.50 per cubic metre. This will lead to a significant saving for the industrial groups while MIDC can provide the saved 40 MLD to other areas of MMRDA.The tertiary treatment projects are made with advanced technologies such as ultra-filtration and ultra violet.“The quality of this treated water is better than the quality standards designed by Central Pollution Control Board and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, and is as good as the water supplied by MIDC to TTC Industrial Area. The government has sanctioned it under the Central Government’s Amrut Yojana and is being jointly financed by the Central Government (50%), Government of Maharashtra (25%) and Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (25%),” NMMC PRO Mahendra Konde said. A Memorandum of Understanding between NMMC and MIDC has also been signed. As per the agreement, the treated water will be provided to the industrial establishments in the TTC area at a cost of ₹18.50 per cubic metre and the civic body will get revenue of ₹494Cr in the next 15 years.Both Koparkhairane and Airoli have 87.50 MLD and 80MLD sewage water treatment plants, respectively, of which 20 MLD at each plant are being further treated in the tertiary plants to make it suitable to the requirement of the TTC industrial area. The project at Koparkhairane has been completed and the project at Airoli is in the final stages. The work on the 83km pipeline from the plants to the industrial area and on the 24.40km main line is also in the final stages. Besides water tanks of 1.75 MLD in Koparkhairane, 1.70 MLD in Airoli, 2.50 MLD in Vashi, 1.50 MLD in Mahape, 0.75 MLD in Nibban Hill in Rabale are also in the final stages, informed NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nmmcs-tertiary-plants-in-koparkhairane-airoli-ready-to-provide-recycled-water-to-industries-101634309879602.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||BJP leader Somaiya meets Karmuse in Thane a day after Awhad was arrested and released on bail||BJP leader Kirit Somaiya met Anand Karmuse at his house in Thane on Friday morning following the arrest of Jitendra Awhad in connection with the kidnapping and assault case in 2020.Somaiya first went to Vartak Nagar police station to meet police officials and requested to take action against Minister Awhad like the way they have taken action against the five accused arrested earlier.Awhad, Cabinet Minister for Housing, was arrested on Thursday evening by Thane Vartak Nagar police in Anand Karmuse kidnapping and assault case. He was later released on bail. Earlier, five people including three police constables were arrested in the case. On Thursday, he was called by Thane Vartak Nagar police to record his statement. Later he was arrested under section 365, 324, 143, 147, 148, 506. Somaiya said, “I went to meet Karmuse and supported his fight. The minister was arrested and released immediately as the IPC sections were not so stringent. Why such a different treatment to the minister?”On Thursday, a senior police officer of Thane police confirmed Awhad’s arrest and Vartak Nagar Police recorded his statement and then he was produced in Thane court. The court released him on bail on the bail bond of ₹10,000 and one surety.Karmuse, 40, alleged that he was beaten up inside Awhad’s bungalow by 10-15 persons for posting a morphed photograph of the leader on social media for his stand against the call by PM Narendra Modi to have a candlelight vigil on April 5 at 9pm to applaud the efforts of all those involved in the battle against Covid-19 pandemic. After Karmuse posted the morphed photograph of Awhad, two people in police uniform came to his house and asked him to accompany them to the police station. Karmuse alleged that instead of police station he was taken to Awhad’s bungalow in Thane, beaten up around 10 to 15 people and was made to apologise for the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-leader-somaiya-meets-karmuse-in-thane-a-day-after-awhad-was-arrested-and-released-on-bail-101634307599678.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Business As Usual?||‘Some people feel the rain. Others just get wet.’ How easy it is to forget: washing, scouring, scrubbing one’s hands, over and over again, ‘out, out, damn spot’; disinfecting groceries, hard won groceries, basic everyday items, sourced through the collective efforts and resources of an entire family, as if they were jewels; scrubbing and wiping vegetables over and over, until the very flavour leaches out of them, then, leaving them outside your door until they’re rendered ‘safe’ for consumption ; that horrifying shaky, footage, smuggled out of Wuhan, of a wind-battered ambulance, making its way through an empty road delivering life-saving medicines and food to the sick. Then, the inside of a tiny home in which a young husband, fortified in a PPE (personal protective equipment) suit as if he were going to battle, or an astronaut into space, trying to take care of his dying wife, who lies beneath a pile of blankets and behind a padded door; news of hospitals being overrun with patients and medical supplies running out; rumours circulating about which colony or building is now quarantined; endless queues outside provision stores; that crazy moment when we stood clanging kitchen vessels thinking it would somehow help, and then those heart-breaking endless lines of migrants dragging their tragedy across India’s landscape…. remember those days? When silence, despair and anxiety seemed to be one’s only companions and where the simple act of hugging a loved one, or meeting an ailing parent was fraught with danger and dystopian fears? Remember feeling trapped inside a long dark tunnel when there was no light in sight at the other end? *************************************************************************************************************It is only a popular meme, among the millions that daily travel the planet on social media platforms, but like others of its kind, it conveys a certain zeitgeist. This one has two swarthy men poised over a drink at a bar. “What’s up bro?” asks man number one to man number two. “Great,” he responds, adding, “I’ve just had my first shot and waiting for the second one.” “Covishield or Covaxin?” enquires the first man. “Tequila” replies the second, poker faced. Only a popular meme, but one that appears to mirror today’s reality. Because, looking around as things are in the city, and in areas of the world that begin opening up and going back to normal – or the new normal – it appears that a collective cavalier amnesia has settled on many people about how things were not too long ago. Indeed, looking around, it often appears as if a whole lot of folk have emerged from the pandemic, determined to pretend it never happened and that it’s back to business – almost with a vengeance. And why not, you might say. After all, so much has been lost during those months of enforced hibernation and so much needs to be redeemed – from floundering careers and enterprises – to lost time with family and friends, and so, who will really begrudge people their opportunity to revive their fortunes and festivities? After all, only the very naïve would expect that the post-pandemic world would bring forth savants and saints, or a changed species…responsible, mature and conscientious. But whereas survivor’s guilt is as pernicious as brassy buoyancy, and no one is required to don sackcloth and ashes, for the rest of time, it will be a shame if some of the lessons that we learnt during those long hours of our isolation were lost, lessons such as humility, gratitude, kindness and compassion and an appreciation for simplicity, inclusivity and our shared humanity. ************************************************************************************************************Last month, the world witnessed how it has taken 20 years after the 9/11 World Trade Center attacks to painfully, gradually begin to come to terms with the tragedy, through the lens of distance and time. If it took two decades to come to some semblance of processing a tragedy of that proportion, how long before people process something of the magnitude of a pandemic that took in its thrall the entire planet – rich and poor, powerful and weak, first world and the third? A phenomena that stopped planes mid-flight, left millions across the world dead, left the planet’s economy running on dire, empty tanks and disrupted life as we knew it. Perhaps it will take many lifetimes. Which could explain why barely a few months out of the second wave, it seems as if many have forgotten how low things had sunk and how far we’ve come… ************************************************************************************************************Looking around as things begin to go back to normal, it appears that even while there are those who have emerged from these challenging months with a new found wisdom and appreciation for life, the pandemic has also exacerbated a cynicism and brutishness in others, almost as though once the tidal wave of the pandemic recedes, it is taking in its wake people’s outer garments, exposing them for who and what they really are. As if those months spent in survival mode have spawned a ‘dog eats dog,’ ‘do or die,’ ‘devil-may-care’ impulse. Now, the brazen appear to be more brassy, the wily more grasping and the scheming even more Machiavellian. *********************************************************************************************************So, after months of isolation and solitude, how does one negotiate oneself in a world that is beginning to open up and often appears to have learnt nothing at all? Extremely cautiously, I would say. Feel uneasy with the pace of things opening up? Apprehensive about certain activities? Uncomfortable with the things people say or do? Respect those feelings. Take a step back and try to figure out why you feel that way. Because, just as the juggernaut of the pandemic appears to have heightened people’s innate characteristics, rendering some even more odious and lamentable, in many others, it has amplified their awareness and sensitivity not only to life’s beauty and bounty, but to the schisms and limitations of people. Now more than ever, it is time to be true to yourself and the hard lessons you learnt through the pandemic, the ones of strength and humanity kindness and inclusivity. Or in the words of yet another popular meme remember, as you go back in to the swim of things: ‘Do not let the ugly in others, kill the beauty in you’…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-business-as-usual-101634307059241.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||ACB begins enquiry into forest officer’s assets in bribery case||The Mumbai unit of the Maharashtra Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) has started a Preliminary Enquiry into the assets of Assistant Conservator of Forests, Baliram Kolekar, who was arrested earlier this week for allegedly accepting a bribe of ₹5.30 lakh.Officials said that based on an extra packet of cash seized from his office, the Enquiry has been started to explore legal grounds for booking him in a disproportionate assets case.Kolekar (57), a Class I officer with the Forest Department, was allegedly caught red handed by an ACB team while accepting the bribe from his subordinate, a Class II officer in charge of the Tokawade range. A subsequent search of his office had revealed ₹12.46 lakh in cash.“Based on the seizure of the extra cash, we have started inquiries into Kolekar’s assets. The amount was a significant one and following his arrest, Kolekar was asked to account for the cash that we had found, and was unable to do so. Hence, we have now started a Preliminary Enquiry in which his assets will be evaluated and compared against his earnings over the span of his career as a government servant,” an ACB officer said.The officer added that the evaluation of all his assets will include cash, jewellery, vehicles and real estate in his as well as his family members’ names. Simultaneously, the ACB will calculate all the income, including salary and benefits that Kolekar has earned. Out of this amount, one-third will be deducted as per the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The Act stipulates that while evaluating a suspect’s assets, it should be assumed that one-third of a government servant’s earnings were spent for day to day expenses.“The total value of Kolekar’s assets will be compared against the total value of his earnings, with expenses deducted. If the value of the assets is more than his income, he will be given ample time to account for the difference. If he is unable to do so, an additional case of disproportionate assets will be filed against him,” the officer said.The complainant in the case against Kolekar had approached the ACB’s Mumbai Unit on September 6 this year. He had alleged that Kolekar was demanding a total of ₹6.22 lakh in exchange for releasing state-sanctioned funds to his office. After verifying the complainant’s claims, the ACB had set a trap and arrested Kolekar while allegedly accepting ₹5.30 lakh in his office in Naupada, Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/acb-begins-enquiry-into-forest-officer-s-assets-in-bribery-case-101634306714234.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana celebrate Dussehra, burn Ravana effigies amid tight security||Huge effigies of demon king Ravana went up in flames as Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh joined the nation on Friday in celebrating Dussehra, marking the triumph of good over evil.Effigies of Ravana, his son Meghnad and brother Kumbhakaran were set on fire and crackers burst at different places in the two states.However, in Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, crackers were not used in the effigies and sound effect of crackers was used digitally.Festivities passed off peacefully amid tight security arrangements in different parts of Punjab and Haryana, officials said.Celebrations at various places in the two states, including Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Phagwara, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Panchkula, were held.Last year, Dussehra celebrations in Punjab and Haryana had remained subdued with no big functions being held in view of the raging COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-haryana-celebrate-dussehra-burn-ravana-effigies-amid-tight-security-101634305434072.html
15-10-2021||Jaipur||BJP Mahila Morcha burns effigy of Rajasthan education minister over his 'Saridon' remark||Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Mahila Morcha on Friday held a protest march in Jaipur against Rajasthan education minister Govind Singh Dotasra and burnt his effigy on the occasion of Dussehra in response to his remark that schools with more women staff see more squabbles.Dotasra, who is also the president of Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee, waded into controversy after he made a bizarre statement at an event on Monday that schools that have more women staff are bound to witness more squabbles and because of these squabbles the principal and teachers “have to take Saridon”, a popular medicine for headaches."... either the principal or teacher would have to take 'Saridon' due to their inner conflicts. If they overcome this, they will get ahead of men," he had said. Many have called out the leader for his ‘misogynistic’ statement.Terming the comments “objectionable”, Anuradha Maheshwari, Jaipur president of BJP Mahila Morcha, launched a march from the BJP office in Jaipur till the Civil Lines railway crossing, where the protesters burnt the minister's effigy."Today on Dussehra, we burnt the effigy of Dotasra. He should apologise to women and resign," she said.Earlier this year, Dotasra made headlines for allegedly influencing the interview process of the RAS-2018 recruitment examination for his relatives. The BJP Yuva Morcha members had held a demonstration near the Civil Lines railway crossing in Jaipur demanding action against the minister. Dotasra had rejected the allegations and said that he was being targeted by the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-mahila-morcha-burns-effigy-of-rajasthan-education-minister-over-his-saridon-remark-101634303583519.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation inaugurates ground for kabaddi players in Ambivli village||The first ever playground dedicated for kabaddi was inaugurated by the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) at Vadavali, Ambivli village, on Friday.Earlier, the KDMC chief, Vijay Suryavanshi, had announced that reserved plots of the civic body would be used for developing kabaddi playground with priority.On Friday, after the inaugural ceremony, several kabaddi players from the rural areas of Kalyan who were deprived of a playground were seen using it.“This is the correct move to promote sports in Kalyan and Dombivli, and especially kabaddi as we have many players in the rural areas. The civic body has several grounds in which other sports activities are conducted. A dedicated ground for the kabaddi is something very motivating for the players,” said Avinash Ombase, KDMC sports committee member.“Accordingly, there is also a need to develop other playgrounds in Kalyan-Dombivli region in such a way that there are all the facilities they need to practice and not depend on any other city for the same,” added Ombase.The playground located in the rural area of Kalyan will cater to several kabaddi teams from the region.“The playground has been developed and is ready to use. The sportsmen can utilise the space for their regular practice and competitions in the coming days,” said Rajesh Sawant, ward officer, KDMC.Kalyan-based Ravindra Sakpal, NIS kabaddi coach for the disabled, said, “For many years, the kabaddi players in the area like Titwala, Mohane, Ambivli and Vadavali were deprived of a proper facility to practice the sport. With this playground, many players have expressed that it will help them improve their performance with regular practice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-municipal-corporation-inaugurates-ground-for-kabaddi-players-in-ambivli-village-101634303762975.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Traffic block during night hours to lay girder on Kalyan-Shilphata stretch||The Thane traffic police have announced a block during the night hours between 11pm and 6am on the Kalyan-Shilphata stretch for heavy vehicles from October 16 to 20. The block announced is to carry out the work of launching cement girder of a flyover on Desai creek at Palava Junction.However, small vehicles will be allowed to ply on the parallel, existing old flyover.“The work of the launching of the girder will be done by deploying a crane. To ensure the work is done smoothly, we have decided not to allow heavy vehicles on this route and also set diversion of the same,” said Surendra Shirsat, senior traffic police inspector, Kalyan (E). The work of the new flyover is being undertaken by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) as a part of the six-lane project of the 21km long Kalyan-Shilphata stretch.The traffic police have imposed a ‘no entry’ at Kalyan phata for heavy vehicles coming from Kalyan phata to Kalyan and will divert them to Mumbra Bypass-Kharegaon toll naka. The vehicles going towards Kalyan phata from Kalyan will be diverted from Badlapur Chowk- Khoni naka-Taloja MIDC route.“There is a need to have less movement of vehicles on the existing bridge during the launch work and hence this block is imposed for the heavy vehicles,” added Shirsat.As per MSRDC, the work of the bridge is expected to be completed by March 2022. As of now, the authority will be carrying out the work of launching 12 girders.“The launching work will be done during night hours using a crane. We have plans to launch 12 girders as of now. The length of the flyover that crosses the creek and the railway track is 900m. This work is a part of the widening of the 21km-long Kalyan-Shilphata stretch for which the estimated cost is around ₹212Cr,” said an officer of MSRDC.“We will deploy adequate manpower to direct the motorists. A total of 25 traffic cops will be at the spot with two of our officials. Meanwhile, the MSRDC is also providing 12 traffic wardens from their side,” said Balasaheb Patil, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/traffic-block-during-night-hours-to-lay-girder-on-kalyan-shilphata-stretch-101634301964122.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai’s Turbhe residents demand reconstruction of pavements||The residents of Turbhe are miffed as the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) is turning a blind eye to the old and crumbling pavements in their area.A 38-year-old pedestrian fell in the gutter below after a huge chunk of pavement gave in at Sector 19 last week. That man suffered minor injuries in the accident and was later taken to a nearby hospital.The local residents claim that the pavements in the entire area are in a bad shape and if requisite measures are not taken soon, more people would meet with similar accidents.The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) developed those pavements in the 1980s, before they handed over the area to NMMC. No major repair has been conducted by the civic body after that.Dheeraj Jadhav, 37, a resident of Turbhe, said, “As these pavements have not been repaired for years, they have gradually started giving in. You can see such crumbling pavements along the Palm Beach Road, near Turbhe Store, and along the roads that lead to the APMC market. From an economic point of view, this is a crucial place as thousands of people come to the markets here from different places of Mumbai and Navi Mumbai.“On Saturday, a young man met with an accident and he came out of the gutter without much difficulty. Had it been a child or a senior citizen, the scenario would have been quite different. So, taking the seriousness of the issue into consideration, NMMC should do something in this direction as early as possible.”Manoj Patil, executive engineer of NMMC (Turbhe division), said, “We have plans to reconstruct the pavements of the whole area and have already sent a proposal to the civic body. The work will be started soon after we receive approval for the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-s-turbhe-residents-demand-reconstruction-of-pavements-101634298124733.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||For garbage dumped on mangroves, MPCB issues penalty notice on Uran civic body||Even as the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has imposed ‘environmental damage costs’ on Uran Municipal Council (UMC) for dumping garbage on mangroves, the civic body sought to deny the charges against it.In an affidavit in an ongoing case against the civic body being heard by the Bombay High Court, UMC sanitary inspector, Haresh Bhairu Teji, said even the Karanja-based Naval Armament Depot (NAD) has been dumping garbage at the Bori Pakhadi plot. About 60% of UMC area falls under the NAD safety zone.The Court had, on October 8, taken a serious view of the photographic evidence of the continuous dumping on mangroves as produced by the petitioner, The Hanuman Koliwada Machhimar Vikas Sanstha’s lawyer, and directed UMC to file its affidavit. The Court also noted the “breach” of the earlier order basis the UMC declaration that the dumping would be stopped.The affidavit, however, claimed that the photograph was taken from a long distance and that no damage was done to the mangroves as alleged by the petitioner. Teji also denied any breach on part of the Municipal Council.The civic body has been dumping garbage only on the one-hectare plot allotted to it at Bori Pakhadi. Moreover, the municipal council has been requesting the government, through the Raigad district collector, for an alternative plot due to the opposition from ONGC and local residents to the ongoing dumping. The government is yet to decide on the new plot, the affidavit said.Teji said the UMC set up a 5-tonne capacity wet waste recycling unit with the help of BARC. The civic body is dumping 1.5 tonnes of dry waste at Bori Pakhadi plot, he said.Meanwhile, the MPCB counsel mentioned about the Board’s notice to UMC, the Court asked him to file a detailed affidavit.The court directed the petitioner to file its response to the UMC affidavit by next Wednesday. “We will respond to each and every point,” the Sanstha spokesperson said.The Court also directed the Raigad District Collector to be present during the next hearing, fixed for October 25, via video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/for-garbage-dumped-on-mangroves-mpcb-issues-penalty-notice-on-uran-civic-body-101634297038637.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||41-year-old vehicle thief from Govandi arrested; 9 auto rickshaws recovered||A 41-year-old vehicle thief, who had been operating in Navi Mumbai and Mumbai for the past several months, was arrested by the city crime branch on Wednesday.So far, the police have recovered nine stolen auto rickshaws from his possession.According to the police, the accused, Muslimuddin Shaikh of Bainganvadi in Govandi, Mumbai, would steal the autos parked on the roads and then sell them somewhere out of Mumbai. Two of his accomplices are still at large and the police are looking for them.Suresh Mengade, deputy commissioner police (crime), said, “We have learned that this gang would sell the stolen vehicles somewhere out of Mumbai after changing their number plates and engine number. But exactly how they did that is still a matter of investigation. The value of the recovered autos is around ₹5.65 lakh and a few of them were stolen from Mumbai too.“A total of 143 auto rickshaws were stolen from Navi Mumbai in the first nine months of this year and the police have recovered 64 of them. We appeal to the residents not to park their vehicles on roads as such gangs are mostly targetting those vehicles.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/41yearold-vehicle-thief-from-govandi-arrested-9-auto-rickshaws-recovered-101634295418746.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Borivali Police nab house help who stole valuables worth ₹71 lakh from jeweller’s home||Three men including a 19-year-old domestic help were arrested by the Borivali Police on Thursday for robbing jewellery worth nearly ₹71.19 lakh from the house of a jeweller. According to the Borivali Police, the main accused identified as Bhageshwar Chowdhary alias Raju Ramchandra Kamath alias Bhagwanlal used to secure jobs as a domestic help and within days tried to gain the trust of his employers and then rob them with the help of his accomplices after days of planning. He used to hide the booty with his accomplices and flee to Bihar to sell the jewellery and other stolen valuables.The police officers said that the incident took place on October 1, when the victim identified as Kokila Kothari (54) and her husband Anil (56) had gone to Pune. Kothari told the police that she had been looking for a domestic help since August. On September 27, her relatives referred Kamath to her and sent him over to work for the family who own a jewellery shop at Zaveri Bazaar in South Mumbai.Kothari told the police that within two days, Kamath had gained their trust and had bonded with the family like he had been working there for years.On October 1, Kothari and her husband left the house for Pune but she said that she had locked the cupboards and drawers before leaving. She further added that after breakfast on October 2, her son also left the house followed by her daughter a few hours later leaving Kamath alone at home.Kothari in her statement said that in the evening she received a call from her son saying that they had been robbed and Kamath was missing.The police immediately alerted all the police stations, bus depots and railway stations with the description of Kamath. A day later the police were able to nab Kamath from a bus depot at Dahisar where he was waiting for a bus to flee the state.On questioning Kamath, he revealed that he had hidden the jewellery with Jogi Kamath (29) and Chandrakumar Kamath (20) who are from his village in Bihar and had helped him with the theft.“Kamath also disclosed that the tools he needed to break open the safe of the Kothari household was provided to him by the two accomplices,” a police officer from the Borivali police station said.The police arrested the three men on Thursday and recovered gold worth ₹nine lakh from the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/borivali-police-nab-house-help-who-stole-valuables-worth-rs-71-lakh-from-jeweller-s-home-101634294098559.html
15-10-2021||Bangalore||Tremors in North Karnataka an outcome of hydro-seismicity: Report||The series of tremors in Bidar and Kalaburagi districts in North Karnataka were related to a phenomenon called hydro-seismicity, which occur post monsoon, revealed a preliminary study by NGRI."We had asked the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) to take up a detailed analysis of the micro tremors that we are experiencing in Kalaburgi and Vijayapura region," Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority commissioner Manoj Rajan told PTI on Friday."Their preliminary observations indicated that the micro tremors of this nature normally occur during the post monsoon period. It is related to a phenomenon called hydro-seismicity after a heavy rainfall," Rajan said.He also said that within crustal volumes having fracture permeability, a natural increase in hydraulic head due to the elevation of the water table in recharge areas of groundwater basins increases the stress in earth.This event triggers micro tremors and in some cases it is accompanied by sound, the officer said."These are due to shallow earthquakes that generate high-frequency surface waves. This type of seismic activity is very common and nothing to worry about, since it may not cascade into a large devastating earthquake," the officer said.Rajan added that the NGRI is sending a team of scientists to these regions in the next two days to study and ascertain the field conditions.Villages near Basavakalyan in Bidar and Chincholi in Kalaburagi witnessed at least six tremors ranging between 2.5 to 4 magnitude on Richter scale from October 1 to October 12.While most of the panicked villagers spent their night under the open sky fearing a major earthquake, a few others went to some other place till things are normalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/tremors-in-north-karnataka-an-outcome-of-hydro-seismicity-report-101634292659852.html
15-10-2021||Jaipur||Teenager strangled in sleep in Rajasthan's Bundi; Postmortem report awaited||An 18-year-old woman was allegedly strangled to death in sleep at her house in Rajasthan's Bundi district, police said on Friday. Her postmortem report is awaited and the possibility of sexual assault cannot be ruled out yet, they said.The victim was a Class 10 student and a resident of Korma village that falls under Nainwa police station area.The incident supposedly took place when she was asleep in her room and her uncle was out in the verandah.According to Deputy Superintendent of Police and Circle Officer Kailash Chand Jat, some people barged into her house at night and strangled her in sleep.When her uncle woke up in the morning, he found her dead with two pieces of rope lying nearby.During the night when the crime was committed, girl's parents and brother were out in their field guarding the crop.The family has not named any possible suspects.A case of murder has been lodged under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code against unidentified persons, Nainwa Station House Officer Brijraj Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/teenager-strangled-in-sleep-in-rajasthan-s-bundi-postmortem-report-awaited-101634290972870.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||‘AIIMS Delhi doctor allegedly raped by colleague’: Police||A colleague allegedly raped an All-India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi (AIIMS) doctor and has been on the run since, a Delhi Police officer said on Friday. Deputy police commissioner (South) Benita Mary Jaiker said that the alleged sexual assault was reported to the police on Monday. Jaiker added that the doctor has told the investigators one of her senior colleagues raped her on September 26 when they had gone to celebrate another colleague’s birthday.“...based on her statement, a case was registered under Sections 376 (rape) and 377 (unnatural offences) of the IPC (Indian Penal Code) at the Hauz Khas police station and investigation of the same was taken up,” Jaiker said. She added that the doctor’s statement has been recorded before a magistrate and raids have been conducted to arrest the accused. Police said the technical surveillance has been mounted to trace the accused at earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-delhi-doctor-accuses-colleague-of-rape-101634288699574.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal tunnel accident: Truck driver killed, 15 bus passengers injured||The driver of a truck was killed and 15 passengers of a Punjab Roadways bus going from Yamunanagar to Manali were injured when the vehicles collided inside the 4-km tunnel at Aut on the Chandigarh-Manali national highway on Thursday night, police said. Also read: bBody with severed hand found hanging at farmer protest site at Singhu borderThe accident disrupted traffic on the route, leading to a jam that lasted for more than two hours. Mandi superintendent of police Shalini Agnihotri said on Friday that preliminary investigation showed that both vehicles were speeding inside the tunnel. The police reached the spot and took the injured to Nagawain Civil Hospital. After first aid, 12 passengers were referred to a Kullu hospital. The police said the truck driver, Ganesh Kushwah of Sherdih village in Jhansi, was going from Manali to Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh. In another accident at Shilaru in Theog tehsil, four tourists from Delhi were injured when their vehicle skidded off the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-tunnel-accident-truck-driver-killed-15-bus-passengers-injured-101634287977842.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||After a money order, Aryan Khan gets a call from Shah Rukh Khan, Gauri Khan||Aryan Khan, who has been lodged in the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai in connection with a case of alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship, got a phone call from home. News agency ANI reported on Friday citing prison officials as saying that Aryan Khan spoke with his father Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan and his mother Gauri Khan through a video call.Aryan Khan and five other accused, who were arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the cruise ship drug raid case earlier this month, were shifted to the common cell of Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail after their Covid report came negative on Thursday.Aryan Khan also received a money order from his family in Arthur Road prison, the jail’s superintendent has said. Jail superintendent Nitin Waychal said on Thursday they received the money order of  ₹4,500 from Aryan Khan's family on October 11, which is meant for his expenses in the jail canteen, according to news agency ANI. According to jail rules, a prisoner can receive a money order of a maximum of  ₹4,500 for their expenses inside a prison.Also read | Decision on Aryan’s bail plea in drugs case on Oct 20: CourtAryan Khan will have to remain in jail for at least six more days as the special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, after hearing arguments, posted the matter for orders on October 20. Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha have sought bail from the court of special judge VV Patil.NCB’s lawyer told the special NDPS court that Aryan Khan was a regular consumer of drugs as he opposed his bail plea in a case of alleged seizure of banned drugs from the cruise ship on October 2.Also read | What did Aryan Khan message Arbaaz Merchant on WhatsApp?Appearing for the NCB, additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh claimed that there was evidence to show that Aryan Khan was a regular consumer of drugs for the last few years. He also reiterated the charge of conspiracy against Aryan, based on his WhatsApp chats. The NCB has maintained Aryan's WhatsApp chats revealed his links with drug peddlers even though nothing was recovered from him.The NCB has arrested 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, so far in the case related to the seizure of drugs following a raid at a party on the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-a-money-order-aryan-khan-gets-a-call-from-shah-rukh-khan-gauri-khan-101634282150432.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||At ₹111.09, petrol price at all-time high in Mumbai||At an all-time high in the city, petrol prices crossed ₹111 in Mumbai on Friday. A litre of petrol was priced at ₹111.09 while a litre of diesel was available at Rs.101.78 in Mumbai. The fuel prices were hiked for the second consecutive day on Friday. An increase of 34 paise and 38 paise was witnessed on the prices of petrol and diesel respectively.On Thursday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹110.75 while a litre of diesel was available at ₹101.40 in Mumbai. In Maharashtra, petrol was costliest in Parbhani on Friday and was priced at ₹113.63 while diesel was costliest at Amravati, available at ₹103.32.In the city’s neighbourhood, Thane, a litre of petrol was available at ₹111.23 and one litre of diesel was priced at ₹101.91. Among metro cities, Mumbai has the costliest petrol followed by Hyderabad at ₹109.37.Fuel prices were hiked in the national capital as well on Friday. A litre of petrol was priced at ₹105.2 in Delhi while one litre of diesel was available at ₹93.93.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/at-rs-111-09-petrol-price-at-all-time-high-in-mumbai-101634275978653.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lahore-based writer Nain Sukh wins Dhahan Prize for best Punjabi fiction||Lahore-based writer Nain Sukh has won the eighth annual Dhahan Prize for best Punjabi fiction for his book of short stories, Jogi, Sap, Trah (Snake Charmer’s Fear), written in the Shahmukhi script. “This is a unique book on the ‘real’ or ‘original’ inhabitants of Punjab. A literary milestone in Punjabi…A brilliant and non-religious celebration of Punjabi heritage and rich cultural traditions,” the jury said in a release in Vancouver on Thursday. Also read: The Dhahan Prize promotes Punjabi literature on a global scale by awarding $25,000 (in Canadian dollars or ₹15.17 lakh), annually to the best book of fiction published in either Gurmukhi or Shahmukhi scripts, along with two finalist prizes of $10,000 ( ₹6.06 lakh). The 2021 finalists of the Dhahan Prize in Punjabi Literature are Apne Apne Marseia (Journeys), short stories by Amritsar-based writer Sarghi and Mitti Bol Peye (The Earth Speaks), a novel by Delhi-based Balbir Madhopuri. Both books are in the Gurmukhi script. Hopeful narratives of people in fast-changing relationships “These winning books explore globally relevant issues of inequality, discrimination, patriarchy and the struggle of the oppressed for freedom and equal rights. They are hopeful narratives of people finding their own unique voices as they journey on in fast changing relationships,” said Barj S Dhahan, who funds the prize, in a release from Vancouver. The Dhahan Prize aims to inspire the creation of Punjabi literature across borders, bridging communities around the world, and promoting Punjabi literature on a global scale. The awards garner critical acclaim and significant exposure for aspiring and established writers. Punjabi third most spoken language in Canada The Dhahan Prize was established in Vancouver, British Columbia, where Punjabi people, language, and culture have flourished for over a century. Punjabi is now the third most spoken language in Canada and is a strong thread in the multicultural fabric of the nation. The prize is funded by Barj and Rita Dhahan, and family and friends.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lahorebased-writer-nain-sukh-wins-dhahan-prize-for-best-punjabi-fiction-101634275917267.html
15-10-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 deaths cross 10,000-mark in Haryana after 174 fatalities found in audit||Haryana reported no fresh Covid-19 related death on Thursday, but the total fatality count in the state crossed the 10,000 mark after 174 fatalities were added to the state health department's daily bulletin after a “death audit”.According to the health department's daily bulletin on Wednesday, the death toll was at 9,875.However, another bulletin issued on Thursday showed the total death count at 10,049.The outcome of 174 cases have been declared as “Covid-19 death” out of total under investigation positive cases by the State Death Audit Committee, according to the bulletin.Earlier on September 28, 64 fatalities were added to the health department's daily bulletin after a “death audit” by the committee.Prior to that on September 13, 121 fatalities had been added to the daily bulletin after a similar audit.Meanwhile on Thursday, the state reported 16 fresh cases, six of them from Gurugram, pushing the total case tally in the state to 7,71,035.The total active cases in the state are 94, while the overall recoveries were 7,60,869.The recovery rate was 98.68 percent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-deaths-cross-10-000-mark-in-haryana-after-174-fatalities-found-in-audit-101634273950411.html
15-10-2021||Other||Gujarat logged record boost in Khadi sales on Gandhi Jayanti||The Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises in a statement on Thursday said that the overall sale of Khadi products stood at ₹3.25 crore across all outlets in Gujarat on 2nd October this year. The ministry said, “pursuant to the appeal of the Prime Minister, this Gandhi Jayanti saw a massive sale of Khadi products in Gujarat, the land of the Mahatma.”This year, the sale of Khadi in Gujarat has increased by ₹33.12 lakh, which is 11.32% as compared to the year 2020, when the gross sale of Khadi in the state on 2nd October stood at ₹2.92 crore. “The sales figure this year is significantly high given the pandemic situation after the second wave of Covid-19 which severely affected Gujarat just a few months ago,” the ministry noted.In order to increase Khadi sales, Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) set up “exhibition cum sales outlets” at Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot railway stations as part of the “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”. In these exhibitions, Khadi sales worth ₹5.14 lakh were recorded. “In addition to this, the KVIC also organized special Khadi exhibitions at Sabarmati Riverfront, Space Application Centre, ISRO and GST headquarters in Ahmedabad where Khadi products worth ₹3.94 lakh, ₹6.42 lakh and ₹2.25 lakh respectively were sold,” the ministry said.KVIC chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena attributed the surge in sales to the frequent appeals of the PM to promote Khadi along with the acceptance of Khadi among the masses in Gujarat. He mentioned that the KVIC is constantly adding new products to cater to the larger consumer base, while “maintaining the highest quality standards despite challenges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gujarat-logged-record-boost-in-khadi-sales-on-gandhi-jayanti-101634273998644.html
15-10-2021||Noida||Dussehra traffic alert: Check diversions, road closures in Noida here||Traffic in Noida has been redirected along some routes and a ban on vehicular movement has been imposed to control the traffic in view of the Dussehra festival, according to the advisory issued by the police. Vehicular movement has been stopped on roads leading to the Noida Stadium in Sector 21A from the Sector 12-22-56 stretch, Sector 10-21 cut, Sector 8, 10, 11, 12 Shivani Market, according to the advisory.The diversions and prohibition are in place till Friday night when Dussehra celebrations will end at Noida Stadium in Sector 21A, the Noida Police informed in the advisory.A ban on vehicular movement is also expected on the route between the Metro Chowk and Sector 12-22 crossroad. Other routes, including Sector 31-25, Sector 21-25 PVR, from NTPC Chowk to Sector 12-22, from Sector 20-21-25-26 Jal Vayu Vihar Chowk to Sector 21-25 PVR, are also expected to be affected, the Noida police said in Thursday's notice.People travelling to Delhi from Sector 12, 22 and 56, will be asked to reroute via Sector 56 and move on the stretch from Sahara Company in Sector 11 and go through Jhandupura. Commuters going from Telephone Exchange towards NTPC, Gijhod will have to divert from Sector 10-21 cut and move via Jal Vayu Vihar and Nithari road. Those going from Sector 12-22-56 towards the stadium will have to move through the Sector 57 roundabout, Gijhod, NTPC and Sector 31-25.Dussehra, which is also known as Vijay Dashami, is being celebrated in the country on Friday. It is celebrated on the tenth day of the Navratri festival with great enthusiasm across the country.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi took to Twitter to extend his wishes on the auspicious occasion. "Greetings to everyone on the special occasion of Vijaya Dashami," PM Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dussehra-traffic-alert-check-diversions-road-closures-in-noida-here-101634272797369.html
15-10-2021||Other||Sikh delegation meets Meghalaya Guv over relocation of Shillong sanitation workers||A Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) delegation met Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik on Thursday over the state Cabinet’s decision last week to relocate Shillong Municipal Board’s sanitation workers from the city’s hem Ïew Mawlong area. The workers, including a large number of Dalit Sikhs, are being relocated as per recommendations of a deputy chief minister Prestone Tynsong-led panel.DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said they discussed the decision for the eviction within a week and added Malik assured the delegation that no one would be relocated without due process.“Even if they are illegally occupying the place, the government cannot evict them forcefully. For that purpose, the government has to file a civil suit before the civil magistrate, and then the order for eviction can be passed. This cannot be done forcefully.” He said the decision for relocation should have been taken in consultation with the stakeholders. “Did the government or (the panel)... ever have a discussion with the residents of the sweeper’s colony? The government should sit with the residents of the colony and discuss. A decision on the issue should be taken with mutual understanding or as per the law.”Sirsa said if there is any proposal for relocation, the government should bring it forth. “What is the proposal? Where is the proposal? There is no such proposal. They did not even call the residents for a meeting,” said Sirsa. He added they will approach the appropriate court again and take up the matter with Union Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sikh-delegation-meets-meghalaya-guv-over-relocation-of-shillong-sanitation-workers-101634271839608.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||In a first, Delhi to mark ‘virtual’ Dussehra today with electronic fireworks||In the nearly 225-year-old history of Ramlila celebrations in Delhi, the national capital will for the first time around mark the auspicious occasion of Dussehra on Friday with ‘virtual’ celebrations, which will include the unique digital or electronic fireworks, in view of the prevailing coronavirus pandemic in the country. Residents of Delhi will be able to watch the Dussehra night festivities—when the giant effigies of the mythological demon king Ravana are burnt—from the comfort of their homes and view the electronic fireworks on their television screens.Also Read | On Vijayadashami, PM Modi set to inaugurate 7 new defence firms for IndiaAccording to a report by HT's sister publication Live Hindustan, Ramlila committees in Delhi have reduced the size of these folklore re-enactments effigies this year due to the Covid-19 situation and concerns regarding pollution. For much of the same reason, firecrackers, which are typically burst along with the burning effigies, will not be used this time either. The committees will instead opt for virtual firecracker celebrations on digital screens, accompanied by the sound of the bursting crackers. In some places, the effigies will also be burnt virtually, according to the report.Ramlila at Red Fort: Size of effigies reducedAshok Agrawal, the chairperson of the Lav Kush Ramlila Committee—one of the oldest in Delhi that has been organising Ramlila at the Red Fort—said that due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation and concerns over pollution, the length of the effigies has been reduced to 30 feet this time around. Before the pandemic, the effigies used to be up to 110 feet tall. However, in line with instructions on staging the Ramlila celebrations this year, the size was reduced. Agrawal added that firecrackers will also not be used during the burning of Ravana's effigy and said the audience will get to see ‘digital fireworks’ for the first time in history. A recorded soundscape will be used for this purpose instead of actual firecrackers; the virtual celebrations will be shown on screen for all.Also Read | Dussehra 2021: Wishes, messages, images, greetings to share on this dayDelhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to attend celebrationsThe chairperson of the Lav Kush Ramlila Committee said that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be the guest of honour at the Dussehra function this year, too. This is the third time that Kejriwal will be attending the Ramlila celebrations at the Red Fort, according to reports.The Ramlila is a cycle of plays that recounts the epic story of Lord Rama, particularly relating to the dramatic plays and dance events staged during the annual autumn festival of Navratri. The Ramlila festivities were declared by Unesco as one of the "Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity" in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-a-first-delhi-to-mark-virtual-dussehra-today-with-electronic-fireworks-101634267288756.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||Another clear day for Delhi, minimum temperature may dip to 19 degrees C||Delhi is likely to see a clear sky on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be at 19 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 34 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature on Thursday was 33.9 degrees Celsius, a notch above normal, and the minimum was 19 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 186. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 182.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the moderate category with PM10 as the main pollutant. Under the dry condition, local dust gets re-suspended leading to high PM10, in addition to meso-scale transport of dust from desert region. This condition is leading to moderate AQI in Delhi, and will keep so for next 3 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/another-clear-day-for-delhi-minimum-temperature-may-dip-to-19-degrees-c-101634269918122.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Active Covid-19 cases drop below 30,000 in Maharashtra||As an indication of a decline in the Covid-19 cases, the active infections in Maharashtra have now dipped to below 30,000. Meanwhile, as schools and colleges reopened in the state, the government on Thursday allowed children to travel on trains.The notification is significant as the state permitted only fully-vaccinated commuters to travel by trains and so far, vaccination is allowed only for those above 18 years of age.On Thursday, the state recorded 29,560 active cases. The active cases started to decline below the 30,000-mark from Wednesday, when 29,555 active cases were recorded, as compared to 30,525 active infections registered on Tuesday. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the decline in the active cases indicated a drop in Covid-19 cases.“The reduction in active cases indicates that we have been able to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. We have been able to bring down the numbers due to ramping of tests, quick isolation of patients as well as timely medication,” said Dr Awate.Currently, the state has 29,560 active patients, of which, Pune tops the list with 8,296 active infections, followed by Mumbai (6,212), Thane (3,744), Ahmednagar (3,148) and Satara (1,424).Pune has been leading in the number of active cases, followed by Thane, for months together. The third position has been alternated by Mumbai, Ahmednagar or Satara. However, in recent days, owing to a surge in the cases, Mumbai has now overtaken Thane and has the second-highest number of active cases.The number of active cases in the peak season had reached 600,000 this year.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, said “We are seeing the thick tail of the second wave which was prolonged for a very long time. The history of the pandemic shows that we will be getting multiple waves but the severity will all depend on the behaviour of the citizens as well as the government.”“While citizens have to adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour, the government has to ramp up all the medical infrastructure in anticipation of the future waves,” said Dr Shaikh.On Thursday, Maharashtra recorded 2,384 Covid-19 new cases and 35 deaths. Mumbai recorded 558 cases and five deaths.The total number of Covid-19 patients since the outbreak in March last year has now reached 6,586,280. The state conducted 136,952 tests on Thursday and clocked 2,343 recoveries.The toll reached 139,705, with Pune recording the highest fatalities – 19,529 – followed by Mumbai (16,172) and Thane (11,398).Meanwhile, the state government relaxed some more restrictions on Thursday. Till now, the government regulations for closed halls only allowed for 50% of the seating capacity or a maximum of 200 attendees, whichever more. The new notification has removed the 200-limit and has allowed 50% of attendees of capacity in closed halls. This will be beneficial for bigger establishments as they will get to accommodate more people which was not possible owing to the 200-people cap. The rule will be applicable for public/private, ticketed or any event. The government, however, has made it mandatory for all organisers, attendees as well as staff to be fully vaccinated. They have also decided to fine the organisers as well as facility managers ₹50,000 for any violation of rules.The state has also relaxed rules for railway travel as currently only those who have taken both doses of vaccine 14 days before their travel are allowed. With schools and colleges reopening, students below 18 years have also been permitted to travel by train. In addition, even those who are not allowed to take a vaccine due to their medical condition will be allowed, provided they have a certificate on their condition from a recognised doctor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/active-covid-19-cases-drop-below-30-000-in-maharashtra-101634269258616.html
15-10-2021||Bangalore||After Ayudha Puja, Mysuru royal family to take part in Jambu Savari today||After performing the Ayudha Puja at the Amba Vilas palace grounds on Thursday, the Mysuru royal family will worship Goddess Chamundeshwari on Friday as part of the Dussehra festivities, which have been restricted by the Karnataka government in view of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.The Jambu Savari or an elephant procession will be taken out on Friday and the central attraction on this occasion will be the idol of Goddess Chamundeshwari, which will be placed on a golden howdah on the top of a decorated tusker, the ETV Bharat reported. The idol will be first worshipped by the royal couple and other invitees and will be then taken out in procession, it said. According to the Karnataka government, only 500 people will be allowed to participate in the Jambu Savari.The Ayudha Puja rituals started at 5.30am on Thursday and were performed by Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, the scion of the erstwhile Royal Family, according to the ETV Bharat report. It is a part of the Dussehra festivities, which started on October 7 and will end on October 15 (Friday).Ayudha Puja is a day when people clean and worship the instruments they use such as tools, weapons, machines etc. The instruments may also induce cars, buses, computers.Wadiyar on Thursday donned a royal traditional sherwani with gold jewellery.The ETV Bharat report added that apart from worshipping royal arms and emblems, Wadiyar also worshipped the elephant, cow, horse and his personal automobiles at the Mysuru Palace. The animals and automobiles were then taken to the Kodi Someshwara Temple along with other Dasara elephants, the report said.This year too, locals did not witness the ritual cultural programmes organised at the palace due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/after-ayudha-puja-mysuru-royal-family-to-take-part-in-jambu-savari-today-101634263739097.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Grandmother of chaat stalls||Without doubt, this has to be the naani of all the roadside snack stalls. The unusually huge counter is filled with multitudinous dishes—aloo chaat, dahi bhalle, papri chaat, pao bhaji, aloo tikki, burger, Ram laddu, and dahi puckha. (Any item left unmentioned is deeply regretted.)This is Dilli 6 Chaat Bhandar. It’s not in Dilli 6, aka Old Delhi, but in south Delhi, just outside the Siri Fort Auditorium, on August Kranti Marg. “Originally we were in (Old Delhi’s) Chandni Chowk,” explains Brijesh, while shallow-frying the tikkis on the tava. His elder brother, Ram Avtar, with whom he runs the establishment, is briefly away on some errand. The stall was founded by their grandfather Tika Ram, whose son, Ek Ram, moved it to the present site more than three decades ago.It will however be unfair to say that the business is managed by the brothers alone. The women in the family—mother Kalawati with daughters-in-law Sunita and Kranti Devi—have an equally active role, though they stay invisible. The stall’s daily work begins every morning at 5 in the owners’ residence in nearby Gautam Nagar. Together the three women and the two men perform all the cooking that can be executed in advance—such as boiling the aloos and channas, preparing the papris and golgappas, and grinding the many chutneys. Everything is made afresh the same day at home or at the stall, insists Brajesh, emphasising that nothing comes from outside. That’s certainly a convincing reason to drop by this stall. Another is to enjoy the chance of marvelling at its gigantic proportions. Try to stand behind the counter. It’s so wide that the view might look somewhat distorted, the way the phone screen appears when its camera lens is set to ultra-wide mode.The place appears to be wildly popular. A long silver-grey car comes to a halt, the lady sitting behind the uniformed chauffeur opens the window and asks in baba-log Hindi for several plates of papri chaat to be packed. Moments later a scooterist stops by for golgappas (his Hindi is fluent). Attending to these customers, Brijesh is simultaneously piling up dozens of partially fried aloo tikkis into a metal platter perched atop an adjacent brick wall. The sight is startling, as if somebody forgot to carry his tikki hamper. All you have to do is to pick it up and run.The stall serves daily from 2pm to 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-grandmother-of-chaat-stalls-101634259959284.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan gets money order in Arthur Road prison, has to spend time in general cell till Wednesday||Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, has received a money order from his family in Mumbai’s Arthur Road prison where he is lodged in connection with the alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month.Aryan Khan, who was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3 from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast, will have to remain in jail for at least six more days after special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court judge VV Patil said he would pronounce his order on October 20.According to news agency ANI, jail superintendent Nitin Waychal said on Thursday they received the money order of ₹4,500 from Aryan Khan's family on October 11, which is meant for his expenses in the jail canteen. A prisoner can receive a money order of a maximum of ₹4500 for their expenses inside the jail under the rules.Also read | What did Aryan Khan message Arbaaz Merchant on WhatsApp?Aryan Khan and five other accused, who were arrested by the NCB in connection with the cruise ship drug raid case, have been shifted to the common cells of Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail in central Mumbai after their Covid-19 report came negative on Thursday. Also watch | Aryan Khan gets more jail time as NCB relies on Whatsapp chats, invokes GandhiNews agency PTI cited a jail official as saying that they were earlier lodged at the quarantine barrack of the Arthur Road jail for seven days and their quarantine period ended on Wednesday. The official added that all of them were subjected to RT-PCR tests for coronavirus disease on Wednesday morning and as the results were negative, they were separated from each other and shifted to various general barracks.Also read | Mumbai cops begin probe into NCB officer Sameer Wankhede's 'stalking' complaintThey were shifted to the Arthur Road prison after their initial custodial remand with the NCB was over and a magistrate sent them in judicial custody for 14 days last week. An NCB team led by Sameer Wankhede busted an alleged drugs party on the cruise ship which was on its way to Goa on October 2. As many as 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, have been arrested so far in the case related to the seizure of drugs following the raid on the cruise ship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-gets-money-order-will-spend-time-in-arthur-road-jail-general-cell-101634255948726.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Public health dept serves household notices after MC chief flags fewer sewage connections||Days after the commissioner of Ambala Municipal Corporation (MC), Dhirendra Khadgata, inspected all 20 wards with a spotlight on sewage issues, the officials of the public health engineering department (PHED) has said that notices were being served and camps would be organised to handover sewage connections at a faster pace.After a weeklong exercise of visiting wards along with a team of MC engineers and officials, to hear public grievances through area councillors, Khadgata said that sewerage issues were arising due to fewer household connections and to avoid sewage or wastewater getting mixed into stormwater drains, the connections were a must.BJP councillor from ward number 7, Manish Anand, said that residents in his area face foul smell due to sewage and waterlogging, as most have not taken connections. Mandour village and the adjoining area is the most affected where notices have been served, he added. Dinesh Gaba, executive engineer of PHED in Ambala said that a joint team of his department and the MC are also checking the sewage lines and drains, to minimize the problems arising out of it.“Notices and reminders are also being served to the residents through SAKSHAM Yuva, who will also inform them about the benefits of taking sewage connections. Finally, we can recommend action on households with no connections, to the MC that has the enforcement authority,” he said. As per the latest data available, the department has served 550 notices and 248 second reminders to the residents, an official said. At several wards, the residents complained of waterlogging, lighting, stray animals, garbage collection, poor situation of roads and parks etc to Khadgata during his visit.“The situation of roads and lighting is fine. We found some encroachments on a sewer ditch that will be demolished. The process to shift dairies at two designated locations has been started. For maintenance of parks, the Residents Welfare Associations (RWA) can avail the facility of funds from MC at ₹3 per square meters,” the MC Chief had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-public-health-dept-serves-household-notices-after-mc-chief-flags-fewer-sewage-connections-101634250354313.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||GMSH OPD registration at nine more sampark centres from October 18||In an effort to streamline and make easy the process of making outpatient (OPD) cards for Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, the UT administration on Thursday decided to open OPD registrations at nine more sampark centres from October 18 (Monday).Initially, the facility was started at the sampark centre in Sector 15 as a pilot project. From Monday onwards, people can walk-in to the sampark centres at Sectors 10, 15, 40, 43, Industrial Area in Phase 1, Dhanas, Mauli Jagran, Bapu Dham, Mani Majra and Maloya, from 8am to 11am.Residents can pay ₹10 to get their OPD registration card from these sampark centres, without any delay.The UT administration will soon extend the facility to all sampark centres of Chandigarh. The walk-in registration will continue to remain available at the GMSH-16, without any change.On Thursday, UT health secretary Yashpal Garg said, “The UT administration and the health department are making efforts to extend the OPD registration facility for Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, and the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), so that people need not wait in long queues at the hospitals. We are working on it and will start the facility in the coming time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmsh-opd-registration-at-nine-more-sampark-centres-from-october-18-101634249333927.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traffic police issue parking advisory for Dussehra||In an advisory for Dussehra, the Chandigarh traffic police have notified parking spaces in various city markets.For the function in Sector 17 Parade Ground, six parking lots including the parking area of Sector 22A and 22B markets, adjacent to Blood Disease Hospital in Sector 23B, football ground of Sector 17, rear and front sides of Neelam Cinema and parking area adjoining Sector 17 bus stand have been authorised.Traffic coming from the Sector 17/18 light-point, Aroma light-point, Sector 18/19/20/21 chowk and cricket stadium chowk will be diverted away from ISBT-17 chowk on Udyog Path for one hour between 5.30pm to 6.30pm. Post function, only buses will be allowed to ply on this stretch.At the Sector 34 Dussehra Ground, designated parkings include Sector 34 mandi ground, Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 34, Sham Mall parking, Sector 34 library parking, the parking opposite Sector 34 gurudwara.Between 5pm to 7pm, the road from New Labour Chowk to Sector 33/34 light-point will be closed from both sides and one-way traffic will be implemented.In Sector 46, parking will be available in the Sector-46 market, the open ground near the Sector 46 rehri market area and the parking next to the Sector 46D booth market. Between 5pm to 7pm, the road from Sector 45/46 light-point towards Sector 46 shall be closed.The traffic police have also urged people to make use of carpooling and to only park in designated areas. In case a vehicle gets towed or clamped, owners can call the traffic police helpline at 1073.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-traffic-police-issue-parking-advisory-for-dussehra-101634248793962.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Abhinav Bindra is Chandigarh’s face of Swachh Survekshan 2022||Olympic gold medallist Abhinav Bindra has been picked as the brand ambassador of Swachh Survekshan 2022 for Chandigarh.An MC spokesperson on Thursday said Bindra had given his consent for active engagement in promotional activities on various social media, interaction and involvement with citizens for behavioural changes regarding source segregation, home composting, sanitation in the city and Swachhata App. In addition, through his network, citizens may be appealed to post positive changes/stories on social media that they observe in the city. These can be posted using a hashtag “#Swachhsurvekshan2022chandigarh” by tagging Chandigarh municipal corporation along with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/abhinav-bindra-is-chandigarh-s-face-of-swachh-survekshan-2022-101634248673776.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mobility plan for Chandigarh: Fix road map for consultant selection by next week, directs adviser||For expediting the resolution of the city’s worsening traffic woes, UT adviser Dharam Pal has directed the UT transport department to finalise by next week the the road map for appointing a consultant for preparing a mobility plan.Having started preparing modalities, the transport department will examine in detail whether Rail India Technical and Economic Services (RITES) can be again allotted the work, or a new agency will have to be hired.After years in cold storage, the mass rapid transport system (MRTS) plans were revived in August this year with the Chandigarh administration deciding to go in for a fresh study on the comprehensive mobility plan for the city.With 15 lakh registered vehicles among a population of over 12 lakh, Chandigarh has the highest density of vehicles per household in the country, leading to traffic congestion and snarls. In addition to these, over two lakh vehicles on interstate routes cross the city daily.Since the metro rail plans were shelved, the administration has not been able to opt for any other alternative such as monorail, skybus or metrolite.The decision to study the MRTS afresh was taken after UT officials held a meeting with representatives of RITES, who made a presentation on its 2009 report.“RITES had prepared a report on the city’s mobility needs in 2009, but it is outdated now. The city’s needs have changed dramatically in the last decade. Also, the guidelines set by the housing and urban affairs ministry for the MRTS project have changed, which necessitates a fresh look at the problem. Therefore, the administration will go in for a new study,” said Pal.RITES had proposed that Metro would cover a distance of 52.4 km, of which 40.4 km will be in Chandigarh and the rest in Mohali. The alignments were proposed both above as well as underground. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation had prepared the detailed report of the first phase of the project.Pal said, “We will prefer RITES as it has already done a study of the city. But in case we have to go for another agency, we will invite tenders for the same. The tendering process is likely to take around six months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mobility-plan-for-chandigarh-fix-road-map-for-consultant-selection-by-next-week-directs-adviser-101634248613795.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mandi bypoll | We don’t need helpless leaders:Jai Ram’s jibe at Pratibha Singh||With his prestige at stake in the Mandi bypoll, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur took a dig at Congress candidate Pratibha Singh saying that the state needed strong Lok Sabha members, not helpless leaders. Speaking at a public meeting at Chaulthach, hes said, “In her speeches, Pratibha has time and again said she did not want to contest the elections. The Mandi Lok Sabha seat extends from Bharmaur to Kinnaur, including Rampur.”While Pratibha has been speaking of the development work carried out by her husband, Jai Ram also spoke of leaders from the party that had passed away. “Many leaders are not with us today. BJP lost Mandi Lok Sabha member Ramswaroop Sharma. He is the man who popularised Mandi as Chotti Kashi, which also finds mention in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speeches. Virbhadra Singh has been the state’s chief minister several times. Sure, we had ideological differences but he also praised me when warranted. I never had a bitter fight like this with him,” he said.“I am first a legislator and then a chief minister later. I have been serving the people of this constituency for 24 years, I am indebted to the public of Seraj” said the CM, getting emotional. On rampant unemployment, he blamed the Congress for not doing anything in all the years it was in power. “ Our government provided pension to mothers who had attained the age of 65 years. We started a HimCare scheme for the poor, under which 1.75 lakh people were treated. Launched the Sahara scheme, in which ₹3,000 is deposited in their account,” said BJP candidate Khushal Thakur, who was also also accompanied him.Pratibha questions Mandi MP’s death Shimla Congress candidate from Mandi Pratibha Singh hit out at the government saying that the elections were a referendum against the rising inflation and unemployment in the state. “The BJP had earlier tried to evade the byelections and now was using the valour of the Indian army to deflect people’s attention from the core issues concerning the public,” she said, while addressing a series of rallies in chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s assembly segment, Seraj. “Virbhadra Singh had contributed a lot to the development of Seraj. I am saddened the see the poor condition of roads. It appears that BJP pays no attention towards the problem of the common man,” she said. Pratibha also questioned Mandi Lok Sabha member Ram Swaroop Sharma’s death. “What circumstances led to Ramswaroop’s death. His family members demanded an inquiry into the death. The government must tell people what happened of the investigation,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-bypoll-we-don-t-need-helpless-leaders-jai-ram-s-jibe-at-pratibha-singh-101634247175011.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh adviser’s surprise visit to ISBT-43||UT adviser Dharam Pal paid a surprise visit to Inter State Bus Terminal in Sector 43 on Thursday. He was accompanied by UT transport secretary Nitin Yadav and director, transport, Pradhuman Singh.During the visit, Pal took a round of Depot No 4 of the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) and inspected the bus maintenance activities and washing plants. He also visited the Covid vaccination camp being organised here by the health department.Subsequently, he visited the Command Control Centre of Intelligent Transport System and took a detailed briefing with respect to the various ITS modules. Officials at the centre shared that the compliance of mask wearing by crew staff of buses and passengers was being monitored remotely through CCTV cameras installed in the buses.Pal instructed the CTU officials to ensure the strict compliance of mask wearing in buses taking cognisance of the third Covid wave.Air force heritage museum inspected The adviser also reviewed the progress of the Air Force Heritage Centre by visiting the Government Press Building in Sector 18. He directed the chief architect and chief engineer to examine the layout plan submitted by the Indian Air Force and ensure completion within 4-5 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-adviser-s-surprise-visit-to-isbt43-101634246753394.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Despite cracker ban, Chandigarh BJP calls for Dussehra celebrations as usual||Going against the UT administration’s decision, the Chandigarh unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday said bursting of crackers was allowed on Dussehra.The Chandigarh administration had recently imposed a complete ban on sale and use of crackers of any kind throughout the UT, while citing a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order in this regard.The NGT order had stated that any violation would invite penal action under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and other provisions as applicable.However, in a press statement on Thursday, city BJP chief Arun Sood said there was no ban on use of crackers during Dussehra celebrations.The statement further stated that after different organisers of the Dussehra events approached him on the UT’s cracker ban, Sood talked it over with the senior UT officials, including the administrator and the adviser.Sood told them that the NGT order was not applicable on the Dussehra festival. “Dussehra is an important Hindu festival. Burning of Ravana’s effigy is a long-established tradition and crackers are always used. That’s why it is not correct to ban crackers,” the statement said.A senior UT official, however, confirmed that there will not be any change in the order. Till late evening, there was no modification of the ban order.UT adviser Dharam Pal, on October 12, had issued orders under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, banning, with immediate effect, the sale and use of firecrackers in the city till further orders. Later that day, the administration had clarified that during the Dussehra celebrations burning of effigies was allowed, but not the use of firecrackers.Effigies will be burnt at around 10-15 places on Friday; in previous years, the number used to be over 40. Speaking about this, president of the Sector-20 Ramlila, Gulshan Kumar said, “The cash crunch has hit many associations, which is why they haven’t built effigies. We will hoist our effigies at the Sector 34 exhibition ground and various associations will come to celebrate.” Their Ravana, which stands at 65 feet tall, is likely the tallest in the city this year.The Sector-17 Ramlila Association will also hold a function. As per its director, Rajinder Bagga, they have already built effigies without crackers as per the administration’s order and will follow all rules. UT finance secretary Vijay N Zade will be the chief guest here and their Ravana is likely to be the second tallest in the city at 60 feet.The Sector-46 Ramlila Association said they will not hold any function of burning effigies. General secretary Sushil Kumar said, “We will take out a Shobha Yatra and will burn a 25-foot effigy at the Sector-46 ground. This function is just for the members and will be closed to the public. There will be no seating arrangement as we cannot ensure a gathering under 300.”While most associations said they will adhere to all Covid protocols, many remained sceptical about whether these will actually be followed to a tee.Director of one of the Ramlilas, who wished to remain anonymous, said people often misbehaved with the organisers when they were asked to leave seats vacant alternatively for social distancing. “Only the police can issue challans to those without masks, but their presence is also not adequate and we can just request them,” he added. With fewer functions this year, it is expected that big crowds can gather at the select venues. Over 100,000 people had turned up when the 221-foot Ravana was burnt in Dhanas in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-cracker-ban-chandigarh-bjp-calls-for-dussehra-celebrations-as-usual-101634246638492.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three booked for registering vehicles with fake documents||Police have booked three people for using fake documents for registration of five vehicles.Chandrish Sehgal and Rajesh Yadav of Delhi, and Amit Kumar of Hisar, Haryana, were booked following an inquiry by Deepak Yadav, OSD, Vigilance Office, Sector 9, Chandigarh. The vigilance inquiry was initiated in October 2018 following a tip-off that some vehicles of HILTI Private Company Limited were registered at the RLA Office in Sector 17, Chandigarh, through fake documents, with the connivance of RLA staff.While the firm’s address was listed as SCO 8, Industrial Area, Phase 2, Chandigarh, the premises were already vacated in April 2018. Further, the rubber stamps used in the registration files were also not of the firm. The case was transferred to police after no role of RLA staff was found. The three accused have been booked under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-booked-for-registering-vehicle-with-fake-documents-101634246637060.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Private clinic in Zirakpur sealed after raid finds irregularities||The district administration on Thursday sealed Swastik Clinic on Ghazipur Road, Zirakpur, after a surprise check revealed several irregularities. Dera Bassi sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Kuldeep Bawa said a team, comprising him, medical officer Dr Mehtab, Zirakpur MC inspector Rishab and ASI Barinder Singh, conducted a surprise check at the clinic and found an attendant, Ajinderpal Singh, treating patients.The team also found bogus stamps depicting Dr Pragati, who runs the affairs of the clinic, as an MD (doctor of medicine), while she is an Ayurveda doctor. Besides, banned drug Tramadol was found on the premises. A strong painkiller, it is available only on the prescription of a qualified doctor, the SDM said.He added that the administration had recommended an FIR against the clinic’s management and escalated the issue to the civil surgeon for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/private-clinic-in-zirakpur-sealed-after-raid-finds-irregularities-101634246635870.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||GMCH-32 patient found dead in Chandigarh’s Sector 30||An accident victim, admitted at GMCH, Sector 32, was found dead at a bus stop in Sector 30 on Thursday morning. Police said the deceased, who remains unidentified, was brought from Rajpura and had escaped from the hospital. He was found dead in a half-naked state, with the nasogastric tube and catheter still intact. The body was sent for autopsy to determine the exact cause of death.More news in briefUnattended earthen lamp leaves Zirakpur flat gutted
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Financial irregularities: HC puts Punjab, PunCom MD, board of directors on notice||Acting on a petition by the PunCom Employees’ Union, the Punjab and Haryana high court has issued notices to the Punjab government, and PunCom’s managing director and board of directors for January 17 next year.The court has sought their responses on the union’s petition regarding glaring irregularities and gross misuse of money, as revealed by an audit in November last year.Set up in 1981, PunCom (Punjab Communication Limited) is a premier telecom and IT equipment company, supplying and implementing a host of state-of-the-art telecommunications software and integrated solutions.Last year, an audit by the office of the Punjab principal accountant general had pointed out losses worth several crores.The audit report for 2019-2020 had found irregular payments worth ₹95 lakh in the form of retention allowance to employees under the superannuation scheme. The audit also highlighted an erring litigation that cost the company around ₹111 crore. PunCom, the audit report noted, floated Punjab Digital Industrial Limited, Mohali, as its subsidiary, through an investment of ₹25 lakh. This company wound up in February 2009 and the accumulated losses of the firm were around ₹1 crore.The report said PunCom failed to properly apply and execute work for the railways, leading to forfeiture of the ₹40-lakh deposit.The company ignored Punjab government orders to limit gratuity payment to ₹10 lakh and also gave undue benefits to three fresh recruits.It also came under lens for its inability to collect ₹26 crore from its debtors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/financial-irregularities-hc-puts-punjab-puncom-md-board-of-directors-on-notice-101634246633436.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali trader’s blind murder solved with drug addict’s arrest||Cracking a blind murder case in six days, police have arrested a drug addict for beating to death a shopkeeper in Majra village on October 8.The accused, Mangat Singh, alias Manga, is a resident of Kartarpur village, Mullanpur Garibdas. He was arrested from his house following a probe by DSP (CIA) Gurcharan Singh, DSP (Detective) Bikramjit Singh Brar and Mullanpur Garibdas SHO inspector Satinder Singh. The victim, Jai Prakash, ran a shop of mobile phones and accessories in Majra village on Siswan-Kurali Road. “Eyeing easy money to buy drugs, Mangat attacked him on the night of October 8 and beat him up brutally, before fleeing with his goods,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal.Prakash was rushed to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he died during treatment. Later, police registered a murder case on the statement of the victim’s nephew Monu and a probe was launched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-trader-s-blind-murder-solved-with-drug-addict-s-arrest-101634246579850.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases climb to 10 after 12 days||Tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases once again hit the double digits on Thursday, after a gap of 12 days.Chandigarh and Panchkula logged one and two fresh cases, respectively, after reporting zero case the day before.Mohali’s daily count also rose from four to seven, taking tricity’s tally to 10, a first since October 2.However, no death was reported in any of the jurisdictions for the ninth straight day.The latest cases in Mohali surfaced in Mohali city, Kharar and Boothgarh. The only patient found positive in Chandigarh is from Sector 21. Panchkula’s cases came from Sector 20.With this, tricity’s active cases also increased from 63 to 65 in the past 24 hours.Chandigarh is leading the tally with 32 infected patients, followed by Mohali with 26 and Panchkula seven.UT’s caseload stands at 65,295, among which nine unreported cases were added on Thursday. Of the total positive patients, 64,443 have been cured and 820 have died. Mohali has reported 68,772 infections till date, including 67,678 recoveries and 1,068 deaths.Panchkula has lost 378 residents to the virus, which has infected 30,746 people in the district so far. Among them, 30,361 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-climb-to-10-after-12-days-101634246578610.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||16-year-old boy beaten to death in Panchkula, seven booked||A 16-year-old boy was allegedly beaten to death by seven people in Panchkula on Thursday.The accused, identified as Bala Devi, Mamta, Dimple, Dharampal, Sandeep Kumar, Rajan and Ankit Chaudhary, have been booked following a complaint by the victim’s mother, Priyanka of Bhoor Firojri village, Raipur Rani. She alleged that her son Gaurav, who had gone to school, was thrashed by the accused. As he escaped from their hold, he fell on the ground and lost consciousness. “He was taken to the Naraingarh Civil Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,” Priyanka told the police.The accused are facing a case under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy ) of the Indian Penal Code. Police have launched a search to arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/16yearold-boy-beaten-to-death-in-panchkula-seven-booked-101634246577334.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Half way through October, Chandigarh tricity’s dengue cases already double than last year’s tally||While the tricity has got a breather from the raging Covid-19 pandemic, its dengue cases this year have already doubled compared to last year.Only half way through October, tricity’s dengue infections have shot up to 1,718, a 111% spike from the 814 cases last year, and 155% higher than 673 cases reported in 2019.Through these years, Mohali remains the worst-hit. The district has reported 1,161 cases so far this year, compared to 303 in Chandigarh and 254 in Panchkula.Among these, 99 dengue cases surfaced in Mohali on Thursday, 31 in Chandigarh and 25 in Panchkula.Mohali has also recorded 10 suspected deaths this year, including one on Thursday, while the toll remains zero in the UT and Panchkula.Last year, Mohali saw 471 infections, the UT 265 and Panchkula 286. The numbers were much lower in 2019, when the three areas logged 254, 78 and 33 cases, respectively.Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “A spurt in dengue cases is seen every four years. Most of the cases are being reported from Mohali city, including Phases 7, 10 and 11, and other urban areas in Kurali, Dera Bassi and Kharar, reflecting residents’ apathy towards the severity of the disease. Health teams have surveyed 1.7 lakh houses since March and slapped fines on over 3,000 violators.”Covid arrangements to the rescueBuckling under the sudden surge, government hospitals in Chandigarh have started utilising their near-empty Covid wards for the treatment of dengue patients, most of whom are being referred from the tricity and other states.“On an average, 50 patients, suffering from fever and similar symptoms, are getting admitted in the paediatric and medicine emergency wards daily. Currently over 200 patients are admitted, while the medicine emergency has only 30 beds. So they are being treated in Covid wards. Despite the patient load, we are ensuring proper treatment and have made arrangements for adequate platelets in blood banks,” said Dr Sudhir Garg, medical superintendent, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32. Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), said, “The institute is admitting more dengue patients as compared to Covid. The internal medicine department is attending to over 200 patients at present, almost double than its capacity, and most of the patients are suffering from fever. We are also admitting 15-20 confirmed dengue patients daily. Most of them arrive in serious condition, with low platelets.”Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, too has opened up its Covid wards as against a capacity of 58 beds in the emergency wing, it already has 87 patients, 39 of them suffering from fever.“Keeping in view the rising fever cases at hospitals, and daily tally of confirmed dengue cases in Chandigarh and the tricity, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 have made available their Covid-reserved beds for dengue patients. We are making every necessary arrangement for patients in government hospitals,” said Yashpal Garg, UT health secretary.In Chandigarh, most of the confirmed dengue cases are being reported from Daria, Hallomajra, Manimajra, Mauli Jagran and other congested areas. “Dengue-causing larvae are being found in mostly residential areas, especially in colonies, said Garg.Cases may recede with drop in temperaturePanchkula civil surgeon Dr Mukta Kumar said with consistent drop in temperature, the dengue cases may also start waning within a week. “Meanwhile, we are not turning away any patient at the civil hospital and are attending to every case promptly. We have also increased the beds to the maximum possible level,” she said.Mukta added that health department teams were conducting door-to-door survey and issuing notices to households not clearing stagnating water with larvae.Chandigarh RWAs raise issues with fogging scheduleMembers of the Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) have complained about the fogging schedule released by the civic authorities. CRAWFED chairman Hitesh Puri said, “While posh sectors in the north are always covered, southern sectors are ignored. Various areas, including Sectors 41, 43, 48 and Manimajra are missing in the fogging schedule issued by the administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/half-way-through-october-chandigarh-tricity-s-dengue-cases-already-double-than-last-year-s-tally-101634246576318.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Woman excise inspector booked for ₹20 lakh fraud||A woman excise inspector from Mohali has been booked for bilking a Fatehgarh Sahib resident of ₹20 lakh through a fraudulent land deal.According to police, excise inspector Santosh Rani took ₹20 lakh as advance from the complainant, even though she had already sold the land to another party. She is the wife of Congress leader and former Banga MLA Mohan Lal.In his complaint to the Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP), Jagjit Singh of Chunni Khurd, Fatehgarh Sahib, said he had finalised a deal with Rani to buy her one acre and 600 square yards land at Khapur village, Kharar, for ₹80 lakh, and had paid ₹20 lakh as advance.During a visit to the said property, he saw flats being constructed there. On digging deeper, he found that Rani had already sold the land to another person for ₹41.6 lakh. When he demanded his money back, Rani initially agreed to return it, but later backtracked. After receiving the complaint, the SSP marked the investigation to a DSP-rank officer. Following the officer’s report and legal opinion, Rani was booked under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. No arrest has been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-woman-excise-inspector-booked-for-20-lakh-fraud-101634246574547.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Night temperature drops further in Chandigarh, light rain likely on Sunday||Continuing its downward trend, the minimum temperature dropped from 19.5°C on Wednesday to 18.7°C on Thursday, but was still one notch above normal.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), there are chances of light rain in the city on Sunday, after which the maximum temperature may also fall.“A low pressure area has formed over the Arabian sea. Once it clears out, easterly winds will blow in the region and are expected to bring light rain up to 10mm,” said Manmohan Singh, director, IMD, Chandigarh.The showers may cause the day temperature to drop below 25°C from the current 33.6°C, while the minimum temperature is expected to remain between 19°C and 22°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-temperature-drops-further-in-chandigarh-light-rain-likely-on-sunday-101634246573436.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||At 104, India’s first voter insists on walking to the poll booth||India’s first voter, 104-year-old Shyam Saran Singh Negi, the brand ambassador of the election commission has never missed a chance to cast his vote. This year too, the centenarian will cast his vote at the Kalpa booth in Kinnaur for the bypolls to Mandi parliamentary segment. Negi, despite his advanced age, has decided to walk to the polling station instead of using a postal ballot. The option is available to all those above the age of 80, said chief electoral officer C Pal Rasu, adding that Negi will be given a rousing welcome at the Kapla booth. Born on July 1, 1917 in Kalpa (then called Chinni) in Himachal Pradesh, Negi cast his first vote on October 25, 1951, in the first elections held in independent India. Negi has voted in every general election since then and is believed to be India’s oldest voter.Negi lived in oblivion for 45 years till the Election Commission tracked him in July 2007 when Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer Manisha Nanda first learnt about him from the photo electoral roll. M Sudha Devi, a 2003-batch IAS officer then posted as Kinnaur deputy commissioner, went to meet Negi, who was among the reputed village men in Kalpa. Negi told Devi that he was the first voter of Independent India and had never missed casting a vote in his entire life. In 2010, the then chief election commissioner of India, Navin Chawla, visited Negi’s village to honour him as part of the Election Commission’s diamond jubilee celebrations.Google India produced a public service announcement in 2014 in which Negi talked about his participation in Independent India’s first election and reminded viewers of the importance of voting. The video got more views than others launched under the same campaign featuring Bollywood actors like Amitabh Bachchan, Diya Mirza and The chief electoral officer of Himachal Pradesh said that 15.5 lakh voters could be polling in by-elections of three assembly segments and one parliamentary constituency in the state. Lahaul-Spiti monastery to be the highest polling boothRasu said Tashigang Monastery in the tribal district of Lahaul-Spiti district at a height of around 15,265 feet above sea level will be the world’s highest polling station for the bypolls scheduled on October 30 in Himachal Pradesh for the Mandi parliamentary constituency. He said 55 people will be casting their vote in Tashigang monastery, polling station number 72. He said that polling booth 3 Adail ( 8,500 feet) would be the highest polling booth in the Jubbal-Kotkahi assembly byelection in Shimla district. Pambad (6,204 ft), polling station 67,w ill be the highest polling booth in the Arki assembly byelection and Agahar (2100 ft), will be highest polling station in Fatehpur assembly byelection in Kangra districtWhile Shaakti situated in The Great Himalayan National Park under the Banjar Assembly in Kullu district (Mandi LS) is the most far-flung polling station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-104-india-s-first-voter-insists-on-walking-to-the-poll-booth-101634246033876.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||PAU observes World Food Day||The department of food and nutrition, College of Community Science, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana, celebrated World Food Day at Gagra village of Jagraon on Thursday. Divulging details, Kiran Bains, head of the department of food and nutrition, said a nutrition awareness camp was organised at Government High School, Gagra village, in which postgraduate students and faculty of the food and nutrition department created awareness about balanced diet and showcased one-day meal plan for school-going children through an exhibition.The schoolchildren were sensitised about nutritional deficiencies and ways to cure it through a Nukkad Natak.A webinar was also organised on “Safe food now, for a healthy tomorrow” in collaboration with child development project officer, Sudhar, Ludhiana, for Aanganwari workers and supervisors. This was followed by an interaction with scientists. Bains further said the department is committed to uplifting the nutritional status of the community by creating awareness through celebration of such important days throughout the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-observes-world-food-day-101634245733377.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohmmad Rafiq sworn-in as Himachal chief justice||SHIMLA: Justice Mohammad Rafiq was sworn-in as the chief justice of the Himachal Pradesh high court in Shimla on Thursday. He was administered the oath of office by governor Rajendra Vishwanath Arlekar in a ceremony held at the Raj Bhawan. The ceremony took place at the Darbar Hall of Raj Bhawan, where chief secretary Ram Subhag Singh conducted the proceedings of the oath ceremony. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and his wife Dr Sadhna Thakur were also present on the occasion. Rafiq was born in 1960 at Sujangarh in Churu district of Rajasthan. He completed his BCom in 1980, LLB in 1984 and MCom in 1986 from the University of Rajasthan. He enroled with the Bar Council of Rajasthan in July 1984 and worked as assistant government advocate for the state of Rajasthan from 1986 to 1987 and deputy government advocate from 1987 to 1990. He appeared before the high court as panel advocate for different departments of the state government for five years: from 1993 to 1998. He also represented the Union of India as standing counsel from 1992 to 2001 before the high court. He also represented the Indian Railways, Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board, Rajasthan Board of Muslim Wakfs, Jaipur Development Authority, Rajasthan Housing Board and Jaipur Municipal Corporation before the Rajasthan High Court. He was appointed additional advocate general for the state of Rajasthan on January 1999 and worked as such till his elevation to the Bench. He was appointed as judge at the Rajasthan high court on May 15, 2006. He also worked as acting chief justice of the Rajasthan high court twice. He was also the executive chairman of the Rajasthan State Legal Services Authority and administrative judge of the Rajasthan high court prior to elevation as chief justice. He was chief justice of the Meghalaya, Orrissa and Madhya Pradesh high courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohmmad-rafiq-sworn-in-as-himachal-chief-justice-101634245673311.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Guru Nanak Model School wins baseball tourney||Guru Nanak Model School, Dholewal, beat Nightingale Baseball Club by 10-0 in the finals of 12th junior district baseball championship held at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Gill village.In third place match, BCM, Focal Point, beat BCM, Pakhowal road, by 11-2.Ludhiana district baseball association had organised the tournament.Gill village sarpanch Harpreet Singh was the chief guest and gave away the prizes to winning teams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-guru-nanak-model-school-wins-baseball-tourney-101634245613740.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Pregnant woman, minor brother held for stealing gold chains from jewellery shop||Four days after stealing four gold chains from a jewellery shop in Sarafa Bazar, a pregnant woman and her 17-year-old brother were arrested on Thursday. The accused, Rajni Sharma, 24, of Fatehgarh Sahib, said she had committed the crime as her husband, a labourer, does not earn much. Since the woman was pregnant she was sent to judicial custody, while her minor brother was sent to a juvenile home.The deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) said that on October 9, the woman came to the shop with her five-yea-old son and minor brother and asked the jeweller to show her a collection of gold chains. While the shop owner, Ritesh, was showing the gold chains to the woman, she stole four chains and hid them in her bag. The matter came to light the next day when Ritesh was checking the stock and found four gold chains missing. When he checked the CCTV footage, he caught the woman and alerted the police.A case was registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Division 4 police station. The the accused had visited two other shops, but failed to steal anything.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-pregnant-woman-minor-brother-held-for-stealing-gold-chains-from-jewellery-shop-101634245433200.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir vaccinates nearly all of its adult population with first dose||Jammu and Kashmir completed inoculation of all its adult population in 17 districts with the first dose of vaccine on Thursday. The first phase of the vaccination drive in the union territory had started on January 16 along with the rest of the country with the inoculation of healthcare workers followed by other frontline workers from February 4. From May 1, it had started vaccinating the common man in the 18-45 age group.In a tweet, the department of family welfare and immunization, said they had administered the first dose to all eligible people in the 18 plus age group and that 93 lakh people had been inoculated. “100% first dose vaccination coverage achieved today in the union territory of J&K among the 18 years+ age group,” said a government spokesman. The UT administered 82,229 doses on Thursday, bringing the cumulative number of doses administered to people to 1.349 crore. However the statement, while giving district-wise details, revealed that Kishtwar, Kupwara and Udhampur districts are yet to complete their vaccination for the 18-years plus age group. The districts have achieved 81%, 93 % and 95% inoculation, respectively. 93 fresh casesJammu and Kashmir recorded 93 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday. Of the total cases, 72 cases were reported in Kashmir valley, while the Jammu division saw 21 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 104 with active positive cases reaching 935. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 415 followed by Poonch and Baramulla districts with 97 and 93 active cases respectively.Officials said with 47 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 12 cases in Baramulla. No or single-digit cases were recorded in 17 districts.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,25,473 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.37%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,30,834 and the death-toll stands at 4,426. The officials said that 48,689 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,144 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 842 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-vaccinates-nearly-all-of-its-adult-population-with-first-dose-101634245074703.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue: 1 suspected death, 7 new cases in Ludhiana||Seven fresh cases of dengue were reported in Ludhiana on Thursday. A 10-year-old girl, who was suspected to be suffering from dengue, also succumbed during treatment at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.With this the number of suspected dengue deaths in Ludhiana has reached three. Earlier, a 65-year-old man from Baloke and a 40-year-old from Khanna also died of suspected dengue infection.Currently, there are 1,771 suspected dengue cases in the city. Out of the total 383 dengue cases, 297 patients are from urban areas while the rest are from rural areas and towns of Khanna, Jagraon and Sahnewal.Two new Covid casesTwo fresh cases of Covid-19 were also reported in the district on the day. The cumulative count of cases has now reached 87,565.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-1-suspected-death-7-new-cases-in-ludhiana-101634245073552.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dussehra festivities in Ludhiana: Demon king to go up in flames at 23 locations||With Covid-19 pandemic approaching its nadir, the stage is set for mega Dussehra celebrations in the city on Friday. As many as 23 Ram Lila committees have taken consent from the police for ‘Ravan Dehan’ with the tallest Ravana effigy (100-ft) being erected in Daresi ground.With 50% gathering allowed for outdoor events, the Ram Lila committees have opened the gates for residents who missed the festivities last year due to the raging pandemic.Out of the total 23 sites, major events will take place in Daresi, Giaspura, Sector 39 on Chandigarh road, Dugri among few other areas. The celebrations will also be witnessed at Aggar Nagar, Jamalpur etc. While Dussehra fairs were being organised in different parts of the city, including Daresi, Chandigarh road, Upkar Nagar, Dugri etc for over a week, the committees remained occupied in making arrangements for Ravana Dehan. At a few places including Daresi, closed-circuit television cameras have also been installed to keep vigil.Kamal Bassi, member of Shri Ram Lila Committee, Daresi, said, “Residents are very excited about Ravana Dehan this year, as they missed the celebrations last year due to restrictions on gathering. Daresi ground has been holding Dussehra celebrations for over a century.” The effigy of Meghnath was burned on Thursday.“Ravana Dehan will take place on Thursday evening at around 5:30pm and the event is open to public. Permissions have been sought from the administration. However, we appeal to the residents to follow Covid-appropriate behavior during the celebrations,” said Bassi.Few committees have cut short the celebrations, but are still excited about Ravana Dehan, which remained a low-key affair last year.Upkar Nagar Dussehra committee president Channi Gill said, “The Dussehra celebrations have been toned down this year too due to the pandemic and no procession was organised in the area, unlike the past. However, Ravana Dehan will take place as it used to in the pre-Covid era. A 55-ft tall effigy is being erected and the event is open for everyone.”Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian said 23 Dussehra/Ram Lila committees have taken permission to organise Ravana Dehan. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said no fresh guidelines have been received from the government regarding Dussehra celebrations this year. “As per the previous guidelines, 50% gathering is allowed at an outdoor event. The committees, however, have been told to ensure that the Covid guidelines are followed strictly.” Ravana Dehan sites reducedThough the committees and residents are excited over Dussehra celebrations, the number of Ravana Dehan events being organised in the city have been reduced in comparison to the past due to the pandemic. As per information, Ravana Dehan was organised at around 80 sites in the city in 2019, while the celebrations took place only at eight sites last year due to the pandemic and gathering restrictions. This year, the permission has been sought by 23 committees.General secretary of Krishna Mandir Trust in Model Town Extension, KP Gosain said they will not be organising a mega event this year too as it is difficult to manage the rush of visitors. “Only a symbolic celebration will take place by burning around 10-15-ft Ravana effigy,” he said.Over 70 firefighters on stand-byTo ensure residents safety from any sort of fire mishap, as many as 70 firefighters will remain on standby. Assistant divisional fire officer Swarn Chand said fire tenders will also be stationed in different points of the city during Dussehra and Diwali celebrations to reduce reaction time. There are 17 fire tenders available at the five fire stations in the city and tubewells have also been checked in different parts of the city to ensure proper supply of water in case of a fire. 2,000 police personnel to guard city on DussehraPolice commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said around 2,000 police personnel would keep a strict vigil in city during Dussehra celebrations on Friday. Bhullar said elaborate security arrangements have been made at all 23 locations where Ravana Dehan is to take place. He said additional force from Punjab Police Academy, Phillaur, has also been called in.While visiting some of the locations in Sector-39 Chandigarh road, Daresi and other areas, the police commissioner reiterated the firm commitment of the police to maintain law and order at all spots. The CP also held meetings with gazetted rank officials and asked them to ensure round- the-clock patrolling at spots with high footfall.According to security arrangements, three gazetted rank officials will be present at three major Dussehra Melas in the city, including Daresi, Jamalpur and Rajguru Nagar. At least one gazetted officer will be present at other locations for security arrangements. Dog squad and anti-sabotage teams have already started checking at all 23 places where effigies of Ravana will be burnt. The police teams have scanned all swings and stalls at the Melas.Traffic diversion plan for DaresiAs Daresi ground is situated in old city area, surrounded by narrow streets and thick population, traffic jams are expected after 11am on Friday. Police have chalked out a special traffic diversion plan to maintain flow of traffic. According to the plan, entry of three-wheelers and four-wheelers will be banned near Daresi and surrounding areas, including Old Sabji Mandi near Dr BL Kapoor Memorial Hospital, Malganj Chowk, Books Market Road, Ved Mandir Chowk, T-point kila Mohalla, Shivpuri road and Ghada Bhan Chowk. Visitors can park their vehicles near Chhoti Daresi ground and parking of Dr BL Kapoor memorial Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dussehra-festivities-in-ludhiana-demon-king-to-go-up-in-flames-at-23-locations-101634244654335.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Huge quantities of contraband recovered in Pulwama||Huge quantities of contraband substances were recovered in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, police said. A police spokesperson said Kakapora police station received a specific information that Gulzar Ahmad alias Beta and Mohammad Rafiq, both residents of Mohanviji Kakapora, have indulged in drug peddling and hoarding of a huge quantities of narcotic substances in their houses. A police team raided the specific locations and during searches, the officers recovered 27kg of cannabis leaves and 28kg of poppy straw, he said.However, the accused managed to escape and efforts are on to arrest them, the spokesperson added. Police have registered cases and further investigations have been initiated, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/huge-quantities-of-contraband-recovered-in-pulwama-101634244653229.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Law against red tape already implemented in Punjab: Minister Brahm Mohindra to Kejriwal||Punjab parliamentary affairs minister Brahm Mohindra on Thursday said the state government has already implemented the law against red tape “to promote effective administration in public interest”. His statement came in response to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement during a meeting with businessmen in Jalandhar on Wednesday to end red tape and inspector raj in government functioning in Punjab if his party is voted to power in the 2022 assembly elections. “I suggest the Delhi chief minister to keep himself updated that we have already put in place the Punjab Anti-Red Tape Act, 2021,. I moved the bill in the Vidhan Sabha session on March 10 and it was passed by the House, enabling the government to impose a fine of up to ₹50,000 or dismiss a government official for unnecessary delay in providing services to citizens and businessmen,” Mohindra said. “I am sending you (Kejriwal) a copy of the Act,” the Congress leader said. Terming the 10 promises made by Kejriwal to traders and businessmen for “development and uplift of industry in Punjab” a gimmick full of lies ahead of the assembly elections, Mohindra said the Punjab government is committed to facilitating investments in state. The state government would organise the 4th edition of the Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit on October 26 and 27, offering opportunities for creating businesses in the state, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/law-against-red-tape-already-implemented-in-punjab-minister-brahm-mohindra-to-kejriwal-101634244593185.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab power crisis continues, cuts being imposed||The power crisis in Punjab continued as two units of Talwandi Sabo plant developed snag while a unit of Lehra Mohabatt stopped operations due to coal shortage. The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) kept resorting to cuts besides starting hydel generation which usually takes place in summers. Eight of the 10 thermal running units are operating at reduced load and generated about 3,200 megawatt (MW) on Thursday afternoon. The hydro generation is about 440 MW.The power from the Tata Mundra plant in Gujarat is likely to be available by Friday as one of its five 800 MW units started generation on Wednesday evening to supply power in Gujarat and Punjab.Punjab will get 160 MW on first day from the Mundra project. The second unit will start working by Thursday night and the third by Saturday morning, officials said. The Ranjit Sagar Dam project has started operations and generating about 120 MW. PSPCL managing director A Venu Prasad said they met maximum power demand of 9,363 MW in the state on Wednesday. “We will purchase around 1,500 MW from the power exchange at a rate of Rs.11.29 per unit on Thursday. Only 10 coal rakes were received against the otal requirement of 22 rakes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-power-crisis-continues-cuts-being-imposed-101634244292992.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Despite civilian killings in Valley, migrant workers refuse to give in to fear||Ten days ago, Virender Paswan, a street food vendor from Bhagalpur in Bihar, became a victim of targeted killing when he was shot dead by militants in the busy Alamgiri Bazaar in the Zadibal area of Srinagar. His killing, one in a spate of attacks on civilians, sent shivers down the spine of fellow migrant workers in the Valley, but despite their apprehensions most continue to go about their work as usual. This is not the first time that migrant workers have found themselves in the crosshairs of militants. In October 2019, soon after the imposition of governor’s rule in Jammu and Kashmir, six migrant workers had been killed in South Kashmir, in a single attack at Katersoo Kulgam, while another worker from Bihar had been killed in Kulgam in September. After each attack, some migrant workers leave the Valley fearing for their lives, only to return in the next season. Say Kashmir is like home“When the situation is normal, Kashmir feels like Kashmir, but whenever a migrant worker is killed, we cannot help but worry,” says Sonu Singh, who works as a labourer in Natipora.“I have been coming to the Valley for five years with my neighbours. We spend our summers in Kashmir, but return in winters. Whenever an attack takes place, I get calls from friends and relatives asking me to return. However, I tell them things are not so bad.” The Jammu and Kashmir labour department says approximately 1.4 lakh migrant workers come to Jammu and Kashmir each year, and most return once winter sets in, only to return next year. They mostly hail from Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Punjab and work at construction sites, road works, paddy fields, and apple orchards. Many have setup small roadside kiosks and many are engaged as barbers, masons, jewellers or work in residents’ homes. The migrant workers did not stop coming to the Valley even at the heights of militancy. After the 2014 floods, the number of migrant workers increased in the Valley due to hectic construction activities. Sawan, a worker from Chhattisgarh, says, “I had also heard about the killing of a street vendor but my employer assured me that it was an odd incident. Besides, I work at a local resident’s house and do not venture out.” A recruiter, who brings migrant workers to the Valley, on condition of anonymity, said, none of the migrant workers have been harassed or have asked to return home. “Every time there is a killing, our employees feel insecure and we assure them of their safety and apprise them of the standard operating procedure to be followed if the situation turns bad,” he said. ‘Focus on earning before winter sets in’ After the spate of killing, the government has asked local police stations to ensure places frequented by migrant workers are secure. Mostly the workers stay in groups at private accommodations. A cobbler, Munna Lal of Rajasthan, has been coming Kashmir for 15 to 20 years and has set shop at the busy Khayam chowk in the Old City. Asked about plans to leave the Valley, he says, “People are leaving as winter has set in and it is their usual time to leave. There are many migrant workers here. What is there to fear? Death is in the hands of God. I will not be going. I will leave in my own time when winter completely sets in.” He says he cannot understand why the vendor was killed last week. “Most people here are good. The vendor who was killed had come here to earn money for his family like all of us,” Lal said. Another migrant worker, who hails from Rajasthan and polishes shoes for a living, requested anonymity fearing reprisal, and said, “People are afraid after the Golgappa vendor was killed. Many people have left earlier than usual. My uncle who also works here is also forcing me to leave,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/despite-civilian-killings-in-valley-migrant-workers-refuse-to-give-in-to-fear-101634244054947.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Depot holder, aide booked for siphoning off ration in Moga, 30 quintal wheat seized||Police claimed to have unearthed a racket allegedly involved in siphoning off ration meant to be distributed among the poor under a central scheme and selling it in the open market. The police have booked Gauri Shankar, a depot holder, and his associate Harpreet Singh, both residents of Kokri Phula Singh village in the district and recovered 1,000 bags containing nearly 30 quintal wheat that was shown as distributed in government records. A case under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 was registered against them at the Ajitwal police station. The two were not arrested yet. The wheat was stored illegally in a godown and two private spaces at the village. The three places were sealed by the district administration and police late Thursday night. The police said the accused were carrying out illegal activities under the patronage of local Congress leaders and officials of the food and civil supplies department. Jaswinder Singh, a panchayat member of the village, said, “The depot holder has done nothing wrong. All poor and unprivileged have willingly deposited their ration to him after receiving it from him.” Ajitwal station house officer Veerpal Kaur said, “We are investigating the case from all angles. We are coordinating with the civil administration and the food and civil supplies department. We have sought records from the departments concerned and action would be taken accordingly.” Later, some of Kokri Phula Singh panchayat members along with a number of local residents gathered outside the Ajitwal police station in support of the accused who were rounded up for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/depot-holder-aide-booked-for-siphoning-off-ration-in-moga-30-quintal-wheat-seized-101634243814496.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan firing sixth anniversary: Will keep fighting for justice till culprits punished, say victims’ families, Sikh hardliners||The families of the Behbal Kalan police firing victims and Sikh hardliners on Thursday said that they had lost faith in the Punjab government but they would keep fighting for justice till those responsible for sacrilege and subsequent violence were punished.They said this at a ‘shaheedi samagam’ (martyrdom congregation) at Tibbi Sahib Gurdwara at Faridkot district’s Behbal Kalan village to mark the sixth anniversary of the firing episode on October 14, 2015, that left two Sikh men dead during a protest against the Bargari sacrilege incident. While Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) president Simranjit Singh Mann attended the event, other Sikh hardliners like Sarbat Khalsa-appointed parallel jathedar Dhian Singh Mand and Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (ad hoc) president Baljit Singh Daduwal, who led the Bargari Insaaf Morcha, gave it a miss.Sukhraj Singh, son of Krishan Bhagwan Singh who died in the police firing, said people voted for the Congress in the previous assembly election as it promised to punish the guilty. “But the government failed to give justice and is providing security to the accused. We have no hope of justice from this government. The people of Punjab must unite,” he said.Six years were more than enough to act against the culprits and if any political party seeks votes on these issues this time, people should oppose it, he added. Mann said, “Since July, more than 100 groups of Sikhs have offered arrest every day at Bargari as part of the morcha to protest against delay in justice. I appeal to one and all to participate in the morcha and offer arrest till culprits are punished.” After the event, a group of SAD (A) leaders, along with others, marched from the gurudwara to the Dana Mandi at Bargari and were detained by the police. Since July, SAD (A) leaders are offering arrest after marching to the 2015 sacrilege epicentre every day to protest against the delay in providing justice. Dal Khalsa spokesperson, Kanwar Pal Singh said all the political parties are doing politics on this issue. “They are only looking for personal gains. First, Amarinder Singh became chief minister by using this issue and now Navjot Singh Sidhu has used it to become Punjab Congress president. But no one has provided justice,” he said. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and former inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, who was a member of the previous special investigation team (SIT) which probed the 2015 police firing cases, also attended the event but he did not address the gathering.Talking to mediapersons, Kunwar Vijay said he had come to pay homage to the victims. “It’s been six years since the incident, but justice has not been served. Even the Amarinder Singh-led government acted to save the Badals. The truth was revealed in the investigations conducted by me in Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura firing incidents. While chargesheets have been quashed in the Kotkapura firing case, the court proceedings in the Behbal Kalan case are still undergoing in the court and justice can be served if the government properly prosecutes this case,” he said. “I have filed an appeal in a double bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court against the quashing order. Earlier, I was hoping that the state government will help me but since they have appointed the accused’s counsel as advocate general I have lost that hope. Even now I think they will get my appeal rejected. Justice will be served if AAP forms government in Punjab,” he added. Earlier in the day, a protest was held at Kotkapura terming the day as ‘lahnat dehadda’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/behbal-kalan-firing-sixth-anniversary-will-keep-fighting-for-justice-till-culprits-punished-say-victims-families-sikh-hardliners-101634243573295.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir among SAD leaders detained during protest against new BSF role||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, along with party leaders and workers were taken into preventive custody on way to the Raj Bhawan here on Thursday while they were protesting against the Centre’s decision to extend BSF’s jurisdiction. They were taken to a police station and later released. “The manner in which chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi has colluded with the Centre to surrender half of the state is condemnable,” Sukhbir said while addressing the party cadres outside the governor house. Former ministers Bikram Singh Majithia, Daljit Singh Cheema and Surjit Singh Rakhra, MLA NK Sharma and youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Romana also courted arrest. Akali workers raised slogans against the Congress party and the BJP for hatching “anti-Punjab” conspiracy. Earlier, addressing a gathering when stopped from proceeding towards the Raj Bhawan, Sukhbir said this was the second time that the Centre impinged on the rights of Punjab after three farm laws enacted last year. Now, it is taking control of the law and order in half the state,” he added. Terming the move as an attack on the federal structure of the country, he said now the Darbar Sahab, Durgiana Mandir and Ram Tirath temple will come under control of central forces. He said chief minister Channi in a meeting with the Union home minister Amit Shah on October 5 had allegedly agreed to the move of enhancing BSF jurisdiction. Majithia said the move reminded of the militancy days when central forces controlled the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-among-sad-leaders-detained-during-protest-against-new-bsf-role-101634243514556.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt amends transfer order, MP Dimpa’s brother posted as SSP again||In a late-night twist, the Punjab government on Wednesday amended its order to transfer SBS Nagar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmanbir Singh Gill as assistant inspector general, Punjab Armed Police (PAP) in Jalandhar. The decision was taken after Gill’s brother and Congress’ Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Dimpa took up the matter with chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, it is learnt. In the earlier orders issued by the state government around 8:30pm, Gill was shifted out as SBS Nagar SSP. As many as 50 IPS and PPS officers, including 14 SSPs, were transferred. But Dimpa saw the order as an embarrassment as Gill, an IPS officer, had locked horns with ruling party’s Nawanshahr MLA Angad Singh over the arrest of the latter’s supporters by the local police only a few days back. The MP also expressed his strong displeasure with home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa, source said. MLA Angad’s family has had old rivalry with the Dimpas over a dispute over the ownership of a transport company in Amritsar. Later, the state home department was asked to issue separate orders to post Gill as Fazilka SSP in place of Deepak Hillori. Gill joined duty on Thursday. Gill was not accommodated as SSP as most of the Congress MLAs consulted over postings are learnt to have raised questions over the cop’s style of functioning. Anagd, supported by some MLAs, also put his foot down with Channi insisting on Gill’s removal as SSP. The matter has also reached Congress leader Harish Chaudhary who has a strong say in the party’s Punjab affairs as the high command’s nominee. Dimpa, when contacted, denied having put any pressure on the government regarding his brother’s posting. “I have learnt that there was some confusion over the first orders,” he said. “This charge of PAP AIG was with him when he served as SSP in Moga and SBS Nagar. The earlier orders must have mentioned this charge only and this mistake was rectified,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-amends-transfer-order-mp-dimpa-s-brother-posted-as-ssp-again-101634243333170.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Elderly man dies after being pushed by daughter-in-law’s kin||A 72-year-old man died of suspected cardiac arrest after his daughter-in-law’s kin allegedly pushed him following an argument at the latter’s residence in Sundar Nagar of Ludhiana on Wednesday.The victim has been identified as Om Parkash Ahuja, 72. Police have booked four persons, identified as Dharmesh Budhiraja, the brother of the victim’s daughter-in-law, his mother Rukmani Devi, wife Aradhana and sister Satya, on the complaint of the victim’s wife, Parveen Lata.Parveen Lata, who is a retired schoolteacher, told the police that their daughter-in-law Yamuna had lodged a domestic violence complaint against Om Prakash and their son Munish. The case is pending in the court.She said that on the insistence of their daughter-in-law, she and her husband went to the house of Yamuna’s brother, Dharmesh. As soon as they reached there, the accused started abusing Om Prakash and later pushed him, following which he fell down on the floor and fell unconscious. Prem Lata said she requested the accused to help her take her husband to the hospital but they refused. After sometime, some aides of Dharmesh reached the spot and dragged Om Prakash out of the house, laid him on the back seat of their car and took him to the hospital where he was declared brought dead.The victim’s wife said that if he had got timely medical help, he may have survived.Based on her complaint, police have lodged a case under Sections 304 (culpable homicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.Assistant sub-inspector Rajinder Singh, the investigating officer, said the cause of death will be ascertained after post-mortem. He added that a hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-elderly-man-dies-after-being-pushed-by-daughter-in-law-s-kin-101634243273170.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||NRI adopts school for special children in SBS Nagar||A Non-Resident Indian (NRI) has adopted the Red Cross Society school for the special children in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. Barjinder Singh, a US citizen, who runs Narao Punjab Mission NGO and hails from Hussainpur, will bear the entire cost of the school, estimated to be around ₹25 lakh per year. Barjinder had immigrated to the US around 25 years ago. “We have signed an agreement with the Red Cross Society to bear the expenses of the school’s operations for two years. We have cleared the pending salaries of the teachers, renovated the infrastructure and also got financed two buses for transportation of the special kids,” Barjinder said. Former SBS Nagar deputy commissioner Shena Aggarwal said since the administration was short of monetary grants, the NRI approached at the right time with the proposal to adopt the school. “I am hopeful that the kids will be able to continue their education and have access to better facilities at the school,” Aggarwal said. School principal Lakshmi Devi said the new arrangement has given a new hope to the school. “The staff is now motivated to serve the special kids with more zeal and passion,” she said. Barjinder said currently there were 31 kids in the school as many left in absence of transportation facility and other issues. “We will try to get them back to touch the figure of 50 students. We will rope in specialist staff and doctors for the students and also run vocational and skill-development courses,” he said. Five years ago, Barjinder had adopted the primary school at his native village. His NGO has also been organising sports events for the youth in the nearby villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nri-adopts-school-for-special-children-in-sbs-nagar-101634243213130.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal befooling people with eye on Punjab polls: Channi||A day after Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convener Arvind Kejriwal made a slew of promises to industrialists in Jalandhar, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday said the Delhi CM was making false promises to the people of Punjab with eyes of next year’s assembly polls. Terming Kejriwal as an “opportunist”, Channi said “such ill-conceived and politically motivated moves” will not help the AAP convener to capture electoral ground in Punjab. He said Kejriwal is not even remotely concerned with the development of state and welfare of its people being an “outsider” and was solely eying on the vote bank of “one or another section”. In a statement, Channi said Kejriwal was unaware that Punjab government was already providing round-the-clock electricity supply. On Delhi CM’s promise to end ‘inspector raj’, the CM said it was already a thing of the past as 17,589 inspections were conducted in the last four-and-half years through central inspection system. On Kejriwal’s comments on VAT refunds, the CM said ₹1,700 crore were released to the business community under the said head in the last three years and only ₹70 crore was pending. He said Punjab enjoys peaceful labour relations and no major strike was witnessed in the last three decades and there are no domicile restrictions in hiring the labour. Local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra and industries and commerce minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli also countered the Delhi CM on a number of issues he had raised in Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-befooling-people-with-eye-on-punjab-polls-channi-101634242973003.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Assembly polls: Shift officials posted in home districts, EC tells Punjab, 4 other states||In the run-up to the assembly polls in five states due early next year, the Election Commission (EC) has directed the governments of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh to transfer officials posted in their home districts and those who have spent three years in a district in the last four years. In a letter to the chief secretaries and chief electoral officers of the poll-bound states on Wednesday, the commission pointed out that the terms of the legislative assemblies of Punjab, Uttarakhand, Manipur and Goa are ending on different dates in March, 2022. The term of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly ends on May 14 next year. It is usual for the poll panel to issue such directions ahead of Lok Sabha or assembly elections to ensure that officials do not interfere in the poll process in any way and the democratic exercise remains free and fair. “The commission further desires that no officer/official, against whom a criminal case is pending in any court of law, be associated with/deployed on election-related duty,” the letter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/assembly-polls-shift-officials-posted-in-home-districts-ec-tells-punjab-4-other-states-101634242793074.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks reply from Punjab on plea for FIR against Bathinda hospital staff over HIV positive blood transfusion||The high court on Friday sought response from Punjab government and Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) on a plea seeking registration of an FIR against hospital staff members of the civil hospital for alleged transfusion of HIV+ blood to a woman in May last year.The court, acting on the plea of the Bathinda woman, has sought response by November 30. The plea seeks registration of FIR against Dr Maninder Singh, senior medical officer (SMO), civil hospital, and two former officials of the blood bank for alleged transfusion of HIV+ blood to her.The court was informed that when she was admitted in the civil hospital for treatment of anaemia on May 6, 2020, she was transfused HIV + blood by Richu Goyal, former medical laboratory technician. It was further alleged that Dr Krishna Goyal, in-charge of blood bank, came to know about this episode, but she did not inform about it to her superior officers. According to the plea, it was on October 5, 2020 that a committee of doctors submitted an inquiry report to Dr Maninder Singh confirming these facts. Dr Maninder Singh, the plea alleges, did not take any steps to locate the petitioner. When she was contacted at a very late stage in August, 2021, the woman tested HIV +ve. Upon further examination, her husband, and seven- year- old daughter, too, tested HIV +ve, having been infected from the petitioner, the plea says, adding that all the three were granted admission for regular treatment in ART Centre of Civil Hospital, Bathinda on August 28. In this manner, the life of all the three victims has been ruined due to the gross negligence on the part hospital authorities. The Bathinda police registered an FIR on October 10 against one Baldv Singh Romana, senior medical technician, who had handed over blood bags containing HIV + Blood to Richu Goyal, and Krishna Goyal, the plea says. The gross negligence on the part of SMO, in not contacting the patient for about 10 months, after coming to know of transfusion of HIV+ ve blood, resulted in delayed treatment, and during the intervening period, her husband and daughter also got infected. Thus, criminal proceedings must be launched against these staff members as well, the plea stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-reply-from-punjab-on-plea-for-fir-against-bathinda-hospital-staff-over-hiv-blood-transfusion-101634242252992.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chattopadhyaya gets additional charge of vigilance bureau chief director||In a significant development on a day when Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu met central party leaders in Delhi, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday gave additional charge of chief director, Vigilance Bureau, to 1986-batch IPS officer S Chattopadhyaya. According to the order, Chattopadhyaya, who is currently posted as special DGP, PSPCL, will be in-charge of bureau till BK Uppal is on leave. This is the second time in three days that the in-charge of vigilance bureau has been changed. BK Upppal had proceeded on one-month leave after Channi replaced Capt Amarinder as the chief minister. On Monday, the government had given the charge to ADGP LK Yadav, who even started sitting at the office, it is learnt. He also released a press statement on Wednesday being bureau’s chief director, ordering issuance of a WhatsApp number for the citizens where they could raise the issue of corruption by officials of his department. Appointment of Chattopadhyaya, who is also a frontrunner for the post of Punjab Police chief, is being seen as a important development at a time when the UPSC is about to send names of three officers from among the panel sent by the state government for appointment of the police chief. 1988-batch IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota had been given the additional charge of the Punjab DGP by chief minister Channi, ignoring Chattopadhyaya despite Navjot Sidhu backing him. The latest move is being seen as the result of Sidhu pulling the strings in Delhi. Sidhu met party’s Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat and Congress general secretary KC Venugopal on Thursday. Chattopadhyaya had also challenged the appointment of previous DGP Dinkar Gupta and took his fight to the Supreme Court, which reserved the judgment in the case. In 2018, he got mired in a controversy while carrying out a Punjab and Haryana high court-mandated probe, when he, in a move where he apparently overstepped his brief, informed the court that he was also probing the role of the then Punjab DGP Suresh Arora and DGP (intelligence) Dinkar Gupta in the drugs case allegedly involving SSP Raj Jit Singh. On May 8, 2018, a Chattopadhyaya-led SIT submitted its final report to the court. He sprang a surprise by submitting a second report that was not signed by the other two SIT members. The matter is still pending with the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chattopadhyaya-gets-additional-charge-of-vigilance-bureau-chief-director-101634241773011.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC defers hearing in Bhola drug racket to October 26||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday deferred the hearing in the 2013 suo motu plea in the multi-crore Bhola drug racket case to October 26.The case was taken up on Thursday afternoon by the newly constituted bench of justice AG Masih and justice Ashok Kumar Verma and after a brief hearing, it posted the matter for October 26. The judges told lawyers that during the Dussehra break, they would examine the case record and orders passed from time to time so that they can acquaint themselves with the case.The bench was to frame various issues on the drug menace in the state so that it can be dealt with separately, but the hearing had to be adjourned due to paucity of time. The court is yet to decide whether the sealed cover reports filed by various agencies are to be opened. Earlier, appearing for former DGP (prisons) Shashi Kant, senior advocate Gurminder Singh listed out issues related to drugs menace in Punjab and submitted that sealed cover status reports are one part of it and exhorted for holistic approach for eradication of the menace. In 2013, suo motu proceedings were initiated on his letter.In his submissions, senior advocate Anupam Gupta said the sealed cover status reports dealt with culpability of people in high places. If the issue is not dealt with on priority, it would be a tragedy. He also suggested that the court can open the reports for its own understanding of the issue and if it do not find any substance, can act accordingly, but the reports ought to be opened.Punjab advocate general APS Deol reiterated the state’s resolve to act against the drug menace and highlighted immediacy of action against those involved and importance of sealed cover reports so that prosecution agencies can act swiftly. In August, an application was filed by advocate Navkiran Singh seeking opening of three crucial reports, one by then head of the special task force HS Sidhu, another by then assistant director, enforcement directorate, Niranjan Singh and the third report/opinion by a committee headed by then additional chief secretary (home) Dr Nirmaljeet Singh Kalsi. All these reports are mainly on allegations of involvement of some high-profile politicians of the state. Acting on the plea, the court had advanced hearing by a almost a month from November. During the hearing, Deol has also referred to another set of reports submitted in 2018 by an SIT led by Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, to probe role of police officers in the drug racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-defers-hearing-in-bhola-drug-racket-to-october-26-101634241292803.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 32 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||The Covid tally in Punjab rose to 6,01,971 on Thursday with 32 fresh cases, while the death toll reached 16,538 after one more person succumbed to the infection, according to a medical bulletin. Five fatalities, which were not reported earlier, were added to the death toll, the bulletin said. Of the fresh cases, Mohali reported seven, followed by five in Hoshiarpur and four in Jalandhar. The number of active cases was 234. The state recorded a positivity rate of 0.11%. Twenty people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,85,199, the bulletin said. A total of 1,49,32,493 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far of which 29,400 were tested on Thursday. A total of 1,30,277 vaccine doses were administered in a day, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-32-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101634241172729.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hero Women’s Pro Golf: Amateur Avani tied in lead with seasoned Vani, Amandeep||Amateur Avani Prashanth overcame a string of bogeys on the front nine to share the lead with seasoned professionals Vani Kapoor and Amandeep Drall after two rounds of the 10th leg of the Hero Women’s Professional Golf Tour at the Chandigarh Golf Club.Amandeep Drall (68-74) had an off day with three bogeys on the front nine against just one birdie on the back, while Vani Kapoor (72-70) showed form and rhythm of the old with six birdies against an opening double bogey and two bogeys, including a late one on 17th, for a round of 2-under 70.Vani, who has been trying to rediscover the form that made her a dominant force on the domestic circuit, was in a terrific run through the second round. Despite a double bogey on first, she quickly fought back with birdies on second and third and then added another birdie on seventh to turn in one-under. On the back nine, after a bogey on 10th she reeled off three birdies in a row from 12th to 14th but dropped a shot on 17th.Avani, who also opened with a bogey, had four bogeys against three birdies in her card of 73.With totals of 2-under 142 each, the three will go out together in the final group on the final day and it promises to be a tight battle, as Vani and Amandeep seek their first win in 2021 and Avani chases her second title this year. Jahanvi Bakshi, who carded 71 in the first round, was 1-over 73 and was lying two shots adrift of the three leaders in sole fourth place. Her sister Hitaashee (75-73), was tied alongside amateur Puneet K Bajwa (72-76) in fifth place. Rhea P Saravanan (75-74) and Gaurika Bishnoi (75-74) were tied seventh at 149, while Pranavi Urs (75-75) and Seher Atwal (71-79) completed the Top-10.The cut fell at 158 and among the prominent names missing from the final day draw were Afshan Fatima and Smriti Mehra.A total of 22 players will play the final round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hero-women-s-pro-golf-amateur-avani-tied-in-lead-with-seasoned-vani-amandeep-101634241112872.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||ECHS disempanelment: HC breather for seven private hospitals in Punjab||The Punjab and Haryana high court has quashed the director, regional centre, Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS), Jalandhar, decision to disempanel seven private hospitals in Punjab.The hospitals include: Neelkanth Hospital, Life Kare Hospital, Gupta Multi-speciality Hospital, Akashdeep Hospital, Madaan Hospital, Jeevan Jyot Hospital and Verma Hospital. It was alleged that hospitals indulged in malpractices and wrong activities, besides cheating, mischief, forgery, making false documents and breach of contract to grab huge amount by showing false record and misleading veterans for collecting their ECHS cards with the intention of forgery. FIRs were also registered in some cases in 2020. The court observed that procedure detailed in the agreements for taking action against hospitals for disempanelment was not followed by the ECHS office and proper opportunity of hearing was also not given. The court clarified that disempanelment has been set aside on technical grounds only and merits of the case have not been gone into. The proceedings in the case would not have a bearing on criminal proceedings initiated in against some hospitals, the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/echs-disempanelment-hc-breather-for-seven-private-hospitals-in-punjab-101634240932944.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu meets Cong brass in Delhi, says he has full faith in Sonia’s leadership||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday said he has full faith in the leadership of party chief Sonia Gandhi and any decision taken by her will be acceptable.He said this after an hour-long meeting with senior party leaders at the AICC headquarters amid indications that he may continue as state Congress chief.Sidhu had resigned as Punjab Congress chief on September 28 after he posted his resignation letter on Twitter. No decision on his resignation has yet been taken by the party leadership.He was asked to meet up with the party leadership and he met AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal and party general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat at the party headquarters.During the meeting, the Punjab Congress leader raised his concerns over the 18-point agenda taken by the leadership on which actions are pending. These include action against those involved in the sacrilege issue and the drugs mafia. Sidhu has recently raised objections over the appointment of the new Punjab Police chief and the advocate general.After the meeting, Sidhu said any decision taken by the Gandhis would be in the interest of the party and Punjab, and he would abide by it.“I have raised my concerns about Punjab and Punjab Congress before the party high command and I have full faith in Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul ji and Priyanka ji that whatever decision they take will be in the interest of the Congress and Punjab,” he said.“I always consider them supreme and will follow every direction given by them,” Sidhu told reporters.Senior party leaders said a final decision on Sidhu’s resignation would be taken by Friday and there would be clarity on the issue. Rawat said Sidhu was appointed as Punjab Congress chief and was asked to set up the organisation in the poll-bound state and strengthen it further.“Navjot Sidhu has been asked to work as Punjab Congress president and set up the organisation structure and strengthen it,” said Rawat after the meeting.“Mr Sidhu told you clearly that whatever decision Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi will take will be fully acceptable to him and he will follow it. The orders are absolutely clear that he as Punjab Congress president performs his duty strongly and quickly establishes the organisational structure,” the party general secretary said.He said by Friday the party would issue a related decision formally. “The situation will be absolutely clear tomorrow. The orders are clear that he works with his full strength as Punjab Congress chief,” Rawat said.Asked if Sidhu’s resignation would be accepted, he said, “Every decision is taken under a process and there are established practices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-meets-cong-brass-in-delhi-says-he-has-full-faith-in-sonia-s-leadership-101634240692772.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Four mandi officials among 32 booked for paddy procurement scam in Karnal||As many as 32 people, including a mandi supervisor and auction recorder, have been booked for alleged paddy procurement scam of crores at Gheer grain market in Karnal district.The action was taken on directions issued by Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav following an inquiry report submitted by zonal administrator of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB).During inquiry, it was found that four staffers of Kunjpura market committee and 28 commission agents were allegedly involved in generating fictitious gate passes of around 24,564 quintals at Gheer purchase centre. The licenses have also been suspended for their alleged involvement in the scam.Physical verification of paddy stock in Gheer purchase center of market committee, Kunjpura was conducted on October 11 and it was found that the progressive arrival of paddy up to October 10 was 74,119 quintal, of which, 37,182 quintal were lifted by the government agencies concerned till that date.But during physical verification, only 12,373 quintal paddy was found in the mandi while the remaining 24,564 quintal paddy of around ₹4.81 crore was found missing stock of the mandi.According the officials, it was a clear violation of procurement rules and the involvement of rice millers is also suspected in the scam.The FIR has been registered against the mandi supervisor Dheeraj Kumar, auction recorder Dharamvir, computer operators Deepak, and Ansul and 28 commission agents under Sections 420, 467 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Officials said inquiry has been initiated against nine rice millers who were allotted paddy from the purchase centre.Meanwhile, the district administration has replaced staff of procurement agencies including DFSC, Hafed and Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB).Besides, the authorities have stopped delivery of paddy under custom milled rice (CMR) to nine rice millers whose stock of paddy was found to be short in comparison to the record.Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board’s zonal administrator Gagandeep Singh said irregularities were found in physical verification and action has been recommended against the accused, including four officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-mandi-officials-among-32-booked-for-paddy-procurement-scam-in-karnal-101634240336962.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Channi calls on Amarinder at his farmhouse in Siswan||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday called on his predecessor Capt Amarinder Singh at his Siswan farmhouse in Mohali district. Channi was accompanied by his newlywed son Navjit Singh and daughter-in-law Simrandheer Kaur, who took blessings from the former CM. Channi’s wife Dr Kamaljit Kaur and elder brother Manmohan Singh were also present. The CM’s family stayed at the farmhouse for around 45 minutes and had tea with Amarinder. The former CM had not attended the wedding last week as he was in Delhi. The chief minister’s office termed the visit personal. However, some Congress leaders say it was an effort by the CM to placate Amarinder, who is upset the way he was displaced by the party high command from the top post last month. “He (Channi) is trying to project his image as the one who takes everyone in the party along,” said a cabinet minister requesting anonymity. Channi took over from Amarinder last month after a prolonged political slugfest within the state Congress unit when some cabinet ministers opposed his style of functioning and sought his removal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-calls-on-amarinder-at-his-farmhouse-in-siswan-101634240335778.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mishap: Speeding tractor trailer mows down hosiery worker||A speeding tractor-trailer mowed down a 45-year-old hosiery worker near Shivpuri on Thursday morning when he was heading to work on his scooter.The victim has been identified as Ajay Kumar alias Kala of Khajur Chowk of Salem Tabri.According to eyewitnesses, the tractor-trailer laden with debris hit Kumar from the back following which he fell down on the ground. Instead of stopping, the driver sped away. The eyewitnesses tried to stop the vehicle, but failed, and immediately informed the police.The entire incident was captured on closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the area.Daresi station house officer, sub-inspector Davinder Singh said a case under Section 279 (rash driving), 304-A (death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the tractor-trailer driver. Police are trying to identify the accused.The victim is survived by his elderly mother Sheela Rani, wife Rekha, son Gaurav and daughter Shweta.Family shatteredThe victim’s mother, Sheela Rani, 65, who had reached the spot immediately after coming to know about the incident, fell unconscious on seeing her son’s body.Rekha, the victim’s wife, said their daughter had got married about a year ago and the family was looking forward to have grand Dussehra celebrations this year.“We had planned to visit our daughter’s house on Dussehra. While leaving the house, my husband had promised to come home early so that we could buy gifts for our daughter. Little did we know that we would never be able to see him alive again,” said an inconsolable Rekha.Truck crushes rickshaw-puller to deathHours after the incident, a speeding truck crushed a rickshaw puller to death near Shivpuri in Basti Jodhewal area. The victim is yet to be identified.Basti Jodhewal station house officer, inspector Mohammad Jamil said after the incident, the truck driver managed to escape.According to eyewitnesses, the rickshaw puller was crossing the road when the mishap took place.The inspector added that a case has been lodged against the unidentified truck driver. Police are trying to identify the victim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mishap-speeding-tractor-trailer-mows-down-hosiery-worker-101634240334330.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ issues, unemployment key topics ahead of Ellenabad bypoll||The three farm laws enacted by the Union government last year, water issues and unemployment are the key topics being taken up ahead of the Ellenabad bypoll (October 30).The Opposition parties – the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and Congress – are raising the issue of farmers’ stir against three farm laws while the ruling BJP has been making promises of providing canal water for irrigating the fields and ensuring development of the constituency.The agrarian community in the constituency is talking about farm laws, paddy procurement, damaged cotton crop, dilapidated roads, rise of drug cases among youth, canal water, rise in prices of diesel and shortage of fertilisers, etc.While canvassing in the Ellenabad constituency, INLD’s Abhay Singh Chautala, who is seeking fourth consecutive term from the rural dominated seat, said this is not an election to elect an MLA but to give a referendum against the Centre’s three farm laws.“The Congress had given birth to these farm laws and the previous Haryana government led by former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had adopted contract farming law by allotting land on lease to Ambani and Adani. The BJP has enacted the laws proposed by the previous Congress government and it is the right time to teach them a lesson,” he said.“More than 700 farmers have lost their lives but the government is still adamant and not accepting the farmers’ demands. The ruling government has resorted to lathi-charge on farmers on eight occasions and farmers will not forget this,” he added.Ellenabad constituency is witnessing third bypoll since 1967 after the formation of Haryana. On previous two occasions, Om Prakash Chautala in 1970 and his son Abhay Singh Chautala in 2010 had won from this seat.No family member of the Chautala clan has faced defeat from here and the INLD has been on the winning side here since 1996.Meanwhile, Abhay Chautala’s former aide and Congress nominee Pawan Beniwal has been attacking him and the rulling BJP for “betraying the voters”.“Farmers have been camping on Delhi borders for a long time and the Union government is not paying heed to their demands. The farmers are facing irrigation and drinking water problems and Abhay Chautala has failed to sort out these issues. The roads are also in a dilapidated state. The voters have decided to get rid of Abhay Chautala,” Pawan said, while canvassing in his constituency on Wednesday.Pawan is also banking on the Beniwal clan and appealing to them to elect their “son” as the next MLA from Ellenabad.But, experts believe, his uncle and former Darba Kalan MLA Jagdish Beniwal and his wife Vidya Devi (ex-Rajya Sabha MP and former Darba MLA) are a cause of problem for him as they are still associated with the INLD.On the other hand, BJP nominee Gobind Kanda and his brother Gopal Kanda, an MLA from Sirsa, have launched high-level canvassing in village. They are facing protests from farmers but still are able to make their speeches in villages.Gobind Kanda said the BJP government has fulfilled 20-year-long demand of farmers by releasing water in Dhani Sheranwali distributary canal and this will help in irrigating fields.“The BJP-JJP coalition has given a transparent government and Haryana is the only state in country to procure 11 crops on the minimum support price. Some people are misleading people over the farmers’ issues. The BJP has in fact, strengthened the farmers. Chautala has dragged people in a bypoll which has no major significance on the government’s performance,” he added.As per information, INLD supremo OP Chautala, Congress’ former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, and the ruling government’s star campaigners, led by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and other senior leaders, will start canvassing for their nominees from next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-issues-unemployment-key-topics-ahead-of-ellenabad-bypoll-101634240153393.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala coop society secretary booked for siphoning off fertiliser bags||Patiala police have booked a secretary of a cooperative society for allegedly siphoning off bags of DAP (di-ammonium phosphate) fertiliser and urea worth ₹3.95 lakh.The accused, Ram Kumar, who was posted at the Dudhan Sadhan Cooperative Society, was already placed under suspension after the fertiliser bags were found missing in March 2020. The case was registered on Thursday after the cooperative department completed an inquiry.The department found that during his posting, the accused allegedly bungled 1,623 bags of DAP and 937 bags of urea, police said in its report.“The department submitted its report after carrying a detailed verification of the record and physical audit of bags at godown,” police said.A case has been registered under Section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.Recently, the enforcement team of the agriculture department confiscated 273 bags of DAP fertiliser from a private godown in Samana. The bags were stacked illegally as owner failed to produce bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-coop-society-secretary-booked-for-siphoning-off-fertiliser-bags-101634240092788.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||BSF jurisdiction row: Don’t politicise issues of national security, says BJP||Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma on Thursday condemned opposition parties for criticising the Union government’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) to a 50-kilometre belt along the International Border. He said the national security was of utmost importance and leaders should refrain from politicising the issue. In a statement, Sharma castigated the opposition parties for indulging in politics in which the nation and nationhood were secondary. Sharma said the incidents of drones, tiffin bombs and drug trafficking had increased immensely and former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had gone on record repeatedly that Punjab, being a border state, was being targeted by Pakistan . Sharma also flayed chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for criticising the Union government’s decision. “He (Channi) himself met the Prime Minister and home minister appraising them of the grave security situation in the state. All border states have come under this notification as national security was most pivotal to the survival of the country. Politicians should refrain from petty politics,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-jurisdiction-row-don-t-politicise-issues-of-national-security-says-bjp-101634239792789.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana mishap: 6-year-old boy succumbs to injuries after jeep hits scooter; parents injured||A six-year-old boy died while his parents suffered injuries after a speeding Mahindra Thar jeep hit their scooter near Partap Chowk on Wednesday. After the incident, the accused fled the spot. He was later identified as Amritpal Singh of Jaimal Road, Janta Nagar.The FIR has been lodged on the statement of Nand Lal of Dashmesh Nagar, who is the father of the victim, Pritam, 6.In his statement, Nand Lal said he, along with his wife, Renu Devi, and son, Pritam, had come to Sabji Mandi near Partap Chowk. They had stopped on the roadside to buy vegetables when the speeding SUV hit their scooter, following which they fell down on the road and suffered injuries.Nand Lal said his son was severely injured. They rushed him Christian Medical College and Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment.Nand Lal and his wife also suffered injuries in the mishap.Division Number 6 station house officer, inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 338 (grievious hurt), 304-A (death by negligence) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for the arrest of the accused.Hailing from Gopalganj of Bihar, Nand Lal is a factory worker in Dashmesh Nagar.He said that the family had shifted to Ludhiana in the hope of a better life. He wanted to provide the best education to his son and two daughters. “As my wife and I were leaving to buy vegetables, Pritam insisted that we take him along. Had he stayed home with his sisters, he may have been alive,” said Nand Lal, who was in an inconsolable state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mishap-6-year-old-boy-succumbs-to-injuries-after-jeep-hits-scooter-parents-injured-101634239733376.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||No plan to relaunch Jat agitation in recent future, says Jat leader Rohtash Hooda||All India Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (AIJASS) national spokesman Rohtash Hooda on Thursday said they have no plans to start agitation demanding reservation for Jat and other communities in recent times, until farmers’ demands are accepted by the government.In a press statement, he said some of the AIJASS ex-members are spreading rumours that their national president Yashpal Malik is planning to launch a Jat quota stir amid farmers’ agitation.“Such statements were made only to defame Malik and our body. We had called a meeting of the national executive body on October 2 in Delhi in which we had decided to dissolve all district, state and national units. We are supporting the farmers’ protest for a long time and will continue to do so until their demands are met,” he said.“We have also decided to oppose the BJP in poll-bound Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and other states. The BJP had betrayed us by not fulfilling the promises it made,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-plan-to-relaunch-jat-agitation-in-recent-future-says-jat-leader-rohtash-hooda-101634239433890.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Army hawildar held for ‘sharing sensitive information’ with Pakistan||Police have arrested Rohit Kumar, 35, a hawildar working with the army in Bhopal, from his village in Ambala on Wednesday night for allegedly leaking sensitive information to Pakistan through internet.Police said Kumar has been working with the 68 Engineering Regiment and had come on holiday to his native Korwa Khurd village in Shahazadpur block.The arrest was made after Rajesh Kumar, station in-charge of Shahazadpur police station, received a tip-off from his source that the suspect is working as an informer in exchange for money and has relations with the intelligence agents of the Pak army.“He was sharing intelligence information to the neighbouring country through his mobile phone and other means on the internet. He has already shared such information with Pak agents and has two mobile numbers on which the agents usually contact him,” the police officer said in his complaint.Rohit Kumar was booked under the Official Secrets Act at Shahazadpur police station.Police said due to seriousness of the case, a joint team was constituted by SSP Hamid Akhtar to raid his house and later transferred the investigation to CIA, Naraingarh.“He was presented before a court and sent to seven-day police remand. He joined the army in 2012,” a police PRO said.Inspector Surender, in-charge of the CIA unit, said he had come on leave to his home and reached here around Sunday.“Other details like his service tenure with the army and information shared are part of the investigation that will come up during his remand,” he said.DSP (Naraingarh) Anil Kumar said agencies concerned have already been informed about the development and will take up their part of the investigation accordingly.After the arrest, the suspect’s father Narayan Singh also wrote to the SHO stating that his son is innocent and had gone to bank with his passbook.“My wife Anita Devi is in a serious condition and might die anytime,” he said, in his appeal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-hawildar-held-for-sharing-sensitive-information-with-pakistan-101634238832516.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Woman, 8-year-old daughter found murdered in Haryana’s Kaithal||A 36-year-old widow and her eight-year-old daughter were allegedly brutally murdered at their residence in Mohna village of Kaithal district.The deceased have been identified as Geeta Devi and Smriti. Geeta’s 11-year-old son Saksham had also sustained injuries and is hospitalised.Police officers associated with the investigation said the incident took place on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The bodies with multiple injuries from sharp-edged weapons were recovered from the house.Police said the son survived the attack, reached his neighbours’ house and told them about the incident, who then informed the police.After getting information, Kaithal superintendent of police (SP), along with a police team and FSL experts, reached the spot and the bodies were sent for postmortem.Later, the SP, in an interaction with the media, said the investigation was handed over to the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) and a few hours later, they arrested migrant labourer Ismail Ali alias Raju, 30, in the matter.Police said the accused belonged to Tripura and he was working as a domestic help at the farmhouse of Darshan Singh, a relative of the deceased.The SP said in preliminary investigation, it was found that the accused wanted to go back to his family in Tripura but did not have money so he killed Geeta and her daughter with an axe for money.The SP said further investigation in the case is on and the accused has been booked on murder charges. He will be produced in court and police will seek his remand for further interrogation. The injured boy is out of danger and police will soon record his statement.Reacting to the allegations of involvement of deceased’s relative Darshan Lal, the SP said this is part of investigation and as of now, Ismail is the prime accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-8-year-old-daughter-found-murdered-in-haryana-s-kaithal-101634238472711.html
15-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand to provide location monitoring wrist-bands to trekkers for emergencies||The Uttarakhand government is planning to provide location monitoring wrist-bands to trekkers and mountaineers so that their location can be tracked through satellite devices during emergency situations. This will help the authorities to rescue such people if they go missing or get caught in extreme weather conditions in the higher reaches of the Uttarakhand Himalayas. Chief Secretary SS Sandhu gave directions to officers concerned during the review of the tourism department on Thursday. Sandhu said such location monitoring wrist-bands should be provided to trekkers and mountaineers so that their location can be tracked during emergency situations and they can be saved by rescue teams swiftly. Many mountaineers have lost their lives in the state, after they went missing or were caught in extreme weather events during mountaineering and trekking expeditions. Earlier this month, rescuers recovered the bodies of four Indian Navy personnel who went missing during an avalanche on Mt Trishul at an altitude of 6,700 metres in Chamoli district. Earlier on September 24, an expedition of the Indian Army to scale Satopanth peak in Gangotri National Park, found the body of a mountaineer who was part of an expedition of the army sent to scale the same peak in 2005 in which a few mountaineers had gone missing. Satopanth peak which is 7075 m high is the second highest peak in the Gangotri National Park situated in the Garhwal Himalayas in the state. In June this year, the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) rescued two trekkers, including one foreigner from Slovenia (a country in Central Europe), from the Hemkund Ghangaria trek route in Chamoli district. In September 2019, a 37-year-old Hungarian mountaineer Peter Wittek had gone missing during an expedition to the 7120-metre-high Mount Trishul located in Garhwal Himalayas in Chamoli district. The missing mountaineer was part of the six-member Singaporean-Vietnamese-Hungarian-Mauritian mountaineering expedition to Mount Trishul between September 13 to October 8. IDuring the review meeting on Thursday, the chief secretary, while saying that the Char Dham yatra is seasonal, emphasised that Uttarakhand has immense potential for off-season tourism too. “Schemes should be framed to promote off-season tourism in the state and officials should explore more possibilities in this regard,” he said. Stressing on tourism promotion in the state, Sandhu said more work needs to be done on improving connectivity in the state. “Work should be started at the earliest on the construction of helipads and heliports in the state. Priority should be given to building helipads and heliports in and around tourist spots in the state. Those areas, which have lagged in tourism development due to connectivity issues should be brought under focus,” he said The chief secretary also pointed out that while providing facilities for tourists, care should be taken that all age brackets are catered to. “Young tourists love technology. apps and a website should be designed where young tourists get all sorts of information. But for elders, who are not so tech-savvy, information should be provided through offline means. The tourist spots should also be made child-friendly,” he said Sandhu also directed the officials to develop resorts in such areas which have good tourism potential but have not been developed due to lack of facilities. “These resorts should be initially run by the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam and Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam and later after they should be promotable, or should be sold to private players. The money raised should then be used in the development of these tourist places The chief secretary said his directions should be implemented under||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-to-provide-location-monitoring-wrist-bands-to-trekkers-for-emergencies-101634236733382.html
15-10-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Why Queen’s gambit pawns victory for steady (forever) learning curve||At the moment, I have 659 wins against 612 losses and 58 draws in online competition play in the Blitz format. A win percentage of just about 50%.But that’s not why I play chess.I started playing at 16 (terribly old to have any prospects of making any waves) and lost close to 25 games before I won my first. It was in junior college (Grade 11-12) that I got to play chess regularly with my childhood friends Abbas, Satyan and Jitendra Singh Tomar (Jitu), Saju Sebastian and JP Shukla. Most days we played in the college gymkhana after badminton and then at Saju’s place or at JP’s, since they lived nearby. Matches were intense and heated arguments and tantrums were common.It wasn’t until the first year of professional college that I made a wave in any chess playing circles. I was 19 and in the intra-college tournament, I somehow made it to the quarter finals where I defeated one of our college professors, who happened to be the defending champion, 2-1 (a draw, a draw and a win over three games in that order, which gave me the match).I think it was the shock of the first-game draw that threw the professor since it was rare for him to be beaten or held. It made me an instant celebrity, but my 15 minutes of fame lasted only till the semi-finals where I lost 3-0.The real story for me was Kim Loon Lee’s quarterfinal loss. Kim was a chess whiz among us first-year students, apart from being a mischievous and polite teenager. He was one of my first friends in hotel management college. He and Sandy (Sandeep Nadkar) were chess buddies and could be found playing chess whenever they had any spare time in that first year.Kim lived in Khar with his father and elder brother, Henri. I remember my visits to Kim’s house and his father preparing garlic noodles and soup and chicken stir-fry. His father was a treasure trove of philosophy and life-stories and I enjoyed conversations with him. He also had a fantastic collection of vinyl records, all of which I got when they shifted to a new music system and CDs a couple of years later. I still have the collection of vinyls, as much for the eclectic music as for the kind gesture.A creative, diligent and multifaceted person, Kim taught me many things, many, many, things. We used to spend time working, studying, discussing life, philosophy, strategy, cooking styles, evolution of culinary styles in different regions, palmistry, graphology, numerology among other matters. And we discussed all this while hanging out, while working at a food stall in between serving customers, while cooking and tending bar at a party that Kim was catering for, while waiting tables after college, or while studying for exams.In chess, he introduced me to the Sicilian Defence, which I practiced for many years after. He was also the person who introduced me to anti-chess, for which as it turned I had a natural gift given its destructive, army-devouring purpose! I had finally found my calling in chess: playing the opposite of chess on a chess board.I played little chess thereafter and then eventually forgot all about it. Till a few years ago when our kids wanted to learn to play chess. So we got ourselves chess.com accounts and all of us are attacking, defending, moving forward and diagonally and backward at least for half-an-hour every day. We have a hand-crafted chess board with brass pieces, but we avoid that since most days one or the other of the kids smashes the board after a loss with the opponent rubbing it in. The online chess account is good because you get to play people from all over the world. There are a lot of puzzles and computer bot practice buddies and theory and study material, but the biggest advantage is the opportunity to improve by playing rather than by studying games played by others. The kids watch some of my games and they seem to understand that even when I lose game after game, what is important is that I am aware of my mistakes and eliminating the weaknesses in the game and that speed comes from knowing what you are going to do for every move your opponent plays and not to get fazed if there’s a surprise. They are learning that it is important to forget victories and defeats since both are a distraction and to focus only on performance and improvement and to enjoy the playing of the game. They are learning to vent their anger when they lose, throw a tantrum when they are on a losing streak, enjoy their wins and to improve their behaviour along with their play.I don’t invest much time analysing my games. I play. The same opening and the same subsequents again and again. I have been with the Queen Pawn opening for more than three years now. As a result, my first 20-odd moves for any set of black or white opponent moves are now automatic. It’s a work in progress and whether they will lead to victory is not my concern. The focus is to reduce uncertainty.A classic test of this is to play the 3-minute Blitz. Or the 1-minute Bullet or the 30-second Hyper formats. 20 moves run out pretty fast in a short format. I lose games regularly and no shame in it. Chess was always about improving my real-life decision making response time.As a thumb rule, I never resign even when the position seems hopeless. This is because I take play as seriously as life, and live life as care-freely as I play. I have learned that just as I make mistakes, so do others. So I keep playing to my game plan and two out of five times, opponents give me an opportunity to get back into the match. Life, on average, can be fair if you stay the course.It was Jitu who reminded me of our childhood underlying philosophy of play a few years ago. As of the last decade, he’s taken up badminton and Iron Man preparations seriously to keep himself active and healthy. “It’s all in self-belief and desire to keep pushing your limits. Winning is a byproduct. Learning about myself is the most important part of the journey.”If I can improve my understanding of myself and of my real-time performance in life, then a win percentage of just about 50% seems a fair outcome in life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-why-queen-s-gambit-pawns-victory-for-steady-forever-learning-curve-101634236552751.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||SDMC launches smart parking app for real time parking info, booking||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Thursday launched a smart parking mobile application, MyParkings, which will allow users to remotely view slot availability at 145 surface parking lots and eight multilevel parking sites and book slots accordingly.The app has been developed with the help of BECIL, a public sector undertaking of the ministry of information and broadcasting, and will be available for download from next week. Gradually, more parking sites will be added to the app, the civic body officials said.SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan said the app will enable cashless payments of parking fee and the database will be linked with Vahan app, Fastag and the traffic police’s e-challan database.SDMC and BECIL have signed a memorandum of understanding according to which the BECIL will be the implementing agency for the app-based smart parking system in the jurisdiction of SDMC.Union information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur said the parking app will smoothen the process of booking parking slots. “With the use of this app, which has cashless and paperless transaction mode, a lot of paper will also be saved on a daily basis,” he added.Of the five local bodies in Delhi, only New Delhi Municipal Council currently operates a parking management app and the south corporation, which manages 25,000 parking lots, will become the second body to do so.SDMC commissioner Gynesh Bharti said, “BECIL will bear the complete cost of development and maintenance of the app-based system, the capital cost of the server and its allied hardware and software.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-launches-smart-parking-app-for-real-time-parking-info-booking-101634234873237.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||Stubble fires count likely to hit 4,000 by month-end: Experts||Between September 1 and October 13 this year, over 1,160 instances of stubble fires were reported just from Punjab, showed an analysis by Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).Experts from CEEW said that while the stubble burning season in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana have had a slow start this year, the daily fire count is likely to reach around 3,000-4,000 by late October and early November, which is considered to be the peak time for stubble fires.“Since October 7, Delhi’s PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) concentration has started showing an increasing trend with the daily average PM 2.5 levels exceeding the permissible limit of 60 microgram per metre cube (µg/m3)... The daily fire counts in Punjab and Haryana combined are less than 250 at the moment. We are already in mid-October, only a week away from the peak stubble burning window from late October to early November, when the count is expected to go up to 3,000-4,000 fires a day,” said L.S. Kurinji, programme associate, CEEW.She added, “In the coming weeks, with changes in meteorological conditions, emissions from local and regional sources will only cause deterioration in air quality. Therefore, the Delhi government should use the air quality forecast and the Decision Support System developed by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) to target prominent sources of pollution and roll out the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures in advance to prevent severe air quality conditions in the city.”Officials in Punjab too said stubble burning has picked up pace in the border belt of Majha, including Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran districts, where the harvest of paddy is on in full swing.On October 13, a total of 132 events were captured by the satellite in Punjab. On the same day in 2019, 117 active fire events were captured, while there were 240 active fire events in the state in 2020.While Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) secretary said they have begun imposing fines of violators, officials from the pollution body, on the condition of anonymity, said they are wary of taking action against farmers who have been protesting against the three controversial farm laws across Punjab and at Delhi’s borders.PPCB secretary Krunesh Garg said, “The PPCB has started the process to identify farms where stubble burning has been identified by satellite and fines have been imposed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/stubble-fires-count-likely-to-hit-4-000-by-month-end-experts-101634234813259.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||DDA to hold two-day public hearing on draft Delhi Master Plan 2041||The Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) plan to hold a public hearing on the draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041 -- expected to be attended by 17,162 people -- over two days next week has come under criticism from civil society members who claim that the hearings are hurried and demanded more time for the discussions. The public hearing, which will be held online due to Covid-19 pandemic, will be held on October 18 and 20.Rajiv Kakria, convener of Save Our City campaign, a collective of RWAs, activists and others, said, “We all have spent so much time carefully going through the MPD-2041 provisions and drafting our suggestions/objections. If 7,000-8,000 people are put in one slot, how much time will one get?”The draft MPD-2041, which is the vision document for the city’s development for the next two decades, was put in the public domain in June this year.The land-owning agency received over 33,000 comments on the MPD-2021 but only 17,162 people have been given slots in the two-day public hearing.“The schedule represents only 17,000 names instead of 33,000 citizens who filed suggestions and objections... going by the schedule, each person will not even get 30 seconds to voice their feedback,” read a statement by Mein Bhi Dilli Campaign, a collective of over 40 civil society groups.Sabyasachi Das, former planning commission in-charge at DDA, said, “...the public hearing should be held for at least 20 days so that people get a chance to share their viewpoint.”When contacted, a senior DDA official said, “All those who have registered queries and suggestions will be heard. If more time is required, DDA is open to that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddato-hold-two-day-public-hearing-on-draft-delhi-master-plan-2041-101634234512938.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||Allow Chhath Puja festivities in Delhi, CM Arvind Kejriwal urges LG Anil Baijal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and urged him to allow Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi with adherence to Covid-19 protocols.“People of Delhi celebrate Chhath Puja every year with a lot of devotion and with a strong belief that it would bring good health and prosperity. In Delhi, the Covid-19 situation has been under control for the past few months. In my opinion, people should be allowed to celebrate Chhath Puja with the necessary regulations. Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, and other neighbouring states have allowed it with necessary protocols. I request you convene a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) and consider allowing Chhath Puja in Delhi too,” said Kejriwal in his letter to Baijal.Baijal is the DDMA chairperson and Kejriwal is vice-chairperson.The chief minister shared a copy of the letter on Twitter.In a statement issued later in the day, the chief minister’s office highlighted how the city used to have 72 spots for celebrations of Chhath Puja five years ago, and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government increased that to 1,200-odd locations, with facilities such as drinking water, toilets, changing rooms, power connections, shower areas, proper drainage, medical camps, adequate lights, concrete pathways, etc.A senior official in the lieutenant governor’s office said, “The chief secretary has been asked to convene a meeting of DDMA for consideration and decision on the issue.”On October 12, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, urging the Centre to draft protocols and issue necessary orders with regard to the festival, essentially asking for broad guidelines for Delhi to draft its own regulations regarding Chhath Puja.The Bharatiya Janata Party has been protesting over the prohibition of Chhath festivities, and asked the Delhi government to urge the DDMA to allow the celebrations just as Durga Puja and Ramlila were allowed with adherence to Covid protocols.The festival celebrated with fervour involves taking a dip in the water bodies and worshipping the Sun. It is a major festival for people from Bihar, Jharkhand, and Uttar Pradesh, who have a sizeable presence in Delhi.On September 30, the DDMA issued an order prohibiting the celebration of Chhath Puja at riverbanks, near water bodies, open grounds, in temples, and other public spaces. Chhath Puja in public spaces was prohibited last year too because of the pandemic. This year, it will be celebrated on November 10 -- which is six days after Diwali.Between last year’s festive season and this year’s, Delhi witnessed two distinct waves of Covid-19. At its worst, the capital city recorded a seven-day average of 25,000 new cases per recorded per day and a test positivity rate exceeding 30% in the last week of April this year, which left the city’s health care infrastructure overwhelmed and a severe crisis of medical oxygen further contributed to high number of deaths.This year, however, the DDMA left room open for celebration of other festivals such as the ongoing Ramlila, Durga Puja, and Dussehra, with limited restrictions such as no rallies, professions, fairs, carnivals and shops inside and outside the venues, restricitng maximum crowd size in proportion with the setting capacity, and complete ban on firecrackers.On October 9, Kejriwal said the DDMA prohibited the celebrations because of the inherent risk of transmission in the rituals which involve gathering in large numbers.On October 12, BJP member of Parliament from Northeast Delhi Manoj Tiwari was injured while protesting near Kejriwal’s residence in Civil Lines against a ban on the celebration of Chhath Puja.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said on Thursday: “It is because of the pressure created by the BJP that chief minister Arvind Kejriwal -- whose government was against Chhath celebrations -- has today written to the lieutenant governor to allow Chhath celebrations to take place. I congratulate all devotees from Poorvanchal (region) who live in Delhi and celebrate the festival.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/allow-chhath-puja-festivities-in-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-urges-lg-anilbaijal-101634234511803.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||Pre-emptive Grap measures may not be implemented in Delhi from today||A day after the air quality commission recommended pre-emptive curbs and restrictions to check pollution in Delhi under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) from October 15, senior officials of the Union environment ministry on Thursday said the matter was still under consideration.Officials aware of the matter said the sub-committee of the Commission for Air Quality Management for Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas (CAQM) were reviewing the Grap measures that will be implemented in Delhi pre-emptively in the coming days.HT reported on Thursday that CAQM members, in a meeting on Tuesday, suggested that curbs such as ban on use of coal-fired ovens, and activities such as routine mechanised sweeping should begin in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) from October 15 irrespective of the air quality at the time. They suggested that all ‘poor’ and some ‘very poor’ protocols of the Grap may be activated.On Thursday, a senior ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) official who asked not to be named said, “Grap is already there, and to implement the same a sub-committee has already been formed. However, whether any modified Grap, unlike what used to be in earlier years will be there, is still under consideration.”A CAQM member also said, “We are considering if it’s feasible, and we do want to take strong action.”Grap is a set of emergency measures approved by the Supreme Court in 2016, to list out a set of institutionalised measures to be taken when air quality deteriorates and reaches a certain level. The emergency action plan kicks in from October 15 and continues to be in force till March 31 depending on the air quality of the region.The Capital and its adjoining areas are plunged into a health crisis in the days leading to winter as winds bring in toxic smoke from farm fires in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab. Local pollution, such as dust and transport emissions, as well as a dip in the temperature, make the problem worse, often pushing pollution levels to alarming levels.On Thursday, the 24-hour average air quality index (AQI) was at 182, worsening from Wednesday’s 171. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.This year, Delhi recorded an AQI under ‘poor’ category last on July 2, when it was recorded at 245. On July 1 too, the AQI was 266, under the poor category. Till then, the air quality in Delhi has remained under either satisfactory or moderate categories.In a meeting chaired by the CAQM with the government agencies in Delhi-NCR on Tuesday, the pollution monitoring body recommended that even though the updates from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) suggest that the air quality in Delhi is likely to remain in the ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ zone in the coming days because of high wind speed and a forecast of rain on October 17-18, the Grap measures listed under the ‘poor’ category and some measures under the ‘very poor’ bracket should kick in pre-emptively from October 15, to control the local pollution sources.“The subcommittee was of the view that in addition to actions under ‘poor’ to the ‘moderate’ category, some of the actions under the ‘very poor’ category should also commence from October 15, though the air quality index (AQI) is expected to remain in the ‘satisfactory’ to the ‘moderate’ category range in the national capital,” said the CAQM recommendations.Environment experts said while Grap lists measures that can be enforced when a city’s pollution reaches a certain level, the pollution control agencies and the CAQM has the authority to enforce these measures pre-emptively if they think that these measures can prevent deterioration of the air quality.“Grap lists very clearly the actions that need to be taken by each agency when the air quality slips below a certain level, but the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has the authority to suggest restrictions pre-emptively. So, if the CAQM also thinks that certain measures can control pollution levels in the coming months, they can recommend and enforce pre-emptive curbs,” said Rahul Choudhary, senior environment lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/preemptive-grap-measures-may-not-be-implemented-in-delhi-from-today-101634234451953.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||2 railway cops on patrol duty run over by train near Delhi's Anand Vihar station||Two railway police personnel – one from RPF and the other from RPSF – patrolling railway tracks near Anand Vihar railway station were killed after they were run over by the Dehradun Shatabdi train around Wednesday midnight, the railway police unit of the Delhi Police said.The deceased were identified as head constable Kailash Chand (58) from the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and constable Ranjan from 10th battalion of Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF). Chand originally belonged to Bulandshahr while Ranjan was a native of Gaya in Bihar. They were posted at Anand Vihar railway station from 2016 and 2019 respectively.“Their families have been informed about the deaths,” said deputy commissioner of police (railways) Harendra Kumar Singh.DCP Singh said that they received information regarding the accident at around at 12.40 am on Thursday.During enquiry, the DCP said, it was learnt that the two were on patrolling duty from 7 pm to 6 am as per duty roster of the RPF.“The driver of the train (Dehradun Shatabdi), Malkhan Singh, stated that the two were standing on the track on which the train was passing, and checking a train on the other track with a flashlight. Malkhan pressed the horn but the two failed to notice it and came under it. Their bodies were shifted to Guru Teg Bahadur hospital mortuary,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi2-railway-cops-on-patrol-duty-run-over-by-train-near-anand-vihar-station-101634234091528.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||Cameras, bag scanners not working, security infrastructure at Delhi courts still||Even as Delhi Police are on high alert in the seven district courts in the Capital since the sensational and shocking killing of gangster Jitender Gogi in a Rohini courtroom last month, several CCTV cameras and x-ray scanners are not functioning in court complexes, according to officials aware of the matter.At the Rohini complex, for example, 25 of the 55 CCTV cameras installed were not functioning, according to the district bar association. And at Tis Hazari court, as many as 68 of the 88 cameras are not working, according to the its bar association.HT spoke to officials in all six of Delhi’s district bar associations (Rouse Avenue court does not have one) on the status of their security equipment. In all, of the 533 CCTV cameras and 48 x-ray scanners across the courts, only 365 and 32 were working, according to the information gathered.The recent killing of gangster Gogi by two gunmen, who posed as lawyers to enter the court, has exposed the loopholes in the security at the courts.When contacted, Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana said the police have started auditing the security infrastructure in district courts.Many district courts have reported incidents of shooting earlier as well. In December 2015, a head constable was killed when members of a rival gang opened fire at notorious northeast Delhi gangster Irfan alias Chhenu Pehalwan when he was brought to Karkardooma court. Irfan escaped, but the constable was killed trying to protect the judge. In May 2018, an undertrial was injured when a gangster shot at him at the Tis Hazari court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/many-cameras-and-scanners-don-t-work-at-delhi-courts-101634234033158.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||On Dussehra, RWAs go for light and sound shows to simulate effigy burning||Several resident welfare associations in Delhi, which also organise Dussehra events, have cancelled the effigy burning ritual this year, with the prominent ones going for light and sound shows in adherence to a complete ban on sale, purchase, storage and use of firecrackers in Delhi in the light of potential threat of severe air pollution.“In usual years, we burnt 150-feet high effigies. This year, we have effigies that are 30-feet high. We have light and sound arrangements to act as substitutes for firecrackers. And we are sure that people will enjoy the show. But there will be no real firecrackers in the light of the ban imposed because of the air pollution which affects every resident,” said Arjun Kumar, general secretary of the committee that organises the Luv-Kush Ramlila and Dussehra in the Red Fort ground.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is scheduled to attend the Dussehra event at Red Fort on Friday, and participate in the light and sound show to mark effigy burning without firecrackers, said senior functionaries of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).In Dussehra, effigies of Ravan, Meghnad and Kumbhkarn are commonly burnt in public spaces as a symbolic gesture to mark the victory of good over evil. The annual festival is celebrated across the city – in open grounds, markets, parks, etc – in different scales of grandeur. While some of the most prominent ones are celebrated at Red Fort, old Delhi, GTB Enclave, Shastri Park, Dwarka, and Rohini localities, most neighbourhoods in the city have some minimum arrangements with local resident welfare associations (RWA) acting as organisers.However, most residents’ bodies are not organising Dussehra this year.“One reason is Covid-19 regulations. There can be crowding. There can be violations of mask compliance rules. What if something goes wrong? Who will take the responsibility? Resident welfare bodies are rather trying to avoid unnecessary risks,” said Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary of United Residents of Delhi, a collective of around 1,800 RWAs in the city.BS Vohra, president of the East Delhi RWA Joint Front, another collective of residents welfare bodies, said: “Another reason is the ban on firecrackers. People in Delhi have to suffer because of severe air pollution every year and now they are quite aware of it. Residents welfare groups are doing their best to avoid contributing to pollution. So, most of them are serious about the restrictions.”The complete ban on fire crackers is part of the Delhi government’s currently applicable action plan to fight air pollution. A similar ban was imposed last year ahead of Diwali. This year, it was imposed on September 15, ahead of the entire festive season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/on-dussehra-rwas-go-for-light-and-sound-shows-to-simulate-effigy-burning-101634233491374.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||2.5k civil defence volunteers to enforce Delhi’s ‘red light on, gaadi off’ drive||At least 2,500 civil defence volunteers will be deployed at 100 traffic intersections across the city to encourage people to switch off their vehicle’s ignition while waiting at traffic signals, as part of the Delhi government’s ‘red light on, gaadi off’ campaign, environment minister Gopal Rai said on Thursday.Rai, who held a joint meeting with senior officials of the environment, revenue departments and Delhi Police to discuss the implementation of the campaign, said the drive will begin on October 18 and will go on till November 18.“Around 10 volunteers each will be deployed at 90 intersections of Delhi and 20 environmental marshals each will be deployed at the 10 major intersections of the city,” Rai said.He added that the campaign will be run in two shifts — the morning shift will be from 8 am to 2 pm, and the evening shift from 2 pm to 8 pm. “Pamphlets appealing to the public on the chief minister’s behalf will also be distributed at intersections,” Rai said.The major inspections where the campaign will be promoted on a large scale are Chandgi Ram Akhara (Ring Road), ITO Chowk, Rajghat Chowk, Tilak Marg-Bhagwan Das Crossing, Kadkadi Mod, Barakhamba-Tolstoy Marg Crossing, Rajesh Pilot Marg-Prithvi Road Crossing, Madhuban Chowk, Moti Bagh (Ring Road) and Peeragarhi Chowk.Noting that the aim of the campaign is to encourage behavioural change among people and to reduce vehicular emissions in the Capital, the minister said that the success of the campaign will be determined by public participation.“We will do our best to ensure maximum public participation in the campaign. To make this campaign successful, we are also reaching out to residents’ welfare associations,” he said.The campaign was first launched last year to save fuel and reduce air pollution in the city and was part of the number of measures by the Delhi government to tackle the annual pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25k-civil-defence-volunteers-to-enforce-delhi-s-red-light-on-gaadi-off-drive-101634233191164.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||South Delhi civic body to ask proof of debris dumping for building plan approval||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) plans to make it mandatory for builders to produce proof that construction and demolition waste (C&D waste) was disposed of at designated facilities, while applying for building plan approval for new structure. Leader of the house Inderjeet Sehrawat said the move will help in curbing the illegal dumping of C&D waste, which is a major contributor to the dust pollution in the city. “In cases where old structures are being demolished for fresh construction, a deposit slip/receipt for the C&D waste deposited at the designated site will be mandatorily required for processing the new building plan. The approval will not be granted without documentary proof. The works committee has approved the proposal and it will soon be implemented,” he said.The four zones falling under the south corporation are estimated to generate more than 925 tonnes of C&D waste every day. A senior SDMC official explained that 65 designated C&D waste collection sites have been set up where small quantities of waste can be deposited. “Bulk generators are expected to dump the debris at C&D waste processing plant or the sanitary landfill site in Okhla,” the official said, asking not to be named. “After dumping the debris at designated site, the builder would get a receipt as proof which will be later collected by the engineering or building department.”If one takes into the account all five local bodies of the city — the three municipal corporations, the New Delhi Municipal Council and Delhi Cantonment Board — together they produce more than 3,711 tonnes of construction waste every day and 255 designated sites have been earmarked for depositing such waste. Delhi has four operational C&D waste processing plants while another three are in the pipeline, officials said. The processing plants are located in Jahangirpuri (Burari), Shastri Park, Mundka and Bakkarwala. “The total capacity of these plants is 4,150 tonnes per day (TPD),” the official quoted above said. A 1,000 TPD plant is soon expected to be commissioned in Ranikhera, while another 1,000 TPD plant will be coming up in Tehkhand. The public works department plans to set up a 500 tonne per day plant in Libaspur for which the agency has applied for a change in land-use to the Delhi Development authority.Last week, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) commissioner also said the civic body may cancel approved building plans if owners/builders fail to safely dispose of C&D waste. In the view deteriorating air quality, the junior engineers JEs (building) have been directed to undertake fortnightly inspections of construction sites in their areas. “The owners/ builders will deposit the waste in Shastri Park facility and collect receipts. The JEs will be responsible for collecting the receipts,” an east corporation official said.The lack of sufficient takers for recycled products made from C&D waste such as tiles, bricks, kerb stones etc remains a challenge, officials said. The Delhi government has mandated that local bodies will have to use 5% of such construction material in their various projects while 10% of recycled products need to be used for road works.Highlights and stats:SDMC to make it mandatory to show proof that demolition waste was deposited at designated sites before sanctioning building plansSDMC areas generate 925 tonnes of C&D waste every day65 designated sites for dumping C&D wasteOverall, Delhi generates 3,711.6 tonnes of C&D waste a day, and there 255 dumping sitesFour C&D waste processing plants are operational: Jahangirpuri, Shastri Park, Mundka, BakkarwalaTotal capacity of these plants: 4,150 tonnes per dayUpcoming processing plants: Ranikhera, Tehkhand, LibaspurCity’s handling capacity to increase by 2,500 tonnes per day||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cd-waste-processing-proof-to-be-made-mandatory-for-building-plan-nod-delhi-civic-body-101634232891088.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||Three doctors of Delhi hospital injured after being assaulted by patient’s kin||Three doctors of Kuber Hospital in north-west Delhi’s Pitampura suffered injuries on Wednesday afternoon, after they were allegedly assaulted by the family members of a woman, whose newborn died during a Caesarean section procedure at the hospital. The patient’s kin also allegedly assaulted other medical staff and damaged hospital property, police said.A video of the alleged assault was circulated on social media on Wednesday, eliciting condemnation from net users.Police said a case of voluntarily causing hurt and wrongful restraint with common intention under relevant IPC sections was registered at the Subhash Place police station against the woman’s family members. A counter complaint regarding the death of the newborn, allegedly due to the negligence of the hospital staffers, was also filed by the woman’s family, deputy commissioner of police (north-west) Usha Rangnani said.“The body of the baby has been preserved at Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital mortuary. We have requested the Delhi government to constitute a panel of doctors for conducting the autopsy,” said DCP Rangnani.Dr Kanti Shamsukha of Kuber Hospital, on whose complaint a case was registered, said the baby’s heartbeat was low and the patient’s family was informed about the risks in her having a normal delivery before the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-doctors-of-delhi-hospital-injured-after-being-assaulted-by-patient-s-kin-101634232531044.html
15-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi man tries to frame lover’s husband in fake robbery case, 2 arrested||The Delhi Police has arrested a wholesale vegetable supplier and his friend for allegedly trying to frame the husband of a woman he was in a relationship with in a false case of armed robbery in south Delhi’s Okhla. The suspect allegedly wanted to get the man jailed so that he could move in with the woman, police said on Thursday.The incident happened on October 10 and the first information report (FIR) -- under sections of criminal conspiracy, wrongful confinement, threatening, assault and producing false evidence -- was registered against the suspects at the Amar Colony police station on the same day. Police said they have not arrested the woman yet as they are still examining her role in the crime.“The woman is also an accused in the case but she has not been arrested yet. She wanted to do away with her husband as he had been stopping her from calling or talking with her boyfriend. Our investigation is still on,” said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Esha Pandey, adding that the woman was getting updates on the assault from the suspects.Explaining the crime, DCP Pandey said that on October 10, head constable Ram Prasad of the Amar Colony police station received a call on the phone from one of the suspects, Akash alias Ashu, a multi-tasking staff of a government institution, who claimed that he had caught a robber who was trying to rob a vegetable vendor at Okhla Mandi with a pistol, along with Himanshu, the wholesale vegetable vendor.Later, Akash and Himanshu brought the victim, Mohit (25), to the police station and also presented a pistol that, they claimed, was used in the robbery bid.However, upon finding bruises on Mohit’s body, police questioned him and were informed of the plan to frame him.In his statement, Mohit alleged that Akash and Himanshu, along with their associates, forcibly took him and a friend to the basement of the Okhla vegetable market and held them hostage there. He further claimed that they were assaulted and subsequently, forcibly filmed with bundles of ₹500 notes and the pistol to make it seem like a case of armed robbery, said the DCP. Mohit’s friend was subsequently dropped off elsewhere by Himanshu’s associates.“Police found the assault videos on Himanshu’s phone. It seems he was also chatting with Mohit’s wife during the assault. Responding to the assault video, the woman asked Himanshu to make a proper video of Mohit with the pistol so that he can be framed in a false case of robbery. She also asked Himanshu to ensure that Mohit is not booked under theft charges, pointing out that he may get relief in a day,” said DCP Pandey.When questioned about the videos, Himanshu and Akash became evasive, and allegedly confessed during subsequent interrogation. A case was registered and the two were arrested.Police said Mohit had found out about his wife’s relationship with Himanshu, following which the latter lured him to Okhla Mandi in the guise of “resolving the problem”. Once there, they allegedly attacked him and went ahead with the plan to frame him in a false case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiman-tries-to-frame-lover-s-husband-in-fake-robbery-case-2-arrested-101634232050982.html
15-10-2021||Noida||Notices to over 900 bulk waste generators in Ghaziabad to scale down by 400MT||The Ghaziabad municipal corporation issued notices to owners of 968 bulk waste generators for allegedly failing to comply with the norms for daily solid waste disposal. Officials of the corporation said that included 436 residential societies and high-rises, and 532 establishments, such as banquet halls and industrial units.Ghaziabad currently generates about 1,200 metric tonnes of daily solid waste and, according to official estimates, has the facilities to get rid of about 400 metric tonnes of daily solid waste. Corporation officials said that a reduction of about 400 metric tonnes in generated waste every day would help the agency efficiently get rid of the rest of the daily solid waste.As per Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, bulk waste generators include buildings occupied by central government departments or undertakings, state government departments, local bodies, or private buildings with the average waste generation rate exceeding 100kg per day.Following bulk waste generator norms is also a requirement for buildings constructed over a 2,000 square metre or larger area to get map clearances.“The purpose of us sending notices is so that bulk waste generators comply with norms. If the bulk waste generators start processing waste, there will be a substantial reduction in the quantity of waste the corporation processes daily. The bulk waste generators have to simply segregate dry and wet waste and convert the wet waste to manure,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.“We have asked for compliance within two weeks, else we will start levying financial penalties ranging from ₹1 lakh to ₹5 lakh, and submit the list of erring bulk waste generators before the National Green Tribunal. The charges have been determined in accordance with the different directions given by the tribunal and also include environment compensation cost (ECC). We will take the police’s help to enforce compliance,” said Mithilesh Kumar, city health officer.“We issued three notices regarding ECC earlier this year as well. Erring bulk generators had then deposited ₹26 lakh. We have now written to the Ghaziabad Development Authority and Uttar Pradesh Housing Board to keep the corporation in the loop so that projects which received completion certificates on the basis of declarations of bulk waste processing can be inspected. Once we get the list of issued completion certificates, we will be able to check if installed facilities are operational or not,” Kumar added.During the Swachh Survekshan, a countrywide cleanliness survey, Ghaziabad slipped from the 13th rank in 2019 to the 19th in 2020.The rank fell largely because the city currently has no landfill site--the one at Pratap Vihar was shut down in January 2019 on the directions of the UP solid waste monitoring committee.Residents said that they would have to check if they received any notices or not.“The corporation must create awareness and their officials should tell us the process of segregation and processing. Then our societies will surely initiate the process. Further, there are societies who do not have extra space and face difficulty in creating a separate space for waste processing,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of the federation of association of apartment owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/notices-to-over-900-bulk-waste-generators-in-ghaziabad-to-scale-down-waste-by-400mt-101634230970653.html
15-10-2021||Mumbai||Earthquake of magnitude 3.2 hits Maharashtra's Kolhapur||An earthquake of magnitude 3.2 Ritcher scale struck Maharashtra's Kolhapur at around 6 pm on Thursday evening, the National Centre for Seismology (NCS) informed."Earthquake of Magnitude:3.2, Occurred on 14-10-2021, 18:21:40 IST, Lat: 16.73 & Long: 75.75, Depth: 10 Km ,Location: 160km E of Kolhapur, Maharashtra, India," tweeted NCS.Earlier, on October 12, an earthquake of magnitude 3.6 on the Richter scale struck Karnataka's Gulbarga at around 8 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/earthquake-of-magnitude-3-2-hits-maharashtra-s-kolhapur-101634223563398.html
15-10-2021||Chandigarh||Staff recruited under scheme for displaced Kashmiris not to be posted to far-flung areas||Employees recruited under a scheme for displaced Kashmiris will not be posted to far-flung areas, officials said on Wednesday. The announcement comes on the heels of a targeted attacks that left seven civilians dead in the region this month. Around 3,000 such employees are posted across Kashmir and a bulk of them stay in guarded transit government accommodations. A teacher from Jammu was among the civilians killed in the targeted attacks, which prompted many displaced Kashmiri employees to leave the Valley. Divisional commissioner (Kashmir) Pundurang K Pole on Wednesday said he had instructed deputy commissioners and senior police superintendents to regularly visit colonies and accommodations of displaced Kashmiris. “The officers have been issued clear-cut directions to preferably post these migrant employees in safe and secure zones instead of far-flung and vulnerable areas for the time being,” Pole said. Office bearers of employees’ unions have visited some of the transit accommodations to express solidarity with the displaced Kashmiri employees. The Centre had told the Parliament in July that 3,841 displaced Kashmiris have moved back to Kashmir and have taken up jobs across Kashmir under the Prime Minister’s Rehabilitation Package. It added 6,000 residential units were being constructed for the Kashmir Pandit employees in the Valley and 1,000 of them have been allotted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/staff-recruited-under-scheme-for-displaced-kashmiris-not-to-be-posted-to-far-flung-areas-101634218066840.html
