16-10-2021||Other||Assam plans to form religious tourist circuit of places travelled by 15th century scholar||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state government is planning to craft a religious tourist circuit comprising all places travelled by 15th century Vaishnavite scholar Mahapurush Srimanta Sankardev. He added that steps are being taken to build tourist lodges to accommodate pilgrims.According to an official statement, Sarma stressed on the requirement and opportunities for study on the life and teachings of Sankardev – one of the greatest Assamese scholars of all time, news agency PTI reported. The chief minister also highlighted the scholar’s role as a great social reformer, who laid the foundation stone of the greater Assamese society, PTI reported him as saying while addressing a programme at Sri Sri Sankardev Mandir at Sualkuchi in Kamrup (Rural) district. Sarma added that the spiritual guru had developed a fine understanding about India, and its culture and civilisation via his pilgrimages to several religious places of India. The BJP leader noted that the scholar brought about an amalgamation of Indian and Assamese cultures. The chief minister added that given Sankardev’s religious and social contributions, there is still adequate scope for research on his life and teachings.At the programme, Sarma also inaugurated the Srimanta Madhavdev Library.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-to-form-religious-tourist-circuit-of-places-travelled-by-spiritual-guru-101634408384022.html
16-10-2021||Other||Historic Bharat Milap in Varanasi leaves audience spellbound||VARANASI: The Bharat Milap, an annual cultural event organised to commemorate Lord Ram’s return to Ayodhya after 14 years of exile and his reunion with his brother, Bharat, ended on a happy note at Naati Imali Ground in Varanasi on Saturday. A large number of people attended the festival, organised the day after Dussehra. The Bharat Milap, which reflects spirituality, antiquity and tradition together, also carries forward the traditional legacy of the city. The festival began with the worship of Lord Rama, Sita and Laxman at Chitrakoot Ramlila Bhavan, few metres from the Imali Ground. Clad in white dhoti and undershirts with saffron gamachhas on their head, ‘Yadav Bandhus’ carried the chariot onboard Lord Rama, Sita and Laxman on their soldier to the ground from the Bhavan. On the occasion, the spiritually charged people also chanted ‘Har Har Mahadev and ‘Jai Sri Ram’. As the chariot reached the ground, the priest offered prayers to Lord Rama, Sita, Laxman and Lord Hanuman. Kunwar Anant Narayan Singh, chief of Kashi Royal family, also offered prayers to Lord Ram, Sita, Laxman and Hanuman amid chanting of mantras by priests. After the puja, he gave a gold guinea to the priest like the previous years and then Lord Rama and Laxman met their brothers, Bharat and Shatrughan. Like past year, the event also drew a huge crowd. A large number of young devotees took selfie, while others captured the moments into their cameras. Many people of Kashi settled in other cities also visited to see the Bharat Milap. Special arrangements were made by the administration for the event. Besides, tight security arrangements in place and cops in plain clothes deployed at the venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/historic-bharat-milap-in-varanasi-leaves-audience-spellbound-101634408767418.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||JEE Advanced :Lucknow boy among top 100 from IIT-K zone||Lucknow City lad Malik Hammad Faisal is the only student from Uttar Pradesh who figured among the top 100 in IIT-Kanpur zone in JEE- Advanced and his overall rank is 87. The other two boys who figured in top 100 from the zone are from Madhya Pradesh. They are Yash Virani (AIR 37) from Bhopal and Utkarsh Singh (AIR 84) from Jabalpur. After his schooling from City Montessori School, Faisal went to Kota for IIT-JEE preparation. “I preferred to study mainly from the NCERT textbooks. I was always interested in computers and IT is one of the fastest growing sectors so I wish to join IIT-Delhi to pursue B Tech in computer science,” he said. Kanpur boy Kushagra Gupta secured AIR 109 in JEE-Advanced and is ranked fifth from IIT-Kanpur zone. “I wish to join IIT-Delhi or IIT-Kanpur for computer science engineering or IIT-Bombay for electrical engineering. I have not yet decided what to do after college but I might prepare for civil services or pursue research,” he said. Teerath Agarwal brought laurels to the state capital by achieving an all India rank (AIR) 482. He had scored a percentile of 99.84 in JEE Main and an AIR of 1820. He is hoping to pursue computer science engineering. Atharva Gupta, a student of Seth MR Jaipuria School, scored an AIR of 737 in the JEE Advanced exam. He has devoted two years to prepare for JEE examinations. He has a keen interest in Robotics and wants to pursue it in the future. Ravija Chandel nailed JEE-Advanced examination by achieving an AIR of 743. She passed Class 12 from City Montessori School, Gomti Nagar 1. She was also a top ranker in JEE-Main examinations by attaining AIR of 509 and percentile of 99.96. She is an NTSE scholar and was also selected for Government of India’s Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojna (KVPY) scholarship and achieved 40th rank in the Indian National Olympiad for Chemistry. “Technology is a good thing as we can find answers to mostly all questions online and clear our doubts,” said Ravija, who wants to pursue computer science engineering. Aryan Maurya of CMS Kanpur Road campus secured All India Rank 870. He completed Class 12 (ISC) with 97% marks and wants to pursue electrical engineering from IIT-Bombay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/jee-advanced-lucknow-boy-among-top-100-from-iit-k-zone-101634407506957.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi to launch several projects in Kashi on Oct 25||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate several projects and also address a public meeting during his proposed visit to Varanasi—his Lok Sabha constituency—on October 25. Sunil Ojha, the UP BJP co-in-charge, gave this information during a meeting he held at the Circuit House here on Saturday to discuss preparations for the PM’s proposed visit. He said no major public meeting of PM Modi could be held in the country for the last one-and-a-half- year due to the pandemic. However, now the situation was getting normal only due to the efficient leadership of the PM, he added.Ojha further said the BJP had organised a big public meeting in Mehndiganj, Rajatalab, Varanasi during the PM’s visit here. He said the PM will inaugurate several projects, including ring road, and launch a national scheme worth ₹65,000 crore for the nation from Kashi on October 25.Kashi region BJP unit chief Mahesh Chand Srivastava said the party had started preparations for the PM’s visit. Kashi region BJP media In-charge Navratan Rathi said lakhs of people will attend the PM’s proposed rally in Kashi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-to-launch-several-projects-in-kashi-on-oct-25-101634407447040.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Smriti’s temple run ahead of mass Ramcharitmanas recitation in UP||Union minister Smriti Irani went to various temples during her daylong visit to her Lok Sabha constituency Amethi on Friday. She also participated in Ramlila—the theatrical depiction of life and times of Lord Rama—and paid her obeisance to characters essaying the roles of Ram, Sita and Laxman. Soon after arriving in Amethi, Smriti, who was wearing a red-coloured stole usually worn by women during prayers at the temple of Goddess Durga, headed straight to Tiloi’s Ahorwa Bhawani temple from where she reached Durgan Bhawani temple at Gauriganj.She also visited Kalikan Bhawani temple at Sangrampur and offered prayers. The Amethi MP didn’t make any political comments during her visit. Smriti’s temple run coincides with a UP government plan to organise mass recitation of Ramcharitmanas at selected temples of Lord Ram and Hanuman, officials said. As per the proposal being drawn up by officials of the culture department, on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti on October 20, the department would organise mass recitation of Ramcharitmanas and Hanuman Chalisa in Ram and Hanuman temples. These mass recitation programmes are also said to be part 75th year celebrations of country’s independence, officials said. Principal secretary, culture, Mukesh Meshram has written a letter to all divisional commissioners and district magistrates in this regard. Nodal officers would also be appointed for the purpose and videos of the recitation of Ramcharitmanas too would have to be prepared. “There are an estimated 260 plus temples located in the routes said to have been taken by Lord Rama and Goddess Sita as well as the ones undertaken by Rama, Sita and Laxman during their 14 years in exile and such temples would be on priority for the recitations,” an official said. “Details of the singers who would sing/recite the religious texts are being prepared,” an official said admitting that this was the first time when such mass recitations would be organised across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/smritis-temple-run-ahead-of-mass-ramcharitmanas-recitation-in-up-101634406966994.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccination: Over 36% eligible people get both doses in Lucknow||One in every three eligible people in Lucknow has now been administered both the doses of Covid vaccine, according to the health department data on Saturday.In all, 12, 92,822 second doses of the Covid vaccines have been administered in Lucknow since the start of the vaccination drive on January 16 this year. This is over 36% of the over 35.50 lakh population eligible for vaccination.“In all, 42,23,883 doses, including 29,31,061 first doses, have been administered in Lucknow till now. The first dose coverage is over 82% in Lucknow,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary, General Association of International Doctors.In Uttar Pradesh, total 11,81,75,357 doses have been administered. They included 9,23,59,277 first dose and 2,58,16,080 second dose. Over 60% eligible population in state has got at least one dose.“Efforts are being made to push vaccination further. All the in charges of different vaccination centres, particularly in rural areas, have been asked to ensure raising adequate awareness regarding vaccination centres and camps being held in the area to motivate maximum eligible population to get the j​ab,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer of Lucknow.During the day (Saturday), 3,73,324 doses were administered in the state, including over 17,980 doses in Lucknow.UP logs five fresh cases
16-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram records ‘very poor’ air quality for first time this season, rain likely||The air quality in Gurugram on Saturday dipped to the ‘very poor’ category for the first time this season, as the city recorded the air quality index (AQI) at 308, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin.According to the CPCB’s bulletin, a significant increase in farm fires is to be blamed for the spike in the pollution levels, leading to the poor air quality across the national capital region (NCR) on October 15. Previously, the air quality in the city was recorded in the ‘poor category’ with the AQI at 201 on October 9 following a drop in the temperatures, officials had said.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted rainfall in the city on Sunday, leading to a dip in the pollution levels. The IMD on Saturday predicted that the city is likely to witness one or two spells of rain over the next two days.The meteorological centre in Chandigarh on Saturday issued a ‘yellow’ alert for heavy rain in South and southeast Haryana” in its weather bulletin. “Heavy rain is likely to occur in Gurugram on Sunday. Some parts of the city may also witness thunderstorms, lightning and squall. A yellow alert, asking authorities to be prepared, has also been issued for the next two days,” said an official of IMD Chandigarh.Earlier this week, the IMD had said that fresh spell of light to moderate rainfall, accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning, under the influence of lower-level easterlies, is very likely at many places over the northwest India, including Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and at a few places in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi between Saturday and Monday (October 16 and 18).According to the weather bulletin by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi on Saturday, the air quality is likely to improve and remain in the ‘moderate’ category from Sunday to Monday (October 17 to 18) following the predicted rainfall, but the air quality is likely to hit the ‘poor’ category over the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-records-very-poor-air-quality-for-first-time-this-season-rain-likely-101634406066742.html
16-10-2021||Gurugram||Haryana deputy CM Chautala condemns Singhu murder||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Saturday said that the murder of a 40-year-old Dalit man on the Singhu border was a “reprehensible incident and must be condemned by everyone”.He said that farmer leaders present at the Singhu border cannot absolve themselves of responsibilities for the ghastly murder. There are 40 leaders from different farmer organisations who are spearheading these farm protests and they must take responsibility for the things that happened at the dharna sthal as the people are sitting there on their call, Chautala said.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who spoke at the Apparel House later in the day, also said that the “farm leaders at the Singhu border should completely distance themselves from such elements, if they want to clear their role in such incidents”.Meanwhile, both Khattar and Chautala have expressed confidence that they will win the bypoll being held in Ellenabad being held on October 31.The Congress on Saturday, however, said that it is heading for a victory in the Ellenabad bypoll election. Senior Congress leader and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who was also in the city, said that the “Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janata Party (BJP-JJP) government has done nothing except scams, and harassed farmers and general public in its two-year tenure”.“The coalition government has proved to be a failure on every front as every section of the state is troubled by this government... Today, the farmers are neither getting a proper rate for paddy nor the MSP is being given for millet. Millet with an MSP of ₹2,250 quintal is given at a rate between ₹800 and ₹1,000. Even after adding ₹600 to the Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana, the farmers are facing a loss of ₹600 per quintal,” Hooda said.Refuting the allegations, CM Khattar said, “The Opposition can say whatever it wants, but we are the ones who discuss real issues. In Haryana, we have done a lot of work in the past seven years. New schemes have been made for the needy, and efforts are being made to increase the income of the farmers. Plans have been made for smooth procurement of crops in the mandis. Farmers are being paid in time, and compensation is being given in case of crop damage.”Chautala on Saturday was speaking on the sidelines of an event to inaugurate the new office -- with a capacity to seat 650 officials -- of the excise and taxation department in Gurugram. He said that the new office was designed on corporate lines and it will allow the entire excise department to work under a single roof. “This facility will enable the department to serve the people and businessmen in an efficient manner,” he said, adding that the office was constructed at a cost of ₹45 crore, and has been developed as an energy efficient structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-deputy-cm-chautala-condemns-singhu-murder-101634406007238.html
16-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram: Fresh policy to give power connections in private colonies, says Khattar||The Haryana government will come up with a fresh policy to provide electricity connections to homebuyers in 16 private colonies in Gurugram, where the power distribution company -- Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) -- had stopped issuing power connections on July 2 this year after the developers did not build the requisite power infrastructure after repeated notices since 2013.The development came as Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday chaired the monthly grievance committee meeting at Apparel House in Gurugram Sector 44. CM Khattar also said the Municipal Corporation Gurugram (MCG) and the department of town and country planning (DTCP) have been directed to fix a timeline for transferring 14 private colonies under the corporation for maintenance and upkeep.The state government will come up with a new policy soon to ensure that fresh power connections are being issued to consumers in 16 colonies where the DHBVN has put a ban, said CM Khattar. “On the issuance of new electricity connections, it has been decided during the meeting that a fresh policy to issue the connections will be formed soon. New connections will be issued to consumers who have already paid the development charge, and those who are yet to pay it. The issue will be resolved once the new policy is in place,” said the CM.The DHBVN had stopped issuing new and temporary electricity connections in these 16 colonies because, despite repeated notices, the developers had neither paid the dues nor set up the requisite infrastructure, said DHBVN officials.According to the information shared by the authorities, colonies where new power connections are not being issued are Sushant Lok phases 1, 2 and 3; South City 1 and 2; Palam Vihar, Malibu Towne, Ardee City, Mayfield Garden, Uppal Southend, Sun City, Vipul World, Saraswati Kunj.CM Khattar also said that consumers in these colonies will be grouped in three separate categories and the new policy, specifically designed for these issues, is on the anvil. “In case, the consumers have deposited external development charges (EDCs) to the developers, this money will be taken from the builders and electricity connections will be issued to the consumers. In case, the EDCs are yet to be paid, they can directly pay it to the government for the issuance of new electricity connections. The consumers will be given relief soon,” the CM added.For accelerating the transfer of private colonies to the MCG, the CM said, the MCG and the DTCP have been directed to conduct surveys to assess deficit infrastructure and prepare estimates and issue the same to 14 developers, whose colonies are to be transferred. “Timelines will be prepared to ensure that colony transfer takes place according to the plan. The district town planner will take all the responsibilities to complete the infrastructure,” said CM Khattar, adding that authorities have issued directions to the officials concerned to ensure that the DLF Phase 3 colony is transferred to the MCG by December 31, 2021.New cremation ground, burial facilitiesTo provide cremation and burial facilities to the residents of the new sectors in Gurugram, CM Khattar on Saturday also announced the setting up of a cremation ground for Hindus, and burial grounds for Muslims, Christians and children over 15 acres in Sector 72 A.A memorial park will also be set up in this facility to provide greenery and memorial space to the residents, CM Khattar said, adding that these facilities are missing in the new sectors, despite the rising population in the city.District sports officer absent in meet, suspendedThe CM on Saturday also issued directions to suspend the District Sports Officer of Gurugram, JG Banerjee, for being absent in the grievance committee meeting the very day, without taking any prior permission. He issued the directions after a matter related to sports came up for redressal, but Banerjee was not present in the meeting.Ease in registry of agricultural landCM Khattar also said that new modalities are being formulated to ensure that registry of sale, purchase and transfer of agricultural land is made easier by the revenue department. At present, a no objection certificate (NOC) is required for transfer of small plots up to 1 acre, wherever Section 7A of the Haryana Urban Development Act is in force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-fresh-policy-to-give-power-connections-in-private-colonies-says-khattar-101634405946846.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Politics and religion were never separate, says Uttarakhand CM||Lucknow: Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said on Saturday that politics was never separate from religion and both had always supplemented each other. Dhami, who reached Ayodhya on a two-day visit, will preside over bhumi pujan event of an ashram on Sunday which is being constructed by the Delhi Seva Dham. He is the first Uttarakhand CM to pay obeisance to Ram Lalla after the Supreme Court paved way for construction of Ram temple by ruling in its favour on November 9, 2019. Dhami had gone his graduation and LLB from Lucknow University and is the youngest chief minister of Uttarakhand. “From childhood we had dreamed and wished for Ram temple in Ayodhya. Now, it is becoming a reality,” the Uttarakhand chief minister told media persons. Commenting on politics and religion, Dhami said: “Politics was never separate from religion. In fact, both supplemented each other.” On his visit to Ayodhya, Dhami said: “This is not a political visit. I have been associated with the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and have visited Ayodhya at least 50 times. I have been coming to Ayodhya since my childhood.” “I belong to a farmer family and people in my family are also in the army. We (my government) are continuously working for farmers,” said Dhami. “All schemes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for farmers are being implemented in Uttarakhand. Be it Kisan Samman Nidhi, doubling farmers’ income or any other scheme, all of them are being rolled out,” said Dhami. On forthcoming assembly polls in Uttarakhand, Dhami said: “There are five Lok Sabha and two Rajya Sabha MPs in Uttarakhand. For the assembly poll we have given the slogan ‘Is bar 60 par’.” Earlier, Dhami paid obeisance to Ram Lalla and Lord Hanuman at Hanuman Garhi temple. At Ram Janmabhoomi, the Uttarakhand chief minister worshipped Ram Lalla and inquired about the ongoing construction work of the temple. Members of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust and engineers of Larsen and Toubro, who are carrying out temple construction work, apprised the Uttarakhand CM about the upcoming temple. Later, Dhami also met Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust at Mani Ram Das Chhavni Peeth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/politics-and-religion-were-never-separate-says-uttarakhand-cm-101634405887470.html
16-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: One killed as car overturns on Yamuna Expressway||A 25-year-old man died and his three friends were injured when the car they were travelling in overturned on the Yamuna Expressway in Dankaur on Saturday evening. The deceased was identified as Shubham Gaur, a resident of Bhajanpura in New Delhi. The injured were identified as Bhavya Jain, 28, from Yamuna Vihiar in Delhi; Priyanshi Arora, 23, from Bhajanpura; and Mansi, 23, from Ghaziabad. Arvind Pathak, station house officer of Dankaur police station, said the four persons were travelling in a Maruti Swift Dzire. “They were coming from Agra to Delhi. When they reached near the Sports City in Dankaur, the driver lost balance of the vehicle. The car hit the divider and overturned on the expressway,” he said. Some passersby informed police and a team reached the spot. The victims were rushed to a private hospital where Gaur was declared brought dead. “The three persons have also received serious injuries and they are undergoing treatment,” Pathak said. Police said that it appears the car was speeding which resulted in the accident. “The injured are not in a condition to speak. We do not have more details about them,” he said. The victims’ family members have been informed, police said, adding that they have not received any complaint in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-one-killed-as-car-overturns-on-yamuna-expressway-101634405706896.html
16-10-2021||Gurugram||Demolition drive to resume in Faridabad’s Khori village from Monday||The Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) from Monday will start a demolition drive at Khori village, settled on Aravalli forest land, once again to remove the remaining residents there, said officials on Saturday.The residents were given two months’ time to remove their belongings from the area and this move has been taken to reclaim the forest land from them, they added. At present, nearly 200 families live in the village.Yashpal Yadav, commissioner of MCF, said, “After the demolition drive was completed at Khori village earlier this year, some people were allowed to stay there as they had said they would remove the construction and demolition waste on their own. But the residents continued to live there in temporary households. We will start a demolition drive from Monday to remove their temporary houses.”On Wednesday, MCF teams had visited the area for inspection and informed the residents to vacate the area within this week.Nearly 6,600 dwelling units in Khori village have been razed by the MCF over the last few months as the illegal colony was encroaching 150 acres of the Aravalli forest land.On June 7, the Supreme Court fixed a six-week deadline to remove the 6,600 structures in the Khori Gaon colony, and directed the MCF to act, without exception, against all the unauthorised structures on the forest land.Members of Mazdoor Awaas Sangharsh Samiti (MASS), an organisation working for rehabilitation of the residents of Khori village, said that the people were staying there as proper rehabilitation had not been provided to them. Nirmal Gorana, convener of MASS, said, “We condemn the decision of the authorities. This is for the second time in months that these families will be displaced. The authorities have not started allocating flats to the displaced residents, who have applied for flats as part of the rehabilitation policy, yet. First, an alternative arrangement should be made and then only any action should be taken.”The rehabilitation policy issued by the government proposes to house the residents of Khori Gaon at the economically weaker section (EWS) flats at Bapu Nagar and Dabua Colony in Faridabad. To be eligible for this, residents need to show either a Pariwar Pehchan Patra (PPP) of an adult member of the house, an election ID card of the Badkhal constituency, or an electricity bill of their premises at Khori Gaon. The MCF has identified at least 899 applicants to be eligible for the rehabilitation scheme.To add MCF quote on rehabilitation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/demolition-drive-to-resume-in-faridabad-s-khori-village-from-monday-101634405646859.html
16-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Woman alleges harassment by unknown caller||A 45-year-old woman has alleged that she has been receiving some unwanted calls, mostly at night, and indecent videos from an unknown mobile phone number for the last one week. The woman, a booth level officer (BLO), is a resident of Ambedkar colony in Surajpur, police said, adding that a case was registered on Friday against an unidentified person at Surajpur police station. “I usually do not receive calls from an unknown number at night. In the morning, I called back but the person did not receive the call. On Thursday, the person sent some indecent videos on my WhatsApp number,” she said in her complaint. The woman’s husband said that the couple has three daughters and one son, who also use that mobile phone. “On Thursday, my 25-year-old daughter was using the phone when she found these indecent videos. This was an awkward moment for us. We called back on the number but the suspect again did not receive the call,” he said. He said that his wife’s work involves visiting door-to-door for verification of people’s credentials to make voter identity cards. “My wife is also involved in an exercise to revise the voters’ list. Her mobile phone number is available at tehsils and local government offices. It appears someone picked up the number and he is harassing us,” he said. The woman, along with her husband, on Friday visited Surajpur police station and filed a complaint. Santosh Kumar, senior sub-inspector at Surajpur police station, said that a case has been registered against an unidentified suspect under sections 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code. “We have asked the victim to block the number. We have put the suspect’s mobile number on electronic surveillance. He will be arrested soon,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-woman-alleges-harassment-by-unknown-caller-101634405346488.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||‘No dowry’ affidavit sought from UP govt servants married after March 31, 2004||Lucknow: All government servants In Uttar Pradesh who were married after March 31, 2004, have been asked to submit an affidavit declaring that they did not receive any dowry in their marriage, according to a recent circular issued by the department of women’s welfare. The circular, issued on October 12 to all the heads of departments, commissioners and DMs among others, has asked them to mail affidavits on a given mail id by October 18. The authorities have been requested to take action against the personnel who do not file the desired affidavit. “This is probably for the first time when our department has sought no-dowry affidavit from government servants in a serious bid to get the provisions of the anti-dowry law enforced in the state,” said director, women’s welfare, Manoj Rai. Under the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, all public servants across the country are mandated to furnish an affidavit at the time of joining, stating that they will not receive dowry when they get married. “Now, we have asked employees who got married after March 31, 2004 to furnish an affidavit stating that they did not receive any dowry when they were married,” he said. The UP framed Dowry Prohibition Rules ( as a follow-up to the Centre’s Act) in 1999 after which it amended rules on March 31, 2004 ,specifically providing in Rule 5 that every government servant will, during his appoint, furnish a self-attested affidavit to the appointing authority, stating that he received no dowry in his marriage. “You are, therefore, requested to necessarily obtain an affidavit from all the government servants posted in offices under you by October 18. with the affidavit stating that they received no dowry in their marriage,” the circular tells the HoDs and others, adding “Please ensure action against employees who do not give an affidavit to this effect.” People who were in the know of things also said that the department of women’s welfare was also scheduled to submit a report on compliance of ‘no-dowry’ affidavit submission and action taken for non-compliance to a Parliament legislative committee that was likely to visit the state soon. Dowry that is termed as a social evil is illegal in the country under the anti-dowry law, according to which any act of taking or giving dowry is punishable with in imprisonment up to five years and fine of ₹15,000 or the value of the dowry given, whichever is higher. The circular seeking no-dowry affidavit is said to have put many government personnel into a quandary. ,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-dowry-affidavit-sought-from-up-govt-servants-married-after-march-31-2004-101634405286634.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Farrukh Jaffar: Actor who played protagonist at 88!||Known for her stellar performance in the film Gulabo Sitabo (2020), veteran actor Farrukh Jaffar breathed her last on Friday at her residence in Gomti Nagar, Lucknow. She was 89. Her death has left a void that can’t be filled. In her home town Lucknow, where she was fondly called Ammaji, her fans and supporters are left heartbroken. The actor made her debut playing Rekha’s mother in Muzaffar Ali’s film Umrao Jaan (1981) at the age of 49. Jaffar became a household name with films like Swades, Peepli Live, Sultan and Secret Superstar. Last year, after the release of Shoojit Sircar’s Gulabo Sitabo, where she played a protagonist Fatima Begum wife of Mirza played by Amitabh Bachchan, she had said, “This is a golden period for me. Sochiye 88 saal ki umar mei Bachchan ki heroine ka role kiya humne, (laughed). In the film Mehrunisa again I’ll be playing the lead. It feels nice to play lead at this age and I am thankful to all for recognizing my talent.” Jaffar bagged an award for her role in Gulabo... while her next Mehrunisa, where she plays an erstwhile royal begum is being showcased at film festivals. She also played title role in the film Amma Ki Boli and will be soon seen in Pankaj Kapoor starrer Seher as well as Kushan Nandy’s forthcoming project. Unfazed with the pandemic, she once said, “I am not at all scared of corona! One who has brought me into this world will decide when I have to leave. For now, I am now waiting for my next film.” She passed away at her residence in Lucknow, after suffering from a brain stroke on Friday evening. “…Farrukh Jaffar celebrates the nine powerful avatars of Durga during navratri before stepping into the next phase of existence surely to continue to make wonder what kind of waves, in what kind of a world,” posted her daughter and author Mehru Jaffer. Gulabo... writer Juhi Chaturvedi, a Lucknowite, wrote on Instagram: “Farrukh ji…na aap jaisa koi tha aur na hoga… dil se shukriya jo aapne humko aapse rishta jodne ki ijaazat di… ab allah ki uss duniya mein hifaazat se rahiyega…”Actor Ayushmaan Khurrana also posted: ‘Begum gayin…RIP Farrukh Jaffarji’. Director Sandeep Kumar posted: Extremely sad... As we prepare to launch #Mehrunisa in USA tomorrow, our Mehrunisa (actress Farrukh Jaffar) left us today for new adventures amongst the stars above !!!! Renowned writer Tariq Siddiqui wrote, “You epitomized the true blue Lucknowee tehzeeb and never failed to entertain us. We lose one of the last bridges to the charming old world.” Her fans and Lucknowites took to social media to share their memories with Ammaji.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/farrukh-jaffar-actor-who-played-protagonist-at-88-101634404807819.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Hi-tech mechanized system helping to keep Prayagraj clean||The Prayagraj Nagar Nigam (PNN) in collaboration with a private firm has deployed state-of-the-art hi-tech machines to help clean the city better. “The hi-tech machines are being used in cleaning parks, community toilets and other open areas around the city. The cleaning is done using high pressure washing, foam cleaning, splash-free cleaning, high pressure cleaning of choked pipes and drains along with cleaning of drains using an Italian machine Dulevo, which is a patented technology,” said chief executive officer (CEO) of Lions Services Ltd Sunil Singh that has been roped in by the PNN to carry out the work. He added that the machine cleaning will not only save time, but also manpower. “Through the powerful rotary jet machine, stains in toilets and other places will be removed with ease. In addition to this, the garbage from houses will be collected separately as dry and wet waste. To implement this properly, citizens are also being made aware of the way and the importance of segregating the waste,” he added. Singh further said, “Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, many projects are being run under the Smart City initiative in the state. The cleanliness drive is being run with full force by the PNN and now with the use of hi-tech machines by Lions Services Ltd, the cleanliness campaign will get a boost.”An official of PNN said already many public toilets are been cleaned using these machines and soon all the toilets of the city would be brought under the purview of mechanized cleaning. “Through this project, toilets are being extensively cleaned through well-equipped technology-based vehicles on a daily basis, due to which a radical change is being reflected in the sanitary condition of these toilets in a very short span of time. Subsequently, there is a continuous and significant increase in the number of citizens using these toilets, which is a progressive change in the direction of ending open defecation,” the official claimed. He said the competent executing agencies have been selected through a transparent tender process. “These agencies use mobile vehicles equipped with modern equipment on the basis of 15 toilets per vehicle. In addition to this, skilled and professional sanitation workers have been deputed, who carry out detailed cleaning of all the community toilets with the help of modern equipment available with the vehicles,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/hitech-mechanized-system-helping-to-keep-prayagraj-clean-101634404686899.html
16-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Puja leftovers clutter Hindon banks||The banks of Hindon near GT Road in Ghaziabad on Saturday were strewn with rotten flowers and polythene bags, among other items, after the festivities of Dussehra and Durga Puja, as a number of devotees dumped the puja leftovers in the river. An HT team, which visited the site on Saturday, found that the banks of the river from GT Road to the Vasundhara underpass were stuffed with garbage. HT tried reaching out to the municipal commissioner, additional municipal commissioner and the city health officer, but none responded till late Saturday evening. However, Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UP Pollution Control Board, said, “We have noted the issue and will ask the Ghaziabad municipal corporation officials to rope in cleaning staff and get the garbage cleared from the banks of the river.” When asked, police officials said that the immersion of the Durga idols was done in temporary ponds created away from the banks of the river.“However, some devotees might have dumped the puja leftovers along the banks at different times. We will keep a close watch over such persons and legal action will be taken,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).Environmentalists said that the issue has been witnessed year after year and the enforcement agencies have failed to rein in erring persons. “My colleague Krishan Pal from Baghpat filed a petition with the National Green Tribunal in 2015 and the tribunal directed that there should be no dumping along the banks of river. It also directed for a penalty of ₹20,000. Despite directions, there has been no let off in such instances and almost every year after festivals, there are dumps of garbage which can be seen along the banks,” said Vikrant Sharma, a city-based environmentalist. “The enforcement agencies have basically failed despite several orders passed by the tribunal in this context. They simply dug up artificial ponds for immersion purposes, but they fail to catch erring persons,” said Akash Vashishtha, another city-based environmentalist. The Hindon originates from Saharanpur and culminates at Momnathal in GB Nagar. According to official statistics of the UPPCB, the upstream areas of Hindon at Maheshpur in Saharanpur, Budhana and Baghpat Road in Meerut, had no presence of dissolved oxygen (DO) from January to August this year. Further downstream, the DO is found only at three sampling locations of Karhera, Mohan Nagar and Chijarsi bridge but the levels range between 0.8 to 2.78 mg/litres which is low for survival of aquatic life and standard of 5 mg/litre which is considered favourable for propagation of aquatic life. “Garbage material has organic and inorganic compounds which deteriorates the DO levels and further increases the Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD). These two parameters when increased, leads to impurities in water and increase pollution levels,” said Dr Chandra Vir Singh, a retired scientist from Haryana pollution board. Singh, the convener of Doaba Paryvaran Samiti, in 2014 and 2015 filed two petitions with the National Green Tribunal and raised the issue of contamination of water of river Hindon due to effluent discharge by industrial units and also about the contamination of groundwater in catchment areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-puja-leftovers-clutter-hindon-banks-101634404448448.html
16-10-2021||Jaipur||Amid coal shortage in India, Rajasthan ensures zero power cuts||A total of 166 rakes of coal have been sent to Rajasthan in the last eight days to address the shortage of the dry fuel at thermal power plants and the power situation is continuously improving in the state, an official said on Saturday. Additional Chief Secretary (Energy) Subodh Agarwal in a statement said that while there was no power cut anywhere in urban and rural areas of the state on Friday, another unit in Suratgarh has resumed production. Agarwal said that in the midst of shortage of coal supply and power crisis in the state, the situation has continuously improved due to the efforts of the state government. From October 6 to October 15, 65 rakes of coal were received from Coal India's subsidiaries NCL and SECL. While 101 rakes of coal have been dispatched from the state government company PKCL coal mines. He said that this has been possible due to the high level initiative and holistic efforts of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Agarwal said that production at thermal units is being resumed on priority and in the last eight days, about 1,700 MW power generation has been started in four units. He said that production has started in Suratgarh with a capacity of 250 MW, whereas 600 MW in Kalisindh Thermal, 195MW in Kota Thermal Power Station and 660 MW in Unit 6 at Suratgarh Power Station had started earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/amid-coal-shortage-in-india-rajasthan-ensures-zero-power-cuts-101634402247779.html
16-10-2021||Noida||A day after Dussehra, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida most polluted across country||A day after the Dussehra celebrations, pollution levels of Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida spiked to “very poor” category on Saturday, with Ghaziabad emerging as the most polluted city across the country, according to the air quality index (AQI) figures of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The AQI data also revealed that Greater Noida was the second most polluted city in the country.On Saturday, the AQI for Ghaziabad, Noida and Greater Noida stood at 349, 312 and 330, respectively. A day earlier, the AQI of Ghaziabad and Greater Noida was under “poor” category at 235 and 241, respectively, while that of Noida was recorded at 192 (“moderate”). According to CPCB, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. Officials of the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that the sharp rise in pollution levels was a result of burning of effigies in NCR, high volumes of traffic and other external factors. They also said that it is for the first time this season that the AQI of the three cities spiked to “very poor” category. “The reason for spike can be attributed to the Dussehra celebrations on Friday and high volume of traffic on the roads. In Ghaziabad, except for the Indirapuram air monitoring station, the primary pollutant at the three other stations was PM2.5 which affected the overall AQI,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad. During the morning hours, several stretches of National Highway 9 remained under hazy conditions which only improved in the afternoon. “In Noida, the three monitoring stations at sectors 1, 125 and 116 witnessed a spike in air pollution levels around 4am on Saturday, but the situation improved a bit in the afternoon. The Noida Sector 62 and Indirapuram stations are close to each other, and their primary pollutant was PM10. Some external factors like stubble burning also added to the pollution levels,” said Sharma, who is also officiating for Noida city. Bhuvan Yadav, UPPCB regional officer for Greater Noida, said that unfavourable meteorological conditions made the situation worse. “Due to low wind speed, there was less dispersal of pollutants, and the accumulation led to the spike in pollution levels. This pattern is mostly observed during winter season,” he added.Meanwhile, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) stated on Saturday that the fire counts in neighbouring states stood at 1,572. “With 1572 effective fire counts, the stubble burning contribution in Delhi’s air has suddenly increased to 14%. Fire counts are gradually increasing, and wind direction is favourable and coming from north-west direction at transport level for intrusion,” the forecast said. It further added that the AQI will remain under the “moderate” category starting Monday. The Safar also said that there is a likelihood of rainfall in the region under the influence of western disturbance. Environmentalists said that the vehicular movement during the festivities is largely responsible for spike in pollution levels. “Apart from the external factors, traffic on roads increased due to festivities and it led to spike in PM2.5 levels. Burning of effigies alone cannot be held responsible for the spike. Due to the pandemic, there were restrictions and many Ramlila committees in the city did not burn effigies. Those who did prepared small effigies and burnt them symbolically without firecrackers,” said Akash Vashishtha, a city-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/a-day-after-dussehra-ghaziabad-and-greater-noida-most-polluted-across-country-101634402946744.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||South Mumbai resident held with drugs worth ₹1 crore||The narcotics control bureau (NCB) officers conducted raids at two places in Thane and Palghar districts and seized 505 grams of mephedrone worth nearly ₹1 crore and arrested a south Mumbai resident.Based on specific inputs zonal director Sameer Wankhede-led teams on Friday and Saturday raided two premises in Vasai and Palghar areas. The searches led to the recovery of drugs.The contraband seized was found in physical possession of Mohammed Ajaz Yakub Shaikh, a resident of JJ Road. He had purchased 505 grams of mephedrone from a Nigerian national and was going to supply to his customer in Mumbai, the NCB statement said. Further investigation is underway to nab the supplier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/south-mumbai-resident-held-with-drugs-worth-1-crore-101634402288088.html
16-10-2021||Pune||13 held by Pimpri-Chinchwad police for “dabba trading”||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad police crime branch conducted raids in offices of three stock trading companies and arrested 13 people for indulging in “dabba trading” - a form of trading that is illegally kept off-books to avoid scanners of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI).The arrested have been identified as Vasu Khushaldas Balani (51), Prakash Pasmal Mansukhani (52), Ravi Gaikwad (35), Vicky Suresh Kamble (36), Roshan Suresh Makhija (29), Satish Dattatray Khedkar (35), Rahul MarutiKamble (48), Ritesh Arun Gaikwad (32), Rajkumar Avtaram Kundanani (45), Govind Mohandas Nathvani (52), Haresh Sevakram Sachdev (31), Jitu Suresh Makhija (31), and Jitu Shankar Makhija (31), all residents of various parts of Pimpri-Chinchwad.“From these accused, cash worth ₹1,20,750 and 15 mobile phones of different companies were found. These accused used various mobile applications to invest in online trading and made illegal use of the rise and fall in the market, without a permit, and operated dabba trading which is illegal. They did not report any of the transactions to SEBI. They do not use any Demat accounts for these trades which prevents them from getting registered. The spread of “dabba trading” method is far-reaching and multiple businesspersons are suspected to be investigating their black money in it,” read a statement from the assistant commissioner of police Kakasaheb Dole of Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch.The men were arrested in a case under Sections 406, 42, 120(b) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 13, 16, 17, 18(a), 19 with 23 of Security Contract Regulation Act, 1956 registered at Pimpri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/13-held-by-pimpri-chinchwad-police-for-dabba-trading-101634402286656.html
16-10-2021||Patna||Principals’ retirement age flip-flop: Patna HC sets it right, orders all consequential benefits||In a moral victory and big relief to the college principals who were made to retire suddenly and even from retrospective effect following the 2012 amendment to the PU Act and the Bihar state universities Act, which had deleted the term ‘principal’ in the definition of ‘teacher’ and later restored it in 2017, Patna High Court has ruled that they shall be deemed to have continued on their posts till they attained the age of 65 years and shall be entitled to all consequential benefits, including pay and emoluments as well as continuity in service.“It had been submitted at the Bar that recoveries have been made from certain persons. It is directed that the same be returned forthwith. The compliance of the order should be done within 16 weeks from the date of production of a copy of this judgement before the Vice-Chancellors and Registrars concerned,” ordered the bench of Justice A Amanullah while hearing the case earlier this month.The move will immediately benefit 20 principals spread across several state universities who fought the legal battle through 15 separate petitions and have an impact on over 300 principals who were made to retire during the five years.The removal of college principals from the teaching cadre had created a furore, as the retirement age of teachers was increased to 65 years in 2010, while that of non-teaching staff was left at 62 and all the principals having attained the age of 62 between 2012 and 2017 amendments were compulsorily retired, including some from retrospective effect as they had by then either crossed the age of 62 contrary to the provisions laid down in the 2012 Act and even touched the 65-year mark.The principals were brought under the teachers’ fold, as was the situation before 2012, again through 2017 amendments, which was to be effective from prospective effect from May 15, 2017. However, several principals completed their age of retirement between 2012 and 2017 and they were not only immediately retired from service, but the government also decided to recover the additional salary paid to them. Raj Bhawan had also sought clarification from all the concerned vice-chancellors about the continuance of principals beyond the age stipulated in the Act.The HC order now means that the principals who retired between 2012 and 2017 would be deemed to have been in service till they attained the age of 65 years. “The Principal always was a ‘teacher’ l, for if the Principal would not have been a teacher from 2012 to 2017, then without there being any justification or basis either in law or by the pronouncements of the court or under the UGC regulations, the same could not have been re-introduced by the State,” the court observed.The court observed that “the 2017 Amendment Act included the term ‘principal’ expressly in the definition of ‘teacher’ also shows that without any requirement, the same was done only by way clarification or to remove any confusion/ambiguity”.The court cited the government’s flip-flop while deciding in favour of aggrieved principals. “The budget, which has been brought on record by the Magadh University for the year 2016-2017, the post of principal has been shown in the sanctioned post of teacher and the budgetary allocation for principal has been made under the head of teachers and in terms thereof, the budget was approved and released in February 2017 by the director, higher education, government of Bihar. Thus, even the State accepted that the principals would also come under the category of ‘teacher’ even after the 2012 Amendment Act. The principals also engaged classes in their colleges according to the 2010 resolution and continued even after the 2012 Amendment Act. So, their position is not disputed,” it added.A senior official of the education department, who did not want to be quoted, said that it was precisely the reason why education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary had categorically said at the Patna University foundation day function that the teachers must get their due on time, including promotions, without having to run around. “He told the VCs not to keep a backlog of promotion of teachers and issues concerning them so that they could fully devote themselves to teaching. This will also avoid litigations as ultimately it serves no purpose. Invariably, the state notifications of even UGC regulations are delayed and later department officials try to implement things from retrospective effect, causing unending litigations and loss of precious time and energy. This must stop,” he added.Bihar state constituent college principal forum Baban Singh said the court verdict had come as a big mental relief to the principals. “I was myself a university professor since 1996 and I was also treated as non-teaching staff. Many others senior to me also had to face the trauma of recovery of salary paid to them. I thank all those who stood by us,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/principals-retirement-age-flip-flop-patna-hc-sets-it-right-orders-all-consequential-benefits-101634402106466.html
16-10-2021||Patna||One killed, over 12 cops injured in Dussehra clashes||One person was killed while over 12 policemen and 18 civilians were injured in separate clashes during the idol immersion procession at Sitamarhi, Patna, Gaya, Nawada and Siwan districts. The situation remained tense in Patna and Sitamarhi surrounding areas for the whole time on Saturday. In Sitamarhi, six policemen, including an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), were injured in a conflict between police and the public at Raipur village under the Nanpur police station area on Friday night. The incident took place when police refused them to take out the procession with DJ due to the Covid guidelines. Though the police appealed to stop playing the music, people did not pay much heed. The policemen immediately seized the music system and were about to shift the violators to the police station when the people, in large numbers, picked up an argument and started pelting stones. Police used mild lathi-charge and fired two rounds in the air to control the situation. Many in the mob also sustained bruises in the melee. Sitamarhi SP Harkishore Rai said 12 persons were detained for further action. Reports from Patna, one person was killed and many others were injured when two groups clashed near Janata hotel on Friday evening. Police said that the incident took place when two groups, on their way for immersion of idols, had an altercation over a trivial issue. The altercation took an ugly turn and they opened fire at each other. One of the bullets hit a 23-year-old Vikky Chaudhary in his chest, who died on his way to the NMCH. According to City SP (east) Jitendra Kumar, a case has been lodged against unidentified miscreants.In another incident, a violent clash occurred at Chandhaus More under the jurisdiction of the Paliganj police station area of rural Patna late on Friday night, leaving more than ten persons injured. The incident occurred after some miscreants allegedly started misbehaving with girls and women during the Vijay Dashmi celebrations. When the families objected, the miscreants opened fire. The families of girls also opened fire on the miscreants, leading to chaos in the area, police said. Two persons identified as Pinku Kumar and Chiku Kumar received gunshot injuries in this incident. They were admitted to PMCH and are said to be out of danger. Paliganj ASP Awadhesh Dixit said police recovered two empty cartridges from the spot. He said a manhunt has been launched to nab the accused. In another incident, volunteers dancing to the tunes of music systems went berserk when police confiscated their music system during the immersion. People allegedly vandalized vehicles parked in the police station and chased the policemen from the spot, said police. Reports from Gaya, four devotees, including a woman, were injured in a firing outside a pandal at Dumaria main bazaar. Gaya SSP Aditya Kumar said two persons were arrested in this connection. The injured were referred to Magadh Medical College Hospital for treatment. In Siwan, a group of villagers turned violent when a police team stopped the orchestra programme at Done Bazar under the Darauli police station area. Mob attacked the team and damaged police vehicles. A case has been lodged against 12 named and 150 unknowns persons on the statement of circle officer Arvind Prasad Singh. Reports from Nawada, a police team was roughed up by antisocial elements in the Warshaliganj police station area. Nawada SP said that the police team reached the spot after getting information about a clash between two groups at station road. When the police tried to pacify the situation, some of the locals attacked them with bamboo sticks and pelted stones. More than six policemen were injured in the incident..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/one-killed-over-12-cops-injured-in-dussehra-clashes-101634402050108.html
16-10-2021||Patna||Ensure Covid testing of those coming to Bihar for Diwali, Chhath: CM||With Diwali and Chhath festivals around the corner, the state government has decided to conduct Covid tests on people returning home from other states to celebrate and provide jabs to those who are not fully vaccinated yet. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who held a review meeting with health department officials on Saturday, told them that many people would be returning to Bihar during Diwali and Chhath festivals. “We should ensure that they undergo Covid tests and vaccinate those who have not taken the jabs,” Kumar said.He also asked officials to publicise for the sake of Biharis living in other states that they also need to keep their vaccination certificate and RT-PCR report with them. Kumar said, “Get immunisation of the remaining people in the state done expeditiously. In the absence of the Aadhaar card, provide vaccination on some other identity card and their Aadhaar card must also be made.”The chief minister also asked the officials to keep a special watch on those coming from outside at railway stations, bus stands and inter-state border checkpoints and keep arrangements for corona investigation at these places as well.Earlier, additional chief secretary (health) Prataya Amrit informed that the vaccination campaign would be intensified and the number of corona tests will be increased further. A door-to-door campaign for the second dose of the corona vaccine will be conducted between October 18 and 20. “This time, people will also be motivated to take the second dose,” he said.Amrit told about the survey conducted by WHO regarding vaccination of Motihari district, which said that 96% of people have taken the Covid jabs across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ensure-covid-testing-of-those-coming-to-bihar-for-diwali-chhath-cm-101634402048960.html
16-10-2021||Other||33 juveniles escape from remand home in Aurangabad, 15 return||PATNA: Thirty-three inmates of Aurangabad’s remand home for juveniles escaped after breaking the iron rods and iron grill of the main door on Friday night, said officials. All the accused had been arrested for criminal offences and were between 12 and 17 years of age. According to reports, the incident came to light on Saturday morning when the security guard of the remand home, situated in Babhandi locality, found the iron rods of the main barrack missing. Later, in the emergency headcount, 33 inmates were found missing. The newly constructed building functioned without any CCTVs and generator. There are five armed guards, three homeguard jawans and three private security guards deployed for security.A closer look at the main gate showed that the iron rods had been bent to make way. Footmarks on the boundary wall of the remand home also confirmed that the missing inmates had used the route to make their escape. Immediately after the incident came to light, the safe home officials informed the district administration as well as town police station which in turn launched a manhunt. Aurangabad DM Sourabh Jorwal said 15 of the accused returned to the safe place. Efforts are underway to trace the remaining ones. He added that adjoining areas of the town have been cordoned off and parents of the inmates have been informed.Earlier on Friday evening, the inmates vandalised the safe home premises on allegations of their meal being served up late and poor quality of food. In-charge of the remand home, superintendent Bikramaditya Pal, said the protesting inmates damaged the furniture, windowpanes, generator, tore official papers and attacked the staff, leaving two seriously injured. This is the second such incident within three months. Earlier on July 14, six inmates from Gaya, Jehanabad, Patna and Buxar had escaped from the remand home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/33-juveniles-escape-from-remand-home-in-aurangabad-15-return-101634402047835.html
16-10-2021||Patna||JEE Advanced result: Bihar boy secures third rank in Guwahati zone||Vaibhav Vishal, who hails from Sitamarhi district, has bagged the third position in the Guwahati zone (which covers Bihar, West Bengal and northeast states) with an All India Rank (AIR) 197 in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced 2021, results of which were declared on Friday.He has scored 267 marks out of 360 in JEE Advanced exam.He aspires to pursue BTech in Computer Science stream from the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay.Vishal had scored the perfect 100 percentile in JEE Main exam, results of which were declared on September 15 and jointly shared AIR 1 with 17 toppers in the country.He shared that he expected a better rank in JEE Advanced as his main result was promising.“I expected better rank in JEE Advanced as my performance was good in JEE main result. However, I have decided to take admission in engineering college this year as I have already taken two attempts to crack the entrance exam”, he shared.Last year, Vishal stood at 1762nd rank in the Mains exam and 1700th position in the Advanced exam. Vishal’s father Prabhakar Kumar is a chief life insurance advisor at Life Insurance Corporation while his mother Madhuri Mishra is a teacher.He scored 97.4% in the Class 12 board exam as a flying candidate last year.Sharing his study strategy, he said, “I thoroughly followed NCERT books and took mock tests for practice. During the lockdown, my coaching centre provided online classes to continue preparation and doubt clearance. I studied for 13 to 14 hours a day to complete my daily target. I am happy that my hard work paid off.”Around 10,000 students from the state took JEE Advanced exam held on October 3 across 40 exam centres spread over 13 districts..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jee-advanced-result-bihar-boy-secures-third-rank-in-guwahati-zone-101634402046520.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi: PM to inaugurate seven medical colleges from Siddharthnagar on Oct 25||The newly constructed Siddharthanagar Medical College named after Jan Sangh founder leader Madhav Prasad Tripathi (Madhav Babu) will be among seven other medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh that will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Siddharthnagar on October 25, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday. The CM said this after reviewing the preparations of PM’s visit at Siddharthnagar Medical College on Saturday. The other medical colleges that will be inaugurated are Deoria (named after Deoraha Baba), Ghazipur (named after Maharishi Vishwamitra), Mirzapur (named after Maa Vindhyavasini), Pratapgarh (named after Sone Lal Patel), Etah (named after veraangna Avanti Bai) and Hardoi. The chief minister said: “The land of Buddha (Siddharthnagar) is set to welcome PM Modi who will inaugurate seven medical colleges on October 25. I have held meeting with officials and public representatives to ensure PM’s programme is held in a grand and systematic way. All the new medical colleges have been recognized by National Medical Commission. Medical colleges in Ayodhya, Bahraich and Basti are already operational. So we have a long chain of medical colleges with better health services, infrastructure, doctors and experts. Earlier, the BRD Medical College at Gorakhpur was the only medical college in eastern Uttar Pradesh. But with these new medical colleges the situation has changed completely.” Siddharthanagar medical college will cater to needs of people of Balrampur, Maharajganj and even neighbouring country Nepal. “With the seven new medical colleges, each having capacity of 100 intakes, the numbers of seats in state’s medical colleges would increase by 700,” he said.The CM further said Gorakhpur AIIMS that is almost ready will also be inaugurated by the PM very soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-pm-to-inaugurate-seven-medical-colleges-from-siddharthnagar-on-oct-25-101634400968535.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||We practise our Hinduism at home, practise nationalism once we step out: Maharashtra CM||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray once again attacked his former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the second consecutive day. He said the greatest threat to Hindus is from ‘neo-Hindus’, and for the Shiv Sena nationalism was the biggest religion.Thackeray was attending a release event of a booklet of the speeches of his grandfather late Keshav Thackeray, who was a prominent social reformer of his time. He was also known as Prabodhankar Thackeray because of his Marathi publication, Prabodhan.Thackeray took potshots at the BJP comparing it with the seven blind men who touched different parts of the elephant and claimed that the elephant resembled the part they touched. “We practise our Hinduism at home and once we leave our house, our nationalism becomes our religion,” said Thackeray. “However, if some person from other religions tries to provoke us, then we retaliate,” he added.Thackeray said that, unlike others, the Shiv Sena’s brand of Hinduism is well known. “My grandfather opposed the dogmatic practice and we have been following that till date,” he added.He said he was proud to inherit the legacy of his grandfather and his father Sena founder Bal Thackeray.Thackeray also unveiled the website of the Bal Thackeray Memorial on this occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/we-practise-our-hinduism-at-home-practise-nationalism-once-we-step-out-maharashtra-cm-101634400666608.html
16-10-2021||Other||{Drug seizures} Forensic reports integral part of challan: HC||Chandigarh Forensic reports in drugs seizure cases form the foundation of the prosecution’s arguments and if these are not there, its (the prosecution’s) case falls to ground, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said. The bench of justice Gurvinder Singh observed that no doubt the Supreme Court has held that a challan, even if not accompanied by a report of the chemical examiner or of the expert, cannot be said to be incomplete. “However, it needs to be highlighted that the said cases did not pertain to an offence under the NDPS Act. A case under the NDPS Act can only survive in case the prosecution is able to establish that the article recovered is indeed a contraband, and which can only be established on the basis of its chemical examination,” the bench said. The court was hearing a bail plea from one Vinay Kumar from Sirsa arrested in December 2020. Police claimed that Kumar, driving a tractor abruptly tried to deviate upon seeing police party. When stopped, 7,000 Tramadol Hydrochloride tablets were recovered. The challan was presented before the trial court on March 4, 2021 but without the report of chemical examiner. The period of 180 days, which is mandated for filing of challan as per provisions of NDPS Act expired on June 20, but the prosecution did not file the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) report. He filed for bail on June 22 on the ground that in the absence of the report of FSL, the challan could not be said to be complete. The trial court, however, dismissed this report. The court said that in other cases say any injury or hurt or murder case under the IPC, even the ocular version coupled with some medical evidence or some other circumstantial evidence may suffice to bring home the guilt of the accused. But cannot be said to be indispensable in each and every case and even in the absence of such reports, the prosecution may well be able to establish its case. “ ..the contention of the petitioner that the report of FSL form very foundation of the case of prosecution and is an integral part of the challan cannot be brushed aside (in NDPS cases),” the bench said quashing the trial court order and allowing bail to the accused after almost nine months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drug-seizures-forensic-reports-integral-part-of-challan-hc-101634400606453.html
16-10-2021||Pune||Man arrested by Pune police cyber cell for rigging online GMAT exam||PUNE A man was arrested from Jharkhand by Pune city police cyber crime cell for allegedly virtually manipulating the online platform for Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT) examination which is a qualifying exam world-over for Masters in Business Administration (MBA) degree.The arrested man has been identified as Abhay Mishra, a resident of Mango in the Jamshedpur district of Jharkhand. The cybercrime cell police officials seized one laptop and mobile four pen drives for debit cards and other documents from his possession. A local court in Pune has remanded him to police custody for more than a week.The incident came to light after a complainant from Pune approached the cybercrime cell after having used Mishra’s services for a GMAT attempt in which he scored more than 770, according to the complainant.“Based on information gained from technical analysis, police inspector Meenal Supe-Patil of the cyber police station and an investigating team went to Jamshedpur, Jharkhand and set a trap to arrest Mishra,” read a statement from the Pune police.Mishra had made a social media profile on which his customers would directly message him. To the complainant, he had sent a list of desired marks and the money that he would charge for scoring them on the customers’ behalf. For more than 750 he quoted ₹4 lakh, for more than 740 he quoted Rs.3.7 lakh, for more than 730 he quoted Rs.3,50,000, for more than 720 he quoted Rs.3 lakh, for more than 710 he quoted Rs.2,70,000 and for more than 700 marks he quoted Rs.2.5 lakh, to the complainant. Once the deal was made through direct messages the accused had asked for remote access through a computer mirroring app, DW services – the accused logged into these applications and pretended to be the complainant and appeared for the trilliums, the complainant told the police. The complainant score in the fraudulent attempt was above seven 770 out of 800 and once the score was declared the queue started demanding ₹4 lakh from the complainant. The complainant then approached the police and lodged a complaint. A case under sections 419 (impersonation), 420 (cheating) of the Indian penal code along with section 43 (A) (G) (I) (F)of the information technology act, 2008 was registered at the cyber police station of Pune city police. Upon investigating the complaint, the police analysed the location of the Social media profile and system mirroring application and found that the accused was operating from the Jamshedpur area of Jharkhand. The police laid a trap in Jamshedpur, arrested Mishra, and brought him to Pune for producing him in a local court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-by-pune-police-cyber-cell-for-rigging-online-gmat-exam-101634400367708.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Durga idols immersed in artificial ponds after Sindoor Khela in Lucknow||Idols of Goddess Durga were immersed in artificial ponds and pits on the banks of the Gomti amid “Durga Mai Ki Jai” slogans in Lucknow on Friday for the third consecutive year to save the river from further pollution.Two prominent puja organisers, Bengali Club and Ramakrishna Math, immersed the Durga idols on their own premises. While Bengali Club immersed the idol in a pit on its campus adjacent to Durga mandap amid beating of “dhaak” (drum) and dance by devotees, Ramakrishna Math did so at its orchard in the Gosaiganj area.“In the wake of the pandemic and to maintain social distancing during the immersion, we decided to immerse Durga idol on our campus,” said Arun Banerjee, president, Bengali Club.In all, over 90 Durga idols were immersed in the artificial ponds dug by Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) and the district administration on Friday. The Lucknow Municipal Corporation staff were present at Lakshman Mela Park, Jhule Lal Vatika and Kudia Ghat where the idols were immersed, said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi. He thanked the Durga puja committees and individuals who turned up for immersion of the idols in an eco-friendly way. The immersion was allowed in the presence of the police.Earlier in the day, married women applied vermillion to the goddess before bidding her adieu, in a ritual called Sindoor Khela at different Durga puja mandaps.They later applied the same vermillion, praying for healthy and prolonged life of their spouses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/durga-idols-immersed-in-artificial-ponds-after-sindoor-khela-in-lucknow-101634400366428.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||BJP only knows two things - 'jeebh chalana' and 'jeep chadhana': Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav Saturday took potshots at the BJP over the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, saying the ruling party only knows 'jeebh chalana' (lip service) and 'jeep chadhana' (mowing down people).His criticism of the BJP came days after eight people were killed in violence during a farmers' protest in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri which left eight, including four farmers, dead.BJP leader and Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish has been arrested in connection with the case after he was accused of mowing down farmers with his vehicle. The minister has defended his son, claiming he is "innocent"."The truth is the BJP knows only two things -- 'jeebh chalana' (lip service) and 'jeep chadhana' (mowing down people). Crushing people and suppressing their voice is their (BJP) agenda," Yadav said while addressing party workers at the Samajwadi Party headquarters here.Ashish and others have been named in the FIR filed in this connection and the latter was arrested last week.Claiming the BJP government's tenure was "full of failures", Yadav alleged that because of "wrong policies" of the ruling party, the state lagged behind with runaway inflation and high unemployment."The entire tenure of the BJP government was full of failures. Due to the wrong policies of the BJP government, Uttar Pradesh lagged behind and there was no control on inflation, unemployment. The law and order also got worse," said a party statement, quoting Yadav."The BJP government has not done any work in public interest. The BJP is a strange party which is making tall claims without doing anything. The double engine government of the BJP has harassed every section of society and has not done anything itself but has been appearing in advertisements claiming the works of the Samajwadi Party government as its own," he said.Speaking about the 2022 assembly elections, he said it would decide the direction of national politics and would also be a testing time for democracy.Cautioning the workers, the SP chief said, "We have to be careful of the possible conspiracies of the BJP. Since the BJP is very clever, this time there should be no mistake and SP workers and leaders need to mobilise themselves up to the booth level."He said people's problems will end and the interest of farmers and youths protected only when the SP forms a government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-only-knows-two-things-jeebh-chalana-and-jeep-chadhana-akhilesh-yadav-101634398509811.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: NDMC organises cleanliness drive in Sarojini Nagar market||New Delhi: The public health and enforcement departments of New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), in collaboration with Sarojini Nagar Market Shopkeepers Association, organised a ‘Swachhta Abhiyaan’ and ‘Say No to Single Use Plastic’ drive in Sarojini Nagar market area on Saturday morning.Officials said that while the NDMC public health department had deployed 50 safai mitras, its enforcement department had assigned 30 staff for making the anti-plastic drive successful.All participants, volunteers and NDMC staff conducted an extensive cleanliness drive in the entire market and its surrounding areas, including near the Metro station, parks and parking facilities. Dr Ramesh Kumar from the NDMC public health department, who sensitised the shopkeepers and vendors about the importance of the drive, said, “Around 3,500 kilograms of plastic waste, loaded in two trucks of enforcement department and three auto tippers of public health department, were collected from the market area, during the three-hour drive.”Director (enforcement) RP Gupta said, “The massive response from the market associations and vendor associations has motivated them to organise such drives regularly in the different markets of the NDMC area, for sensitising the shopkeepers and vendors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhindmc-organises-cleanliness-drive-in-sarojini-nagar-market-101634398867613.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s 3rd hand transplant patient stable, family seeks financial help||Twenty-two-year-old Jagdev Singh who underwent a bilateral hand transplant procedure at the Global Hospital in Mumbai is in stable condition. The 12-hour long surgery concluded early on Saturday. Doctors said that Singh was still unconscious and that the procedure went well without any complications. In January 2020, Singh, a native of Hanumangarh, Rajasthan was working with a borewell in their farm when he came in contact with a high-tension wire. He suffered severe burn injuries and had to be shifted to a hospital in Jaipur where his upper limbs and lower limbs both had to be amputated. Singh was a second-year Bachelor of Arts student then. “He was an excellent kabaddi player,” said Singh’s brother-in-law Nirmal. “He hoped to get a government job to support his family after his education was completed,” he said. It took nearly two months for Singh to be discharged from the Jaipur hospital. Soon after, his family came across the possibility of a hand transplant through an article on the internet. Early this year, Nirmal came to the Global Hospital to inquire about the possibility. Two months ago, he brought Singh along with him and registered him on the waiting list for the transplant. “We received a call at around 5pm on Thursday about the possibility of hand donation. We did not waste any time to think and quickly started our journey,” said Nirmal. He travelled eight hours by road to reach Delhi and then took a flight for Mumbai. By Friday 8pm, Singh was in the operation theatre undergoing the procedure. “The procedure went on smoothly,” said plastic surgeon Dr Nilesh Satbhai who led the team of doctors who conducted the procedure. This was the second such procedure to be carried out at the Global Hospital after train accident victim Monika More’s bilateral hand transplant in August 2020. “This surgery was slightly different because we conducted one hand was transplanted above the elbow level and second was below the elbow. But overall, we were more prepared as we carried the experience of Monika More’s transplant with us,” said Satbhai, adding that Singh is likely to remain in the hospital for another four weeks.After that, the doctors are likely to start a gradual rehabilitation programme. According to Satbhai, the cost of the procedure is estimated to be around ₹25 lakh. In addition to this, the patient will require immunosuppressants that cost anywhere between ₹2 lakh to ₹3 lakh a year. “We are planning to sell off some property back home to manage some amount,” said Nirmal. “We are into farming. It will be difficult for us to arrange such a big amount. But we are also planning to start an online campaign to raise some funds,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-3rd-hand-transplant-patient-stable-family-seeks-financial-help-101634398686721.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||2 arrested for raping 4 women on pretext of performing rituals||Arnala Coastal police have arrested two persons claiming to be sorcerers for allegedly raping four women. According to police, a 26-year-old survivor, who is a complainant in the case, was promised ₹260 crore by the accused duo — Mathew Pandiyan and Dinesh Devrukhkar — in return for performing a “ritual”. She contacted three other women for the same and each paid ₹10,000 to the duo for the rituals in July and August 2021. “The accused then repeatedly raped four women in turns in the guise of ‘rituals’, however, none received the said amount,” said senior inspector Raju Mane. “One of the survivors then approached us and we registered a complaint under section 376(2)(n)(rape) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3(2) of the Maharashtra Aghori Act, 2013. The two accused have been arrested and are remanded in police custody till October 22,” said Mane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-arrested-for-raping-4-women-on-pretext-of-performing-rituals-101634396346571.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Dombivli GRP to file chargesheet in honour killing case on Monday||The Dombivli Government Railway Police will file a chargesheet on Monday in a case of honour killing that was detected in July this year. While the accused had tried to pass off the murder as a suicide, the position of the body provided the police with a crucial clue as to the truth.According to the Dombivli GRP, the chargesheet, which runs into over 1,000 pages, indicts 11 accused, out of which nine are currently in judicial custody and two are in a juvenile detention centre, as they are minors.The accused are alleged to have murdered Sahil Hashmi (19), a resident of Chhanora in Uttar Pradesh. According to the chargesheet, Sahil was in a relationship with the cousin sister of the accused, which did not go down well with her family, as Sahil came from a lower socio-economic background than hers.“The chargesheet contains a lot of technical evidence against the accused, which was crucial in nailing their involvement in the offence. Apart from this, there is also medical and forensic evidence as well as witness statements,” senior police inspector Mukesh Dhage, Dombivli GRP, said.Sahil was found on the railway tracks in an unconscious state on June 19. He was rushed to a local hospital and later shifted to Sion Hospital because of his critical condition. Sahil spent four days in a coma before breathing his last on June 23. Meanwhile, the police identified him and traced his 18-year-old girlfriend, whose identity has been withheld, and recorded her statement.The girl told the police that they were coming to Mumbai by the Varanasi Junction-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Ratnagiri Superfast Express when Sahil jumped off the train and committed suicide.“Based on the girl’s statement, we had registered an Accidental Death Report (ADR). However, the position of the body gave us a reason to suspect that something was wrong. In our experience, a person who has jumped from a running train lands on his face or his side, while Sahil was found on his back,” Deputy Commissioner of Police Manoj Patil, Central Railway, said.Based on this point, the police started a deeper investigation into the history of Sahil and his girlfriend, and found out about her family’s opposition to their relationship. CCTV footage and cellular location mapping further established that the accused were on the same train as the couple on the day of Sahil’s death.“Sahil and his girlfriend had eloped from Chhanora on June 15 and boarded the train on June 18 to come to Mumbai. When her family learned about it, they registered a complaint of kidnapping with the UP Police and also informed the accused, who stay in Mumbai, about which train they were on. One of them is the girl’s blood sibling while the rest are cousins. They boarded different bogies of the train when it reached Kalyan, found the couple and threw him off the train before it reached Dombivli,” Dhage said.The accused have been charged with murder and destruction of evidence under the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dombivli-grp-to-file-chargesheet-in-honour-killing-case-on-monday-101634396286154.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Hopes hinged on pretomanid, new anti-TB drug in over four decades||Two patients from Mumbai have been started on pretomanid, the newest and the third anti-tuberculosis drug developed over four decades after bedaquiline and delamanid. The clinical trial at the civic-run Shatabdi Hospital in Govandi will enrol a total of 75 patients. Altogether, 400 patients will be enrolled in nine clinical trial sites across India. Pretomanid is prescribed as a part of the BPaL regimen, which includes two other drugs- bedaquiline and linezolid. Doctors and patients both have their hopes hinged on this new drug and the BPaL regimen. Pretomanid is a member of a class of compounds known as nitroimidazooxazines. Unlike other TB drugs developed by pharmaceutical companies, pretomanid was developed and registered by TB Alliance, a non-profit organisation. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved pretamonid in August 2019 as a part of the three-drug treatment for people with extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB) or multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) who are treatment-intolerant or non-responsive. The three-drug BPaL regimen was prescribed for a duration of six months. In July this year, results of phase 3 clinical trial called the ZeNix trial carried out in 11 sites across Georgia, Moldova, Russia and South Africa showed the efficacy of BPaL regimen between 84% to 93% in highly drug-resistant patients with a variation in dosage of lineozolid. “The results were very encouraging because the current treatment regimen, commonly known as the ‘all oral longer regimen’ has an efficacy of around 43%,” said Dr Vikas Oswal, the principal investigator of Mumbai’s BPaL trial that has commenced in Shatabdi Hospital. From 14 pills to just 3The ‘all oral drug regimen’ include nearly 14 different anti-TB drugs that a patient consumes every day. Some patients with a stubborn disease are also put on injections and the overall duration of treatment is anywhere between 18 to 24 months. If replaced by the BPaL regimen, patients will effectively take only three tablets for a period of six months. “The longer duration of TB treatment is one of the main reasons for non-compliance,” said chest physician Dr Ashok Mahashur from Hinduja Hospital. “Most TB drugs have side effects due to which all patients have to be closely monitored. When the treatment goes on for a longer duration, the side effects are prolonged, which bothers the patients. Shorter treatment regimens with fewer tablets will be encouraging for the patients,” he said. Similar to the ZeNix trial, the trial at Shatabdi Hospital will also involve variations in the dosage of linezolid. The first arm of patients will get 600 mg of linezolid for six months, the second arm will get 600 mg for two months and 300 mg for four months and the third arm will get 600 mg for three months and 300 mg for three months. The dosage of bedaquiline- 400mg for the first two weeks followed by 100 mg alternatively for 22 weeks- and pretomanid- 200mg for six months- will remain constant. Side effectsThe ZeNix trial has observed that adverse reactions reported in at least 10% of trial participants included peripheral neuropathy. Some patients also had decreased haemoglobin levels. According to TB Alliance, common adverse reactions of pretomanid include peripheral neuropathy, acne, anaemia, nausea, vomiting, headache, increased transaminases, dyspepsia (upper abdominal discomfort), decreased appetite, rash, pruritus (skin irritability), abdominal pain, pleuritic pain, increased gamma-glutamyltransferase (a condition affecting the liver), lower respiratory tract infection, hyperamylasemia (a condition likely affecting pancreas), hemoptysis (coughing up blood), back pain, cough, visual impairment, hypoglycemia, abnormal loss of weight, and diarrhoea. “Historically, side effects have been a major concern with all TB drugs,” said Ganesh Acharya, TB survivor and activist. “But we need newer compounds, newer drugs as the challenge of antimicrobial resistance is only getting serious every passing day. Close patient monitoring is therefore crucial. The entry of pretomanid is a glimmer of hope for TB patients. Once the trials conclude and if they have a positive result, our government should ensure speedy access to the drug for patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hopes-hinged-on-pretomanid-new-anti-tb-drug-in-over-four-decades-101634396226182.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan GRP arrest 2 hawkers accused of attacking another over sale of tobacco on train||After the rape incident on Pushpak Express train, another incident of assault occurred on Gorakhpur Express train between Kalyan and Titwala, in which four hawkers fought over selling tobacco.The altercation between them ended after one of them stabbed another with a knife. The hawker is seriously injured and admitted to a hospital. Two of the accused were held by GRP while the third accused is absconding.Kalyan Government Railway Police received a call late on Friday about an assault on the running train. The injured has been identified as Pawan Gupta, 40, of Ulhasnagar. He has a criminal background and has been selling tobacco to train passengers. Two of the accused have been identified as Ankush Saroj, 38, of Ambernath, and Mohammed Shaikh, 40, of Kurla.According to GRP officials, on Friday evening, all four had a fight over selling tobacco in bogie No. 5 of the train. The three accused took out a knife and assaulted Gupta several times. Gupta fell unconscious while the accused got down between Kasara and Nashik, and fled.Meanwhile, the passengers informed the GRP. Nashik GRP took Gupta to a nearby hospital and informed Kalyan GRP about the same as the incident occurred in their jurisdiction.Senior police inspector of Kalyan GRP, Shardul Valmiki, said, “The accused fled the spot but we formed a team to arrest them and within eight hours we arrested two of the accused while the third is still absconding. They all fought over selling tobacco on the train and deciding the bogies. They also had previous differences among them, adding to the quarrel and eventually assault. We are searching for the third accused while the victim is hospitalised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-grp-arrest-2-hawkers-accused-of-attacking-another-over-sale-of-tobacco-on-train-101634395147348.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar: I forced Uddhav Thackeray to become Maharashtra CM||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday that Uddhav Thackeray was “reluctant” to take up the post of Chief Minister after the 2019 assembly elections, following which Pawar had “forced” the Shiv Sena chief to do so. Pawar spoke to reporters in Pune hours after former CM and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis had claimed that Thackeray had “ambitions to be CM”. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader addressed reporters in Nagpur engaging in a war of words after Thackeray’s Dussehra rally on Friday night. “This is a government formed through dishonesty and I feel that respected Uddhavji should now accept that he had ambitions of becoming a chief minister which he fulfilled. In politics, having ambitions is not wrong. But if you wanted to keep the word, you could have made senior Sena leaders Diwakar Raote, Subhash Desai or Eknath Shinde a CM,” Fadnavis had said. Refuting this, Pawar said: “[Thackeray] was reluctant for the post and had conveyed it to me. A few other names were discussed for the post as well, but I asked him to take up the responsibility. It is not proper to say that Thackeray was eyeing the post.” When asked if deputy CM and Pawar’s nephew Ajit Pawar was being targeted by the BJP — the Income Tax department recently conducted raids on firms and premises linked to him and his sisters — to scuttle his chances of becoming the next CM, Pawar said, “Thackeray’s name for the post of the CM was unanimously finalized by three ruling parties during the formation of the government. There is no question of any other leader becoming the CM....This government will serve its term and will come to the power again after that.” The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is a coalition of NCP, Shiv Sena and the Congress party. Sena broke away from long-time ally BJP after the polls over the issue of the CM post, which the Sena wanted for its party. However, the BJP which had won 105 seats did not agree to this. Sena, which won 56 seats, joined hands with the other two parties to form the government. Fadnavis also said that “some ministers have even got extortion software created to know how much money is to be extorted from whom” which Pawar called “baseless allegations”. “Fadnavis should not level any baseless allegations against the state government, especially after having served as the CM. If he has any proof related to the software being used for extortion, he should make it public. Such statements are not expected from him. He has also said that BJP would not allow Maharashtra to become Bengal. What does he mean by that? Maharashtra and Bengal share many common bonds in terms of language, culture, patriotism. Does he want to say that the Bengal of Subhash Chandra Bose and Ravindranath Tagore is inferior to any other state? Is this comparison between two states of India fair?” he said. Pawar was on a tour of Pimpri-Chinchwad on Saturday. During the press conference, he spoke on various subjects from the I-T department raids on his nieces, to the farmers protests and Fadnavis’s statements from earlier in the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-i-forced-uddhav-thackeray-to-become-maharashtra-cm-101634394747413.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Covid centres in Thane district closed temporarily as less patients visit them||Covid care centres in Ambernath, Badlapur and Murbad are temporarily shut due to less patients.The head of the department said that hardly anyone turned out at these centres for treatment even after getting a positive report. They are less symptomatic and are able to be treated at home itself, the official said.In August, rural areas of Thane district witnessed a decline in daily positive cases. It dropped from 64 daily positive cases in the first week to 27 by the last week of August. Although there was a slight increase in daily positive cases in September, they have not gone beyond 50 daily cases.In October, again a decline has been noted with the daily positive cases ranging between 25 and 35 over the last few days. Till now Thane rural areas have recorded around 1,00,056 positive cases.Municipal councils of Badlapur and Ambernath have to spend around ₹50 lakh per month for the maintenance of one centre and that includes payment of the employees of agencies and other expenses.Ambernath Municipal Council chief, Prashant Rasal, said, “In the last 15 days, Ambernath has reported 71 positive cases. Amongst these, only 19 patients visited the hospital for treatment. Our centre has a capacity of 700 beds. As there are no patients, it is of no use. Every month, the council spent around ₹45 lakh to ₹50 lakh on the centre’s maintenance and payment to private agencies for providing employees. We have our hospital with a capacity of 40 to 50 beds at the centre of Ayudh Nirman, where we can provide treatment for Covid. To stop unnecessary expenses and save money for the future or other calamities, we have taken the decision to close this centre on a temporary basis.”After Ambernath Municipal Council took this decision, Kulgaon Badlapur Municipal Council and Murbad also planned to shut their centres.Tehsildar of Murbad, Amol Kadam, said, “During the second wave we started Covid centre with 50 beds with oxygen facilities. But, it is of no use now as hardly five to 10 patients visited in the past few months. Therefore, to cut down the expenses, we have decided to close the centre temporarily.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-centres-in-thane-district-closed-temporarily-as-less-patients-visit-them-101634393532126.html
16-10-2021||Other||Inter-state illegal arms trade gang busted in Rupnagar; five arrested||Rupnagar/Sangrur Police have busted an inter-state gang involved in illegal arms trade with the arrest of five persons and the recovery of five country-made pistols.SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said that on a tip-off, inspector Satnam Singh, in-charge CIA staff Rupnagar and police teams arrested Luvdeep Singh, alias Bhau, of Masita Road village Kot Ise Khan district Moga; Pardeep Singh, of Bagli Kalan village, police station Samrala district Ludhiana; and Harpreet Singh, of Mira Kot village, police station Kambo District Amritsar Rural in the case. Three of the cartridges and three of the home-made pistols of .32 bore were recovered from them. A case has been registered against the three accused under Section 25/54/59 Arms Act at the Police Station City Rupnagar.The rest of the arms were recovered from Inderpreet Singh, alias Preet Gurthari, of Gurthari village who led the police to the last accused Harmandeep Singh, alias Harman, of Tarn Taran. The SSP added that the accused had bought the weapons from Balwari (Madhya Pradesh) for ₹20,000 per pistol and had already sold about 25 of these.TWO OF WEAPON SMUGGLINGGANG ALSO HELD IN SANGRUR Sangrur Police have busted an inter-state illegal arms supply racket with the arrest of two persons, after recovering two country-made pistols, along with ammunition, from their possession on Saturday. The accused are Pawan Kumar, 21, of Aligarh (Uttar Pradesh) and Kulwinder Singh, 27, of Karaiwala district Muktsar. Over the past six months, Sangrur Police have registered 17 cases under the Arms Act and recovered 32 country-made weapons.Sangrur SSP Swapan Sharma a special team formed to tackle such weapon smuggling instances had nabbed the accused. DSP (detective) Yogesh Kumar led the team comprising inspector Deepinder Singh, in-charge, crime branch. The accused were nabbed from Bhai Mool Chand road of Sunam town during a search in view of the festive season. Police claim Pawan had supplied several weapons in Amritsar and Tarn Taran. The SSP added, “The accused Pawan was working at the behest of Chanchal Kumar, of district Aligarh (UP), who is a serving army man, posted in an army formation in Mau.”DSP Yogesh Kumar said that Pawan had another illegal weapon delivery to do in Sangrur. A case has been registered under Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act at the City Police Station, Sunam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/interstate-illegal-arms-trade-gang-busted-in-rupnagar-five-arrested-101634393165981.html
16-10-2021||Pune||Man drags Pune traffic policeman on car bonnet for 700 metres, held||PUNE A man was remanded to the custody of Pune police by a local court for the attempted murder of a police officer for levying a traffic violation charge on him along Kharadi bypass on Friday.The man allegedly rammed into the policeman and dragged him atop his car bonnet for 700-800 metres, according to the police.The arrested man has been identified as Prashant Shridhar Kantawar (43), a resident of Mohammadwadi in Hadapsar.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sheshrao Jaybhay of the traffic division of Pune police.“We do not know yet what kind of charges are against him. It was his first traffic offence and it was for ₹400. He did not want to pay. We have produced him in court for further charge and investigation,” said police sub-inspector Gajanan Bhosale of Mundhwa police station.Jaybhay was manning the traffic at Mundhwa signal chowk near Kharadi bypass around 4:15pm when Kantwar allegedly arrived in his car. Jaybhay submitted in his complaint that he flagged the vehicle and asked him to clear the fine that was reflecting against the number of his car. After refusing to pay the ₹400 fine, Kantawar allegedly rammed his car into Jaybhay, making him fall on the bonnet, and drove for around 700-800 metres before dropping him. Jaybhay sustained injuries in the process and Kantawar was arrested after the first information report (FIR) was registered.A case under Sections 353, 307, 336 of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 119/177 and 184 of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Mundhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-drags-pune-traffic-policeman-on-car-bonnet-for-700-metres-held-101634392925979.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri: Key witness yet to appear before investigators||Even two weeks after the Lakhimpur Kheri violence of October 3, a key witness in the incident, Sumit Jaiswal, has failed to appear before the investigators to provide his version.Sumit Jaiswal is a complainant in the second FIR lodged under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) for murder in connection with the death of a journalist, two BJP workers and Hari Om Mishra, the driver of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra.Hari Om Mishra was allegedly driving his car when the violence broke out after four farmers were mowed down in the Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3.A police official privy to the investigation said investigators were searching for Sumit Jaiswal and he was still untraceable. He said Jaiswal could reveal the details of what exactly happened before and after the violence as he was reportedly present in the Mahindra Thar SUV, which mowed down the four farmers.His version would help establish the sequence of events on the day, the official said.The official said Sumit Jaiswal was seen in a video escaping from the Mahindra Thar soon after the incident. He said Jaiswal, while talking to media persons, admitted his presence in the SUV as shown in viral video.“He even mentioned in the FIR that he, along with the driver Hari Om Mishra and another BJP worker Shubham Mishra, was present in the SUV. The driver and the BJP worker were killed in the violence after the mowing down of the farmers,” the official added.Sumit Jaiswal, resident of Lakhimpur city and member of the Shivpuri Nagarpalika ward, mentioned in the FIR that some anti-social elements among the protesting farmers attacked them with stones and canes. He alleged the attackers later stopped the SUV and lynched the driver and the BJP worker while he somehow managed to escape from the spot.The official said investigation in connection with the FIR lodged by Sumit Jaiswal was also in progress and some of the persons had been identified. He said multiple videos of the incident had been collected and their authenticity was being verified, adding that witnesses would soon be called for questioning.Bail pleas of Ankit Das, two others rejectedThe bail applications of key accused Ankit Das, who is a close friend of Ashish Mishra and nephew of former Union minister Akhilesh Das, his gunner Latif alias Kaale and driver Shekhar Bharti were rejected by the chief judicial magistrate’s court on Saturday, said senior prosecution officer SP Yadav.Ankit Das and Latif were arrested on October 13 while Shekhar Bharti, driver of a Fortuner, had been arrested on October 12. The trio are in police custody remand since Thursday that will end on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-key-witness-yet-to-appear-before-investigators-101634392566454.html
16-10-2021||Pune||Maharashtra public health department exam candidates worried over centre allocation||PUNE Candidates appearing for the Maharashtra public health department exam scheduled on October 24 are now facing issues with respect to the allocation of exam centres. Many candidates have received exam centres in two different districts for two separate papers which are scheduled on the same day.Speaking about his grievances, Harshal Thakare, an interested candidate, said that he had applied for the Akola division but instead got a centre at Nashik division.“My centre should have been in the Akola division, but instead I’ll have to go to Nashik as my centre is there. Many students are reporting this issue. There were clear instructions that the centre will be allocated where the candidate has applied for the exam. Then why this inconvenience for candidates. Many candidates have got the morning centre at Sholapur and the evening paper at Pune. How can one candidate travel to two different districts in one single day for attempting paper,” said Thakare.Another candidate, Nikhil Shinde, who applied for the Akola division said we were allowed to fill different divisions for different positions.“However, now we cannot reach another centre or appear for the examination. We were initially allowed to fill the form but now as the admit cards have come it is not possible for us to give the exam,” said Shinde.Anant Datar, an aspirant who applied for the Pune division, has received Ahmednagar as his exam centre.“The department had clearly instructed that allocation of centres will be reserved by them. Under this, I have received the centre as Ahmednagar which I think is fine. I am from Aurangabad and either way, Ahmednagar is closer than Pune,” said Datar.Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) Students Rights’ activist Mahesh Bade said that candidates have opted for two centres that are nearby.“Candidates have opted for two centres which would be nearby. However, the two centres allocated on the admit card are far away which is causing distress to candidates. The choice of centres lies with the candidates and should be allowed to get the centre they choose,” said Bade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-public-health-department-exam-candidates-worried-over-centre-allocation-101634392205819.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||‘Water supply in Delhi won’t be affected for Ganga canal maintenance', says DJB||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on Saturday said the water supply in the national capital will not be affected following the closure of Ganga canal for maintenance till November 5.The Ganga Canal, which largely supplies water for drinking and irrigation purposes to several districts of western Uttar Pradesh, including Ghaziabad, was shut for maintenance on Friday, according to new agency PTI.DJB supplies around 900-950 million gallons of water per day in the national capital.The DJB officials said that apart from groundwater the national capital relies largely on Yamuna river and partially on Ganga river for water supply to the city. It also gets water from western Yamuna canal.A senior DJB official said there is no need to panic as only a small percentage of water comes to Delhi from Ganga Canal which can be balanced thorough supply from Yamuna river."There will no disturbance or shortage in water supply in the city due to closure of the Ganga Canal. We have sufficient water in Yamuna so the shortage from Ganga Canal can be met through excess water from Yamuna. There is no need to worry," the DJB official familiar with the development told PTI earlier in the day.He said the maintenance of Ganga canal is a routine exercise which is carried out every year.Officials of the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department said the canal would be closed till November 5 and it might impact water supply in Delhi along with other districts of western Uttar Pradesh.Water supply in 19 districts of the state, including Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Aligarh, Etah, Hathras and Firozabad, is likely to be disrupted and farmers may face a shortage, the department officials said.They said during the period of maintenance, farmers may have to partially rely on tubewells and pumping sets to irrigate their fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-in-delhi-won-t-be-affected-for-ganga-canal-maintenance-says-djb-101634391254745.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Jamia campus turns film set, students irked||New Delhi Several student groups had been demanding the reopening of Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) campus, following which the university recently announced a phased reopening plan for its final-year students in undergraduate, postgraduate and PhD courses from November. Like most universities, Jamia too had been closed to curb the spread of Covid-19. And though the students should now be happy and prepping to go back to campus, that’s not the case. Most of them are agitated and say that while the campus has been closed for them, reportedly it has been witnessing presence of various crews that are shooting different movies and web shows including director Sahir Raza’s next project. The news of shoots happening on campus has left most students, who had been eagerly waiting return to physical classrooms, in a fit of rage. A student of AJK Mass Communication Research Centre at Jamia, shares on condition of anonymity: “I’ve been going to the campus for my practical classes since a while now. And I feel it’s shame how the university is allowing hundreds of people on campus to shoot but they can’t even open the library for the students who need it the most. Just a few days ago they allowed shooting at the central library but not a single student is allowed in on any day since the campus has been shut. It’s obvious that the university is making money by allowing some OTT platform to shoot their show on campus. And at the same time, they are not allowing students to come to the campus. Isn't this hypocritical?” Another Jamia student, Arbab Ali recently put up an Insta post that read: “I went to Jamia today and to my horror a film was being shot there. The university has remained closed for students since March 2020, but actors and directors are allowed in. Our founders must be turning in their graves to see the use to which Jamia’s classrooms, Jamia’s grounds are being put (sic).”A third year student of B Tech (Mechanical), who is also taking online classes, says on condition of anonymity, “Mine is a technical field of study and requires a hands-on experience. Online classes are like an insult to my area study... I feel betrayed that outsiders are allowed on campus and we aren’t! The canteen hasn't been opening even for the little trickle of students who come in for practicals. But, for the shooting crew it’s open. While visiting the campus to meet my friends, once I asked one of the crew members about how much they are charged for the venue, and was told that ‘Jamia charges ₹5 lakh as rent per day, to any production house that wants to shoot within the campus’. I saw this crew outside the Faculty of Engineering and Technology. They had put up a set near the Law Faculty, too, and four vanity vans were parked around campus gate number 13.” Those students who have been attending online classes only, also feel strongly about allowing film crews to shoot at a time when students are being barred entry for regular classes due to Covid-19 concerns. A student of BA (Hons) History, tells us anonymously: “At least since October 8 the shooting has been in progress here. And I feel a sense of anger and disappointment at the university for allowing them while not opening the university for students who are having a difficult time attending online classes. Our campus has been closed since the break out of Covid-19 in Delhi. And while students have been desperately demanding the reopening of campus, the university administration decided to rent out the university premises for a movie or some series shooting! Most of the students of the batch of 2020-21 never even attended an offline class or even accessed the university library even once till date. As a student, I feel disappointed.” When contacted, the university officials said they gave permissions for shooting only on the condition that Covid appropriate behaviour will be maintained on the campus. “Humne permission agar di hai toh iss condition par di hai ki voh Covid guidelines ko follow karein, jo unhone kiya... Humne shooting ke liye rent out kiya with the condition that Covid guidelines ko strictly follow kiya jayega. Bakaida voh RTPCR test ki reports ke saath, masks ke saath, sanitiser ke saath shoot karte the. Mask sirf camera ke saamne hatta tha,” says Ahmad Azeem, PRO, JMI. Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jamia-campus-turns-film-set-students-irked-101634391847481.html
16-10-2021||Pune||Diesel price in Pune breaches ₹100 mark, petrol sells for ₹110.92||Fuel prices rose again on Saturday, pushing the diesel price in Pune beyond ₹100 mark. With the price hike, diesel now costs ₹100.08 per litre in Pune. Petrol price has also increased to ₹110.92 per litre while compressed natural gas (CNG) prices have remained stable. This is the tenth hike in fuel prices this month. Subsequently, prices of petrol and diesel have increased by Rs3.45 and Rs4.2 respectively on Saturday. Petrol crossed Rs100 in May this year. On Thursday, petrol prices rose above ₹110 per litre while CNG prices increased by Rs2.6 per kg. The incessant hike in petrol and diesel prices is likely to impact transportation rates. Transport associations have asked the central government to fix the same transportation rates for the entire country. Baba Shinde, director of All India Motor Transport Congress (Maharashtra) said, “Meetings are being held with the central government by the representatives of the All India Motor Transport, an apex association of the transporters in the country.”Goods transporters are also aggrieved by the ascending fuel prices. “Diesel prices have been consistently going up and there seems to be no relief from that. As the diesel price increases, our profit margin gets affected. The transportation rates haven’t been increased yet. So, we have to sustain the burden of the added cost of the transportation,” said Ram Kadam, president of Motor Goods Vehicle Association, Pune district. Common people are also not spared from strain on their pockets because of the increased fuel prices. “I have a diesel car. I have already reduced its use when the diesel prices crossed the ₹90 mark. But in the Covid-19 pandemic situation when public transport wasn’t safe while travelling with the kids, personal cars have to be used. But it is not affordable anymore,” said Kedar Hatekar, a resident of Kothrud. CNG users are also disappointed with the price hikes as what was once the ‘affordable fuel’ refuge has now begun to walk the fossil-fuel path of regular price hikes. “People had turned to CNG because its prices were low and stable. I just hope that it doesn’t follow the path of the petrol and diesel prices. But as compared to the current prices of petrol and diesel, CNG is more affordable. Many friends of mine have got their diesel cars converted into CNG,” said Hemant Takwale, a cab driver. Sharad Pawar criticises government over fuel pricesNCP supremo Sharad Pawar criticised the Union government and said that it is apathetic towards the perils of the people. “Everyday petrol and diesel prices are increasing. The Centre says that it’s the result of international prices of crude oil. Before some months, international prices had collapsed, but the Centre hadn’t reduced the petrol and diesel prices in the country. In other countries, petrol prices are reducing but in India, it is increasing. The reason behind this is that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has adopted the point of view that petrol is the source of income for the government,” said Pawar while speaking in Pimpri on Saturday.“When UPA was in power and we had increased the fuel prices because of the fluctuation in the international market, BJP, the then opposition party, hadn’t allowed parliament to function for ten days. But now when they are in power these prices have been increasing every day and the central government is pushing Aam Aadmi into the valley of inflation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/diesel-price-in-pune-breaches-rs-100-mark-petrol-sells-for-rs-11092-101634390885744.html
16-10-2021||Patna||‘People of Bihar will celebrate Vijayadashami after…’: Tejashwi Yadav||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday said the people of Bihar would “actually celebrate Vijayadashami” by defeating the NDA-led government in the state.“People of Bihar will actually celebrate Vijayadashami by defeating NDA. Govt only gave poverty, unemployment, crime, corruption. Bihar didn't get spl status, spl package. People are fed up with the govt. RJD candidates will win from both seats,” Tejashwi Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency. ALSO READ | Bihar bypolls: Cong, RJD set to part waysThe Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has decided to field its candidates from both Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur in the by-election, which is scheduled to be held on October 30.The death of lawmakers representing the two seats necessitated the bypolls.Meanwhile, close on the heels of the RJD’s listing of its candidates, the Congress on Sunday said that it was also contemplating fielding its nominees for both the seats.The bypolls for the two assembly seats in Bihar, though not crucial to the survival of the National Democratic Alliance government in the state, has nevertheless become a battle of prestige for the ruling Janata Dal (United) and the main opposition party, the RJD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/people-of-bihar-will-celebrate-vijayadashami-after-tejashwi-yadav-101634387292822.html
16-10-2021||Bhopal||Shopkeeper beaten to death for refusing to pay for customers' cigarettes||Four people allegedly beat a shopkeeper to death after they were asked to pay for the cigarettes they had taken, police in Shahdol in Madhya Pradesh said on Saturday. The incident occurred in Deolond town, about 90 kilometres from the district headquarters, on Friday night, an official said, adding that the accused had been identified as Monu Khan, Pankaj Singh, Virat Singh and Sandeep Singh. "The four went to Arun Soni's shop at around 9 pm and asked for cigarettes. When Soni asked them to pay for the cigarettes, the four assaulted him as well as two of his sons who tried to rescue their father," Bhavishya Bhaskar, Sub Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP) of Beohari said. "Soni died some time after being rushed to a hospital. Three of the four accused have been detained. Efforts are on to nab one of them who is on the run," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/shopkeeper-beaten-to-death-for-refusing-to-pay-for-customers-cigarettes-101634389038721.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Most corrupt government… won’t come to know when it is toppled: Fadnavis||A day after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray attacked former ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) saying Hindutva faced a threat from “neo-Hindus” and dared the BJP to topple the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition government, former CM and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis escalated the war of words on Saturday stating that the present government was the most corrupt the state had seen, and that Thackeray would “not even come to know” when it was toppled. “You should keep in mind that it would be recorded in the history of Maharashtra that this is most corrupt government in the history of the state. There is only one agenda of this government, which is extortion,” Fadnavis told reporters in Nagpur. During his annual address at the Dussehra rally in Mumbai on Friday, Thackeray had hit out at the BJP and accused the Centre of interfering in the state’s day-to-day affairs. “I believe that Hindutva is now under threat. Those who have used the ladder of Hindutva can now use the strategy of the British of divide and rule,” Thackeray said during his address at the annual Dussehra rally in Mumbai on Friday. The CM also accused the Centre of misusing “central agencies” and asked Shiv Sena workers if they were ready to face the “attack by BJP leadership” in the same way that West Bengal (under Mamata Banerjee) had faced. “Does he want the unionism and extortion spree prevailing in Bengal to come to Maharashtra? Does he want to hang and thrash people with dissenting voices? Kolkata once used to be financial capital of the country. We would not allow Maharashtra to become another West Bengal,” Fadnavis said. Fadnavis said that Thackeray’s speech was a result of “political frustration” and it was time for the CM to stop acting innocent. He said the CM should pay attention to the corruption that was being uncovered by Income Tax (IT) department raids, Fadnavis said that Thackeray should decide he is for the eradication of the drug menace or against it. “We are not interested in toppling the MVA government, but he (Thackeray) would not even come to know if it is toppled. Instead of daring us to topple it, the CM should first govern it properly. He should first show the courage to face the farmers by working for their cause. I wonder how he can sleep soundly at night while his cabinet is busy in “dalali” (brokering/ middlemanship) and IT authorities have brought forward sensational facts after the recent raids,” Fadnavis said. The IT department on Friday revealed that it had recently carried out search and seizure operations at 70 premises of two real estate business groups of Mumbai and certain individuals and entities linked to a politician’s family, following which it found highly incriminating documents, evidencing unaccounted income of about ₹184 crore. These raids were conducted at Mumbai, Pune, Baramati, Goa and Jaipur. “The “dalali” has reached to such level that some ministers have even got extortion software created to know how much money is to be extorted from whom. If such things are going on, then it is natural that ED-CBI will come to the state,” Fadnavis said. The Enforcement Directorate and the Central Bureau of Investigation have been investigating former home minister Anil Deshmukh, who was accused of running an extortion ring. They are also investigating other politicians including Eknath Khadse. Fadnavis said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was staunchly against the use of central agencies or any interference in their work. Had they been misused, half of the MVA government would be behind the bars, Fadnavis said. “Hon Modiji is against any such use [of central agencies] or intervening in their business. He is against the misuse of these agencies like it was done during the Congress rule. We believe in democracy. Had we misused the central agencies (against the ruling politicians in Maharashtra), half of the Thackeray cabinet would be in jail,” Fadnavis said. On Friday’s rally, the Sena chief alleged misuse of central agencies to defame the Maharashtra government. “A picture is painted that the drugs business is booming only in Maharashtra. It is not so that drugs are caught only in Maharashtra. The court has directed [officials] to probe the Mundra port where drugs worth crores of rupees were found. Where is this Mundra port? You merely find a pinch of Ganja, while my police [force] busted drugs worth ₹150 crore. You catch a celebrity and beat drums about it. But my police has busted drug [network] and nobody talks about it,” he said, referring to the arrest of Aryan Khan, actor Shahrukh Khan’s son, after a raid by the Narcotics Crime Bureau in a holiday cruise. Khan was arrested but the NCB maintains that no drug was found on his person. NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik reacted to Fadnavis’ remarks saying: “Why only half of the cabinet, they should put the entire cabinet in the jail. Fadnavis should mind his language while levelling such allegations. The corruption of the BJP leaders (from previous BJP-led government) will soon come to fore.” Thackeray on Friday had also called for an open debate with intellectuals and constitutional experts on federalism. “The Constitution has given us sovereign rights as the Centre, then the Centre’s daily interference cannot happen and cannot be tolerated,” he had said. Reacting to this, Fadnavis said that the BJP would not allow Thackeray and his party to touch the Constitution. “He said that he wants to change federal structure described in the Constitution. This is a hidden agenda Thackeray wants to implement with the help of a few left-wing parties and communist. But the BJP would not let it happen ever,” he said. Fadnavis asked why other Shiv Sena leaders like Subhash Desai, Eknath Shinde and Diwakar Raote were not made CM if Thackeray had no aspiration for the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/most-corrupt-government-won-t-come-to-know-when-it-is-toppled-fadnavis-101634388964693.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai API wins bronze in bodybuilding meet in Tashkent||Assistant Police Inspector, Subhash Pujari (40), from Highway Safety Patrol in Navi Mumbai, has won laurels by winning a bronze medal in the 12th World Bodybuilding and Physique Sports Championship 2021 in Tashkent, Uzbekistan.He is the first policeman from the country to win in this championship. He participated in the 80kg category. Seventy of the 360 participants from 30 countries were from India.Deputed at Palaspa, Pujari had also won the gold medal at the 11th men’s Masters Bodybuilding competition held by Maharashtra Bodybuilding Association in Kharghar in March this year. The last time he participated in any such competition before the Kharghar meet was in 1999, when he had bagged second place in the State-level junior competition.In 1995, after his Class 12, he had started hitting the gym, which eventually became an addiction. “Six hours of working out daily for the last three months yielded the result. From 7am to 10am and from 7pm to 10pm, I used to work out. In between, I’d do my duty as well. I used to work out in Bandra as well as Nerul gyms,” Pujari said.Pujari was trained by Asian Championship of 2018, Sunit Jadhav. During the pandemic, when the gyms were shut, Pujari set up his own gym at home by purchasing the equipment. Pujari, who joined police force as a constable in 2003, was the captain of the bodybuilding team of Maharashtra Police.“Besides my trainer, my wife, Ragini Pujari and Chetan Pathare, secretary of World Bodybuilding Association, played important roles in my journey,” Pujari added.‘It is an extremely proud moment not just for the State but for the entire country as he is the first police officer from the country to win such a medal. We were providing all possible support and henceforth too, would provide the support whenever required,” ADG (traffic), Bhushan Upadhyay, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-api-wins-bronze-in-bodybuilding-meet-in-tashkent-101634388725343.html
16-10-2021||Dehradun||38 doctors formally join ITBP after combat training||Thirty-eight doctors who served at a special Covid-19 hospital in Delhi during the coronavirus outbreak were formally inducted into the India-China LAC guarding force ITBP after a ceremonial passing out parade held here on Saturday.The doctors who were recruited into the force completed their 24 weeks combat training and have now been appointed as medical officers in the rank of Assistant Commandant, an ITBP spokesperson said.ITBP director general Sanjay Arora took salute of the parade at the officers' training academy of the paramilitary force located here.The doctors, including 14 women officers, were formally inducted into the force on Saturday and they have been trained in subjects like tactics, weapon handling, intelligence gathering, field engineering, map reading, various law subjects and human rights, the spokesperson said."These doctors were deployed at the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre in Delhi even before they completed their training as the coronavirus outbreak required all hands at the deck.""They worked tirelessly during those testing times and this centre treated 13,000 coronavirus affected patients during the first and the second waves that hit the country," he said.After undertaking this task, these doctor officers returned to the academy here in July to finish their training."For this exemplary service, the trainee officers were awarded with the director general's commendation roll and insignia, which usually is awarded after long years of distinguished service," he said.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) was raised in the aftermath of the 1962 Chinese aggression and it is primarily tasked to guard the 3,488 kms long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China apart from being deployed for a variety of internal security duties. It also has a medical wing in its establishment that has doctors and paramedics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/38-doctors-formally-join-itbp-after-combat-training-101634387106956.html
16-10-2021||Bhopal||Pragya Thakur lashes out over ‘missing’ poster, says ‘no place in India’ for Congressmen||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Pragya Thakur lambasted at Madhya Pradesh Congress legislator for the “missing” posters about Thakur that were doing rounds when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak, saying that “ such Congressmen and traitors" have no place in India and only patriots will stay in the country. The BJP legislator made the remarks at a Dussehra programme on MVM Ground in Bhopal where Congress's Bhopal South MLA P C Sharma, who was the target, was also present. He left the event midway in a huff.At the event, Thakur described Hindus as patriots. “If the patriots understand their strength, then the country's borders will be protected, India will be integrated and the country will reach its glory,” she said."Animals also have feelings. When its offspring dies or falls sick, the animal cries. But they (Congressmen) are worse than animals. Do not treat the sick as sick. At first, they tortured (me) and when I got sick, they put up my missing posters," Thakur said at the gathering, as quoted by PTI.She further said, "Shame on such people that they become MLAs. Such people do not deserve to become an MLA, but became one. Such people call themselves Hindus, but they are insensitive. They attack us. They cry over those who kill us. Shame on such Congressmen, shame on such traitors and I say there is no place for them in India. Only patriots will remain in India."She also took a veiled swipe at Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh, saying that no person can become pious by taking up “Narmada parikrama" (circumambulation of Narmada river).Thakur said no 'adharmi' can become pious by taking up 'Narmada parikrama', an apparent attack on Digvijaya Singh, although she did not name anyone. The Congress leader had undertaken the 3,300-km Narmada parikrama in 2017.Congress legislator Sharma, who left the programme midway, later told news agency PTI, "It was a social platform and not the political one… It was a Dussehra programme, but she insulted those who undertake Narmada Parikrama, whoever his target may be. This is condemnable.“She said that her missing posters were put up. The people of Bhopal were in trouble for two years without bed and injections during the pandemic. She is MP from Bhopal and the people were demanding her to provide these facilities," he said.Thakur, who spent several years in jail after being arrested in the Malegaon blast case, has earlier alleged that she was illegally detained and beaten up by police personnel to admit the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/pragya-thakur-lashes-out-over-missing-poster-says-no-place-in-india-for-congressmen-101634380988000.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||15% of eligible population in Thane has not taken a single vaccination dose against Covid||Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has nearly 15% of its eligible population who have not taken a single dose of the vaccine whereas hardly 30% have been fully vaccinated till now.The vaccination centres in the city are empty nowadays. From mid-September, the response at vaccination centres has been poor. Bad weather and festive season seem to be the reason, according to the civic body.Thane city has vaccinated 15,28,935 beneficiaries till now. These include 8,25,625 males and 7,03,310 females.The response for the second dose has not picked up yet. With the festive season, the response for vaccination at centres has dipped drastically and the civic body has ample doses left. On Saturday, TMC had scheduled a vaccination drive with 24,000 doses ready to be administered.“The bad weather last week and the festive season could have been a deterrent for many. Moreover, during Ganesh Chaturthi, we had kept the vaccination schedule closed for a few days. This time, we continued with the same on all the days,” said a civic officer from TMC.Among those above 45 years of age, there are 7.70% who have not jabbed at all and among the 18-45 years age group, there are 17.20% who have not been inoculated at all. At 84% vaccination across the city, TMC has started conducting mass vaccination drives in areas where there are fewer responses.On October 2, a massive vaccination drive was held in Diva. It received a good response and hence a similar drive was planned by the Thane civic on Saturday as well. A vaccination drive for 1,000 beneficiaries was organised at Kharegaon, Kalwa.“We also cannot rule out the possibility that there are many who get vaccinated outside the city and many from outside Thane limits who prefer to vaccinate within Thane. This could cause a difference in the vaccination figures. However, we need to focus on all strata of society and ensure that the vaccine is accessible. Hence, we organise mass vaccination drives at regular intervals in the city,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.The waiting period involved in getting the second dose could also be the reason for fewer numbers of fully vaccinated people. The mass vaccination drive in Kalwa saw a good response.“There is hardly any vaccination centre near my house. So, I had not taken the vaccine till now. This mass drive was a boon as we could finish the process within 10 minutes. This helped me as I have senior citizens and kids to take care of at home and could not leave them unattended for long,” said Savita Katkar, a 38-year-old resident of Kharegaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15-of-eligible-population-in-thane-has-not-taken-a-single-vaccination-dose-against-covid-101634386927101.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister lays foundation stone of railway overbridge, flyover in Prayagraj||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya laid the foundation stone of a four-lane railway overbridge (RoB) in the Chaufatka-Bamrauli Airport-Subedarganj railway station stretch and a double lane flyover connecting GT Road to Kanpur Road, in Prayagraj on Saturday. Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh, BJP MPs Kesari Devi Patel and Rita Bahuguna Joshi were also present during the bhoomi pujan ceremony. A total of around ₹284.21 crore has been approved for the flyover and railway overbridge in Prayagraj. The projects are expected to be completed in 24 months. The construction of the 660 metre double-lane flyover and the 1.58km four lane railway overbridge will facilitate quicker travel from GT Road to the Bamrauli airport, in addition to the Buddhist pilgrimage sites of Kaushambi. These projects would speed up the development of the Allahabad West constituency area, the deputy chief minister said. At present, one has to cover 16 kilo metres to reach the airport from Civil Lines in Prayagraj in about 90 minutes after dealing with traffic jams in areas like Dhumanganj and Sulem Sarai. After the construction of the flyover, the travel time will be reduced to 20 to 25 minutes. Addressing the gathering, the deputy chief minister said that development projects across the state were undertaken on a mega scale during Yogi Adityanath’s government. The Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister also said construction work of the Inner Ring Road was underway to free the district from traffic snarls. A four-lane model road was also on the cards between Kokhraj and Handia, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-deputy-chief-minister-lays-foundation-stone-of-railway-overbridge-flyover-in-prayagraj-101634386625385.html
16-10-2021||Kolkata||Panic at packed restaurant in south Kolkata's Mullickbazar after fire breaks out||A fire broke out at a popular restaurant in the southern part of Kolkata during the busy hours on Saturday afternoon, police said.No casualty was reported.Three fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the blaze, which probably started from the kitchen of the Mughlai restaurant at Mullickbazar area, a police officer said."The restaurant was almost full when the fire broke out. There was a panic-like situation then. Some of the customers were helped by employees of the restaurant to move out, while others left it on their own. The fire is under control now," he said.Traffic movement around the eatery has been affected by the incident as firefighters are dousing the blaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/panic-at-packed-restaurant-in-south-kolkata-s-mullickbazar-after-fire-breaks-out-101634384441064.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s NMMT suffers Rs8.51Cr loss on average every month this year||The losses incurred this year by Navi Mumbai Municipal Transport (NMMT) are the highest since 2017. With almost ₹8.51Cr loss on an average every month since March 2021, it is almost 50% more than what was recorded in the 2017-18 financial year, which was ₹3.96Cr and 27% more than 2019-20 financial year, when the loss recorded was ₹6.23Cr.In the financial year 2019-20, prior to the lockdown, the average monthly income of NMMT was ₹10.27Cr, of which ₹6.41Cr was earned via the ticket fares, students pass and penalties while ₹56.41 lakh was earned via advertisements. The same was ₹11.61Cr in 2018-19 and ₹11.31Cr in 2017-18. Meanwhile, in 2020-21, after the pandemic started, the income came down to ₹5.72Cr monthly average and this year, it is ₹5.87Cr.The average monthly expenses of NMMT before the lockdown was ₹16.51Cr including the salaries, daily wages, fuel and other maintenance expenses. Even with the lockdown, the expenses had gone down only by 16% to ₹13.87Cr.“The salaries had to be paid. The fuel prices kept increasing even though the usage was less and hence the expenses did not have any remarkable cut down while the income had,” an official from NMMT said.During the lockdown period, NMMT was catering to only the people attached to essential services and around 10,000 people used the service to reach to the workplaces and return home. The service was extended to essential workers in Navi Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan, Badlapur, Ambernath, Dombivli, Panvel, Uran, Chembur, Govandi, Mankhurd, Dahisarmori, Kharghar and Ulwe. Besides, around 18 NMMT buses were also converted into ambulances to cater to Covid-19 patients in NMMC-run hospitals. Around 995 buses were also provided for 39,746 migrants from Navi Mumbai to go to the respective railway stations to travel to their hometowns.Currently, NMMT buses are running in full capacity on all the routes. As per the number of passengers increasing, the route trips are being added, the officer said. Around 300 buses are plying on the road, of which 50 are electric buses, 70 are CNG and 180 are diesel buses. The corporation has around 180 electric buses, of which only 50 are plying due to lack of passengers.“In order to reduce the losses, we will now try to bring as many electric buses as possible on the roads. The work on the charging points at Turbhe depot is on and is expected to be over in the next ten days. After that, we can get more electric buses on the road. Reducing diesel buses and finding ways to convert diesel buses into CNG buses would be our agenda. We also plan to reduce the fare by 30%-40% so as to attract more passengers,” Yogesh Kaduskar, general manager, NMMT, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-s-nmmt-suffers-rs8-51cr-loss-on-average-every-month-this-year-101634385439631.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Panvel City Municipal Corporation plans to develop three urban primary health centres||In an effort to provide better healthcare facilities to the residents, the Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is planning to develop three Urban Primary Health Centres (UPHC) in its jurisdiction.According to their plans, the new centres would be developed in Kharghar, New Panvel and Kalundre (near Panvel city along the Mumbai-Goa Highway). The City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) has agreed to give land for the same, a senior officer said.Sanjay Jagtap, city engineer of PCMC, said, “After conducting multiple surveys in our jurisdiction, we have planned to develop these three UPHCs. Each of these centres will have OPDs and other primary medical facilities. The proposal will be presented before the general body meeting in November and we will start the tendering process as soon as we receive the approval. CIDCO has already agreed to give us land in those places and hence we will have to spend time acquiring land.”Another senior officer from PCMC said that it will need around ₹3Cr for developing these three centres. “We will explore the possibilities of acquiring funds from the central government while working on these projects. We have plans to develop three to five other UPHCs in some other parts of the city at a later stage. But nothing has been decided about that so far,” the officer said.Mahesh Shirke, a 54-year-old activist from Panvel, said, “The population of PCMC’s jurisdiction is around 8.50 lakh. However, it is rapidly increasing as people from different parts of the country are migrating to the newly-developed areas of Kharghar, Taloja, New Panvel, Roadpali and Kamothe. The public healthcare system is not so strong here and thus the residents are heavily dependent on private hospitals. The upcoming UPHCs will give some relief to the residents of those areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/panvel-city-municipal-corporation-plans-to-develop-three-urban-primary-health-centres-101634385432661.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||NCB conducts raids at three locations in Mumbai in cruise ship drugs raid case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday conducted raids at three locations in Mumbai in the ongoing Cordelia cruise ship drugs case, for which, Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, has been in jail since October 3.The NCB told news agency ANI that the raids, which include locations in Andheri and Juhu, have been underway since Saturday morning.As many as 20 individuals have been apprehended so far in the high-profile case, which was unearthed earlier this month after the NCB raided a rave party onboard the then Goa-bound cruise ship. The bureau officials had dressed in ordinary robes, disguising themselves as passengers to raid the ship.Also Read | Aryan Khan case: NCB officer heading drugs-on-cruise probe gets security hiked after stalking chargeAryan along with his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion designer Munmun Dhamecha were the first persons from the initially detained individuals to get held, and later sent to custody.Aryan’s case will next be heard by the Special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Court on October 20. Special judge VV Patil heard arguments in the case on Thursday and posted the matter for orders for Aryan, Merchant and Dhamecha to October 20. Aryan has been denied bail thrice since being sent to custody.Meanwhile, Mumbai’s Arthur Road Jail superintendent Nitin Waychal told ANI that Aryan received a money order of ₹4,500 from his father Shah Rukh and mother Gauri Khan on October 11. The money is meant for his expenses at the jail canteen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-conducts-raids-at-three-locations-in-mumbai-in-cruise-ship-drugs-raid-case-101634383219298.html
16-10-2021||Other||Manipur CM launches a new flagship programme to transform education system||Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh on Saturday launched the STAR Education Manipur, a new flagship programme of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led coalition government to transform the education system of Manipur through excellence in teaching and learning in classrooms driving radical learning gains.The programme would deploy innovative technology and data-driven platform, coupled with high-quality learning materials, effective training and ongoing coaching for teachers and school leaders, and technology-enabled support teams.State education minister S Rajen Singh; commissioner (education) M Harekrishna; secretary to chief minister N Geoffrey; director, education (S) L Nandakumar; among others were present during the launch function in Imphal.Speaking on the occasion, CM Singh expressed that the motto of the current education system has now changed from the previous vision of getting a government job to a broader one of creating jobs and serving the nation.Stating that the new initiative would also assist the teachers in better ways, he said the state government, since its formation, had been doing things differently to serve its people in a better way. Earlier, the government launched the School Fagathansi Mission with an ambitious objective to give renewed thrust to the improvement of government schools both in terms of physical and manpower infrastructure.In his speech, Singh said that the education system in the state considerably improved after the successful implementation of the School Fagathansi Mission. To facilitate teachers in taking online classes for higher education, recording studios have been set up across different colleges, he added. The STAR Education Manipur programme would facilitate teachers and students in their teaching and learning process and would also play a key role in developing students’ knowledge.During the day’s function, the chief minister Biren Singh also released a leaflet on STAR Education Manipur and handed over teachers’ computer sets and school management smart phones to the director, Education (S).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/manipur-cm-launches-a-new-flagship-programme-to-transform-education-system-101634382965760.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Post Covid-19, mental health of research scholars takes toll||The Covid-19 pandemic has not only delayed the work of research scholars in science and technology institutes but also led to severe anxiety over deadlines and career prospects. Over the past year, research scholars have been complaining of delays in disbursal of fellowships. The pandemic also made laboratories and institutions inaccessible to researchers. Although the Council for Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) has allowed a year-long extension to deadlines for PhD completion, many scholars said pressures were high. Mental health has taken a toll. In the past few weeks there have been two instances of PhD students dying by suicide and one attempting suicide at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. “Research scholars across the country, particularly those in the late stage and nearing completion, are under immense pressure. While delay in stipend and fellowships have marred our personal expenses, the delays were more pronounced during the pandemic,” said Priyank Samagra Jain, a PhD student at the Ashank Desai Centre for Policy Studies at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Bombay. When Covid-19 led to a shutdown of almost all educational institutes, many scholars could not complete their PhD work on time or meet deadlines. During this time, the Democratic Research Scholars’ Organisation (DRSO)—a national group of research scholars from across sectors—demanded an extension in the deadline for PhD from CSIR. “During the Covid-19 first and second waves, we at DRSO did campaigns on extension and also other issues including fellowship, infrastructure, employment. From May 2020, we held signature campaigns, sent memorandum and conducted an all India convention. Several state and institution level conventions and campaigns are ongoing,” said Arghya Das, a post-doctoral fellow at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR), Hyderabad, and one of the convenors of DRSO. Dibyasankar Das, a PhD scholar at the TIFR Mumbai, said, “The cause of degradation of mental health in academia is, according to me, that our system promises so much but provides so little - both financially and intellectually. Financially speaking, a 25-year-old needs to be financially independent, but the scholarship they get barely fulfil their daily requirements. There are scholars who are getting only Rs8,000 a month and they have to do other work in the lab to help the principal investigator also apart from their own PhD work. Even those who get Rs35,000 a month soon realise funding to labs is very limited and being cut day by day. So even if you have ideas, you can’t perform those in labs due to lack of infrastructure.” In the past five years, the number of applications for junior research fellowships of CSIR has gone up from 2.8 lakh in 2015-16 to 3.79 lakh in 2019-20. Scholars said that even as the number of applications and selected candidates go up, the career prospects are not enough. “The jobs, especially as faculty or postdoctoral fellows at various institutes, are not commensurate with the number of research scholars coming in for PhD every year,” said Jain. A grievance portal was launched by CSIR to take note of the problems faced by research scholars over delayed disbursal of fellowships. On October 10, CSIR kicked off a series of career guidance sessions with research scholars to understand and address grievances. Anjan Ray, head, CSIR-Human Resource Development Group, addressed around 500 research scholars and took note of the problems faced by CSIR. “We have been hearing from students that analytical tools are not available to them especially since campuses are shut. Scholars can use the AnalytiCSIR tool, which is a network of 35 laboratories, 1,434 equipment and 1,993 test services. Scholars can look up equipment at any of the 35 labs, book a test and send samples to the lab and download a lab report using AnalytiCSIR,” said Ray. Through the career guidance sessions, CSIR will help scholars match their work to theme areas where jobs are available, Ray added. However, deteriorating mental health remains a prime concern for many research scholars. “The education system of our country is such that by the time one comes to do a PhD, our ability to ask questions is gone completely. It is frustrating, because you have so many tools, but no question to address. Above this, the environment at research institutes/universities are not intellectually intriguing. There is no place for exchanging ideas openly, debating on something and so on.” “When we came into an institute for PhD, we had a community to converse with, various interpersonal relationships. These were stress busters. Working from home, we miss those dynamics and communities,” Jain added. Arghya said that DRSO is trying to build a national-level mental health support initiative for research scholars. “However, we realise that only counselling and voicing for a mental health support mechanism in campuses are far from enough. The entire research ecosystem and the outlook towards research and researchers (a rather complicated matter), the massive uncertainty of future post PhD, which is much more acute after Covid-19, a general lack of communication and understanding among research sector with our lives in the broader society, all these significantly factor in,” he added. Dibyasankar added, “We should always fight for our hike in salary, or funding in fundamental research, but at the end of the day we don’t have much power to implement that. What is in our hands is that we research scholars can create our campuses as vibrant as possible by having different clubs, cultural activities, open debates, outreach activities, which, I think, will solve a significant portion of mental health issues in academia.” BMC mental health helpline: 022 24131212 I Call: 9152987821The Samaritans Mumbai:842298452884229845298422984530||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/post-covid-19-mental-health-of-research-scholars-takes-toll-101634381524609.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||'Centre should instead focus on…': Punjab deputy CM Randhawa on BSF's jurisdiction extension||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Saturday hit out at the Centre on extending the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) and said that an unseen Emergency-like situation is being created in the state. Randhawa said that the directive might weaken India's federal structure.As per the Centre's latest order, the BSF can now undertake arrest, search and seizure up to 50 kilometres in the states of Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Earlier, the force could only take action up to a stretch of 15 km in these states."Unseen Emergency-like situations are being created in Punjab, which will never be tolerated. Punjab is safe in the hands of the Punjab Police. The Centre should instead focus on drugs, weapons and drones coming from across the border. Peaceful Punjabis must not be harassed," Randhawa, who is also serving as the state's home minister, told news agency ANI on Saturday.He reiterated the demands of the Congress led-Punjab government that the police should be left to handle the law and order situation in the state, adding that the BSF should only be kept at the border.The deputy chief minister also pointed out that with the extension of the jurisdiction, people fear that the BSF will randomly enter their houses, cordon off villages and conduct searches, ANI further reported.Before Randhava, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi also condemned the Centre's decision and said that the extension of BSF's jurisdiction is a direct attack on federalism. He urged Union home minister Amit Shah to roll back the decision."I strongly condemn the GoI's unilateral decision to give additional powers to BSF within the 50 KM belt running along the international borders, which is a direct attack on federalism. I urge the Union Home Minister @AmitShah to immediately roll back this irrational decision," Channi tweeted on Wednesday.Meanwhile, Punjab unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ashwani Sharma condemned the criticism of the state government and other opposition parties over the decision. Accusing opposition parties of indulging in politics, he said that incidents of drones, tiffin bombs and drug trafficking have increased.“All border states have come under this notification as national security was most pivotal to the survival of the country. Politicians should refrain from petty politics,” Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-should-instead-focus-on-punjab-dy-cm-on-bsf-s-jurisdiction-extension-101634375957804.html
16-10-2021||Bangalore||Will Karnataka ease Covid-19 restrictions further? CM Bommai answers||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Saturday that his government will take a call on easing the restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) further after consulting experts.Addressing a press conference, Bommai said, "There will be a meeting with the experts on Covid-19 either tomorrow or the day after. If the norms have to be changed in the coming days, we will do it after seeking the opinion of experts."Bommai said there will be a detailed discussion on several issues such as reopening of schools for all classes, reopening of commercial establishments and movement of people in border states, news agency PTI reported.Currently, the state government has allowed offline classes for students above class 6 and cinemas and pubs have been operating with 100% capacity since October 1. The night curfew was relaxed by one hour and is now in place from 10 pm to 5 am.Pointing out that coronavirus disease cases in Karnataka are declining and the infection rate is less than 1%, the chief minister said that experts cautioned against letting down guard even when the number of cases is less.Karnataka has so far recorded 2,982,869 cases due to Covid-19 which include 37,931 deaths, 2,935,238 recoveries and 9,671 active cases. On Friday, the state saw 470 new cases while 368 patients recovered and nine succumbed to the viral disease.A total of 93,806 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Friday, taking the cumulative number of specimens examined to 49.3 million. More than 60 million doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in Karnataka till now.On Wednesday, chief minister Bommai said that border districts in the state would be given concerning Covid-19 restrictions following an assessment after the Dussehra celebrations.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-karnataka-ease-covid-19-restrictions-further-cm-bommai-answers-101634372493431.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Four die in Durga idol immersion mishaps in Pratapgarh, Prayagraj||Four people died in separate mishaps during the immersion of Durga idols in Pratapgarh and Prayagraj districts of Uttar Pradesh on Friday, the police said on Saturday.Among them, a man died and three others were injured when a Durga idol fell on them during an immersion ceremony at Kaithola village under the Lalganj police station of Pratapgarh district, the police said.The deceased was identified as Ankur Singh, 24, and the injured as Abhay Kumar, Akash and Anuj Kumar.Ankur Singh’s father Dal Bahadur Singh works with the Indian Air Force at Ambala and has been informed about the incident, the victim’s sister Sarita said.In another incident, a 26-year-old man Guddu Saroj fell into the Bakulahi river and drowned during an immersion ceremony near Anjani bridge under the Kunda Kotwali police station limits in Pratapgarh district of Uttar Pradesh on Friday. Policemen brought him out of the river and rushed him to hospital but he died.In Prayagraj, Sushil Kumar Sonkar, 21, fell into Karan Tara pond at Kalika-Ka-Pura village during the immersion ceremony. Bara police engaged a diver to bring Sushil out of the water and rushed him to the community health centre where the doctors pronounced him dead, said Kamlesh Kumar, the station house officer of Bara police station.In another incident, Ashish Yadav, 16, drowned in the Ganga water at Gangapur village under Handia police station in Prayagraj district. By the time locals brought him out of the water with police help, he had died, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-four-die-in-durga-idol-immersion-mishaps-in-pratapgarh-prayagraj-101634376364422.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: 550 Durga idols immersed in pond||About 550 Durga idols were immersed in a pond at Andawa (Jhusi) in Prayagraj as devotees bid adieu to the Goddess on Friday after four days of worship.“Elaborate arrangements were made by the district administration and around 550 idols were immersed in the pond at Andawa. The idols kept arriving till 8pm and the immersion took place peacefully. Cleaning of the pond was taken up by the teams deployed by Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC),” said additional district magistrate (City) Madan Kumar. Like the previous year, the district administration had made arrangements for immersion of Durga idols at the pond in Andawa (Jhusi) in Prayagraj this time, too, for better crowd management and ensuring adherence to Covid protocols. As the administration had allowed smaller idols this year, almost all the vehicles were smaller in size and a limited number of revellers reached the immersion site. Using sand bags, makeshift stairs were constructed near the pond.Emotionally-charged chants of “Bolo jai Durga Mai ki” were heard amid tight security arrangements by the local police and civil defence volunteers. The Durga Puja idols this year reflected innovative themes as well as traditional ones. Some of the innovative Durga idols were designed with pearls, pulses and leaves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-550-durga-idols-immersed-in-pond-101634375524294.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||UP assembly polls: Cong appoints additional office-bearers to state unit||Ahead of the assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Saturday approved the proposal for the appointment of additional office-bearers to the state unit of the party with immediate effect."Hon'ble Congress President has approved the proposal of the appointment of additional office bearers of Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC), as enclosed, with immediate effect," said AICC General Secretary KC Venugopal in a statement.Congress appointed Upendra Singh, Maqsood Khan and Jaywant Singh as vice presidents of UPCC, while Dinesh Kumar Singh was appointed as general secretary organisation, a party statement said.The party also appointed 12 additional general secretaries and 11 secretaries in the state unit.General Secretaries are ---- Moninder Sood Valmiki, Subodh Srivastav, Arshad Ali Guddu, Jai Karan Varma, Mukund Tiwari, Raghavendra Pratap Singh, Sarita Patel, Akhilesh Shukla, Sachin Chaudhary, Sharad Mishra, Dharmendra Nishad and Abhishek Patel.The Secretaries are ---- Kamesh Ratan, Pratibha Atal Pal, Praveen Chaudhary, Lay Kashyap, Sudhir Parashar, Risal Ahmad, Dhirendra Prasad, ex MLA, Mukesh Yadav, Akhilesh Sharma, Parvez Ahmad and Sachin Trivedi.Uttar Pradesh will go to the polls in March next year.Meanwhile, Congress's supreme body, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), is scheduled to meet today at the All India Congress Committee (AICC) headquarters in New Delhi to discuss the organisational elections, forthcoming assembly polls and current political situation.This will be the first in-person meeting of the CWC after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out last year. The meet would be attended by the CWC members, permanent invitees, and special invitees of the committee along with the chief ministers of the Congress-ruled states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-polls-cong-appoints-additional-office-bearers-to-state-unit-101634368377669.html
16-10-2021||Bhopal||After Kabaddi video goes viral, Pragya Thakur says person who shot it is Ravana||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Pragya Singh Thakur, who was recently seen playing kabaddi in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal, said the person who shot and made the video viral is a "Ravana", adding his old age and next birth will get spoiled, news agency PTI reported on Saturday.A 10-second video which was shot on Wednesday, showed Pragya Thakur playing kabaddi on the premises of a Kali temple.Addressing a Dussehra programme in Bhopal's Sant Nagar, a Sindhi dominated area, on Friday night, Thakur said "I went for offering aarti (at a Durga pandal) two days back when some sportsmen playing on a ground requested me to conduct a (kabaddi) raid. A small clip of this was captured and shown in the media.""If someone fretted and fumed, it was Ravana among you, some Sindhi brother...someone who is a big enemy (of mine). I am not his enemy, but he considered me as his enemy. I don't know what precious thing I snatched from him...But Ravana can be anywhere," the BJP MP from Bhopal was quoted as saying by PTIShe said that the sanskaar (upbringing) of the person who shot the video is spoiled and he/she should mend it. “If you don't, your old age and next birth will also get spoiled,” she added.Also Watch| BJP MP Pragya Thakur's Kabaddi action goes viral after her Garba moves; Twitter eruptsPragya Singh Thakur, who is known for making contentious remarks, was seen playing garba a few days back during the Navratri festival. In July, videos circulated of the BJP MP playing basketball and dancing at a pre-wedding ceremony at her residence in Bhopal.The Congress party has often taken a veiled jibe at Pragya's viral videos."It is a matter of happiness to see you healthy. Today you were seen playing Garba. But whenever people are in distress and they are calling you, you are seen sick, in a wheelchair or walking with support. It hurts. God should always keep you healthy,” Madhya Pradesh Congress spokesperson Narendra Singh Saluja tweeted.Pragya Singh Thakur has been accused in the 2008 Malegaon blast case and was granted bail on medical grounds. She has skipped hearings in the case citing injuries because of the alleged torture she faced while in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/after-kabaddi-video-goes-viral-pragya-thakur-says-person-who-shot-it-is-ravana-101634364668008.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||#WorldFoodDay: How city NGOs are ensuring no one sleeps hungry||The pandemic has surely re-emphasised the need to help the homeless, particularly with food. Doing their bit, NGOs in Delhi-NCR have been providing ration, warm meals, etc. to support the less privileged as well as refugees. On World Food Day, today, some Good Samaritans share how they are feeding those reeling under the brutal impact of Covid-19. “Since the second wave hit, we have supported over two lakh people with meals,” says Kuldip Nar from ResponseNet, adding, “We have created a model to ensure food security of migrants, underprivileged families for at least a month, at every intervention. We make sure that monthly ration is provided in their homes, and we are running this in over 13 states, including Assam, Jharkhand, Sikkim, Odisha and Chhattisgarh.” The tales of some refugees are heartbreaking, admits Anchal Sharma from Meals of Happiness. “Our team, along with volunteers, serves warm, nutritious meals to the less fortunate and refugees every day... Sometimes, donors help us get fresh mithai (sweets) made, and we distribute those too. Sweets give instant energy and also bring joy to the otherwise not-so-comfortable lives of the needy, especially in festive times. We also arrange for donation of clothes and toys,” she adds. And then, there are NGOs assisting the less privileged acquire skills to be able to fend for themselves as well as their families. Manisha Bhatia from Abhinandan says, “Sometimes, we distribute food packets among the underprivileged in Nizamuddin area. But, as they say, ‘Teach a person to fish and they will never be hungry’, so we impart vocational skills to them. Our educational and welfare society has collaborated with Nizamuddin Railway Police Station, to give kids and women in the neighbourhood a chance to earn some extra income, so that they always have food on their plates. The police station has even let us use a part of their premises for this.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/worldfoodday-how-city-ngos-are-ensuring-no-one-sleeps-hungry-101634368747256.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati demands strict action against culprits of Singhu border killing||Calling the killing of a man near the Singhu border where farmers are protesting against three farm laws since November last year, as sad and shameful, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Saturday asked the "Dalit" Chief Minister of Punjab Charanjit Singh Channi to provide financial aid of ₹50 lakh to kin of deceased.Taking to Twitter, the BSP chief also said strict action should be against the culprits like done on "Lakhimpur Kheri violence"."The brutal murder of a Dalit youth of Punjab on the Delhi Singhu border is very sad and shameful. Taking the incident seriously, the police should take strict action against the culprits and like done Lakhimpur Kheri. The Dalit CM of Punjab should give 50 lakh rupees and a government job to the victim's family, this is the demand of BSP," tweeted Mayawati.Earlier on Friday, a corpse of a man, with hands and legs chopped off, was found hanging on a police barricade at the farmers' protest site near the Singhu border, said Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Hansraj."An FIR has been registered in the case," said the DSP.She further compared the road mishap in the Chhattisgarh's Jashpur district, where a car ran over a group of people walking to immerse an idol of Goddess Durga, with Lakhimpur Kheri incident and asked Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel to take strict action against the accused."The incident of death of one person and injuries to many people in Chhattisgarh during Durga Visarjan is very sad, which is reminiscent of the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. The Congress government should give financial help and jobs to the families of the victims and take strict action against the culprits," Mayawati tweeted.A speeding car on Friday evening allegedly mowed down one individual and left 16 persons injured from a procession that was heading for Durga idol immersion in Pathalgaon block of Jashpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-demands-strict-action-against-culprits-of-singhu-border-killing-101634368300699.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||#BossDay: Professionals in Delhi-NCR say ‘Boss, tussi great ho!’||New DelhiLove them or hate them, bosses are your life’s true ‘constants’, if you are an employee. But, when Covid-19 was at its peak, quite a few bosses shed their strict avatars and went out of their way to help colleagues and teammates — from offering mental health breaks to helping them find emergency Covid-related supplies. On Boss’s Day today, some professionals in Delhi-NCR express gratitude to their seniors, saying: “Boss, tussi great ho!”From attending SOS calls to being available at odd hours and resolving issues — bosses did it all, and more. Gurugram-based Sarika Panda Bhatt, director of a firm, shares while talking about her boss, Manas Fuloria: “During the second wave, we were looking for a hospital bed and oxygen cylinder one night. Our boss was there for us all, even if it meant calling at 1 or 2 am. He told us, ‘Just focus on helping people, no need to do other work’. He even announced a concept wherein anyone can work from anywhere, permanently. I am really fortunate to have him as my mentor.” Jerome Jaganathan, a sales professional from Lodhi Colony, says: “When many of my teammates were worried about salaries getting cut, our boss stepped up and made sure we get full salaries throughout the Covid period. In fact, he’s often asked us if we need help, since the pandemic struck.”Some share how their bosses have helped them stay mentally healthy amid #WFH life. “In mid-August, my boss acknowledged my need for a short break to improve my mental health, and approved a week-long leave for a trip to Ladakh, that too on short notice. He has also been helping me manage overwhelming work phases. This is so thoughtful, especially in times like these,” says Dishant Passi, a Delhi-based business analyst in multimedia domain. And Preeti Chauhan, a Delhi-based marketing professional, recounts how her boss personally prepared meals for a Covid-infected colleague: “My boss himself cooked dal, rice and green vegetables, arranged medicines and nariyal pani to send to the home of that colleague and her brother, who were both infected. And when talking to the team, he told us all to take it easy and not stress about work.” Well, isn’t that a shift from the usual boss bitching? Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bossday-professionals-in-delhi-ncr-say-boss-tussi-great-ho-101634365923674.html
16-10-2021||Other||CRPF jawan injured in minor explosion near train at Raipur station||A jawan of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was injured at Raipur railway station on Saturday morning in a blast that took place in a special train carrying CRPF personnel to Jammu, officials said.Superintendent of Police, Raipur, Prashant Agarwal, in a statement said that a minor explosion took place in a special train which was heading to Jammu from Jharsuguda (Odisha), at Raipur railway station around 6:30 am.Senior officials, including medical staff, rushed to the spot after the incident.“A jawan, Chouhan Vikas Laxman, sustained serious injuries and has been admitted to a private hospital while three others suffered minor injuries,” said the SP.Police said that the explosion took place during the shifting of a container carrying detonators inside the train.“The container slipped during the shifting due to which the blast took place,” said SP Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crpf-jawan-injured-in-minor-explosion-near-train-at-raipur-station-101634363583786.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Extortion case: Mumbai Police looking for Dawood Ibrahim's aide Riyaz Bhati||Mumbai Police's Crime Branch on Friday informed that it is now looking for underworld don Dawood Ibrahim's aide Riyaz Bhati who has been named in the FIR against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh in an extortion case. “Riyaz Bhati's name is also mentioned in the same FIR which has been registered against Param Bir Singh in an extortion case. But Bhati has disappeared since the crime branch called him for interrogation,” the police said.The police further informed that Bhati filed an anticipatory bail application in September this year which was rejected by the sessions court. “While dismissing the plea, the court said that custodial interrogation is necessary in this case,” the police added. Police alleged that Bhati used to collect money from bar and restaurant owners and send it to suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Waze.Earlier on October 9, the Crime Branch of Mumbai Police sent an inquiry notice to former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, in connection with an extortion case. “An inquiry notice has been sent to Parambir Singh asking him to appear before the police on October 12,” Mumbai police said.The Crime Branch of Mumbai Police passed a notice at Parambir Singh's Mumbai residence and a team has also gone to Haryana to give him notice at Haryana residence. A case of extortion was registered on July 23 against Parambir Singh, Sachin Waje, and others at Goregaon Police Station, whose investigation was handed over to the Mumbai Crime Branch.It was the second case of extortion in which Param Bir Singh has been named. The Enforcement Directorate had earlier summoned the former Mumbai police commissioner to record a statement in connection with the ₹100 crore money laundering case against ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-case-mumbai-police-looking-for-dawood-ibrahim-s-aide-riyaz-bhati-101634360678737.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Yamuna littered with waste despite curbs on idol immersion||Despite the restrictions imposed by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) on the immersion of Durga idols and other religious material at public places, the Yamuna ghat at ITO was littered with waste on Saturday morning.Speaking to ANI, Pradeep Kumar, a resident of the city, said that the people of the country should give primacy to cleanliness while celebrating festivals. “Though the festivals are linked with religious faith, people should also take heed of cleanliness,” he stated. “There should be an alternative disposal site for religious material and the municipal corporation should dispose of it properly. But the rivers should not be polluted,” he added.Kumar further said that the various projects initiated by the government for cleaning rivers will not be useful unless people become aware and stop polluting the rivers. Earlier on Wednesday, DPCC issued an order stating that idol immersion at public places can attract a fine of ₹50,000. It banned the immersion at public places including the Yamuna River or any other water body, ponds, or ghats.The pollution control body directed the general public, Residents' Welfare Associations (RWAs), and Pooja Samitis that the idol immersion ritual may be performed within the home premises in a bucket or a container.It further stated that the worship material like flowers, decorating material (made of paper), etc. should be removed before immersion of idols and may be collected separately for disposal or in an environmental safe handing over to the door-to-door waste collection vehicle.The Committee also directed municipal authorities and Delhi Police to ensure strict checks on the entry of vehicles or goods carriers entering into the national capital carrying prohibited idols as its cargo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-yamuna-littered-with-waste-despite-curbs-on-idol-immersion-101634359775944.html
16-10-2021||Other||J&K: Terrorist killed, cops claim top Lashkar commander trapped in Pulwama||Jammu and Kashmir police on Saturday claimed to have trapped a top Lashkar commander in Pulwama district during an operation that was launched during the night at Drangbal Pampore. According to the latest updates, one terrorist was killed during the ensuing gunfight, while another is likely to have been slain as well.  Police identified the trapped commander as Umar Mushtaq Khanday who is among the top ten commanders operating in Kashmir. Officials said that Khanday is involved in the killing of two police constables.“LeT commander amongst top 10 terrorists namely Umar Mustaq Khandey who was involved in the killing of two police personnel at Baghat Srinagar & other terror crimes trapped in Pampore Encounter,” Kashmir Zone Police said in a tweet quoting Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar.Umar was named among the top ten militant targets by police along with Salim Parray, Yousuf Kantroo, Abbas Sheikh, Reyaz Shetergund, Farooq Nali, Zubair Wani and Ashraf Molvi, Saqib Manzoor and Wakeel Shah in August.This is the third operation since Friday afternoon in which two militants, who according to the police were involved in the killing of a civilian and a police sub-inspector in Srinagar, were killed.Police identified the killed militants as Shahid Bashir Shiekh and Tanzeel Ahmad, both residents of Srinagar.IG Kumar said based on specific inputs regarding the presence of terrorists, two operations were carried out in Pulwama and Srinagar, resulting in the killing of two militants belonging to LeT (TRF) and who were involved in recent killings of a civilian and a probationary police sub-inspector in Srinagar.He said in the Pulwama encounter, one militant identified as Shahid Bashir Sheikh of Habba Kadal Srinagar was killed.“As per police records, he had joined the terror folds recently and was linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). He was involved in the killing of a civilian Mohammad Shafi Dar (PDD Employee) at Batamaloo Srinagar on Oct 2. He was also responsible for creating terror among the locals by threatening, intimidating and killing civilians.”Kumar said, in another operation at Hamdaniya Colony Bemina, one militant identified as Tanzeel Ahmad of Habba Kadal Srinagar was killed. “As per police records, he had joined the terror folds recently and was linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). He was involved in the killing of PSI Arshid Ashraf at Khanyar area of Srinagar in September”.He said that besides these two specific killings, Shahid and Tanzil were also collaborators in the recent killings of a chemist and two teachers in the city.“Incriminating materials, including arms (2 AK 47 rifles) and ammunition, have been recovered from the site of encounters.”IGP Kashmir said that after the recent killings of civilians in the city in eight encounters, 11 militants got killed since October 8 in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-police-claims-to-have-trapped-top-lashkar-commander-in-pulwama-district-101634358424778.html
16-10-2021||Other||Amit Shah to address public rally in Jammu on October 24||Amid a sudden spike in terror attacks and killings in Jammu and Kashmir, Union home minister Amit Shah will address a public rally on October 24 at the ground adjoining the fourth bridge over Tawi River in Bhagwati Nagar.While addressing a party meeting at BJP headquarters in Jammu, J&K Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ravinder Raina said it will be a huge public rally.This will be Shah’s first-ever rally following the abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A from Jammu and Kashmir on August 5, 2019.Amid uproar by the Opposition, Amit Shah introduced the bill in the Rajya Sabha on August 5 in 2019. He had said that “Article 370 and 35-A were a gateway of terrorism in India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi has closed this gate by repealing them.” “Only Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the charismatic companionship of Amit Shah could do this justice with the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and its residents,” said Raina. He further said, “Now, this is the time to show Amit shah ji that how much we are grateful to him and Modi ji for this wonderful decision.” On the occasion, Raina also formed teams and allotted different responsibilities to the senior party leaders for the successful conduct of the public rally. He said that the rally should be organized in such a manner that no inconvenience is caused to the visiting gathering as well as the nearby dwellers and commuters. Shah’s rally comes at a time when the region is witnessing a sudden spike in terror attacks and selective killings. Since Monday, the Indian Army has lost seven of its men including a JCO in Poonch. A total of 28 civilians have been killed by terrorists in the Valley this year. Of the total, at least seven of them have been killed since Tuesday, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amit-shah-to-address-public-rally-in-jammu-on-october-24-101634356383827.html
16-10-2021||Other||Fire at furniture godown in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi, 40 godowns charred||In a major fire that broke out in a furniture godown at Kasheli, Bhiwandi in Maharashtra on Friday late night around 11.00 pm, around 40 godowns were charred, officials said. “The fire was major and uncontrollable as it kept spreading through all the godowns. Since it was a furniture godown all the furniture were charred. Thick smoke covered the area. We managed to douse the blaze in five hours of operations,” said a fire officer of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC).The fire was doused on Saturday morning around 4.47 am after five hours of fire fighting operations. No injury or casualty was reported in the incident.As per the Thane Regional Disaster Management Cell, the fire took place in one of the godowns at Chamunda complex, located near Kasheli toll naka and it kept spreading to the nearby godowns.As soon as the fire broke out, local police, a team of Thane Regional Disaster Management Cell, one jumbo water taken from Balkum fire brigade Thane, one fire tender of Bhiwandi fire brigade, four private water tankers and one ambulance were rushed to the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-at-furniture-godown-in-maharashtra-s-bhiwandi-40-godowns-charred-101634354942412.html
16-10-2021||Pune||Pune airport's 14-day closure starts today, IAF says vaccine supply won't be hit||Pune airport will remain closed for 14 days - from Saturday to October 29 - to complete the runway resurfacing work. The resurfacing work is being undertaken by the Indian Air Force (IAF), which manages the runway operations.Informing about the closure of the airport, the IAF had said earlier this month that shutting down the airstrip was "inescapable" as the condition of the runway is rapidly deteriorating and it needs re-carpeting."Flight operations will remain completely closed from tomorrow till October 29 and it will resume from October 30," Pune airport director Santosh Dhoke was quoted as saying by news agency ANI on Friday.Partial closure of the runway was done for 12 hours daily during night from October 26, 2020 for the maintenance work, in order to cause the least disturbance to daily civil operations, news agency ANI reported."A 14-day complete closure was planned from April 26 till May 9, 2021 to undertake the resurfacing of the central bitumen portion of the runway. However, due to emergent requirement of transport of Covid-19 vaccines, The Ministry of Defence had directed to defer the complete closure of runway," a statetment from the IAF said.This is the second shut down within a span of 13 years.The travellers were shocked by the announcement, which they said was made at a very short notice. Many of them had planned to fly as the festive season has begun.The announcement of closure was made on the day a greenfield airport was inaugurated by the Centre in Sindhudurg. Operationalisation of the airport at Chipi in Sindhudurg has opened the horizon of additional connectivity of costal Maharashtra with other cities, directly connected with bigger places like Pune.Meanwhile, the IAF said that during the period of complete closure of the runway, it will ensure airlift of vaccines from Pune to Mumbai by deploying suitable assets to ensure uninterrupted supply chain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-airport-s-14-day-closure-starts-today-iaf-says-vaccine-supply-won-t-be-hit-101634343646661.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Police vehicle damaged in hit-and-run accident||A police vehicle was damaged after a Mahindra Thar Jeep rammed into it in the city on Thursday. In his complaint, constable Vinod, deployed as a driver at the Sarangpur police station, said on Thursday he was going to Sector 42 with the SHO. When they stopped at the traffic lights of Sector 36-37, a Jeep bearing a Punjab registration number rammed into their vehicle and sped away. However, no one was injured and only the number plate was damaged. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 36 police station. In another incident, sub-inspector Balbir Singh posted in the VIP Security Wing, Chandigarh, who was in-charge of pilot gypsy of Union minister Som Parkash, said when they were on their way to Sector 71, Mohali, on Thursday, a rashly driven Ford Figo (CH-01AT-0269) brushed past the minister’s convoy near the dividing road of Sector-41-42. A case under Section 279 of the IPC was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-vehicle-damaged-in-hit-and-run-accident-101634337671709.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||12 held for gambling in Ambala, ₹2.4 lakh recovered||The Ambala police arrested 12 persons for indulging in gambling and recovered ₹2.4 lakh from their possession during a special drive. “The police teams raided several locations in the district on Thursday night and lodged nine cases at various police stations in this regard. Highest ₹2.28 lakh were seized from six men at a makeshift shop under the Topkhana police station,” a police spokesperson said. Expedite development works: Balbir Sidhu
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn’s cracker ban goes for a toss during Dussehra effigy burning||Not giving two hoots to the administration’s ban on their use, several effigies were burnt with firecrackers on Dussehra in the city.Use of firecrackers was reported at the events held in Sectors 34, 28 and Maloya, while residents also unabashedly burst them in the streets throughout the city.According to police, they were in the process of registering at least five FIRs for the violation and another for sale of firecrackers.In Sector 34, even though the sub-divisional magistrate (South) reached the spot to warn the organisers against bursting crackers, city BJP chief Arun Sood took to the stage to tell them to continue with the programme as usual.Sood spoke about how the festival was even more important this year as the construction of Ram Mandir has started in Ayodhya, and claimed that they had the necessary permissions to carry on with the event.This was followed by burning of three effigies with crackers installed.Later Sood said, “Why was the ban only for Chandigarh, and not for Panchkula and Mohali? Celebrating Dussehra with crackers is essential to respect the religious sentiments of people.”President of the Azaad Dramatic Club in Sector 20, that organised the event, Gulshan Kumar said, “The crackers used were much lesser than previous years. When so many people have gathered to celebrate Dussehra, it is important to honour their wishes.”SDM (South) Rupesh Kumar, meanwhile, said, “The organisers behaved very irresponsibly despite being warned. Under the guise of the crowd, they deliberately broke the rules. They will face action.”In Sector 28, one of the organisers, Mukesh Sharma, said, “The orders came too late. We had already set up crackers in effigies at a cost of ₹2 lakh. Removing them would have disfigured the effigies.”Violators to face police actionSuperintendent of police (SP, City) Ketan Bansal said, “Police are investigating the matter and cases will be registered against those found at fault.”Sources said police will be registering cases under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code against the organisers of the celebrations at Sectors 28 and 34, Bapu Dham Colony in Sector 26, Subhash Nagar in Manimajra and Maloya.The SDM (South) also sealed Garg General Store in Sector 42 for selling crackers and a separate FIR will be registered in this regard.Congress, AAP hit out at BJPChandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla said, “It seems that the administration and the BJP are in cahoots. The bureaucrats cannot enforce their orders, they should resign and go back to their parent state.”AAP Chandigarh co-incharge Pradeep Chabbra added, “The administration should not take such decisions at the last minute. It seems that the administration is under pressure from the BJP. They must ensure similar confusion doesn’t take place on Diwali.”Others find novel ways to celebrateThinking out of the box, the organisers of the event at Parade Ground, Sector 17, used an audio recording to simulate bursting firecrackers for a gathering of nearly 400. In Sector 46 as well, an effigy was burnt without crackers.As such the festival had no impact on the city’s air quality. While the AQI was 300 around 2pm, it went down to 187 by 8.30pm, as recorded at the air quality monitoring station in Sector 22.Covid norms floutedCovid protocols were disregarded at most locations. Over a 1,000 people gathered in Sector 34, where cops remained busy managing the traffic and could not keep a check on people not maintaining social distance and not wearing masks.In Mohali district, too, huge crowds gathered for celebrations at 14 places, including at the Dussehra grounds in Phases 1 and 8. This led to long queues of vehicles on the main roads in Phases 1, 7, 8 and 9, and Sector 70. Housing societies across the tricity also torched smaller effigies as part of simpler celebrations. A 100-feet-tall effigy of Ravana was burnt in Ambala’s Barara town. It was set up by Shri Ramlila Club that had erected a 221-foot effigy in Chandigarh in 2019. Several other associations also organised celebrations in various blocks of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-s-cracker-ban-goes-for-a-toss-during-dussehra-effigy-burning-101634337669483.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||GMADA e-auction: Only 9 of 61 properties in Mohali find takers||In its fourth auction this year, where 61 commercial properties were on offer, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) managed to find buyers for only nine.The 13-day e-auction, which ended on Thursday night, brought in ₹520 crore for the authority, with the big properties on Airport Road once again fetching more handsome bids.A 5-acre commercial site in Aerocity proved to be the star property for GMADA, as it went for ₹192 crore against a reserve price of ₹152 crore.Another big earner was a 6-acre housing society site in Sector 88, which went for ₹149 crore against a reserve price of ₹121 crore. While two hospital sites were up for grabs, only one was sold. Priced at ₹33.5 crore, the 3.5-acre site in Aerocity raked in ₹48 crore for the authority.Two institutional (education) sites were also on offer, but only one found a taker. The 2-acre property in Sector 88 earned ₹24.5 against a reserve price of ₹23.8 crore. The other site, in Sector 80, was priced at ₹28.7 crore. It has received no bids in any of the four auctions held this year.The authority also sold two commercial sites of 1 acre each in Sector 68 at no premium to the reserve price of ₹40 crore each.While 24 SCOs, sizing 125 square metres, were available for purchase, only one was bought. Located in Sector 71 and priced ₹4.17 crore, it went for ₹4.25 crore. Of the four IT plots on sale in IT City, two of 1.25 acres each were auctioned for ₹11.5 crore each against a reserve price of ₹10 crore.GMADA chief administrator Vipul Ujwal said, “We were able to sell most of our bigger sites, which shows that the real estate market is bouncing back after a slump of almost one year.”Even in the last auction held in August, GMADA had sold only nine of the 44 properties and earned ₹405 crore. Before that, in April, the sale of 11 of 44 sites on auction helped it earn ₹301 crore. The year’s first auction in February had brought in ₹544 crore, while in the auction held in December last year, out of 78 properties, only 10 were sold for ₹134 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmada-e-auction-only-9-of-61-properties-in-mohali-find-takers-101634337668231.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman buying vegetables falls prey to snatchers||Two motorcycle-borne youths snatched the gold chain of a woman while she was buying vegetables outside her housing society in Sector 50, Chandigarh, on Friday. In her complaint, Veena, 55, a resident of Sarvodaya Society, said a man approached her while she was buying vegetables. He snatched her chain and fled with his accomplice waiting nearby on a motorcycle. In another incident, a Manimajra resident’s motorcycle was snatched near the traffic lights in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, on Thursday. The victim, Irshad, said a man suddenly pushed him and took his motorcycle away. Onlookers told him that the accused’s name was Lakhan. Separate cases under Section 379A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code were registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-buying-vegetables-falls-prey-to-snatchers-101634337666146.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Coaching institute told to refund fee of student who quit midway||Terming refusal to refund coaching fee midcourse as gross unfair trade practice, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed FIITJEE Limited to refund the ₹69,909 fee to a Panchkula resident. The commission also directed the institute to pay ₹25,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment to the complainant, along with ₹7,000 as litigation cost. In her complaint, Nisha had submitted that her son got enrolled in a four-year classroom programme for JEE-Advanced 2020, starting April 2016.  ₹1.92 lakh were paid through post-dated cheques as total fee for the programme.However, her son was never satisfied with the coaching provided since day one. Neither were the teachers capable of making him understand the lectures nor they addressed his complaints. Also, she was told by the coaching centre that the fee for Classes 11 and 12 through Sri Guru Gobind Singh Collegiate Public School, Sector 26, Chandigarh, was included in the total programme cost, but later she was told to deposit admission and tuition fees, etc. Besides, her son was never provided study material. So, he left the classes in October 2018. When they sought a refund from the institute, they were turned down, forcing Nisha to approach the consumer court.Denying any deficiency in services, FIITJEE Limited sought dismissal of the complaint. The institute submitted that the fee was paid by Nisha after choosing the plan as per her convenience. Fee once paid was not refundable and her son left the course midway on his own sweet will. Holding the institute guilty of unfair trade practice and deficiency in service, the commission, presided over by Rajan Dewan held that FIITJEE Limited was not justified in retaining fee for remaining period.“A student or a trainee may leave midstream if he/she finds the service deficient, substandard and non-yielding, and to tell him/her that fees once paid is not refundable is gross unfair trade practice on the part of coaching institutes,” it said in its order, while directing FIITJEE Limited to refund ₹69,909 with 8% interest since October 2018.What the consumer court said“Coaching institutes are not meant only to collect huge fee from the students and earn profits out of it…No service provider can take/charge consideration of the service, which neither it has provided nor has been availed,” read the commission’s order. “In our opinion, coaching institutes should act prudently and should not be charging fee in advance for the entire course and if they do so, they should not refuse to refund, as and when asked for, by taking shelter under some self-serving clause that fee once paid is not refundable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-coaching-institute-told-to-refund-fee-of-student-who-quit-midway-101634337665004.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||JEE-Advanced: Chaitanya Aggarwal is Chandigarh tricity topper||Scoring 324 out of a possible 360, Chaitanya Aggarwal has emerged as the tricity topper in JEE-Advanced, results for which was declared on Friday.According to the rank list released by the National Testing Agency, Aggarwal with an All India Rank (AIR) of 8 is also the topper in the IIT Roorkee zone of the exam. A resident of Phase 5, Mohali, he had studied at St Anne’s Convent School in Sector 32, Chandigarh, till Class 10, and completed his Class 12 from Sri Guru Harkrishan Public Senior Secondary School, Sector 40.“I have always been keen about innovation, so engineering was a logical choice. I studied for around 10-12 hours per day, with focus on revision,” says the 17-year-old, who wants to pursue computer science engineering at IIT Bombay.To relieve stress, Aggarwal listens to music and plays the guitar. He is also fond of cycling and says as soon as smart cycles were launched for the public in Chandigarh, he went to check them out.His father, Sanjeev Gupta, is into real estate business and mother Nisha Singla is a senior nursing officer at PGIMER, Chandigarh.Guramrit Singh, who got AIR 1 in JEE Main, bagged AIR 26 in the advanced stage. A student of Bhavan Vidyalaya School in Sector 27 and a resident of Sector 74, Mohali, the 18-year-old also wants to join IIT Bombay for computer science engineering. An avid cricket and football player, he has cleared the Indian Olympiad Qualifiers in chemistry and astronomy, and has been selected for the related orientation-cum-selection-camps. He is also a Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Yojana and National Talent Search Exam scholar. His father, Gurdarshan Singh, is a businessman and mother Preeti is a homemaker. Kushant Singla, a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula, cracked the exam with AIR 30. Hailing from Ludhiana, he shifted to Chandigarh in Class 11. His father, Ravinder Kumar, is a biology teacher at a government school in Ludhiana and mother Pooja Singla is an SBI employee. “I used to study 6-7 hours every day and turned to badminton to relax after gruelling preparations,” says the 18-year-old.This year, IIT Kharagpur conducted JEE (Joint Entrance Exam)-Advanced, the qualifying test for admission to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). A total of 1,41,699 candidates had appeared in both paper 1 and 2 of the exam.JEE-Main is the qualifying test for JEE-Advanced and is also conducted for admission to other engineering colleges across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jeeadvanced-chaitanya-aggarwal-is-chandigarh-tricity-topper-101634337663713.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity area logs eight fresh Covid cases, no death||The tricity recorded eight new Covid-19 cases on Friday, down from 10 the day before.Both Mohali and Panchkula reported three infections each, while two people tested positive in Chandigarh. There was no virus-related death across the tricity for the 10th consecutive day.The active cases also reduced from 65 to 63 over the past 24 hours. Now, Chandigarh has 30 positive patients, Mohali 26 and Panchkula seven.The infected people in the UT are residents of Sectors 25 and 48. One each case surfaced in Mohali city and Dera Bassi in Mohali district, and Panchkula’s cases came from Sectors 4, 6 and 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-area-logs-eight-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-101634337661128.html
16-10-2021||Lucknow||11 killed as tractor-trolley overturns in UP's Jhansi||At least 11 people, including four children, were killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi on Friday after a tractor-trolley in which they were travelling overturned when the driver applied brakes to avoid hitting an animal, police said.Six people were also injured in the accident that occurred in Chirgaon area here, they said.Senior Superintendent of Police Shivhari Meena said that around 30 families from Madhya Pradesh’s Pandokhar were going to a temple in Erach here in the tractor-trolley. The tractor-trolley overturned after the driver of the vehicle suddenly applied the brakes to avoid hitting an animal that had strayed onto the road.Four children and seven women were killed in the accident. The injured have been hospitalised, he said.The deceased were identified as Pushpa Devi (40), Munni Devi (40), Sunita Bai (35), Pooja Devi (25), Rajjo Bai (45), Premvati (50), Kusuma (55), Krishna (10), Pari (1), Anushka (4) and Avi (2), the police said. According to an official statement,Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the accident and directed officials to provide adequate medical treatment to the injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/11-killed-as-tractor-trolley-overturns-in-up-s-jhansi-101634332821890.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||HT Readers’ take: City Beautiful, reclaim the streets||Teach boys to respect the opposite sexTo wipe out crimes against women, first we need to sensitise boys. Right from childhood, parents and teachers should teach boys to respect the opposite sex. Also, girls and women should be taught self-defense techniques so that they are ready for any situation. To make the streets safer, ensure that they are well-lit and have adequate closed-circuit television cameras and police presence. Also, movies and web shows must stop objectifying women. Krrish Madaan, AmbalaMake cities gender-inclusiveMen and women use public spaces differently. Therefore, we need to stop assuming that what works for men will also work for women. To build a safe city, it is important that city planning takes into account the issue of women’s safety. Simple measures such as shifting a bus stop by a few metres to a safer location and installing streetlights and CCTVs on isolated stretches can go a long way in ensuring women’s safety. Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhNeed sustained efforts to wipe out the menaceThe moral character of the nation has been eroding and men with loose morals take pride in harassing women. To check this menace, sustained efforts are required on the law-enforcement front. Policing needs to be enhanced in the city and the public must be encouraged to intervene whenever they see any wrongdoing. Women, too, must be trained in self-defense so as that they can fight back sexual harassment and also report the culprits to the police. Kidar Nath Sharma, ChandigarhProactive policing, harsher punishment for offendersCrimes such as molestation, street harassment etc continue unabated because there aren’t enough police personnel on the ground and politicians don’t seem to take women’s issues seriously. We need harsher punishment for those indulging in crimes against women and more police presence around the city so as to instill a sense of safety among women. SC Luthra, Chandigarh Nip the menace in the budWomen’s harassment is largely prevalent due to poor upbringing of boys. We need to catch them young and teach them the importance of respecting women and girls. For those from the current generation who take pleasure in harassing women, strict punishment is the only way out. Even in the recent case of molestation of the UK diplomat, the man nabbed for molestation was found to have done the same with other women. Had he been caught and put behind bars after the first instance itself, other women would have been spared the agony.AK Sharma, ChandigarhInstill fear in sexual offenders It is unfortunate that sexual harassment is so prevalent in our world that every woman has faced it at some point in her life. We should no longer turn a blind eye to it and must take active measures to make public spaces safer for women. For starters, we need functional streetlights and closed-circuit television cameras in all corners of the city to instill a sense of fear in anti-social elements. Police need to intensify patrolling in crime-prone spots as well as other areas. Women of all age-groups must undergo self-defense training. And lastly, we need harsher punishment against such crimes.Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurNo lessons learnt from previous instancesIt’s disturbing to know that yet another woman, this time a UK diplomat in the city, has faced sexual harassment on the city’s streets. Unfortunately, this is not the first such instance in Chandigarh. While the latest incident took place in the posh residential area of Sector 10, we have heard of similar incidents in other parts of the city too. In December 2019, a woman journalist had faced a similar experience during her morning walk at the PU Botanical Garden. On the same day, young girl, on her way to tuitions, was manhandled by a youth in the forest area behind PEC. In 2017, Varnika Kundu, a disc jockey, was stalked on the city roads. It just goes on to reiterate that despite several instances, the police and administration have taken no steps to correct the problem areas. UT police boasts of maintaining law and order on city streets but clearly, their claims are a sham.Sanjay Chopra, Mohali Safe public transportAs our country is entering a new decade with a plan to rebuild economy and push forward green initiatives, it’s time we also introduce the concept of good public transport (metro, monorail etc) in the tricity region. This will encompass the issue of women’s safety too, making them empowered. Tricity women are forced to shell out extra on private cabs etc as instances of harassment in autos etc have left them with no other option. S Krishnamurthi, MohaliSelf-defence classes for all womenWe need to empower women and self-defence classes are one way to go about it. Self-defence trainings must be imparted in schools, colleges and universities to make girls more confident about tackling harassment. We need to train women and girls to speak up and fight back harassment. The onus is also on the members of the public to come out in support of women facing any kind of harassment. It’s only when we hit back that the offenders would be scared of attempting anything similar in the future.Garv Bhupesh, PanchkulaNot the ‘weaker sex’First and foremost, we need to stop referring to women as the weaker sex. Women should be trained to be bold, self-reliant and confident. Self-defense classes will go a long way in this. We need to empower women to speak up against instances of sexual harassment. Silence has never helped anyone. Police need to be more sensitive to the problems faced by women and our judiciary must penalise the offenders heavily so that no man dares to repeat such an action again. Anju Mohan, PanchkulaA safe city?Chandigarh is known to be one of the safest cities in North India, yet we get to hear of cases such as the one involving the UK diplomat. In a city like Chandigarh, there should be no place for street harassment. Sadly, every time we hear of such an incident, there is rage at first, hue and cry in the media, face-saving announcements by the police and administration but eventually it all dies down, until something similar happens again. Though we have stringent laws, its implementation is poor. Higher conviction rates can instill a sense of fear in anti-social elements. Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhA blot on City BeautifulThe recent incident of molestation of a UK diplomat on the city’s streets is a blot on the City Beautiful’s name. Even more shameful that many girls don’t have a safe space inside their own homes. The age-old patriarchy is to be blamed for the regressive state of affairs. It is sad that most women and girls are unable to be even speak up against such harassment due to the stigma attached. The need of the hour is a mindset change and concerted efforts at empowering women. Law enforcement agencies must also play an active role in bringing to book the perpetrators so that women and girls feel more confident about speaking out about such harassment. Usha Verma,ChandigarhIncrease security at vulnerable spotsWomen’s safety is of paramount importance in the tricity, but still every now and then, we hear about instances of harassment on the city’s streets. It is high time that we educate the city’s youth. NGOs and social organisations can play a great role in educating the youth on women’s safety. At the same time, authorities must create awareness on women’s safety through ads and in newspaper on women safety & security. High-definition CCTV cameras should be installed at vulnerable isolated points for reining in on such criminals. Col TBS Bedi, MohaliDon’t let culprits go scot-freeThough it may not be possible to wipe out anti-social elements from the society, it depends on the law-enforcement agencies, how they are controlled. Police must keep a vigilant eye on all vulnerable spots in the city and lay out an effective plan to nab the perpetrators and bring them to book. Police personnel in plain clothes can also go a long way in ensuring that such miscreants can’t get away after a crime. The culprits, no matter how influential, should not be spared at any cost.Surinder Paul Wadhwa, MohaliGirls, raise your voiceIt is the laxity of the judicial system that is to be blamed for the emboldening stalkers and molesters. Women sometimes fear to go out in public spaces for fear of such harassment. Worse still, women don’t even feel safe to go report to the police. The reason for this is not just the unfriendly and rude behaviour of cops, but also the fact that the cases tend to linger on, draining the complainants of time, money and energy. The need of the hour is speedy disposal of such cases and also sensitive police force. Last but not the least, we need to break the stigma and empower women to speak up. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliEffective women’s helplinesChandigarh is widely renowned as a safe city but recent instances of crimes against women have rattled this belief. To make the city safe for women, police should patrol external as well as internal roads 24/7. Hidden CCTV cameras should be installed on city roads. Police helpline should be made more effective. Only vigilant cops should be recruited by experienced recruiters. There should be security in markets, hotels and restaurants. Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhFast, effective process to catch culpritsThe man who molested the UK diplomat was found to have molested several other women, but none came forward. Had he been caught and put behind bars after the first offence, he could not have done it to other women. To ensure women don’t hesitate to approach the police when they face harassment, we need more women-only police stations. Introduction of special women-only buses to educational institutions, deployment of more women constables in plain clothes at public places, awareness drives to ensure sexual harassment panels in all organisations, more CCTV cameras at public places, easy access to the IT cell to register complaints pertaining to growing social media and IT-based crimes are the need of the hour. Fast and effective processes to catch men harassing women in public places, are also needed.Vijay Malia, Chandigarh Girls, fight backUnfortunately, we live in a society where all women can recount of some horrific instance of sexual harassment that occurred at some point in their life. While police and administration can take steps such as ensuring well-lit road, CCTV cameras and more boots on the ground, women cannot be fully dependent on law-enforcement. They need to train themselves to be stronger and able to defend themselves. Little steps like, carrying a pepper spray, etc can help if one finds oneself in an unsafe place. Self-defense classes too can prove beneficial. Ishita Nara, via emailEmpower women to raise their voiceThe recent case of molestation of a UK diplomat in Sector 10 is a matter of grave concern. To make Tricity safer, we need frequent police patrolling, installation of more CCTVs, strict law enforcement so that no one can dare to behave in such a way. Women should be made aware of their rights and be encouraged to raise their voice against such incidents. Sandeep Rawat, ChandigarhInstil fear in sexual offenders It is unfortunate that sexual harassment is so prevalent in our world that every woman has faced it at some point in her life. We should no longer turn a blind eye to it and must take active measures to make public spaces safer for women. For starters, we need functional streetlights and closed-circuit television cameras in all corners of the city to instill a sense of fear in anti-social elements. Police need to intensify patrolling in crime-prone spots as well as other areas. Women of all age-groups must undergo self-defense training. And lastly, we need harsher punishment against such crimes.Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurCollective action requiredTo make cities safer for women, a collective action by authorities and citizens is required. Police patrolling must be intensified and the public must be encouraged to intervene when they see women being harassed. A timely response can stop sexual perpetrators on their tracks.Subhash Nagpal, ZirakpurRequire meaningful social changeEvery day, we hear about women being molested, kidnapped, raped and killed. The molestation of a UK diplomat in Chandigarh is yet another blot on the city claim of being a safe city. In the absence of meaningful social change, measures such as special banks for women, etc are mere tokenism. The civil society cannot escape its responsibility of fostering genuine gender justice. No amount of alteration in the legal system will deliver unless it is supported by the sanction of society.SK Khosla, ChandigarhSafety audit of public spacesThe authorities must carry out a urgent audit of women’s safety parameters in public spaces and taking corrective steps, such as better vigil, CCTV surveillance and faster crime detection mechanism. To instil fear in the minds of culprits, harsher laws are required.Subhash Chugh, via emailPrompt police action Even though sexual harassment is so prevalent, police aren’t proactive and in some cases, action is not taken for years on. In the case of the diplomat, Chandigarh police has shown its efficiency and promptness. The same attitude must be shown even when the victim isn’t from an influential background. RK Garg, ChandigarhBreak the stigmaProlonged legal procedures and public stigma discourages women from coming forward to file complaint of sexual harassment. Fast-track courts and harsher punishments for culprits can help change that to a large extent. Apart from that we also need to change the mindset of our youth and teach them to respect women.Sqn Ldr Manjit Singh Johar (retd), ChandigarhNeed more boots on the groundCrimes against women in Chandigarh’s public spaces highlight the misplaced priorities of the UT police. It puts too much emphasis on penalising erring motorists rather than reining in hooliganism and street crime. There is no sensitisation of any sort. Also, huge contingents by way of gypsy escorts are deployed for the top police brass/administration. That should be drastically pruned to deploy more cops on the beat system. Had it not been for a British envoy, her molestation would have gone unnoticed as another stray routine incident. Nor would the police have bothered to register an FIR. It is a wake-up call for the Chandigarh Police to live up to its ‘we care for you’ motto.Ranjit Malhotra, ChandigarhExpert take Safe spacesWomen’s helpline numbers should be made more visible, streets should be well lit and the city should have a few spots where female cops are stationed 24/7 so women know where to turn for help.Varnika Kundu, Panchkula-based disc jockey AwarenessNeed awareness campaigns at schools, colleges and universities to tell women about helpline numbers and also encourage them to immediately come forward and inform the police about any harassment they face. Manvir Singh Bajwa, DSP, crimes against women, Mohali SensitisationWe need to bring more awareness and be cautious of our surroundings. At the same time, we need to have more women cells, policing and vigilance. As a sociologist, I can say that more counselling is required at the family and society levels for gender sensitisation. Rani Mehta, head department of sociology, Panjab UniversitySelf-defenceIt should be a collective approach of both citizens and police. Women should make themselves mentally and physically fit for self-defence. CCTV coverage needs to be increased and there should be immediate response to distress calls on helpline numbers. Mamta Sodha, ACP, PanchkulaPatrolling The Cheetah squad, apart from routine PCR vehicles, has been deployed to patrol vulnerable areas. We also provide pick-and-drop facilities for women commuting during night hours. Ketan Bansal, superintendent of police, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ht-readers-take-city-beautiful-reclaim-your-streets-101634334301502.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: 10 dairies yet to be shifted out of residential areas, says MC||At least 10 dairies out of 250 under the municipal corporation (MC) limits are yet to be shifted to designated dairy complexes after the deadline got over on Thursday, executive officer (EO) of the civic body, Jarnail Singh said on Friday. “In a special drive carried out on Thursday, we were able to shift animals from eight out of 18 dairies left to the dairy complexes in Kanwala and Katholi villages, as the owners didn’t act even after being issued notices. Another such drive will be carried out, if required, to shift the 10 dairies,” he said. Fulfilling this long-pending proposal, MC has been trying to shift “illegal dairies” out of the residential areas to these two dairy complexes to minimise sanitation issues in its jurisdiction. However, officials had to face severe opposition from owners, who have pointed out economic hardship and time lag between the first production of milk and its delivery, among other issues. A few also expressed helplessness due to a large number of animals and were given more time to shift. “Some of them highlighted distance issues due to which their customers might shift to other sources. But we’ve told them that keeping animals in residential areas is illegal,” the EO said. MC chief Dhirendra Khadgata said those who had shifted should ensure that the animal waste was treated at the designated place and cattle were kept leashed inside the complex. “Action will be taken against those who will be found running a dairy illegally or disposing of animal dung in the MC area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-10-dairies-yet-to-be-shifted-out-of-residential-areas-says-mc-101634332860651.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Hindutva faces threat from ‘neo-Hindus’, says Uddhav||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday launched a scathing attack on his former ally Bharatiya Janata Party, saying that Hindutva faced threat not from outsiders but from “neo-Hindus” and “those who climbed the ladder of power”. The Shiv Sena chief also accused the BJP of not understanding either VD Savarkar or Mahatma Gandhi.“I believe that Hindutva is now under threat. Those who have used the ladder of Hindutva can now use the strategy of the British of divide and rule. They will create a divide between Marathis and non-Marathis. They will erect a wall between the Marathas and other communities and continue to enjoy the power in the Centre. Marathi people must unite by forgetting their differences. With this unity, another unity is needed. The division between Marathis and non-Marathis should be buried,” the Shiv Sena chief said during his address at the annual Dussehra rally in Mumbai.Accusing the BJP of making no contribution to the freedom struggle, Thackeray said: “You (the BJP) have not understood Savarkar or Gandhi....When you have no contribution (to freedom struggle), what right you have to speak about Gandhi or Savarkar?”The Maharashtra chief minister’s comments came days after defence minister Rajnath Singh stirred up a row by claiming that Savarkar filed mercy petition with the British on the suggestion of Gandhi.On Friday, Union home minister Amit Shah hit out at those questioning the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue’s commitment to the freedom struggle, saying that Savarkar’s patriotism and bravery cannot be questioned.During the event, Thackeray also accused the Centre of interfering in the state’s day-to-day affairs, saying that it “cannot happen and can’t be tolerated”.“Babasaheb Ambedkar firmly said that like the Centre, the States too, have sovereign rights. If the Centre interferes in the working of the State, it will be unconstitutional. You can see this [intereference], right?” he asked.“I want the opinions of intellectuals and constitutional experts on this issue. Let there be an open discussion over this. After studying the Constitution, if it comes to light that the Centre is above us (States), then let it be so. But if Constitution has given us sovereign rights as the Centre, then the Centre’s daily interference cannot happen and cannot be tolerated. Now the time has come for all the States in the country to decide on this,” he added.The Sena chief also alleged misuse of central agencies to defame the Maharashtra government. “A picture is painted that the drugs business is booming only in Maharashtra. It is not so that drugs are caught only in Maharashtra. The court has directed [officials] to probe the Mundra port where drugs worth crores of rupees were found. Where is this Mundra port? You merely find a pinch of Ganja, while my police [force] busted drugs worth ₹150 crore. You catch a celebrity and beat drums about it. But my police has busted drug [network] and nobody talks about it,” he said.Reacting to Uddhav’s statements, state Bharatiya Janata Party chief Chandrakant Patil said, “We thought that Maharashtra CM will speak on the issues of the state including crimes against women, the issues of farmers. But he didn’t speak in these issues...,”The state BJP chief said Thackeray’s speech was nothing but targetting BJP and the central government.“When did Shiv Sena fight for Hindutva? For how many years will you use one line by Balasaheb Thackeray on Babri Masjid. He has said that if nobody is taking responsibility of the demolition then Shiv Sena will take it. But was one Shiv Sainik present there?” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hindutva-faces-threat-from-neo-hindus-says-uddhav-101634332396332.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Security tightened, Ravana also frisked at Dussehra Melas in Ludhiana||With the police tightening security across the city, not even the demon king, Ravana, who was the guest of honour for the day, was allowed to take his place at different Dussehra fairs without a thorough frisking on Friday. Despite the enhanced security, pickpockets had a heyday as several people attending the jam-packed fairs reported missing wallets and mobile phones, particularly at the Daresi and Upkar Nagar grounds. Commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said foolproof security had been put in place across the city. Three gazetted officers were on security duty since 6 am and three high-ranking officers, including the assistant commissioner of police (ACP) and joint commissioner of police, were deputed at the three main Dussehra fairs at Daresi, Jamalpur and Rajguru Nagar, while one gazetted officer each was present at other locations. Around 2,000 police personnel were deputed across the 23 locations where Ravana effigies were burnt, while dog squads and anti-sabotage teams carried out thorough inspections. Police control room motorcycle squads and station house officers were also asked to keep vigil in their respective areas. The traffic police had a tough time regulating the heavy flow of vehicles. The police had barricaded the roads in the afternoon and did not allow any heavy vehicles to enter. Three-wheelers and four wheelers heading toward Daresi from Dr BL Kapoor Memorial hospital were stopped and even two-wheelers were not allowed to pass in the evening. A public parking was set up at the Dr BL Kapoor Memorial Hospital and a multilevel parking was made functional at the municipal corporation.Traffic was diverted from Old Sabji Mandi near Dr BL Kapoor Memorial Hospital, Malganj Chowk, Books Market Road, Ved Mandir Chowk, T-Point Kila Mohalla, Shivpuri Road and Ghada Bhan Chowk to avoid jams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/security-tightened-ravana-also-frisked-at-dussehra-melas-in-ludhiana-101634332561518.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour: Amandeep walks away with first title of 2021||Amandeep Drall bounced back with one of the best rounds of the season as the Panchkula golfer fired eight birdies against just one bogey for a superb seven-under 65 in the final round to win the 10th leg of the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour by three shots at the Chandigarh Golf Club greens on Friday.Amateur Avani Prashanth, who shared the overnight lead with Amandeep after two rounds, was left three shots behind despite a fine four-under 68. She finished second. Vani Kapoor tripped to one-over 73 and was fourth, while Jahanvi Bakshi (68) was third.Winning her first title in 2021, Amandeep finished with a superb nine-under 207, while Avani was six-under 210 and Jahanvi was four-under 212. Vani also had an under-par total of one-under 215.Amandeep, who gained tremendously by competing in Europe over the last few months, had started the week with 4-under 68 before slipping on the second day with 74.In the final round, she fell back by two shots after the first hole as she bogeyed the first and playing partner and overnight co-leader, Avani had a birdie on the same hole.Soon after Amandeep found her form as she birdied second, fourth, sixth and seventh to turn in 3-under 33. Avani dropped a shot on fourth where Amandeep had a birdie for a two-shot swing.That helped Amandeep go-ahead by one. Like Amandeep, Avani also birdied the sixth and seventh, but was still one behind at the turn.On the back nine, Amandeep drove off on her own with three birdies in a row from 11th to 13th, while Avani had gains only on 13th. Both birdied the 16th, but with two holes left and three shots clear, Amandeep made no mistake and Avani was unable to find any more birdies.The win also cemented Amandeep’s place on top of the Hero Order of Merit, which she was already leading.City’s Harendra finishes tied-thirdChandigarh Khalin Joshi’s final round of three-under 67 proved good enough for him to turn the tables on nearest rival and fellow Bengalurean M Dharma and emerge victorious at the ₹40-lakh Jaipur Open 2021 presented by the Rajasthan Tourism being played at the par-70 Rambagh Golf Club (RGC). Sunit Chowrasia (64) of Kolkata and Harendra Gupta (65) of Chandigarh took tied third place at 20-under 260. Chandigarh’s Yuvraj Singh Sandhu produced the best round of the tournament, a 10-under 60, to claim tied seventh place at 18-under 262.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hero-women-s-pro-golf-tour-amandeep-walks-away-with-first-title-of-2021-101634332320841.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Haryana govt increases deployment at Singhu||The Haryana government on Friday evening deployed at least four companies of central forces at the farmer protest site at Singhu on the outskirts of Delhi, hours after a 32-year-old man was brutally murdered allegedly by members of the Nihang Sikh group.The government decided to deploy more personnel after chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar held a high-level meeting of top officers to review the law and order situation. The crime occurred near the Haryana-Delhi border in Kundli.There are roughly 70 personnel in one company, hence around 300 personnel have been deployed at the site now.Home minister Anil Vij, chief secretary (CS) Vijai Vardhan, additional chief secretary (ACS- Home) Rajeev Arora, director general of police (DGP) PK Agarwal, additional director general of police (ADGP- CID) Alok Mittal were among the top officers present in the meeting.“It is a very disturbing development... See the brutality with which this man was killed... and then the inhuman way videos were recorded crossing all the limits that will even dwarf the criminal acts of Taliban,” said an officer with knowledge of the developments, refusing to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/haryana-govt-increases-deployment-at-singhu-101634331614679.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Lawrence Bishnoi gang member held with pistol||The crime branch of the Chandigarh police arrested a member of the Lawrence Bishnoi-Kala Rana gang and recovered a country-made pistol and five cartridges from his possession. The accused, Vainket Garg, 24, of Ward Number 4, Naraingarh, Ambala, was intercepted near the Kishangarh Chowk, Chandigarh, while a police team was on patrol duty. Garg was arrested in June last year in connection with a firing incident outside a wine shop in Sector 9, Chandigarh. He was presently out on bail. The police arrested him after getting a tip-off that Garg would come to Chandigarh from Panchkula. There was an apprehension that he could commit a major crime in the city during the festive season. Based on the information, a naka was laid on the Panchkula and Chandigarh border, near the IT Park. Around 9.30 pm, a white Alto car bearing Haryana No. came from the Panchkula side and tried to turn back after seeing the naka. The car was signalled to stop. On search, a country-made pistol and five live cartridges were recovered from his possession. A case under the Arms Act was registered at the IT Park police station. Garg had previously been arrested by the Chandigarh and the Haryana police in various cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-lawrence-bishnoi-gang-member-held-with-pistol-101634330880412.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||2 Delhi constables arrested for links with Gogi, Bishnoi gangs||The Delhi Police on Friday said they arrested two police personnel for their alleged association with gangs led by Lawrence Bishnoi, who is in jail, and Jitender Maan alias Gogi, who was shot dead by his rival gang members at Rohini courtroom last month.The policemen, identified as constables Sunil and Deepak, were arrested by the special cell team after they nabbed four members of Gogi and Bishnoi gangs. Police also claimed to have averted a possible retaliation strike to kill jailed gangster Sunil Maan, better known as Tillu Tajpuriya, who was allegedly behind the order to kill Gogi at the Rohini court.According to police, the four members of Bishnoi and Gogi gangs -- identified as Anuj, Harsh, Sagar Rana, and Sumit -- were arrested on October 3 and their interrogation revealed their alleged links with the arrested policemen.Police said the four hitmen had come to Delhi on the directions of Bishnoi and his associate Ashok Pradhan, also a gangster, to kill Tajpuriya.Investigators alleged the arrested policemen helped the men find accommodations in Delhi. They were arrested three days ago by sleuths of the special cell, police officials privy to the development said.The two police constables are currently being interrogated about their involvement with the gang members, a senior police officer said.Gogi and Tillu gangs have been at war with each other for nearly a decade and their rivalry has claimed dozens of lives.On September 24, Gogi was being produced in courtroom number 207 at Rohini court complex when two assailants dressed as lawyers shot him dead. The assailants were subsequently gunned down by police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-delhi-constables-arrested-for-links-with-gogi-bishnoi-gangs-101634330641845.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Street vendor count inflated: Councillors||The recently concluded survey of street vendors across Delhi has come under criticism from several municipal councillors of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation who claimed that the survey has inflated the number of street vendors under its jurisdiction.The town vending committees have identified 71,347 street vendors in Delhi, out of which 27,819 were identified in the north corporation areas.Ajay Sharma, standing committee member and AAP councillor from Mukundpur, alleged that vendors had been placed temporarily at some sites to count them in the survey. “More than 25 street vendors were placed opposite my office just for a few days and they were counted as legal street vendors. I had raised the matter with the zone officials but no action was taken. Large scale corruption is taking place through these surveys,” he alleged.The issue led to ruckus during the North MCD standing committee meeting on Wednesday when a few physically challenged street vendors, accompanied by Congress councillor Poonam Bagri, forcefully entered the committee room in the civic centre to register their protest, following which proceedings were suspended for 10 minutes. The standing committee has ordered a probe in the matter and announced a re-survey in Jahangirpuri ward, where the survey has allegedly identified an abnormally high number of street vendors.The Delhi government ordered the town vending committees to carry out a survey to identify all street vendors in the Capital in 2015, in line with the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. The survey, which aims at identifying eligible street vendors and give them a legitimate status, began in January this year and concluded on September 30.The town vending committee is headed by the zonal deputy commissioner and has street vendors as its members. Many other councillors also agreed with irregularities in the survey.Satnam Singh, deputy commissioner of Civil Lines zone, said that the hawkers had appeared a few days before the survey. “We later removed them with the help of local police,” he said.Singh said that of the 2,861 vendors identified in the 18 wards under Civil Lines zone, 757 vendors (over 26%) were counted from Jahangirpuri ward. “A re-survey will be carried out to detect fake tehbazaris and a committee has been formed to investigate if the vendors are fake. At some places, the committee has found no vendor at all,” he added.The standing committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain directed immediate removal of illegal vendors after proper investigation in the matter.According to the North MCD report, civic body teams identified 5,912 vendors in City Sadar-Paharganj zone, 4,018 in Karol Bagh, 2,861 in Civil Lines zone, 5,334 in Keshav Puram zone, 5,080 in Rohini and 4,614 in Narela zone.Similarly, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation has identified 8,140 street vendors in the Central zone, 7,789 in South zone, 4,350 in West zone and 3,672 in Najafgarh.National Association of Street Vendors of India had earlier stated that the survey had undercounted the street vendors, claiming that over 50% eligible vendors were left out.Arvind Singh, national coordinator of NASVI, said, “The actual number of street vendors in the city is at least 2 lakh... around 20% of street vendors left the city during the lockdowns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/street-vendor-count-inflatedcouncillors-101634330406784.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dussehra: Crowds pour in to see Ravana go up in flames in Ludhiana||After last year’s low-key festivities, most residents decided to make the most of the decline in virus cases and turned up in large numbers to watch Ravana Dehan and attend Dussehra Melas across the city on Friday. Although the administration had limited the gatherings to up to 50% of the capacity of the outdoor venue, thousands of people could be seen jostling without masks at fairs, which were organised at 23 locations across the city. The 100ft Ravana effigy at the Daresi Ground was a major attraction being the tallest in the region and drew a large crowd. People could be spotted taking selfies with the majestic demon king and the chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ rang as the effigy, which symbolises the victory of good over evil, went up in flames. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, commissioner of police Gurpreet Singh Bhullar, MLA Surinder Dawar, and senior deputy mayor Sam Sundar Malhotra among others prominent residents attended the Dussehra fair at Daresi. However, they too seen without masks, despite asking the people to remain vigilant and follow Covid appropriate measures. The police also turned a blind-eye to violations. Major events were also organised at Giaspura, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) Ground on Chandigarh Road, Upkar Nagar, and Dugri, with celebrations also seen at Aggar Nagar, Rajguru Nagar, Sarabha Nagar Block-I, and Tuition Market in Model Town Extension among other areas. With thousands thronging to the fairs, the police had a tough time controlling the crowds both inside and outside the grounds.Pandemic at its nadir, says committee member Kamal Bassi, a member of the Shri Ram Lila Committee, Daresi, said a fair was being held at Daresi for over a century. “Mega Dussehra celebrations were held this year with the pandemic finally at its nadir. The crowd was ecstatic as last year only a limited crowd was able to witness Ravana Dehan. An attendee, Harpreet Singh, a resident of Model Town Extension, said, “My daughter and son were excited to watch the Ravana effigy burn as they had missed the event last year due to Covid restrictions. With cases at an all-time low, we decided to take the kids to the fair, where they had lots of fun. The festivity helped dispel the negativity, which had engulfed us during the pandemic.” Meanwhile, a heavy rush was seen in markets, especially those situated around the Daresi Ground in the old city area, Dugri, and Model Town. Large crowds were seen around sweet shops as people lined up for jalebi and samosas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dussehra-crowds-pour-in-to-see-ravana-go-up-in-flames-in-ludhiana-101634330522739.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer booked for killing two over land dispute in Moga||A 35-year-old farmer was booked for allegedly killing two other farmers with sharp-edged weapons in Moga district’s Nathewala village over a land dispute late Thursday. A case of murder was registered against Pawanpreet Singh, alias Pawna, a resident of Nathewala, at the Baghapurana police station. The deceased were identified as Pal Singh (52) and Jaswinder Singh (42), both residents of Jhandiana Garbi village. Pal Singh had taken land on lease at Nathewala where his in-laws live. Pal Singh’s son Jagdeep Singh (22), in his complaint to police, said around 8.30pm his father and Jaswinder went to the fields where they had an argument with Pawanpreet. “Pawanpreet killed my father and Jaswinder. We came to know about the murders around 9.30pm when my maternal uncle called me over phone saying the bodies were lying in the fields of Pawanpreet,” Jagdeep said. Pawanpreet nursed a grudge against them since the land they have leased was earlier with him, the complainant claimed. The police said after stabbing the victims, Pawanpreet called Pal Singh’s in-laws and told them that he has stabbed the two in rage. Baghapurana station house officer (SHO) Harmanjit Singh said efforts were on to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-booked-for-killing-two-over-land-dispute-in-moga-101634330280490.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer unions to blame for Dalit’s murder at Kundli border: Ashwani Sharma||Chandigarh Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma on Friday alleged that farmer unions are responsible for the unfortunate murder of a Dalit man from Tarn Taran at the Kundli border, demanding action as per law. “Lakhbir Singh was brutally tortured and murdered. A video on social media by spectators clearly shows the inhuman side of these union leaders. This is not Afghanistan; we are a democracy and believe in equal rights for human beings irrespective of caste, creed and religion,” he said. Sharma said the police should investigate the matter thoroughly so that the guilty can be punished. Badal Sr demands impartial probe Former Punjab chief minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch Parkash Singh Badal on Friday condemned the lynching of a man at Kundli border and sought an impartial probe into the heinous crime. “In a civilised society, there is no place either for heinous acts of sacrilege of holy scriptures or for barbaric violence,” he said in a statement here. “Allegations that the entire sequence of events is a part of a deep-rooted conspiracy to sabotage the long, peaceful and democratic struggle of farmers against the three laws also need a thorough, fair and impartial probe,” Badal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-unions-to-blame-for-dalit-s-murder-at-kundli-border-ashwani-sharma-101634330040567.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Join hands to oppose Centre’s bid to turn Punjab into union territory: Ex-CM Badal to political parties||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Friday called upon all political parties in Punjab to stand united against what he termed the central government’s move to turn the state into a union territory by handing over its territory to the Border Security Force (BSF). The Centre’s move, he said, would weaken the already endangered federal structure of the country and is a blow to the dignity of Punjabis. In a press release, the senior Akali leader said, “If we don’t stop fighting each other over petty stakes, the Centre will take advantage of our weaknesses. We will only repent it later.” It was unfortunate that the Union government has been usurping the rights of the states even on subjects which fall on the states’ list in the Constitution, he rued. “The Centre last year legislated three laws on agriculture which again is a state subject. Now, with this move on the BSF deployment, they have encroacher upon another state subject of law and order,” he added, The Akali leader appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to revoke the three “black” farm laws and withdraw the orders on BSF deployment in 50-kilometres from the border area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/join-hands-to-oppose-centre-s-bid-to-turn-punjab-into-union-territory-ex-cm-badal-to-political-parties-101634329800542.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||SKM smells conspiracy in Kundli border lynching, so do victim’s kin||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Friday condemned the lynching of a 35-year-old man from Cheema Khurd village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran district at a farmers’ protest site at Kundli on the Delhi-Haryana border and claimed that there could be a conspiracy behind the incident. Family members of the victim, Lakhbir Singh, too, voiced similar views, expressing surprise at his presence at the Delhi border. Lakhbir, a scheduled caste labourer, was lynched, his hand chopped off and the body tied to a metal barricade at a farmers’ protest venue at Kundli. In a video clip circulating on social media platforms, some Nihangs are seen standing as Lakhbir lies on the ground in a pool of blood with his chopped off left hand lying next to him. The Nihangs — a Sikh order, distinguished by their blue robes — are heard in the clip saying the man has been punished for desecrating a holy book of the Sikhs. The umbrella body of 40 farm unions spearheading the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three agricultural laws also demanded a thorough probe into the matter and said those responsible should be brought to book. The body alleged that a religious colour is being given to their movement. “We are all very saddened at what happened. The SKM is fighting against the three farm laws. This (incident) could be a conspiracy. We condemn the incident in the strongest words,” said Jagjit Singh Dallewal, a farmer leader from the organisation. Dallewal said they have learnt that Lakhbir had been staying with the Nihang Sikhs, and tried to steal the Sarbloh Granth, a holy book of the Sikhs. “We condemn disrespecting of any religion. We also condemn the reaction (killing),” he said. The SKM claimed that the killing had nothing to do with the farmers’ movement, which is not a religious one. The farmers’ movement is for the rights of farmers and against the three farm laws, the body said. Lakhbir was allegedly a drug addict and stayed with his widowed sister Raj Kaur at the house of their foster parents, both dead now, at Cheema village. Lakhbir’s wife Jaspreet Kaur has been living at her maternal home with the couple’s three daughters for the last five years. “Around a week ago, Lakhbir took ₹50 from his sister on the pretext of going to the village’s grain market for labour work, but he never returned. He couldn’t have gone to Delhi alone. He was taken there by someone. So far, we don’t know who was behind it, but he couldn’t have committed sacrilege,” said Lakhbir’s brother-in-law (wife’s brother) Sukhchain Singh. He said, “Lakhbir had started taking drugs three to four years after his marriage, but he never fought with anyone in the village. We tried to keep him away from drugs, but to no avail.” Residents of Cheema Khurd suspect Lakhbir may have been “manipulated” to desecrate the scripture. “We sent him to drug de-addiction centre several times, but to no avail,” said Awan Kumar, the village head. Tarn Taran deputy superintendent of police Sucha Singh Ball said Lakhbir had no criminal background, but he was an alcoholic. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harvinder Singh Virk said preliminary investigation suggests that the victim was not seen in the village after October 10. “We are still verifying to know if he went to the Delhi border own his own, or if he was taken there by someone,” he said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/skm-smells-conspiracy-in-kundli-border-lynching-so-do-victim-s-kin-101634329621097.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||FCI goes slow on paddy procurement in Punjab, officials flag issue with central agency||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has procured only 0.7% (12,478 tonnes) of its allocated 5% share (90,000 tonnes) of paddy in Punjab during the ongoing kharif marketing season against the last year’s figure of 52,800 tonnes till the corresponding date, officials familiar with the matter said. The state food and civil supplies department has asked the central agency, which drives public distribution across the country, to speed up the procurement process. Senior department officials said they have taken up the matter with the corporation management and even shot off a demi-official letter in this regard. The department said that of the 136 mandis the FCI was allocated in all 23 districts, the agency has entered only 33 mandis in nine districts. Officials in the rest of 103 mandis across 14 districts are waiting for the FCI staff to start purchase. “Historically speaking, the FCI procures less than its allocated share but this time what they have purchased so far is negligible. If they have any problem they should take up with the issue with the department concerned or should not have accepted the allocation in the first place,” said state government official. The FCI procures 10-15% of total wheat produce in Punjab but it shies away from purchasing its share of paddy as the percentage of grain loss in case of rice is higher. “The FCI should actually support the state government in this massive operation. The state has fulfilled all norms mandated by the corporation,” said state food and supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu. FCI general manager incharge of Punjab Arshdeep Thind said the corporation staff was out in the field. “We are making purchases in mandis allocated to us if paddy has arrived there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fci-goes-slow-on-paddy-procurement-in-punjab-officials-flag-issue-with-central-agency-101634329444918.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sharp slide in paddy straw-burning incidents this year, Punjab numbers down by 69%||The number of stubble-burning events in Punjab, Haryana and eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh has come down significantly this year, with a total of 1,795 such incidents reported this month as against 4,854 in the same period last year, the Centre’s air quality commission said on Friday. The Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in NCR and adjoining areas said according to a report based on the protocol framed by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), paddy residue-burning events have been reduced by 69.49 per cent in Punjab, 18.28 per cent in Haryana and 47.61 per cent in the eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh during a one-month period, as compared to the corresponding period last year. “Active paddy residue-burning events in Punjab, Haryana and eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh have come down significantly this year, fewer fire counts reported in 2021 as compared to last year. Total 1,795 fire counts reported for the one-month period till October 14 as against 4,854 instances reported in the corresponding period during 2020. Enforcement agencies have so far inspected 663 of the total reported sites in Punjab, Haryana and NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh,” the commission said. It said of the 1,795 sites from where stubble burning was reported in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, 663 fields have been inspected by the enforcement agencies and the officials concerned of the respective states and that an environmental compensation (EC) has been imposed in 252 cases. During the said period in the current year, 1,286 stubble-burning events were reported in Punjab as against 4,216 for the same period last year. Haryana reported 487 such incidents as against 596 for the corresponding year last year. The total number of stubble-burning incidents reported from the eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh during this period was 22 as against 42 for the corresponding period last year. No stubble-burning incident was reported from Delhi and the two NCR districts of Rajasthan. The first paddy residue-burning event was reported on September 16 in Punjab, on September 18 in the NCR area of Uttar Pradesh and on September 28 in Haryana. In a statement, the CAQM said crop harvesting will be at its peak in the next few weeks and the state governments are taking steps in accordance with the plan of action to improve the efficacy of enforcement and implementation to effectively tackle the problem of stubble burning. To curb and abate air pollution during the ongoing harvest season, the CAQM has been actively monitoring paddy residue-burning events since September 15 in Punjab, Haryana and the eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh. It has been regularly holding meetings with officials, including deputy commissioners, from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. A protocol has been developed by the ISRO for the CAQM to monitor fire counts, in coordination with major stakeholders, including ICAR-IARI. The commission is also monitoring the implementation of the action plan formulated by the governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, based on a framework developed by it for prevention and control of stubble burning. The hotspots of paddy residue-burning in Punjab are Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Patiala and Ludhiana. These four districts account for 72 per cent of the stubble-burning events in the state, the commission said. Similarly, the hotspots in Haryana are Karnal, Kaithal and Kurukshetra. These three districts account for 80 per cent of the stubble-burning events in the state. The CAQM has also held a series of meetings with government officials, including district collectors and district magistrates, of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sharp-slide-in-paddy-straw-burning-incidents-this-year-punjab-numbers-down-by-69-101634329320965.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Road tax defaulters causing losses to state exchequer: Punjab transport minister Warring||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Friday said road tax defaulters, mainly private bus operators, were causing financial losses to state exchequer and the crackdown against them will continue. Warring, who conducted an early morning surprise checking at the Patiala inter-state bus terminal (ISBT) to oversee facilities for commuters, said, “By checking the tax evading operators and impounding buses running without permits, the department has seen an increase in daily revenue of the PEPSU Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) from ₹1.70 crore to ₹1.87 crore.” The minister said to keep a check on the transport mafia, the department has empowered regional transport authorities (RTAs) and general managers to inspect buses plying illegally within a perimeter of 500 meters of the bus stand concerned.The private bus operators affected by Covid were given tax exemption of ₹100 crore but if the operators still delay paying taxes, strict action will be initiated against them , he added.The minister also felicitated PRTC conductor Milkha Singh with a special cash reward of ₹5,100 for performing his duty honestly and diligently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/road-tax-defaulters-causing-losses-to-state-exchequer-punjab-transport-minister-warring-101634329140783.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||CM Charanjit Channi calls for establishing ‘Ram Rajya’ in Punjab||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday called for establishing ‘Ram Rajya’ (a welfare and just state) in Punjab, saying that his government would ensure transparency and efficient public dealings to facilitate the common man. Channi, who was in Bathinda for laying foundation stones and inaugurations of public projects worth ₹60 crore on the occasion of Dusshera, lauded development initiatives of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal in the Bathinda Urban assembly segment. He also extended greetings to people for Dussehra and the forthcoming ‘Bandi Chhor’ Diwas. “These models of beautification of government schools will be emulated in various districts. Urban development is among the priority areas of our government and the cities and towns will have spacious parks,” he said. The Punjab government, he added, was preparing a blueprint for the upgrade of underdeveloped urban centres. He laid the foundation stone of canal lining and the renovation work of the Bathinda branch of the Sirhind canal at the cost of ₹30 crore.The CM also laid the foundation stone of the Balwant Gargi multipurpose auditorium at Rose Garden. Spread over 2-acre area, the auditorium costing ₹27.15 crore will have an art and exhibition hall, a conference hall, a seminar hall, a cafeteria and state-of-the-art sound system. He also visited a special dengue ward set up at the local school for meritorious students. Then he dedicated the Shaheed Sepoy Sandeep Singh memorial chowk at Parasram Nagar locality, to the public. Announces 100-bedded hospital at Chamkaur SahibCM Channi announced a slew of development projects for Chamkaur Sahib, which he represents in the state assembly, and Morinda “to ensure their holistic growth”. Addressing a gathering on Dussehra, the CM said the community health centre at Chamkaur Sahib would be upgraded as a 100-bedded hospital and a trauma centre would soon come up at Morinda. He also announced to upgrade the animal husbandry dispensaries in the rural areas across the state to improve the quality of livestock to boost the income of dairy farmers. Channi also announced a sewerage project for Morinda to be executed at cost of ₹42 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cmcharanjit-channi-calls-for-establishing-ram-rajya-in-punjab-101634328780724.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||At 660, stubble-burning cases in Punjab saw three-fold increase on Dussehra||The farm fires saw a major spike in Punjab on Dussehra day with 660 incidents detected in satellite images, which is almost 33% of the 1,946 cases recorded so far this year. The number for the corresponding day in 2020 was 479 and 258 in 2019, according to the data of the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC) that keeps track on the crop residue burning in state. Majha region reported maximum farm fires on Friday; 158 in Tarn Taran and 109 in Amritsar districts. However, the total number till date is still almost half of the previous year’s for the same period. Last year, till October 15, the state saw 4,006 stubble-burning incidents against this year’s 1,946. This year, Amritsar district has reported 532 farm fires so far, followed by 472 in Tarn Taran and 192 in Patiala. Gurdaspur and Ludhiana districts have also reported more than 100 cases. “As per our field survey, there is no respite from farm fires as harvest is delayed due to rain, and farmers have left with little time window between harvest of paddy and sowing of wheat. Also, since many farmers are protesting, it’s not easy to convince them to desist from paddy straw burning,” said a PPCB official. They said that the number will increase after the third week of October. Punjab has already deputed 8,000 nodal officers, apart from asking deputy commissioners to monitor farm fires. The state government has been conducting awareness programmes in villages, telling farmers about the ill effects of the practice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-660-stubble-burning-cases-in-punjab-saw-three-fold-increase-on-dussehra-101634328662696.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tricity reports 101 fresh dengue cases; 30 in Chandigarh||The tricity on Friday confirmed 101 fresh dengue cases with 54 surfacing in Mohali, 30 in Chandigarh and 17 in Panchkula.The cases of dengue, a mosquito-borne viral disease, started spiralling after September. So far this year, Mohali has reported a total of 1,264 confirmed dengue cases whereas Chandigarh’s total tally stands at 333 and Panchkula’s total is 271 cases.Ten people have lost their lives due to dengue in Mohali this year. However, Chandigarh and Panchkula have not reported any fatality owing to the disease so far this year.In Mohali, maximum cases were reported from urban areas of Dera Bassi and Zirakpur on Friday. In Chandigarh, most were reported from Daria village, Manimajra and Mauli Jagran. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “Health teams carried out surveys on Friday also and in the past seven months, we have issued challans to around 3,100 violators. We are urging peoplenot to let water stagnate anywhere as mosquitoes hatch eggs wherever they find stagnant water, including water-filled containers and abandoned tyres in and around households.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tricity-reports-101-fresh-dengue-cases-30-in-chandigarh-101634328060410.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 31 fresh Covid cases, no death||Chandigarh Punjab on Friday reported 31 fresh Covid cases, taking the count to 6,01,992, according to a medical bulletin. With no Covid-related fatality reported in the past 24 hours, the death toll stood at 16,540.The state’s positivity rate was 0.07%, the bulletin said. Among the fresh cases, four each were reported in Ludhiana and Mohali and three in Jalandhar. The number of active cases marginally increased to 228, according to the bulletin. With 26 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,224, it said. A total of 1,49,63,737 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state of which 31,231 were tested on Friday. As many as 9,809 doses of the vaccines were administered on a day, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-31-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-101634327103403.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu border lynching: National SC commission seeks report from Haryana Police||ChandigarhThe National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) on Friday asked the Haryana Police to take strict action against those behind lynching a man at a farmers’ protest venue at Kundli near the Delhi-Haryana border. NCSC chairperson Vijay Sampla also sought a preliminary report from the Haryana Police within 24 hours. A man was lynched, his hand chopped off and the body tied to a metal barricade at a farmers’ protest venue at Kundli near the Delhi-Haryana border, a gruesome incident being blamed on a group of Nihangs. Sampla said the man identified as Lakhbir Singh belonged to the Scheduled Caste (SC) community.Condemning the violence, Sampla termed it a heinous “Talibani crime”.Sampla said: “After watching a video that went viral, it seems activists of the farmers’ organisations sitting on the protest have no fear of the law. No matter how big the mistake, no one has the right to kill anybody,” Sampla said. “Singhu Border is the main hub of the farmers’ protest where the leaders and workers of various organisations have deployed 24-hour security. Even then, the Dalit man was brutally beaten, his had chopped off, brought near the same platform and then tied up with a rope and hung upside down, while the activists of farmer organisations acted as mute spectator,” said Sampla. He said the leaders of SKM, who immediately gives press statements even on small matters, took 12 hours to hold a press conference on the murder of the Dalit man. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singhu-border-lynching-national-sc-commission-seeks-report-from-haryana-police-101634326560310.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||1 more leopard trapped in Aarey, but target animal continues to elude forest dept||The forest department trapped another sub-adult female leopard in a cage near Mumbai’s Aarey Colony’s dairy unit number 13 in the early hours on Friday, but later confirmed that the individual is not the same as the one responsible for the recent spate of attacks on humans. Department officials said the animal, which was moved to Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) for examination, will be released back into her natural habitat.“On Friday early morning, a female leopard got trapped in one of the trap cages at Aarey Milk colony. The rosette pattern of the trapped animal was matched with the camera trap picture of the suspected leopard that we have. The animal that was trapped is not the suspected animal and we are releasing her in the natural habitat. The efforts to trap the suspected leopard will continue,” said Sunil Limaye, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Maharashtra.The forest department had installed a fifth cage trap near dairy unit number 13 on the night of October 8, where a 14-year-old boy was attacked by a female, sub-adult female leopard earlier in the day. Since August 31, eight people in Aarey Colony, including a 68-year-old woman and a four-year-old child, have sustained injuries after the leopard charged at them.A sub-adult female leopard aged between one-and-a-half and two years was previously captured in the early hours of October 1, but was later identified to be a different individual than the female behind the recent attacks, in what are the first signs of human-leopard conflict in the region since 2017. That leopard has since remained in the forest department’s custody.Limaye’s office has also given permission to tranquilise the problem leopardess, if necessary, though experts and officials both maintained that this option will be exercised only as a last resort as darting leopards is significantly more complicated than tranquilising other big cats. “We will continue to monitor footage from our camera traps and enforce protection camps and social messaging inside Aarey Colony. Leopards are equal residents of the forest and our priority is safety of both the animal and humans,” said Girija Desai, assistant conservator of forests (Thane).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-more-leopard-trapped-in-aarey-but-target-animal-continues-to-elude-forest-dept-101634326080193.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly polls: EC issues guidelines on transfers, postings||Chandigarh Ahead of the Punjab assembly elections, the Election Commission of India has issued a policy on transfers and postings. The entire process of Punjab assembly election 2022 is to be carried out in the first quarter of March 2022, said Punjab chief electoral officer S Karuna Raju on Friday.He said that general transfers and postings would be made by the Election Commission of India under the said policy. He said the term of the present Punjab Vidhan Sabha is till March 27, 2022.The CEO said that a copy of the letter issued by the Election Commission of India has been sent to the chief secretary, home secretary, director general of police, managing secretaries of all the departments, heads of departments, deputy commissioners and SSPs for further action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-polls-ec-issues-guidelines-on-transfers-postings-101634325900278.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Taliban enter gurdwara in Kabul, intimidate community members||New Delhi Heavily armed fighters claiming to be from special unit of Taliban forcibly entered Gurdwara Dashmesh Pita at Karte Parwan in Kabul and intimidated members of the Sikh community present there, Puneet Singh Chandhok, president of the Indian World Forum, said.Chandok said he received distressed calls from the Sikh community in Kabul.He said around 2pm on Friday, “heavily armed officials claiming to be from Special Unit of Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan forcibly entered the Gurdwara Dashmesh Pita located at Karte Parwan, Kabul”.“They intimidated the community present inside the gurdwara and abused the sanctity of the holy place. They not only raided the gurdwara but also the entire premises of the community school attached next to the shrine,” he said.Chandok said private security guards of the gurdwara initially prevented them from entering but they were also threatened with dire consequences and also manhandled.“They have also simultaneously raided the erstwhile residence and office of (former) MP Narinder Singh Khalsa located adjacent to the gurdwara. The community has expressed serious concerns and fearing danger to their lives. Around 20 members of the community were present inside the gurdwara,” he said. “The incumbent regime in Afghanistan should ensure compliance with the UN Charter and well-being of minorities living there. This is a second incident,” he said.Earlier this month, Gurdwara Karte Parwan in Kabul was vandalised by Taliban fighters, according to reports. India had raised its concern over the incident.Ministry of external affairs spokesperson Arindam Bagchi had said that the incident had raised concerns not just for India but for the world.He said it is important that the international community continue to insist on the fulfilment of goals outlined in the UN Security Council resolution adopted after the takeover of Afghanistan by the Taliban in August this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/taliban-enter-gurdwara-in-kabul-intimidate-community-members-101634325722902.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Raids on an ‘influential family of Maharashtra’ reveal unaccounted income of ₹184cr’||The Income-Tax (I-T) department that had recently carried out massive search and seizure operations at 70 premises of two real estate business groups of Mumbai and certain individuals and entities linked to a politician’s family, has found highly incriminating documents, evidencing unaccounted income of about ₹184 crore. These raids were conducted at Mumbai, Pune, Baramati, Goa and Jaipur. While disclosing the details on Friday, the I-T department said that suspicious flow of funds has taken place with the involvement of an “influential family of Maharashtra”. Coincidentally, the tax department had recently carried out high-scale search operations at multiple places in Maharashtra and Goa, including at the residences of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s three sisters and son. Pawar had then termed the agency’s action as harassment and also said that the I-T department is being misused against their family for political reasons.The department’s statement has, however, not named any particular politician, individual or entity.According to the tax department, its search operations commenced simultaneously in three states on October 7. The evidence gathered during the searches revealed several prima-facie unaccounted for and benami transactions. Incriminating documents, evidencing unaccounted income of about ₹184 crore of the two groups have been found.The agency said that the search action has led to identification of transactions by these business groups with a web of companies which, prima facie, appear to be suspicious.“A preliminary analysis of the flow of funds indicates that there has been an introduction of unaccounted funds in the group by way of various dubious methods like introduction of bogus share premium, suspicious unsecured loans, receipt of unsubstantiated advance for certain services, collusive arbitration deals out of non-existent disputes, etc,” agency’s statement stated.The funds, introduced in a dubious manner, have been utilised for acquisition of various assets such as an office building at a prime locality in Mumbai, a flat in a posh locality at Delhi, a resort in Goa, agricultural lands in Maharashtra and investments in sugar mills. The book value of these assets aggregates to about ₹170 crore, stated Surabhi Ahluwalia, commissioner of I-T (media and technical policy) and official spokesperson, Central Board of Direct Taxation (CBDT).During the five-day long search operations, unaccounted cash of ₹2.13 crore and jewellery of ₹4.32 crore have been seized, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raids-on-an-influential-family-of-maharashtra-reveal-unaccounted-income-of-184cr-101634325660431.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||5 killed as SUV rams into tractor-trailer in Patiala||Five persons were killed in a collision between a tractor-trailer and an SUV at Jagatpura village on the Patiala-Devigarh road in the wee hours of Friday. Twelve people received multiple injuries in the accident that took place around 3am, said police.The victims were identified as Sonu (30), Nikka (33), Rohit Kumar (12), all from Patiala, Gurpreet Singh (25) of Samrala and Karamjit Singh (26) of Muktsar. Sanaur station house officer (SHO) Amritveer Singh said the incident took place when a Mahindra Scorpio rammed into the tractor-trailer on its way towards Patiala. “Eyewitnesses told police that the SUV was at high speed and hit the tractor-trailer from the rear. The impact of the collision was so intense that the tractor-trailer overturned,” the SHO said. Police said more than 20 people belong to Patiala’s Rorikut street were coming back in the tractor-trailer after paying obeisance at a dargah in Karnal, Haryana.While Karamjit and Gurpreet, who were in the SUV, were declared brought dead at a hospital, Sonu, Nikka and Rohit Kumar were crushed under the tractor-trailer and died on the spot. Of the injured, two were referred to the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, while 10 are admitted to the Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala. The SUV-borne youth were students of Punjabi University and were returning home after attending an event, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-killed-as-suv-rams-into-tractor-trailer-in-patiala-101634325420600.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Produce EPIC at polling station: EC to voters ahead of Ellenabad bypoll||The Election Commission (EC) has directed voters to produce elector’s photo identity card (EPIC) for their identification at the polling station before casting their votes.The voters will cast their votes on October 30 in the Ellenabad assembly bypoll in Sirsa district of Haryana.An official spokesperson of the Haryana chief electoral officer (CEO) said if the electors are unable to produce the EPIC, they will have to produce an alternative photo identity documents such as Aadhaar card, MNREGA job card, passbooks, driving license, PAN card, passport, or pension document with photograph for establishing their identity.The spokesperson said in case of EPIC, if there is a clerical error or spelling mistake, it should be ignored provided the identity of the elector can be established by the EPIC.If the voter produces an EPIC which has been issued by the electoral registration officer of another assembly constituency, such EPIC will also be accepted for identification provided the name of the elector finds its place in the electoral roll pertaining to the polling station where the elector has turned up for voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/produce-epic-at-polling-station-ec-to-voters-ahead-of-ellenabad-bypoll-101634324760383.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Four companies of central forces deployed, Khattar holds high-level meeting||The Haryana government has deployed at least four companies of the central forces at the farmers’ protest site at Singhu in wake of the killing of a man near the Delhi-Haryana border.The government decided to deploy more paramilitary personnel after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar held a high-level meeting of top officers to review the law and order situation.State home minister Anil Vij, chief secretary (CS) Vijai Vardhan, additional chief secretary (ACS, home) Rajeev Arora, director general of police (DGP) PK Agarwal, and additional director general of police (ADGP, CID) Alok Mittal were among the top officers present in the meeting.Sources said the state government has been updating the Union home ministry also about the “barbaric killing” which they say has crossed all limits of “brutality”.During the meeting, Khattar was given a detailed account of the incident. To avoid any untoward incident, it was decided to deploy four more companies of central forces kept as reserve from the central paramilitary forces that the Centre has deputed to deal with the farmers’ agitation.“It is a disturbing development. See the brutality with which this man was killed…and then, the inhuman way videos were recorded crossing all limits,” said an officer refusing to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-companies-of-central-forces-deployed-khattar-holds-high-level-meeting-101634324460854.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC rules against ‘uprooting’ minor from family atmosphere to natural guardian||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed the plea of a father whose child was with his in-laws after the death of his wife.“Uprooting a child from a family atmosphere where he has been living for more than one year, at a tender age, will not be in his best interest. This is despite the fact that the petitioner is the father and natural guardian of the child after death of the mother,” the bench of justice Suvir Sehgal observed while dismissing a habeas corpus plea of the father.The court was dealing with the plea filed by a Sonepat resident, who had approached court in February this year seeking his four-year-old son’s custody. After differences between the couple, the woman had shifted to her parents’ home in Rohtak in July 2020 with her son. She died in December 2020 due to cardiac arrest.“Welfare of the child is of paramount consideration and it is the bounden duty of the court to ensure that the child lives in a healthy and congenial atmosphere,” the court said.“Petitioner (father) has failed to bring any material on record to show as to how he intends to take care of the child, who by now is more than four-years-old and is school-going. On the other hand, the private respondents are living in a joint family setup,” the court said, taking note of submissions from family of the minor’s mother that the child’s grandparents are looking after him. The child’s grandfather is a retired government servant and on pension. It was also stated that unmarried aunt and maternal uncles of the child are also there to take care of him.It came to light that the woman’s family is seeking lawful guardianship and permanent custody of the child under the Guardian and Wards Act, 1890, in family court.The woman’s parents had told court that their daughter, a teacher in Ambala, was harassed by the family of her husband.In October 2019, she had started living separately and in July 2020, she moved in with them along with her son. The husband never visited his wife and son. In fact, his attitude towards them was that of “aloofness and he did not show any inclination to keep the child with him”. After death of the woman, he did not even perform the last rites, they said.The court said it has been established that the petitioner’s wife and son lived separately and to his allegations that the son was snatched when he had gone to attend rituals after the death of his wife turned out to be mere “bald assertion” as the husband, who is a lawyer by profession, did not even file a complaint about it, except for filing a petition, three months later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-rules-against-uprooting-minor-from-family-atmosphere-to-natural-guardian-101634324347391.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: AIIMS doctor rapes colleague in his Hauz Khas house, on run||A senior resident doctor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) allegedly spiked his colleague’s drink and raped her at his house in Hauz Khas last month, Delhi Police said on Friday.The accused is at large, and searches are on across the city to trace him, they added.According to Benita Mary Jaiker, deputy commissioner of police (south), the woman called the police control room on Monday to report that she was sexually assaulted, and that she was getting a medical examination at AIIMS.“This distress call was marked to the Hauz Khas police station. A team was then sent to the hospital, where the woman was present. The victim, who is a doctor at AIIMS, told police that, on September 26, one of her senior doctors raped her at his house, where she had gone to celebrate a colleague’s birthday,” said Jaiker.Police have registered a case under sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 377 (unnatural offences) of the Indian Penal Code at Hauz Khas.“The suspect is on the run. We have started technical surveillance and are making efforts to nab the accused,” Jaiker added.The man has been missing from work since September 27, said the police.A senior police officer said a medical examination confirmed the woman was raped.HT approached the AIIMS communications division for a formal response, but there was none till press time.When contacted, a member of the resident doctors’ association at AIIMS, who asked not to be named, said that the woman did not approach them, and that the matter was being handled only by the police. “Normally, the association is approached. But in this case the matter is so sensitive that the aggrieved person decided to approach the police directly, and that was the right thing to do as the police will do a better job of investigating a serious case like this,” said the person cited above.An officer aware of the matter, who asked not to be named, said the woman told police that there were seven people at her senior colleague’s house during the party. Police have recorded the statements of all others.“The party ended late and she had to stay back. The accused also advised her to stay back. The woman told us that he spiked her drinks and then raped her. She said that the man told her that she should not tell the police or anyone else about the incident. After several days, she spoke to her friends and gathered the strength to file a police complaint,” said one of the officers involved in the investigation.The accused has been missing from work since September 27.As part of the probe, police also recorded the woman’s statement before a judge. Such a statement, under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), is admissible as evidence during a trial.Between January 1 and August 15 this year, according to police data, Delhi registered 1,231 cases of rape -- up from 908 during the same period last year. At about 1,500-2,200 rape cases reported every year, Delhi is one of the most unsafe cities for women across the country.The police’s analysis of rape cases in the city last year showed that of the 1,699 rapes last year, the alleged rapist in at least 2% of the incidents was a colleague or senior colleague. In 1.77% cases, the alleged rapist was a stranger. In over 60% cases, the alleged rapist was a neighbour, partner, family member or friend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aiims-doctor-rapes-colleague-in-his-hauz-khas-house-on-run-101634324221109.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||CBSE Class 10, 12 students give mixed response to exams being held in two terms||Students in Haryana gave mixed response to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announcing that it will hold board exams for Class 10 and 12 in two terms, with the first term taking place in November-December 2021.The Haryana government had opened schools for Classes 9 to 12 on July 16 and the main subjects’ exam for Classes 10 and 12 under the CBSE board will start from November 24.Students got just four months to prepare for their first term exam in which multiple choice questions will be asked.Most students who hail from rural and semi-rural areas said they faced a tough time while adapting to online education system from March 2020 to July 2021.Kareena, a Class 12 medical student hailing from Dwarka village in Charkhi Dadri, said their teachers have completed 50% syllabus and they were happy to go back to offline classes.“The online classes come were a big challenge for teachers and students from March 2020 to July this year. We were relieved that we were back to offline classes and now CBSE has announced dates of first term exams,” she said.“Our first term exams will be an evaluation of our performance and will reveal Covid and post-Covid impact on students’ education. It is good to conduct first term exams as everyone has fear that a third wave might hit the country,” she added.Aman Malik, a non-medical student, said his studies were affected a lot in the last 15 months and he faced poor connectivity issues during online classes.“If schools had not been resumed for physical classes, I won’t be able to get good marks. Offline classes are the best way of teaching. We got less time to revise the syllabus but it is good that our performance will be reviewed. The pandemic has adversely affected our studies and online education has created a digital divide between us and students studying in big cities,” he added.Vajir Arya, principal of Arya Senior Secondary School in Bhiwani, said they have covered the entire syllabus of Classes 10 and 12 for the first term exams.“Online education has not benefited students and their results might have worsened if the offline classes had not been resumed,” Aryan said.“Most students hailing from rural and semi-urban areas faced poor internet connectivity issues and teachers lacked in adapting to online mode. Most parents could not afford to purchase separate phones for their children. We are happy that CBSE has decided to conduct exams in two terms,” he added.The time period for the first term exam will be 90 minutes from 11.30AM to 1PM and the OMR sheets are to be submitted in the exam control room by 1.30PM. CBSE has asked schools to evaluate the OMR sheets between 01.30PM to 5PM and submit the sheets to CBSE by 5PM the same evening.Marks of first term will be considered while declaring results of second term in March-April. No students will be declared pass, fail or compartment after the first term.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbse-class-10-12-students-give-mixed-response-to-exams-being-held-in-two-terms-101634324220089.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Returning from Naina Devi Temple, devotee dies in road mishap||A devotee returning from Naina Devi Temple in Bilaspur district of Himachal Pradesh died near Jalah Majra village in Machhiwara after a speeding truck hit the minibus she was travelling in on Thursday evening. At the time of the mishap, the minibus was parked on the roadside. Only the victim, Uma Devi, 40, of Lohara , and her niece , Amrita, 20, were in the minibus, while the others, including the driver, Mukesh Kumar, her husband Vinod Kumar, their son Jatinder Kumar, and daughter-in-law Kaushalya Devi, had alighted for refreshments. Amrita also suffered serious injuries in the mishap.The truck driver, Abhilakh Singh of Giaspura, fled from the spot after the accident. The complainant, Vinod Kumar, said, “The impact of the collision was such that Uma died on the spot, while my niece suffered serious injuries. The truck driver got off and spoke to us for a bit but fled after learning that one person had died.”Assistant sub-inspector Vipan Kumar, who is investigating the case, said an FIR has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving) , 337 (whoever causes hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly), 338 ( whoever causes grievous hurt to any person by acting rashly or negligently ), 427 ( mischief causing damage) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-returning-from-naina-devi-temple-devotee-dies-in-road-mishap-101634324161707.html
16-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows constables to be promoted as police sub-inspectors||In a major decision, the Maharashtra government has paved the way for constables to be promoted as police sub-inspectors (PSI). The proposal, which was approved by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday, would prove beneficial for 45,000 constables. It will also provide an adequate number of investigation officers in the force, officials said.To make the promotions possible, the state has also abolished the position of police naik, which will ensure that constables get promoted till PSI rank before retirement. “From now onwards, police constables will directly be promoted to the post of head constables instead of police naik. These head constables will be promoted to assistant sub-inspector (ASI) after completing 20 years of service. After completion of 30 years of service, they will become eligible for the post of PSI. The restructuring of the organisation will lead to progressive transformation,” said Sanjay Pandey, director general of police (DGP).In the existing system, a constable gets promoted as police naik after 10 years of service and as a head constable after 20 years of service. They get promoted as ASI after more than 30 years of service. This is for the first time that constables will be able to get PSI-rank promotions, said a senior official from state home department.Earlier, ASI could be promoted to PSI rank after clearing a promotional examination, which also has been abolished. ASI-rank officers will be promoted for PSI positions on the basis of service seniority, the officials said.In the force, especially in rural areas, head constables are allowed to investigate some cases. The new decision will recharge the batteries of the investigating wing as it will help in providing more head constables and ASIs at early stages of their career to become investigating officers. This will make the performance of the force more efficient, he said.The timely and speedy promotion will motivate the police personnel to perform their duties conscientiously, DGP said.The decision will increase the existing number of head constables from 37,861 to 51,210 and ASI will be increased to 17,071 from 15,270. Each police station will get 13 additional head constables, stated a release issued by the chief minister office (CMO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-constables-to-be-promoted-as-police-subinspectors-101634324160167.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Ahead of civic polls, Delhi BJP begins drive to reach out to slum residents||Ahead of the municipal polls scheduled next year, the BJP on Friday began its Jhuggi Samman Yatra, a 1.5-month-long drive aimed at “recognising the contribution of slum residents in city development” and inform them about the various initiatives taken by the Central government for the economically weaker sections. Kickstarting the programme from Kirti Nagar industrial area, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “Slum dwellers are the lifeline of Delhi and have contributed immensely towards the city’s growth. The objective of this programme is to recognise the efforts of these people.” BJP leaders said that various schemes started by the central government have benefited a large number of people. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The outreach programme will continue till November 28. Senior party leaders will be visiting slums and telling people about the work done by the Modi government for the welfare of poor people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ahead-of-civic-polls-delhi-bjp-begins-drive-to-reach-out-to-slum-residents-101634323860304.html
16-10-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru: 3 slaughter cows in illegal abattoir; held||Three people have been arrested for allegedly slaughtering many cows in an illegal slaughterhouse here, police said on Friday.The action was taken on a complaint by Nandini Matiyani, a volunteer of the Gau Gyan Foundation, an animal rights organisation, said the police.Those arrested are the owner of the slaughterhouse, his worker and an autorickshaw driver, who have been booked under the recently promulgated Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance-2020, Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act-1960, Food Safety and Standards Act and the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act.In a video message, Matiyani said she got a tip-off that many illegal slaughterhouses were operating in the city.She said she went to the spot at 6.30 AM today with policemen and found four cows tied outside a house, which were saved from the killing. The house is where the cattle were butchered and the carcasses hung.Another activist Ruma Jalali told PTI that the kingpin was scot-free.But, the police refuted the charge by saying the man whom they were calling kingpin was a respected person in the locality and was not connected to the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru3-slaughter-cows-in-illegal-abattoir-held-101634323635909.html
16-10-2021||Other||Five from state held for killing Goa parking attendant||A parking attendant was murdered allegedly by a group of tourists hailing from Karnataka after a scuffle over pay parking fees at Goa’s Anjuna’s beach on Friday, police said. Five persons were arrested from a border check post at Polem, Goa’s southern border with Karnataka, when they attempted to cross back into Karnataka, police said. The victim, Sagar Naik, 45, who hailed from Anjuna, worked as a parking attendant at the parking lot at the entrance to Goa’s famous Anjuna beach in north Goa, and was assaulted by five male tourists with fists and punches and succumbed to the injuries he sustained during the assault while he was being rushed to hospital, a police spokesperson said in a statement. The police said that the quarrel broke out suddenly. The accused are currently being interrogated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-from-state-held-for-killing-goa-parking-attendant-101634323629792.html
16-10-2021||Noida||Idol immersion, effigy burning mark end of Durga Puja and Dussehra festivities in Ghaziabad||The week-long Durga Puja and Dussehra festivities ended on Friday with the immersion of idols and burning of the effigies of Ravan, his brother Kumbhkaran and son Meghnad at different locations in Ghaziabad. Organisers said that the government allowed public celebrations this time, but with certain restrictions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.So much so, that even the heights of the effigies of Ravan, Kumbhakarna and Meghnad were considerably reduced.“Until 2019, we prepared effigies that were about 80 feet tall. Due to the pandemic, no effigy was prepared in 2020. This year, the height of the effigies was reduced to 18-25 feet and no fireworks were used,” said Dilshad Ahmad, a craftsman from Gulaothi who has been preparing effigies for the past week.“This year, festivities were allowed in a restricted manner. I received two orders to prepare effigies for the Ghanta Ghar and Kavi Nagar Ramlilas. Earlier, it took us about a month’s stay at the Ramlila grounds to prepare tall effigies. This year, we arrived here about a week ago. Still, we were able to prepare the effigies in time and erect them on Friday evening for Dussehra,” he added.Meanwhile, Durga Puja festivities ended on a high note with the immersion of the idols of goddess Durga in ponds and designated water bodies across the district.“Immersion was not allowed in the Yamuna river but in temporary ponds created nearby. We permitted 17 different Ramlilas to be staged but did not allow any mela (fair) to be held. Effigies this time were small in size. Zonal magistrates and sector magistrates were deployed to ensure Covid protocols were followed and also ensure peaceful celebrations,” said Vipin Kumar, additional district magistrate (city).Before the immersion on the final day of Durga Puja festivities, women devotees performed the ritual of ‘Sindoor Khela’. Devotees also performed the Dhanuchi dance, a ritual that takes place before the idol of the goddess is immersed in a water body.“The idols were immersed in a temporary pond near the Hindon river. Unlike the previous year, there was more enthusiasm this time as the government allowed public celebrations with certain restrictions,” said Abhijit Roy, founder member of Prantic Cultural Society, Indirapuram.At Sector 10, Raj Nagar, there was no staging of Ramlila unlike the previous years, but organisers recited Ramcharitmanas, an epic composed by the 16th-century bhakti poet Tulsidas, for seven days.“The small event ended with the Dussehra festivities. Like last year, we did not burn effigies this year either. But thanks to the relaxation in curbs this year, people were able to celebrate in public,” said Rajendra Tyagi, councillor from Raj Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/idol-immersion-effigy-burning-mark-end-of-durga-puja-and-dussehra-festivities-in-ghaziabad-101634323626751.html
16-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka legislative panel orders survey of churches, staff||Barely a month since the Basavaraj Bommai-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government mooted the possibility of bringing in a legislation to check forced religious conversions, the legislative committee on backward classes and minorities welfare has ordered a survey of authorised and unauthorised Churches and their personnel in the state.“We have asked district authorities to furnish a detailed report on the number of authorised and unauthorised churches and Christian priests,” Gulihatti Shekhar, the BJP legislator from Hosadurga and a member of the committee said on Friday, Press Trust of India reported.Shekar could not be reached for comment independently.The committee has ordered a survey on all churches, priests and registering cases against any instances of forcible religious conversions.The statements and actions come at a time when the Bommai-led government appears keen on introducing a bill to stop and punish anyone involved in forced conversions in the BJP-led administration.Shekar had chaired a meeting on Wednesday without the presence of Dinakar Keshav Shetty, the chairman of the committee.Shekar had initiated the conversation within the legislature during the monsoon session between September 13-24 when he made a passionate speech in the Zero Hour.Shekar had said his mother was among those in Chitradurga district who was “brainwashed” by missionaries along with several others. He had claimed that people from marginalised communities and even Muslims were converted or they were slapped with false charges. He said that around 15,000-20,000 people in his constituency were possibly converted.At least five other legislators had made similar claims with Devanand Fulsasingh Chavan of the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S), claiming that the missionaries were targeting the vulnerable Banjara community by converting entire “thanda’s” or settlements.Shekar on October 11 had presided over the returning or “ghar wapsi” of at least four families, including his mother in his village. Shekar said those who returned were from the Sudugaadu Sidda community, among the most backward in the state.The developments come at a time when there has been hate crimes reported from across the state and country with fundamentalist groups mobilising support for such causes to “safeguard” their respective religions.Several other states in the country have introduced laws to prevent forced conversions. There have been allegations, especially against large Christian missionaries, who lure weak, oppressed and other people to convert with the promise of monetary and other rewards.Even the legislative assembly speaker, Visweswara Heggade Kageri, said this was an issue that he had spoken about in detail about during the SM Krishna-led Congress government between 1999-2001.“Till now those who lodged complaints against religious conversion were booked but we have asked police to register a case on receiving complaints and conduct a fair inquiry,” Shekhar said.The legislator said that those who leave the community cannot claim double benefit.“Due to these practices, the actual scheduled caste people are not getting the benefits,” Shekhar said, according to PTI.Peter Machado, the Archbishop of Bengaluru on Friday, said the survey would stir up “anti-religious feelings” and was “dangerous”.“We consider this exercise as futile and unnecessary. There is no good that will come out of it, In fact, in the background of the conversion bogey and anti-religious feelings that are being whipped up, it is dangerous to make such surveys. With this our community places of worship as also pastors and sisters will be identified and may be unfairly targeted,” the archbishop said in a statement on Friday.He added that there were already such instances being reported from various parts of Karnataka.“Why is the government interested in making survey of the religious personnel and places of worship only of the Christian Community? We are sad that the Hon’ble Chief Minister, Shri Basavaraj Bommai, whom we regard highly as a broad-minded and enlightened person succumbs to the pressures from fundamentalist groups, who wish to indulge in disturbing the peace, harmony and peaceful co-existence in the society,” he added.The archbishop said that they are “always against forceful, fraudulent and incentivised conversions.”Another person associated with the church said that these were “tactics” to deflect away from the more important issues like price rise and other concerns staring at the country. for a few to torment people.“There has been loss of employment, fuel price loss and this government is on a shaky wicket. After they said that the next election would be fought under Bommai, he has resorted to such gimmicks of the RSS and are disturbing the peace,” a person associated with the Church said, requesting not to be named. “We always take consent from the family, the person has to make an affidavit and we give them time to understand the learnings and its not just dipping someone in water and saying you are Christian,” the person cited above.The church said the Constitution allows freedom of religion. With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-legislative-panel-orders-survey-of-churches-staff-101634323625515.html
16-10-2021||Bangalore||BJP eyes balancing formula for bypoll campaign strategy in Karnataka||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday said he will start campaigning for the October 30 bypolls on Sunday and possibly end within four days after visiting both constituencies.Bommai said he was likely to spend two days each in Hanagal and Sindgi but added that his predecessor, BS Yediyurappa, will start his campaign only after October 20 which appears to be a compromise of sorts in which the incumbent may not want to be overshadowed by the former chief minister who continues to hold significant influence over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Karnataka.“On 17th, I will go to Hanagal. After that two days in Sindgi. I have spoken to him (Yediyurappa). After the 20th, he will go to Hanagal and Sindgi,” Bommai said on Friday after meeting his predecessor at the latter’s residence.The statements come at a time when Bommai has been trying hard to emerge out of Yediyurappa’s shadows and try and stamp his own authority on a party and government that appear not to have accepted the former wholeheartedly.Bommai has rushed to Yediyurappa at almost every given opportunity as the latter resides in “Cauvery”, which was meant to be the official residence of the chief minister of Karnataka.Yediyurappa had proposed Bommai’s name as chief minister on July 27, a day after he was forced to step down from the top chair before completing his term.The opposition political parties have already stated that the recent Income Tax (IT) raids on Yediyurappa’s secretary was to “control” the 78-year-old leader.The former chief minister continues to have a significant influence over the dominant Lingayat community and was successful in getting Bommai, from the same community, to the top chair and scuttling any plans of the BJP to move away from caste-based politics and into Hindutva.The BJP is yet to give its approval for Yediyurappa to start his state-wide tour in which he hopes to mobilise support for the party ahead of the Zilla and Taluka panchayat polls as well as the 2023 assembly election. Yediyurappa has taken it upon himself to bring the BJP back to power which, people aware of the developments fear, would lead to the 78-year-old continuing to tighten his grip on the party and not allow Delhi a free-hand to run the state.Leaders like Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah and HD Deve Gowda among others have been part and parcel of Karnataka’s deeply caste-influenced society and politics over the decades that has shaped their careers and the discourse in the state. The Lingayats are believed to back Yediyurappa and the BJP, the backward classes, Dalits and minorities are known to side with the Congress. The JD(S) is believed to derive their strength and numbers in the assembly elections with the backing of the Vokkaligas, another dominant community found in majoritative numbers in the Old Mysuru region.BY Vijayendra, Yediyurappa’s son and state BJP vice president, was initially left out of the list of leaders for Hanagal bypolls but was later put back in the list after outcry from his supporters who see the former as the “legitimate heir” of Yediyurappa and the Lingayat community in the state.“He (Bommai) may emerge out of Yediyurappa’s shadow but will not be able to do so from Delhi’s shadow,” said a Bengaluru-based political analyst, requesting not to be named.The analyst said Bommai will remain a “puppet” in order to retain his chair and use Delhi to thwart any challenge to his position within the party and leaders who already nurse a feeling of neglect for choosing him (Bommai) for the top chair though he has been in the fold for just 13 years.The analyst added that the recent twitter posts and statements by Bommai, condoning moral policing, defending Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and mooting the idea for a legislation against forcible conversions among others add to the possibility that the chief minister remains firmly under the control of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-eyes-balancing-formula-for-bypoll-campaign-strategy-in-karnataka-101634323560480.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Dussehra spirit in Delhi amid curbs||Residents of the Capital on Friday marked Dussehra with low-key celebrations in light of Covid-19 protocols in place and a blanket ban on the use of firecrackers in order to mitigate the threat of severe air pollution, which happens every winter.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed festival celebrations this year but prohibited rallies and processions, firecrackers, idol immersions, stalls and shops inside and outside venues and also limited the number of visitors to half the venue capacity.At the Red Fort grounds, the venue of the city’s most prominent Ramlila and Dussehra event, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took part in the ritual of shooting an arrow to set ablaze the effigies of Ravana, his brother Kumbhakarna and son Meghnad, to signify the symbolic victory of good over evil.Unlike previous years when the Ravana effigies used to be over 100-foot tall, this year, they were much smaller — about 30-foot tall — and though they were set afire for real, organisers used light and sound effects to mimic the sound and feel of firecrackers.“Every resident of Delhi is affected by severe air pollution. We were very particular about strictly adhering to the ban on firecrackers. We are happy that people found the light and sound show entertaining,” said Arjun Kumar, general secretary of the committee that organises the annual Ramlila and Dussehra celebrations on the Red Fort ground.The blanket ban on firecrackers and Covid-19 regulations, combined with other factors such as a decline in donations, forced numerous local Dussehra organisers in the Capital to cancel celebrations this year.A large number of Delhi residents chose to celebrate the festival at home, by tuning into TV channels and online platforms that were live-streaming Dussehra rituals.“Although Covid-19 cases are declining, it is still unsafe to participate in large gatherings. When people have easy access to smartphones and internet, it is best not to step out,” said Apoorva Kumar, a resident of Delhi’s GTB Enclave.The prohibition on sale, purchase, storage and use of firecrackers in Delhi will remain in place till the end of the year -- essentially covering Diwali, Chhath Puja, Guru Parv, Christmas and New Year celebrations.Dussehra also coincides with Durga Visarjan – the day when organisers of Durga Puja take the idol for immersion in water bodies.While the Yamuna and natural water bodies in the city have been made out of bounds for these immersions, by the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the Delhi government this year did not make arrangements such as artificial ponds for collective idol immersion, thus forcing organisers to make arrangements of their own near the pandals.“We were told by the district administration about the idol immersion rules and we made adequate arrangements for immersion on the temple premises. We have been doing that for a few years now. The restrictions are understandable because rallies and processions are prohibited in light of the pandemic,” said Swapan Ganguly, convener of the Kalibari temple in New Delhi’s Mandir Marg, which hosts one of the most prominent Durga Puja pandals in the city.Several other organisers, however, chose to celebrate without having idols. They said the rituals are conducted in the presence of an earthen urn, which is immersed on the day of visarjan.“We had to immerse the kalash (urn), which was not a difficult task. We made adequate arrangements at the venue itself,” said Robin Bose, secretary of the Kashmere Gate Durga Puja committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-celebrates-dussehra-sans-firecrackers-and-fanfare-but-with-much-zeal-101634323501306.html
16-10-2021||Bangalore||Study links north Karnataka tremors to hydro-seismicity||The Karnataka government on Friday said a recent study has shown that the tremors recorded in the northern part of the state normally occur post monsoon and are related to a phenomenon called hydro-seismicity.The Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) had commissioned the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI) to take up a detailed analysis of the recent recordings of earthquakes in Karnataka’s Bidar, Kalaburagi and Vijayapura districts among other places after these regions witnessed tremors that were of a magnitude as high as 4.0 on the Richter scale.“In their preliminary observations, they have indicated that the micro tremors of this nature normally occur during the post monsoon period, after a heavy rainfall, is related to a phenomenon called hydro-seismicity,” Manoj Rajan, the commissioner of the KSDMA, said in a statement on Friday.The findings of the study come at a time when these regions witnessed around 15 instances of earthquakes and tremors, some that were felt 50-60 km away, adding to the panic of the population in these parts of the state.“Within crustal volumes having fracture permeability, a natural increase in hydraulic head caused by transient increases in stress due to the elevation of the water table in recharge areas of groundwater basins, can be transmitted down to depths of 10-20 km, thereby triggering micro tremors and sounds are also accompanied by some of these tremors. These are due to shallow earthquakes that generate high-frequency surface waves. This type of seismic activity is very common and nothing to worry about, since it may not cascade into a large devastating earthquake,” Rajan said.The NGRI is sending a team of scientists to these regions in the next two days to study and ascertain the field conditions.The NGRI, Hyderabad, was asked to take up field inventory and earthquake related studies in and around the affected regions in Vijayapura & Kalaburagi.JL Gautam, the head of operations at National Centre for Seismology (NCS), had earlier said these were minor events and they (earthquakes and tremors felt this time) were local adjustments or intra-plate activity or activity within plates, Hindustan Times reported on October 13.The first two tremors on October 1 and 5 were recorded near Basavakalyan in neighbouring Bidar district that borders Maharashtra.Authorities have reached out to the mines and geology department to understand the phenomena and also raise awareness among the people who have been living in constant fear over the recent events.Rajan said that the phenomenon related to the occurrence of micro tremors originating from shallow depths associated with subterranean sounds was experienced in the past during 2006-2009 at Hasargundgi, Yelakapalli, Yempalli, Chimanchod of Chincholi Taluk, Kalaburgi District.“During 2010-14, 25 micro tremors in Vijayapura of magnitude 1.2 to 3.1 have been reported by the Permanent Seismic Monitoring Stations Network established by KSNDMC along with subterranean sounds. In Kalaburgi during 2016, two micro tremors of magnitude 1.5 & 1.6 respectively has been reported and in Bidar during 2017, 3 micro tremors of magnitude 2.0 to 2.2 have been reported by the KSNDMC Network,” Rajan said on Tuesday.People of the region had spent several nights in large open areas after a series of earthquakes and tremors in the last two months. Their fears are not unfounded as Vijayapura has recorded an earthquake with a magnitude of 6.4 in 1993 with significant damage done not just in this district but also Bidar and Kalaburagi. “Vijayapura is situated in the geological provinces of Dharwar Craton, which is an Archaean continental fragment of the Peninsular India. As per the Seismic Zonation map of Karnataka, Vijayapura District falls in Seismic Zone II & III (Figure 1c), II being Earthquake free zone and III being Moderate Earthquake Zone, the part of area where the Survey has been carried out and reports of sound heard falls in Zone II, making the less chance of occurrence of Earthquakes. The documented very first Earthquake in Vijayapura is during 1653-1654 and the details of Epicentre along with date & time are unknown. The next known Earthquake was on 15.11.1973 with a Magnitude of 4.0, epicentred at Almel-Sindgi, Vijayapura,” according to the KSDMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/study-links-north-karnataka-tremors-to-hydroseismicity-101634323500102.html
16-10-2021||Dehradun||In line with tradition, portals of Char Dham shrines to close for winter months||Following the tradition of announcing the dates of closing of the portals of the Char Dham shrines on the day of Dussehra, this year the portals of Badrinath Temple will be closed for the winter months on November 20. The portals of Gangotri will be closed on November 5 (Govardhan Puja, next day after Diwali)) and the portals of Yamunotri and Kedarnath shrines on November 6 (Bhaidooj). Harish Gaur, spokesperson Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said the exact auspicious time for closing the portals of Char Dham shrines is arrived at through astrological calculations by local temple bodies and priests. He added that in the case of Kedarnath and Yamunotri, it is a tradition that their portals close on Bhaidooj, which falls on November 6 this year. He said the portals of Tungnath shrine will close for the winter months on October 30 this year. Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami expressed happiness over the successful conduct of the Char Dham yatra so far. He said the yatra will go on without any impediment till the closure of the portals. This year so far, over 1.14 lakh pilgrims have visited Char Dham shrines. The influx of pilgrims increased after the Uttarakhand high court on October 5 lifted the daily cap on the number of pilgrims who can visit Char Dham following the state government’s plea that the limitation should be lifted as the Covid-19 cases have dipped significantly in the state. The daily limit of pilgrims was 1000 for Badrinath, 800 for Kedarnath, 600 for Gangotri and 400 for Yamunotri shrines. Earlier on September 16, the court had lifted its June 28 stay on the Char Dham yatra, paving the way for the start of the yatra from September 18 to the four revered Himalayan shrines with Covid-19 curbs. According to Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board officials, last year, overall, 3.1 lakh pilgrims came for Char Dham Yatra. In pre-Covid-19 times, that is in 2019, over 32.40 lakh pilgrims had visited Char Dham shrines. The four Himalayan pilgrimage sites Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath and Badrinath- collectively called Char Dham, located in Garhwal Himalayas, are one of the most revered pilgrimages in the Hindu tradition and attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. It is believed that every Hindu should undertake Char Dham pilgrimage at least once in a lifetime to avail the blessings of gods adorning the shrines. Traditionally, the Char Dham pilgrimage begins from the west from Yamunotri, then proceeds to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. Kedarnath shrine is located in Rudraprayag district, while Badrinath is in Chamoli district. Yamunotri and Gangotri shrines are located in Uttarkashi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/in-line-with-tradition-portals-of-char-dham-shrines-to-close-for-winter-months-101634323383724.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Fewer stubble fires in NCR in past month compared to 2020: Pollution panel||Incidents of paddy stubble burning in northern India have been significantly lower for the past month, compared to the same period last year, said the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) in Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) on Friday.According a report based on the protocol framed by the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) for CAQM, incidences of residue burning have reduced 69.49% in Punjab, 18.28% in Haryana and 47.61% in the eight NCR districts in Uttar Pradesh between September 15 and October 14. The reported residue burning events in Punjab in this period were 1,286, as against 4,216 last year. Similarly, in Haryana there were 487 stubble fires reported, against 596 for the corresponding period last year. In Uttar Pradesh’s eight NCR districts, 22 stubble fires were reported, down from 42 last year.No fire counts have been reported from Delhi and two NCR Districts of Rajasthan.To be sure, experts have said that while the stubble burning season have had a slow start this year, the daily fire count is likely to reach around 3,000-4,000 by late October and early November.“The major hot spots of paddy residue burning in Punjab are Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Patiala and Ludhiana — these four districts account for 72% of stubble burning events [in the state]. Similarly, the major hot spots in Haryana are Karnal, Kaithal and Kurukshetra. These three account for 80% of incidences [in the state],” a statement from CAQM said.Delhi’s air quality index (AQI) hit 198 on Friday, according to the CPCB daily bulletin, up from 182 on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fewer-stubble-fires-in-ncr-in-past-month-compared-to-2020-pollution-panel-101634323382193.html
16-10-2021||Other||Stalin seeks PM Modi’s intervention over arrest of fishermen by Sri Lankan Navy||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Friday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention in securing the release of 23 fishermen of the state who he said have been arrested by the Sri Lankan Navy. In a letter written to Modi, a copy of which was released by the state government, Stalin expressed that such incidents have been repeated in the past, and urged him to arrive at a permanent solution against the attack on Indian fishermen. “The continued attacks on innocent fishermen of Tamil Nadu by the Sri Lankan Navy are a matter of grave concern,” Stalin said in his letter.The chief minister asked Modi to take up this issue with the Sri Lankan authorities at the diplomatic level so as to ensure the freedom of the 23 fishermen. He explained that these fishermen from Nagapattinam set out to sea on October 11. The Navy of the island nation arrested them off the coast of Vettilaikeni near the Point Pedro on October 13 for allegedly crossing the International Maritime Border. The fishermen were detained at a naval base. “This is highly reprehensible,” Stalin said. He urged the Prime Minister to immediately intervene and take steps to permanently end the long-standing dispute between the Indian and Sri Lankan fishermen, an official press release from the Tamil Nadu government said. The maritime dispute between Sri Lanka and Tamil Nadu has remained unresolved for decades owing to the state’s use of trawlers and depleting resources in the seas. The attacks and arrests against Indian fishermen increased after the end of the civil war in Sri Lanka in 2009. Earlier this year, the bodies of four fishermen washed ashore in Sri Lanka believed to be from Tamil Nadu’s Ramanathapuram district that led to protests. Successive state governments in Tamil Nadu, both the DMK and AIADMK have raised this issue with the union government seeking a solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stalin-seeks-pm-modi-s-intervention-over-arrest-of-fishermen-by-sri-lankan-navy-101634323320159.html
16-10-2021||Other||Andhra govt offers 2 more powerhouses to Krishna management board||After coming forward to hand over four components (projects) on river Krishna to the Krishna River Management Board, subject to neighbouring Telangana doing the same, the Andhra Pradesh government issued another order concurring to hand over two powerhouses to the Board.Energy Secretary Srikant Nagulapalli issued an order late on Thursday night on the handing over of the Srisailam Right Bank Powerhouse and the Nagarjuna Sagar Right (Jawahar) Canal Powerhouse to the KRMB in accordance with the Union Jal Shakti Ministry’s Gazette Notification.Posts sanctioned under these two components too were being diverted to the KRMB, Srikant said in the order, but noted that all this has to happen simultaneously with Telangana projects.The Union Jal Shakti Ministry issued a notification on July 15, as per the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, fixing the jurisdictions of the Godavari River Management Board and the Krishna River Management Board.The notification formally came into force on Thursday.The AP government, however, agreed to immediately hand over only the Srisailam project spillway and river sluices, Pothireddypadu head regulator and Srisailam Right Main Canal, Handri-Neeva Lift Irrigation Scheme and the Muchumarri Lift Irrigation Scheme to the KRMB.It also agreed to transfer the posts sanctioned in various cadres and respective field offices under these four projects to the Central body.At a special meeting of the KRMB in Hyderabad on October 12, the AP government insisted on including the powerhouses on river Krishna, the main bone of contention between the two states, in the prioritised list for handing over to the Board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-govt-offers-2-more-powerhouses-to-krishna-management-board-101634323262600.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Gangster who skipped bail arrested after a month in Delhi's Dwarka||The Delhi Police’s crime branch on Thursday arrested from Dwarka a suspected gangster who did not return to prison a month after his interim bail expired.According to the police, the arrested man — Prince Tewatia — recently joined a gang led by jailed ganglords Hashim Baba and Lawrence Bishnoi, and is implicated in at least 15 crimes, including murder, extortion, attempt to murder, and even submitting forged papers in court to secure bail or extend his stay beyond bars.“In 2020, while out on interim bail, Tewatia submitted a forged Covid-positive certificate in court to secure an extension. However, the forgery was caught and a case was registered at the Tilak Marg police station on the court’s directions,” said Alok Kumar, joint commissioner of police (crime).Police said Tewatia was last arrested in October 2020, by the special cell. In July this year, the Delhi high court granted him interim bail, which expired on September 15. The court dismissed his plea for an extension the next day, despite which Tewatia did not return to prison.On October 14, the police raided one of his hideouts in Dwarka and arrested him. He was produced before the court that sent him to jail, said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Manoj C.Son of a retired Delhi Development Authority (DDA) employee, Tewatia entered the world of crime after he left studies after Class 10. He was first booked in 2008 in an assault case and two years later he committed a murder in south Delhi’s Ambedkar Nagar. The man he murdered had slapped his father in the past and Tewatia took revenge of that humiliation. He was arrested in the case and while being in jail, he filed forged documents in the court to claim himself a juvenile accused. However, his fraud was detected a case was registered against him on the court’s direction, said the joint CP.Tewatia came out of jail in 2015 and resumed his criminal activities. In 2016, he was arrested again in two different cases of robbery and attempt to murder. In 2019, he was granted three days parole for his wedding. He did not return to jail after the parole expired. This time, the special cell arrested him again following an encounter in which he was shot in his leg. After remaining in jail for seven months, he was granted bail in 2020. He also submitted his fake Covid positive certificate to get extension on the bail. His forgery was against detected and a case was registered.“While evading his arrest, Tewatia committed a murder in Wazirabad and two firing incidents for extortion in Preet Vihar and Wazirabad. He was again arrested by the special cell in October 2020 in an arms act case,” added Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhigangster-who-skipped-bail-arrested-after-a-month-in-dwarka-101634323260148.html
16-10-2021||Other||Kerala reports 8k new Covid cases, 67 deaths||Kerala on Friday reported 8,867 new Covid-19 cases with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 11.14% after 79,554 samples were tested, said the state health ministry, adding that out of 94,756 active cases, only 9.8 per cent are in the hospitals. Kerala also reported 67 deaths on Friday, taking the toll to 26,774. Though the health department added 7,000 deaths to the Covid-19 list recently, these numbers failed to figure in the total fatality list. When asked about this, a senior health department official said some more formalities will have to be completed. Three districts, Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur, reported more than 1000 cases. State health minister Veena George said at least 25 per cent of the newly infected had not taken the vaccine. At least 93.7 per cent of the eligible population got one vaccine and 44.9 per cent got both shots, she said, adding the vaccination rate of the state is one of the best in the country. She asked the remaining people to take the jab at the earliest. According to a seroprevalence survey last week, at least 82 per cent of people above 18 years have antibodies against Covid-19 and over 40 per cent of children in the 5-17 age group is exposed to the virus. In the earlier sero survey, conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research in July, Kerala sero positivity was lowest in the country at 44.4 per cent. The immunity has been achieved either through vaccination or natural infection, said, experts. In the last 24 hours, the country reported 16,862 fresh virus cases with a TPR of 1.43 per cent. For more than five months, Kerala has been contributing a lion’s share of virus cases in the country. After Onam festivities in August, cases multiplied and at one point it claimed more than 70 per cent of the total cases of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-reports-8k-new-covid-cases-67-deaths-101634323202632.html
16-10-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin urges 4 states to review ban on crackers||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin on Friday said the livelihood of about eight lakh workers involved in the firecracker manufacturing industry in the state was at stake and urged his counterparts in Delhi, Odisha, Rajasthan and Haryana to reconsider the blanket ban on sale of crackers.Stating that the blanket ban is “not reasonable”, the chief minister said the sale of crackers falling within the norms set by the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal may be permitted in their respective states.In a letter to the chief ministers of the four states, a copy of which was released to the media here, Stalin pointed out that the Covid-19 pandemic had a crippling effect on the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector in the country and its impact on Tamil Nadu’s economy, which is largely dependent on MSMEs for growth and employment, has been significantly severe.“My government is now in the process of reviving the sector through focussed interventions. The firecracker industry, concentrated around the town of Sivakasi, is one of the most important industrial activities in the state,” he explained.Around 800,000 workers depend on the state’s firecracker industry for their livelihood, which is the largest in our country, he pointed out.Stating that the ban imposed by the four Indian states on the sale of firecrackers during this Diwali festival was brought to his attention, the chief minister said, “I understand that you have taken this decision based on concerns regarding air pollution.”“I wish to draw your attention to the fact that the Supreme Court has already banned certain categories of polluting firecrackers and now, green crackers with significantly less emissions are being manufactured. Therefore, a blanket ban on firecrackers is not reasonable. Such a ban is not prevalent in other countries,” Stalin said.Moreover, such a ban if imposed by other states also, would lead to the closure of the entire industry, jeopardising the livelihood of about eight lakh people, he said, adding, “You would also appreciate that bursting of firecrackers is an integral part of Indian festivals, especially Diwali. A balanced approach that gives due regard to environment, livelihood and public health is possible and necessary.” “I sincerely urge you to kindly reconsider the blanket ban on sale of firecrackers,” he added.He requested that the sale of firecrackers that fall within the norms set by the Supreme Court and the NGT may be permitted in their respective states. The Chandigarh administration on October 12 decided to continue with the cracker ban this Diwali, which was also imposed last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The order, issued by union territory adviser Dharam Pal, came into force with immediate effect and will remain in force until further orders. Any violation can invite up to two-year imprisonment. However, burning of effigies will be allowed on Dussehra.The Supreme Court had in July dismissed a plea challenging the NGT’s complete ban sale and use of all firecrackers in Covid-19 times in cities and said that the authorities may allow for the the sale and use of firecrackers based on the category of air quality index (AQI) in the respective cities, several news agencies reported.However, the top court also said that the production of crackers was allowed. People who want to celebrate by bursting crackers could do so with permission from the authorities based on the AQI, the court added. Further, it also said that there was no ban on the manufacture of crackers but only in places where the air quality is poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-urges-4-states-to-review-ban-on-crackers-101634323081382.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||2 held for duping senior citizens of over ₹5 crore in Delhi||The Delhi Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) has arrested two men for allegedly duping an octogenarian couple of nearly ₹5.24 crore after tricking them into investing their lifetime savings into a website development company on the promise of double the returns.The arrested men were identified as – Ankit Thakur (29), and Vinod Arya (28), the police said. They got acquainted with the elderly couple while working for a mutual fund company, in which the couple used to invest money, the police said.The complainants, a woman and her visually impaired husband, who retired as senior statistical officer from the ministry of labour, sold their three flats in Dwarka as they wanted to live with their children who are settled in the United States. It was this money that the duo had duped them of. Police have withheld the names of the complainants, due to their age.The two alleged accused approached the elderly husband and wife, seeking investment for their recently launched website company. They allegedly promised the couple that their invested money will be doubled in three years, said additional commissioner of police (EOW) RK Singh.“The couple handed over around ₹5.24 crore, which they had got from the sale of their flats in Dwarka. The two men gave them post-dated cheques as security but they bounced when presented,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhitwo-dupe-elderly-couple-of-5-24-crore-with-investment-scheme-arrested-101634323020004.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: North MCD to auction 3 acres of Rajan Babu hospital for pvt facilities||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to auction three acres of land within the Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine and Tuberculosis (RBIPMT) complex -- one of the biggest tuberculosis hospitals in Asia -- near GTB Nagar to generate revenue. The site is proposed to be used for setting up three private hospitals, said a senior corporation official.According to the project report prepared by the engineering department, the three acre land abutting the Ring Road has been earmarked in consultation with the hospital director for auctioning. “RBIPMT has a huge complex and it has a scope for development of private hospitals on the vacant land. The health department has provided in-principal agreement. A land measuring three acres near the laundry block and staff tenements of RBIPMT has been identified. It was decided that three plots of one acre each be carved out for three hospitals for e-auction on lease basis,” said a communication dated September 24, 2021, from the municipal commissioner to the standing committee. The land is currently covered by bushes and trees.The standing committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain said that the matter was postponed in the last committee meeting and a further study is required. “It (the hospital) is a huge 80-90 acre complex and the project proposes to use three acres for developing three specialty hospitals on PPP (public-private partnership) basis. It is for public welfare and it will also generate revenue for the corporation. This will be further discussed in the next meeting. We will hold meetings with department officials to study it further,” he added.North MCD had faced a severe fund crunch, with the civic body being unable to even provide salaries of its staff for months and the Delhi high court even pulling it up over the issue on multiple occasions. The doctors and nurses from various municipal hospitals have organised strikes due to non-payment of salaries even during the pandemic.The Layout Scrutiny Committee (LoSC) of the civic body approved the change in layout plan of the complex on August 24, 2021, and forwarded the proposal to the standing committee. “Three plots measuring 4,125 sqm, 4,125 sqm and 4,284.6 sqm have been carved out for hospitals near laundry block. After discussion, it was recommended to place the case before the standing committee for approval of three hospitals at municipal land,” said the LOSC report.Officials from the RBIPMT administration did not respond to requests seeking a comment.A senior north corporation official said that RBIPMT and Maharishi Valmiki Infectious Disease hospital are both located in the same complex near GTB Nagar. “In 2016, these two hospitals were merged for administrative purposes. As per the land records, the area under Rajan Babu hospital is 63.3 acres while MVID hospital is spread over 26.4 acres. Both these hospitals were set up in 1935 to commemorate the silver jubilee of the coronation of King George. The location of these hospitals is very prime and the complex is well connected by Ring Road and Delhi Metro. The redevelopment of the area for revenue generation was decided in a meeting chaired by the municipal commissioner,” the official said.Meanwhile, during the last standing committee meeting, opposition AAP councillors had raised the issue of poor condition of roof and structures in Rajan Babu hospital, pointing out that it may lead to an accident. The committee has asked the hospital administration department to submit a report on the matter.Jain said that he will also visit the site to ascertain the condition of the structure and whether the staff/patients need to be shifted. The opposition AAP has been demanding hand over of six major hospitals run by North MCD to the Centre or state government. A proposal to this effect has been moved twice by the municipal commissioners but it was turned down on both occasions by the deliberative wing of the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhinorth-mcd-to-auction-3-acres-of-rajan-babu-hospital-for-pvt-facilities-101634322965981.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||After row, DDA promises more public hearings to discuss Delhi master plan||Protecting the Yamuna riverfront and green spaces in the city, reviewing the mixed land use provision, and better parking provisions — these are some of the main topics in the draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041 (MPD-2041) on which the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has received the most number of public comments. In all, the land-owning agency has received over 33,000 comments, officials said.The draft MPD-2041, which is the vision document for the city’s development for the next two decades, was put in the public domain in June this year.On Friday, the DDA clarified that public hearings to discuss the draft master plan will continue in November as well, but refrained from specifying the total number of such sessions that will be held. The clarification came after residents and civic society members objected to the two-day public hearing schedule — on October 18 and 20 — announced by the DDA, in which 17,162 people are expected to participate.A senior DDA official said on condition of anonymity, “The DDA is committed to providing sufficient time for hearings and for considering the suggestions and objections on MPD-2041. These proceedings will start from October 18 and continue into November. If need be, it will be further extended.”The public hearing, which will be held online this time due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will deliberate on 16 broad issues such as environment, development control norms and heritage, among others, based on the MPD-2041 chapters.In the environment section, DDA officials said suggestions are largely related to protecting the Yamuna riverfront and ensuring adequate green spaces in residential localities.Many have expressed concern over city roads getting flooded during monsoon and suggested a proper GIS framework for drainage networks. The DDA official quoted above said, “The new master plan will be GIS based and all services, infrastructure developments, areas and their use will be mapped.”Many also suggested setting up noise monitoring stations in the city.Another pressing concern, especially for resident welfare associations, is the mixed land use (MLU) provision, which allows for commercial activities in residential areas. DDA officials said many have suggested that the provision should be reviewed and future development of mixed land use must be discouraged.Rajiv Kakria, convener of “Save Our City” campaign and a resident of Greater Kailash-1, said, “It (MLU) has destroyed the residential character of neighbourhoods. Today, safety and security have become our main concern due to rampant commercialisation...”As the draft master plan pushes for redevelopment or regeneration of old areas, the land-owning agency has received a lot of comments on revising/relaxing the existing development control norms.Two new policies (transit oriented development and land pooling) for future development of the city, introduced by the DDA in 2007, are in the nascent stages of implementation. The land-owning agency has received suggestions seeking clarification on permissible floor area ratio under both policies.Another key concern is about the successful implementation of the master plan itself. The East Delhi RWA Joint Front said people don’t know how much of the previous master plan (MPD-2021) has been implemented so far.DDA officials said the MPD-2041 has a provision for annual review of its implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-row-dda-promises-more-public-hearings-to-discuss-delhi-master-plan-101634322964873.html
16-10-2021||Dehradun||Back in Congress,Yashpal Arya gets to work. Claims more will exit BJP||DEHRADUN: Former Uttarakhand minister Yashpal Arya, who joined the Congress after his surprise exit from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP, claimed that more leaders from the BJP could leave the party ahead of state elections early next year, saying his homecoming was akin to the BJP returning the principal amount and it was yet to pay back the “interest” on the loan.“My son and my return to the Congress is just the return of the principal sum. I want to tell the BJP that the interest on this capital is yet to come,” he said, claiming that there were “many other BJP leaders” who want to come to the Congress.The BJP promptly rubbished his claim, saying he was going to be the only one to leave the party and was driven by personal interest. ”No other party member would leave the party. We will unitedly contest the upcoming elections,” said state BJP president Madan Kaushik.In the Congress, six-time MLA Yashpal Arya’s claims were interpreted to signal that he was attempting to persuade some other BJP leaders to quit and party and team with the Congress, particularly those who quit the Congress in 2016 and 2017 when the BJP was in the opposition and Harish Rawat the chief minister of the hill state.Arya said he switched parties because he was feeling “suffocated” in the BJP. “One doesn’t have any freedom to express his view or opinion there. Hence, I decided to return to the Congress for which I am grateful to the party leadership for welcoming me to the party fold,” said Arya at a news conference at his house in Haldwani.He continued: “Many other BJP MLAs, who are unhappy with the party leadership, want to join Congress. Soon, they will join the party and expose BJP which has an ideology, which is against the poor, Dalits, farmers and women”. A Congress leader said Arya, considered a prominent Dalit face in state politics, was being supported by the faction led by the leader of opposition Pritam Singh. “That faction is keen on welcoming more BJP leaders especially those who had gone there in 2016 episode which brought down Harish Rawat government.”Pritam Singh, however, insisted that there were no active plans on the drawing board to induct more BJP leaders but added that the party’s doors are open for anyone willing to join. He also made it a point to emphasise that this was not anything rare in a democracy; that politicians switched sides.“Let me clear one thing...In democracy there is no party where leaders have not gone out or come in. This happens in democracy...We will welcome anyone willing to come to our side to save democracy which is in danger today. But that will of course happen with the approval of our national leadership- Sonia and Rahul Gandhi,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/back-in-congress-yashpal-arya-gets-to-work-claims-more-will-exit-bjp-101634322901827.html
16-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Jail employee on bike mowed down by speeding vehicle||A jail employee was killed after his bike was hit by a speeding vehicle at Kamalpura Road on Thursday. The driver, Lovepreet Singh of Lakha village, was reportedly inebriated and was handed over to the police by the onlookers.The victim, Harmesh Kumar, 40, of Lamma village, was a head constable at the Ferozepur Central Jail and was on his way home when he met with an accident. He was rushed to the hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The complainant, Surinder Kumar, a grocer, who saw the accident take place, said Lovepreet was speeding and driving on the wrong side of the road. An FIR has been registered under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code at Hathur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jail-employee-killed-as-speeding-vehicle-hits-bike-in-ludhiana-101634322900724.html
16-10-2021||Noida||2 arrested in Noida for impersonating candidate in SSC multi-tasking exam||Police on Thursday arrested a person for allegedly impersonating as a candidate in the staff selection commission (SSC - Multitasking) examination held at a centre in Noida Sector 62. The actual candidate has also been arrested, said officials on Friday.The suspects -- identified as Rahul Raj (24) and Deepak Kumar (23) -- are residents of Bihar’s Bhabhua and Rajasthan’s Alwar, respectively. Raj was appearing on behalf of Deepak, according to the police.Vinod Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector 58 police station, said, “Deepak had registered himself as a candidate, but Rahul was going to appear on his behalf. The two suspects had entered the examination hall with admit cards having the name of Deepak. They had planned that Deepak would give his finger prints and Rahul would appear for the exam on his behalf. But the invigilator spotted them with the same admit card and informed the police,” he said.Police arrested Deepak with his original Aadhaar card, and Rahul was carrying Deepak’s forged Aadhaar card. During interrogation, the two suspects told police that they became friends while studying together in Mukherjee Nagar in Delhi. “Rahul is relatively good in studies and he had promised to clear the exam for ₹1 lakh,” said SHO Kumar.A case has been registered against the duo under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy), and sections 3, 6,9 and 10 of Uttar Pradesh Public Exam (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act, 1998.“The two suspects will be produced before a court, and sent to judicial custody on Saturday,” said SHO Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-arrested-in-noida-for-impersonating-candidate-in-ssc-multi-tasking-exam-101634322720121.html
16-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: 3 of 4 suspects, aide held for harassing woman on Dadri’s GT road||Police on Friday arrested four persons for allegedly harassing a woman on Dadri’s GT road in Greater Noida on Thursday evening, said officials.The suspects were identified as Nitin Kumar (25) -- a resident of Greater Noida’s Piyawali village, and Nishant (24) and Manav (22) (both go by their first names) -- residents of Greater Noida’s Bisada village. The fourth suspect -- Sachin -- is still on the run. Police said that Nitin’s uncle, Monu (40), who is a resident of Dadri, was also arrested for assisting the suspects in escaping.Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer (SHO), Dadri police station, said that a 22-year-old man, his sister (20), and his male friend (23), were travelling from Greater Noida West to Dadri on a motorcycle on Thursday evening. “They were walking towards the nearest petrol pump after the vehicle ran out of fuel on the road. The four suspects, who were travelling in a red Mahindra XUV 300 along that road, allegedly passed lewd remarks at the woman and asked her to get in the car. When the brother-sister duo put up resistance, the three suspects manhandled them,” Tripathi said.The duo raised an alarm and a few locals reached the spot, and vandalised the car the suspects were travelling in. Fearing the crowd, one of the suspects -- Nitin -- immediately called his uncle Monu, who reached the spot in a Mahindra Scorpio, and all of them escaped.Meanwhile, the victims dialled emergency telephone number 112 and a police team reached the spot.A case has been registered against the five suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 354A (sexual harassment) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) at the Dadri police station.“A police team conducted a search in Greater Noida’s Jarcha area and arrested the four suspects from an underpass there on Friday. They will be produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Saturday,” Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-3-of-4-suspects-aide-held-for-harassing-woman-on-dadri-s-gt-road-101634322661377.html
16-10-2021||Noida||Festive mood takes over GB Nagar as Durga Puja, Dussehra celebrations conclude||The nine-day Navratri festival and Durga Puja came to a close on Friday with the celebration of Dussehra, also known as Vijayadashami. In the morning, residents took out processions from Durga Puja pandals to immerse the idols of goddess Durga in artificial ponds or pits created by the authorities, and in the evening, residents burnt effigies of Ravan, his brother Kumbhkaran and son Meghnad to signify the victory of good over evil.At Sector 25’s Jalvayu Vihar Sanskritik Kalyan Samiti Durga Puja, residents held the Sindoor Khela ritual with caution. The ritual involves smearing vermilion or ‘sindoor’ on the idol of goddess Durga and on married women to mark the conclusion of Durga Puja on Vijayadashami.“Only about 20-30 women were allowed to celebrate the ritual at a time. This was followed by a small procession comprising four-five people who took the Durga idol to the artificial water pit in Sector 25 for immersion,” said Jaya De, one of the organisers.The Noida authority created six water pits in sectors 25, 62, 116-117,120,105 and 135 to facilitate idol immersion by Durga Puja committees across the city.“In line with Covid-19 protocols, only about four-five people went to immerse the idol in the artificial water pit created in Sector 105 by the authorities,” said Saugata Dasgupta from Lotus Boulevard Sanskritik Samiti in Sector 100.According to organisers, cooperation from the police ensured the five-day Durga Puja festivities took place smoothly.“Though entry to each Durga Puja pandal was restricted to just 100 people, on the eighth and ninth (ashtami and navami) days, the number of people at the pandal began to increase. However, as soon as the police were alerted of the situation, they started managing the crowd,” said Anupam Banerjee from Noida Kalibari Durga Puja in Sector 26.By evening, as residents started collecting to watch the effigies of Ravana, Kumbhakarna and Meghnad being burned at Ramlila ground in Noida Stadium and in Sector 62, several hundred policemen were deployed on the ground. Authorities said 70-foot-tall effigies of Ravana were erected at both Ramlila grounds.“Almost 400 policemen were deployed in areas around the Ramlila grounds in Noida. This included 15 inspectors, 50 sub-inspectors and 300 constables. Apart from this, one company of Provincial Armed Constabulary, police guards, anti-riot teams and fire services were also on the ground as a precautionary measure,” said Rannvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida.As per a Noida traffic police advisory, vehicular movement was halted on roads leading to the Noida Stadium in Sector 21A.“The first five days of Ramlila saw a footfall of at least 8,000. But on Navami and Dussehra, the footfall crossed 12,000. None of the visitors were allowed to enter the grounds without face masks and hand sanitiser was placed at each entrance,” said TN Chaurasia, president of Shri Sanatan Dharm Ramlila Committee.The spectators, meanwhile, were ecstatic to be celebrating in public after two years. Public celebrations were not allowed last year to curb the spread of Covid-19.“It is refreshing to participate in Dussehra festivities this year,” said Ruchika Rathore, a visitor to the Ramlila organised by Shri Ram Mitra Mandal Noida Ramlila Committee (SRMMC) in Sector 62.The Shri Ramlila Committee in Greater Noida did not organise the nine-day theatrical retelling of Ramayana this year, and, instead, played a three-hour-long Ramlila recording on an LCD screen at the Ramlila grounds in Site-4.“After watching the show, the effigies were set afire. We hope that by next year we are able to defeat Covid-19 and can return to our usual celebrations,” said Vinod Kasana, one of the organisers in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/festive-mood-takes-over-gb-nagar-as-durga-puja-dussehra-celebrations-conclude-101634322660043.html
16-10-2021||Gurugram||Friday prayers amid police cordon again as Gurugram residents continue protest||embers of the Muslim community offered prayers amid heavy police presence, shouting of slogans, and singing of bhajans (religious songs) in Gurugram’s Sector 47 on Friday afternoon, as local residents continued their protest against offering Namaz in open spaces for the fourth consecutive week.The police shifted the site of the Friday prayers around 100 metres from the original designated spot to avoid any confrontation between the protesters and the devotees. But local residents, many of whom were Hindu, said they wanted prayers to completely stop.Around 100 policemen and policewomen were deployed at Sector 47 to prevent the protesters, who were singing bhajans and shouting slogans, from reaching the prayer site. Heated arguments were also witnessed between the police and protesters, who insisted on trying to get to the spot where prayers were being offered. The police also did not allow reporters to reach the prayer site and cordoned off the area.Police said protesters gathered at the parking site around 12.30pm. They started singing bhajans while walking towards the prayer site but were stopped by the police. They also carried placards demanding a ban on namaz in open spaces and shouted slogans against authorities for failing to stop Friday prayers in their sector.Sunil Yadav, president of the Sector 47 residents’ welfare association (RWA), said that they wanted the authorities to stop Friday prayers in their sector as a majority of the devotees did not belong to the area. “We have held a discussion with district administration and suggested sites near Subash Chowk and Marble Market, which have little to no residential population. If the authorities check the identity cards and Aadhaar cards of the people offering prayers in Sector 47, they would not find a single local as all are outsiders,” said Yadav.In 2018, the controversy of holding Friday prayers in public places resulted in a major dispute, after which the police and administration identified 37 sites where Friday prayers were allowed.The RWA president said the list of designated places for Friday prayers, including the Sector 47 site, finalised in 2018 has been submitted to the police. He claimed that the list mentions that the order was meant for a single day.Aman Yadav, ACP, Sadar, Gurugram confirmed that the residents submitted a list of places but its veracity needs to be checked. “In the meeting held earlier, this list was not shared,” he said, adding that the prayers were held under police protection and without any hindrance.The protesters, a majority of whom were local residents, said they were ready to offer the Sector 47 community centre for Friday prayers for the sector residents, but demanded that outsiders not be allowed to pray in public.Members of the Muslim community, meanwhile, said they were being harassed by residents.“The Muslim community is being harassed every Friday in various sectors of Gurugram and this needs to be condemned by politicians across party lines. The administration should not tolerate this kind of discrimination and needs to take strict action against this unlawful protest. The residents have also been instigated by those who want to gain political mileage and are using them as shields,” said Altaf Ahmad, founder member, Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch.District officials however, assured that arrangements would be made for peaceful prayers on Friday. “Discussions are being held and the issue will be resolved soon after meeting both sides,” said a district administration official requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/friday-prayers-offered-in-gurugram-amid-slogans-and-bhajans-101634322540094.html
16-10-2021||Gurugram||NHAI misses 4th deadline to finish underpass near Sirhaul toll in Gurugram||Despite Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari announcing that the underpass at Sirhaul toll plaza near Ambience Mall will be opened on October 15, the project has missed the deadline yet again.Authorities said this is the fourth deadline the project has missed. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had fixed the initial deadlines in September, 2020, July, 2021 and August 15, 2021 for the project. Work on the underpass began on March 5, 2019; however, due to the restrictions in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic in 2019 and the construction ban imposed by the Supreme Court during winter to curb pollution, the project was delayed repeatedly, authorities said.According to officials, some work is still pending and there is a safety audit going on. Now, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) plans to open this underpass at the end of this month, said officials.HT’s visit to the underpass on Friday revealed that while the surface road is almost complete, the electrical infrastructure is still being fixed.Gurugram residents have been demanding the construction of the Sirhaul underpass for a long time, as it will help them avoid driving all the way to Rajokri in Delhi to take a U-turn to get to Ambience Mall and DLF Phase-3.NHAI officials claimed that work on the entire project is almost complete and they are conducting a safety audit, which has delayed the opening of the underpass. “The safety audit is to ensure that the project meets all safety standards and there is no hazard to commuters. The independent auditor will take four days and the authority will also take the same time to finalise the audit. The work is almost complete and the underpass will be opened by the end of the month,” said Saurabh Singhal, NHAI consultant.Last month, union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, while visiting the Mumbai Delhi Expressway, had announced that the underpass will be opened on October 15.NHAI officials said that work was also delayed due to the non-availability of labour during the lockdown period and the festive season. “There are only minor works pending and these will be completed within a week,” a senior official said.The length of the U-turn underpass is 377 metres, while the entire stretch, including access roads, is 1.5km-long — it includes a 559 metre-long and 7 metre-wide service road. The designated speed in this underpass has been set at 40kmph.The width of the underpass is 14 metres and the vertical clearance of the tunnel is 5.5 metres.The 455 metre-long flyover at Shankar Chowk, which is functional, was also built as a part of this project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrams-sirhaul-toll-underpass-nhai-misses-4th-deadline-101634322427310.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools gear up for two-part CBSE Board exams to start next month||A day after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced that the first of a two-part system of board examinations this year will be held in-person, schools across the national capital said they have started gearing up for the new mode of examination scheduled to start next month. There are over 2,100 CBSE-affiliated schools in Delhi. The CBSE — the largest education board in the country in terms of the number of students enrolled and schools affiliated— on Thursday said the full schedule of the Term 1 exams, to be held in November and December, will be announced on October 18. The 90-minute Term 1 examination will have objective type questions while Term 2 examinations, scheduled to take place in March-April, may have subjective or objective type questions, but that and the schedule will depend on the pandemic situation at that time.In order to simplify the schedule, the CBSE has split the Term 1 exam subjects into minor and major subjects, with those classified as minor (mostly electives), being held first. There are nine major subjects for Class 10, and 19 for Class 12. These include core subjects such as mathematics, physics, chemistry, English, and economics, among others.“As major subjects are offered by almost all affiliated schools, exams of these subjects will be conducted after announcing the date sheet as was done earlier. As for minor subjects, the CBSE will make groups of schools offering these subjects and more than one subject exam will be conducted in these schools on the same day,” the board circular said on Thursday.Talking about the revised process, Awadhesh Kumar Jha, head of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Sector 8, Rohini, said arranging the requisite number of question papers will be a challenge.“Getting photocopies of encrypted question papers will be a challenge as our school doesn’t have a fast photocopier machine and these have to be copied within a stipulated time frame. We cannot use commercial stores since the question papers are confidential. Arranging fast photocopier machines, which are expensive, at short notice will be difficult for the school. It will be easier if the board arranged the necessary number of question papers and distributed them through zonal centres,” he said.Principal Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of government principals’ association, said the earlier method of collecting question papers from designated points or banks will be easier.“Starting Term 1 exams with minor subjects is a good move as students will be able to ease into mindset of appearing for the Boards. We are also waiting for clarity on how many students there will be in each school. Since this is the first time that board exams are being held in November, it will be a challenge to maintain continuity of classes for junior students, while conducting board exams simultaneously,” he said.Private schools, however, said managing an increased number of students will be a challenge if classes for junior students are also restarted before board examinations. Malini Narayanan, chairperson of the National Progressive Schools Conference, which has 122 Delhi schools as members, said, “Until now, we only had in-person classes for students of classes 9 to 12, while the remaining are continuing with online study. If schools reopen for classes from nursery to 8, we will feel the strain while conducting the board exams and we would need extra help at that point.”Last month, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had said it would consider allowing schools to resume in-person classes for students of classes 6 to 8 after the festive season.Narayanan also said printing question papers within a stipulated time frame would require more manpower in private schools as well. “As far as academic preparation is concerned, we have started practising with OMR (optical mark recognition) sheets in all our schools so that students have some familiarity with the new mode of examination. The type of questions is also different — more questions will be based on case studies, reasoning, and assertion. So, we have been training our students for that as well,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-gear-up-for-two-part-cbse-board-exams-to-start-next-month-101634321519969.html
16-10-2021||Delhi||North Delhi civic body to offer closed garbage collection sites to RWAs||New Delhi: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation will offer several of its recently shut dhalaos (garbage collection points) to residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), market associations, NGOs and private firms for creating public facilities like mini public libraries, recreation hall for senior citizens and charitable dispensaries. The municipal body has so far closed 246 dhalaos while another 100 points will be shut down before December this year, as per a report submitted by the municipal commissioner. The civic body, however, said closed/abandoned dhalaos located on the RoW (right of way) of roads will be demolished to improve the traffic flow.A senior municipal official stated that a large number of dhalaos are getting vacant due to installation of fixed compactor garbage collection machines to compress solid waste. “Each compactor leads to closure of three-four dhalaos as it can handle much larger volume of municipal solid waste in smaller space,” the official said.Of the 246 dhalaos shut by the civic body, 113 are located in the Rohini zone, 71 in Keshavpuram, 36 in Civil Lines, 10 in Karol Bagh, 9 in City-Sadar Paharganj zone and 7 in Narela. “More than 50% of the dhalaos in the three zones handled by the private concessionaire have been closed down. The new fixed compactor stations have a capacity to handle 15-20 metric tons of garbage,” said the official.North MCD standing committee chairman Jogi Ram Jain said that the policy has been approved by the committee and it is likely to be operationalised in a month. “Earlier, we were planning to use the space from dhalaos closed in prime locations for revenue generation projects but most of those sites are located on PWD roads so it would have led to more legal tussle and delays. We have decided that the spaces will be handed over to RWA and NGOs which plan to use it for non-profit public welfare purposes,” he said.Jain said that the cost of repairing and redeveloping these sites will have to be borne by the allottees. “Projects like charitable dispensaries, subsidised meals, public libraries or senior citizen centres can be undertaken. A few sites which are leading to congestion will be demolished and some will be used to develop office/space for safai karamcharis,” Jain added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhinorth-mcd-to-offer-closed-dhalaos-to-rwas-ngos-for-public-facilities-101634320499973.html
