17-10-2021||Pune||Health department exam: Private firm running recruitment exam claims full verification by state||PUNE The Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL), a private firm contracted by the Maharashtra government to operate its recruitment examination for 6,200 posts of the state health department, is at the centre of a storm, after discrepancies in the exam process have emerged, according to aspirants.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the opposition party at the state level in Maharashtra claims that the company has been black listed in Madhya Pradesh and Punjab. The state health department has rescheduled its recruitment examination for 6,200 posts for October 24 and October 31, after cancelling it in September. BJP leaders have also demanded the resignation of health minister Rajesh Tope. “The minister should immediately resign. If that’s not hapening, the CM should sack him,” said BJP spokesperson Atul Bhatkhalkar.Last month, BJP leader Pravin Darekar made allegations of irregularities over the awarding of the tender to this firm by the state government. “The Government Resolution (GR) is being changed from time to time for awarding tenders to the private companies. There is a scam behind this and it is should be investigated by the CBI, CID or by a retired judge. We had demanded that this recruitment examination be conducted by the MPSC and not by any private company,” said Darekar. Kumar, NCPL MD said, “We have been awarded the tender by the Maharashtra government IT department (MahaIT) and the state health department has given a clarification about giving us the contract. The black listing part in Madhya Pradesh and Punjab was been withdrawal at that time itself, around four years back. We submitted the clarification to the state health department. So the Maharashtra government and all its departments have made a proper verification about our company.” Kumar added, “We are doing our preparations well to conduct an error-free examination, learning lessons from previously scheduled exams. The allegations made against us are not true and we are going through the policy set by the state government.” Student organisations are not impressed. Kuldeep Ambekar, president of the Helping Hand organisation said, “It is simple logic. If there is a company which has bad record in other states, why is our Maharashtra government so keen to bring them here. There are thousands of good IT companies who can take run recruitment examinations smoothly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/health-department-exam-private-firm-running-recruitment-exam-claims-full-verification-by-state-101634495243443.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||VHP gaushala in Prayagraj making idols, diyas of cow dung||In a new initiative, volunteers of Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) have set a target of preparing 10,000 idols of Lord Ganesh and Goddess Lakshmi as well as 25,000 diyas (earthen lamps) for the upcoming Diwali festival using cow dung at a gaushala (cow shelter) run by the organisation in Baharia development block in trans-Ganga area of Prayagraj.VHP regional secretary (gauraksha) Lal Mani Tiwari said it was the first time that VHP’s gaushala would prepare around 25,000 diyas and 10,000 idols of god and goddess at Shri Prem Gaushala Anusandhan Trust located in Nari village under Baharia block. “We have engaged around 33 women workers through three self-help groups (SHGs) for the work. The production has already started,” he added.“These idols and diyas are made from cow dung. After the cow dung is dry, it is added with wood dust and the mixture is then poured into a mould for make an idol or diya from it. These idols and diyas are inexpensive as compared to their clay and ‘Plaster of Paris’ counterparts and also eco-friendly,” said Tiwari.“If this trail initiative is successful, we will take up production of diyas and idols using cow dung at other gaushalas from next year,” he added. Eco-friendly cow dung diyas and idols have been in demand for the past two years in Sangam city with many people embracing them in their effort to celebrate the festival of lights in a greener way.“Now people are ditching earthen lamps and instead are rooting for those made of cow dung as they see it also as a way of empowering cow shelters and local communities,” he claimed.“If the sale of diyas and idols goes as expected, it will help gaushala authorities in better upkeep of rescued cows. The diyas and idols will be made under the supervision of a VHP volunteer,” Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/vhp-gaushala-in-prayagraj-making-idols-diyas-of-cow-dung-101634495183298.html
17-10-2021||Delhi||Free Wi-Fi on all stations on Delhi Metro Yellow Line||Commuters will now be able to access free high-speed internet at all the Metro stations on the Yellow Line (connecting Huda City Centre and Samaypur Badli), the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in a statement on Sunday. “This service, coinciding with the start of festival season, is launched on the Yellow Line, which has 37 Metro stations and runs mostly underground through one of the most congested parts of Delhi — covering outer and north Delhi through central and south Delhi and finally Gurugram. More than 330 access points have been installed at these 37 stations to provide uninterrupted internet access to commuters,” the DMRC said in a statement. They added, “This high-speed free Wi-Fi service will especially prove to be a boon to students travelling to and from the north campus of the Delhi University.” The DMRC said it is also working with a technology consortium to introduce the free WiFi facility inside trains. Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications) of the DMRC said that the facility is already operational in the network’s Blue Line (connecting Dwarka Sector 21 and Noida Electronic City/Vaishali) and the Airport Express Line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-wi-fi-on-all-stations-on-delhi-metro-yellow-line-101634495003362.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three booked for threatening minister’s son in Malerkotla||The Amargarh police booked three persons for allegedly threatening Aquil Akhtar, son of cabinet minister Razia Sultana under the IT Act and various Sections of the Indian Penal Code on Saturday. The case was registered following a complaint by Akhtar in which he alleged that he got threatening calls from three mobile numbers.According to the first information report, Akhar said he received threat calls on October 16 when he was in the company of his sister and wife.“This happened at around 2pm and I sent the recordings to the officer concerned. The language used was vulgar and threatening,” the FIR read.A case under Sections 67 (punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) and 67-A (punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act, etc., in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act and 294 and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Amargarh police station.Despite repeated attempts, Malerkotla SSP Ravjot Grewal could not be contacted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-booked-for-threatening-minister-s-son-in-malerkotla-101634494343008.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 27 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||Punjab on Sunday reported 27 fresh Covid cases, taking the count to 6,02,035, according to a medical bulletin. One Covid-related fatality was reported in Fazilka district, taking death toll to 16,544, the bulletin said. The state’s positivity rate was 0.12%. Among the fresh cases, seven were reported in Mohali, four each in Ludhiana and Patiala and two in Faridkot, it said. The number of active cases was 227. With 17 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 585,264, the bulletin said. A total of 22,890 tests were conducted on Sunday and 19,499 vaccine doses were administered on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-27-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101634494043575.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Decision on entry to Maharashtra malls, trains for those with one Covid vaccine shot after Diwali: Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday that the state government will consult the Covid-19 task force and senior officials after Diwali in order to discuss the possibilities of permitting people with only one dose vaccine entry into shopping malls and also trains.He told news agency PTI that people of the state were facing hardships owing to the current norm of the 12-16 weeks’ gap between two shots of Covid-19 vaccines. Tope, however, pointed out that a final decision on this matter will only be made by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.The Maharashtra health minister also acknowledged that coronavirus infections were witnessing a downward trend in the state.The state had in August allowed the reopening of shopping malls and extended timings of eateries and restaurants till 10pm with 50 per cent capacity. However, the government had specified that only those, including the staff of these places, who are fully vaccinated will be permitted entry.The Mumbai suburban trains were also reopened for the general public from August 15, with Thackeray announcing that it can only be availed of by those who have been jabbed with both doses. Furthermore, there also needs to be a gap of 15 days between the day of travel and the administration of the second dose of coronavirus vaccine.Notably, Maharashtra on Sunday reported 1,715 fresh Covid-19 cases, which took the cumulative tally in the state to 6,591,697. Although the state reported as many as 29 new fatalities, its capital Mumbai recorded zero deaths due to the virus for the first time since the start of the pandemic in March 2020, according to data by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).However, the Maharashtra figures are a marginal deterioration from Saturday’s when 1,553 fresh cases were recorded and 26 new deaths were logged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/decision-on-entry-of-partially-vaccinated-people-to-mumbai-trains-after-diwali-tope-101634493216858.html
17-10-2021||Other||Punjab’s hydel power generation also falls due to low water level in Bhakra||Chandigarh With coal shortage already causing a power crisis in Punjab, there has also been a fall in power generation at the state’s hydel power generating plants, particularly on the Bhakra. Against the total installed capacity of 1,379 megawatts in 10 power houses on both right and left banks, eight power plants of 1,110 megawatts are in working order. One powerhouse on each bank has been shut down leading to a daily loss in power generation of 265 megawatts. Low water level in the reservoir after the end of its dam filling season on September 20 is a cause of concern for the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB). Deficient rain this monsoon in the catchment of Bhakra dam reservoir is said to the reason. As per data from the board on Saturday, the level was 1,648 feet, at least 37 feet lower than the maximum filling level of 1,685 feet. To date, the targeted hydel power generation was 2,870 Million Units (MUs), as fixed by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), but only 2,521 MUs (88%) has been generated. If compared to the situation when all power houses are operated, the shutdown is leading to a daily shortfall of 63 lakh units from total generation capacity of 330 lakh units. The BBMB that manages the Bhakra Dam and other hydel generating units is under pressure from the state governments of Punjab and Haryana and the centre for generating maximum power possible, as it offers the cheapest rate of ₹1.4 per unit, which is calculated on the basis of operation and maintenance cost of the dam system. Owing to power shortage, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has purchased power from outside the state at ₹12 a unit. Now, however, due to a fall in temperature, power demand has crashed and rates have also come down to between ₹4 and ₹5 per unit. Coal supplies are also expected to resume in the upcoming week. “We are trying to generate the maximum power, but at BBMB regulating the flow of water for drinking and irrigation purposes is important, power generation is a consequence,” said a director level officer, who manages operations at the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC). According to director, generation, PSPCL Paramjit Singh the state corporation is pushing for more power from the hydel generating units. “They (BBMB) have increased generation but there is a scope for more,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabs-hydel-power-generation-also-falls-due-to-low-water-level-in-bhakra-101634493624746.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Stubble burning: Kejriwal blames Punjab, UP Haryana for pollution in Delhi||As Delhi’s air quality plunged into the “very poor” category on Sunday morning, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that increase in pollution was due to stubble burning in neighbouring states as governments were “doing nothing” to help farmers to stop it.He appealed to the governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to understand their responsibilities towards reducing stubble burning and controlling pollution. “For the past one month, I have been tweeting data of air quality in Delhi. Pollution has increased in the last 3-4 days and it is due to stubble burning in neighbouring states. Farmers in neighbouring states are compelled to burn stubble as their governments are doing nothing for them (towards stopping stubble burning),” Kejriwal said in an event organised to lay the foundation stone of a 1,430 bed new government hospital in Shalimar Bagh. Later in a statement, the government said that “Red Light On, Gadi Off” campaign will begin in the city from Monday for one month.The CM said the national capital has two kinds pollution, one is its internal pollution that emanates from vehicles, dust, while the other one is because of stubble burning in neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Kejriwal said the Delhi government is doing every bit from anti-dust campaign to spraying of bio-decomposer liquid in fields to controlling inbound pollution, but the neighbouring states were yet to act.“To stop stubble burning in Delhi, we sprayed bio-decomposer solution in fields. Farmers don’t need to burn stubble after spraying it. Why can’t state governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh spray this liquid?” Kejriwal asked.“I request governments of neighbouring states to understand their responsibilities (towards stopping stubble burning) and help their farmers responsibly,” he said.At 2 pm on Sunday, the AQI in Delhi was 339, which is in the “very poor” category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Earlier in the day, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai also reiterated similar concerns and said that air quality in the city was deteriorating because of increasing incidents of stubble burning in neighbouring states.He also appealed for a responsible approach from governments of these states.Rai said that it was a normal trend that as the incidents of stubble burning in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh increase, the air quality starts deteriorating in the city. He said that the AQI was 171 on October 13 but as the incidents of stubble burning increased in neighbouring states, the AQI started getting worse and it was 284 on Sunday.According to NASA pictures, the number of stubble burning incidents that day was low but within the last three days, incidents of stubble burning have increased with great speed in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, he said.“This has been a normal trend. We have appealed to neighbouring states to control incidents of stubble burning but to no avail. We have started spraying of bio-decomposer in fields as an alternative to stubble burning the similar should be done by neighbouring states.“We need a responsible approach from (neighbouring) states in reducing the number of stubble burning. They should make arrangements to spray bio-decomposer in their states so that pollution can be controlled,” Rai said.He said that the central government has given about ₹250 crore to Punjab for the stubble management, with which bio-decomposer can be sprayed free of cost in 50 lakh acres of land.Rai said that to control the city’s internal pollution, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government was taking a number of measures, including spraying of a bio-decomposer solution in fields and also cracking down on violators.“We have started anti-dust campaign and are taking action against violators. From Monday, we will also launch ‘Red Light On, Gadi Off’ campaign to reduce vehicular pollution. “As a long term solution, we are promoting electric vehicle policy and working of tree plantation issues. We have also shut coal operating Badarpur plan to reduce pollution,” the environment minister said.He also said that awareness campaigns such as appealing to public to stop use of private vehicle at least for one day are also being started. Later in a statement, Rai said that wherever there are mountains of garbage, excavation work is being done on a permanent basis, which is causing dust pollution. “We will not hesitate in taking even the toughest step if required. Will take every step that is needed to reduce pollution in Delhi,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stubble-burning-kejriwal-blames-punjab-up-haryana-for-pollution-in-delhi-101634493623292.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Price rise to juice up income of Punjab’s kinnow growers||BATHINDAPunjab’s “king fruit” kinnow is giving hope of a handsome return to farmers even as its production is likely to dip this year by more than 50% as compared to the 2020-21 season. Traders have started finalising advanced deals for up to ₹25 per kg, an increase of over 100% over last year’s average price of up to ₹11 per kg. The reason for this price appreciation of the citrus fruit, to be harvested in second week of December, is attributed to lesser yield this season, say experts.The South is the biggest market for Punjab’s kinnow and the region plays a vital role in deciding the pricing, say orchardists.Punjab leads in the cultivation of kinnow, a hybrid between king and willow leaf mandarin. Abohar produces 60% of the state’s fruit with 33,000 hectares under its cultivation. Last season, Abohar produced 8 lakh metric tonnes of kinnow.A grower from Gidderanwali in Fazilka district, Pardeep Dawra, said farmers were paid ₹10-12/kg for bulk orders in 2020-21. “In the last two seasons, kinnow production was exceptionally high. But climatic conditions in March this year were non-conducive for trees at the flowering stage as the temperature was high. This time, the average yield was expected to be hit but higher rates will compensate farmers,” he added.Kinnow trader and grower Surinder Charaya said the fruit has a major market in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Gujarat.“Market rates of kinnow may escalate further as it depends on crop of orange, kinnow’s competitive citrus fruit. We are looking for the railways to facilitate kinnow producers a cheaper transport alternative to different markets of the country,” said Charaya.Ambala divisional railway manager GB Singh said a team has been deputed to finalise negotiations with the kinnow producers.“We have surplus freight trains to customise requirement for fruits. Railways has proposed to transport kinnow to Bengaluru and other southern states and West Bengal for export to Bangladesh,” he added.But a section of growers is apprehensive about the intervention of the railways.“A truck takes five days to reach the main destination in Bengaluru or WB from Abohar whereas freight trains may hit these destinations on the second day. But mass transportation may lead to a glut and crash in rates in markets,” said orchardist Arvind Setia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/price-rise-to-juice-up-income-of-punjab-s-kinnow-growers-101634493444029.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||2 killed, 3 injured in incident of lightning strike in UP’s Bahraich||Two people were killed and three others sustained serious injuries when they were hit by lightning here on Sunday, police said.The incident occurred in Behrha village under Khairighat area of the district, they said.SHO of Khairighat Police Station Rajkumar Singh said some villagers were grazing cattle when it started raining. They took shelter under a mango tree and were struck by lightning.The five injured were taken to a health centre where Santosh Kumar (45) and Chandan (30) were declared dead by the doctors, he said.The other three were referred to Bahraich Medical College, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2-killed-3-injured-in-incident-of-lightning-strike-in-up-s-bahraich-101634490331977.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||Deepotsav to dazzle with 9 lakh diyas in Ayodhya, 45 lakh more across Uttar Pradesh||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said his government would ensure nine lakh diyas (earthen lamps) were lit in Ayodhya during Deepotsav along with an additional 45 lakh of them across Uttar Pradesh in as many homes of beneficiaries of the BJP government’s schemes. The Deepotsav function is held on the Diwali eve which falls on November 3 this year.There are an estimated nine lakh beneficiaries of PM’s and CM’s Awas Yojanas (housing schemes) in urban parts of Uttar Pradesh (UP) and Adityanath said on Sunday that his government would light one diyas for each of them during the Deepotsav. “While these nine lakh earthen lamps (diyas) would represent the housewarming ceremonies of as many people in urban Uttar Pradesh, the government would also light earthen lamps at the houses of 45 lakh people across the state who have got a house,” Adityanath told members of the Prajapati community for whose benefit a Maati Kala Board was also set up by the BJP government. The move comes 12 days after the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Lucknow where he expressed the wish to see that along with Ayodhya, the homes of the beneficiaries of government schemes also shine bright with lights emanating from earthen lamps prepared by local potters. Adityanath also appealed to the people to buy locally made clay idols of Lakshmi and Ganesh on Diwali.The government push for clay ahead of Diwali is being seen part of a major outreach towards the Other Backward Caste (OBC) Prajapati community comprising potters. On October 5, during his visit to Lucknow, PM Modi had tasked the UP government with a “homework and a challenge”. “I am told that UP government plans to light up 7.5 lakh diyas in Ayodhya during this year’s Deepotsav. I want to task you with homework. Can we also see as much brightness emanating from the homes of those who got their new house under the PM or CM Awas Yojana? Will you accept this challenge?” Modi had said. “Through Maati Kala Board we managed to ignite fresh hope among the potters. We organised exhibitions of their products in Lucknow and elsewhere across the state too and it was quite successful,” said minister of state Dharamvir Prajapati who headed the board till recently. He was appointed as one of the seven new ministers in the Yogi Adityanath government last month. Prajapati said that Adityanath’s appeal to the people to buy Lakshmi and Ganesh idols prepared by local potters and to light up earthen lamps would also help the community. “A similar appeal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi was made a couple of years back. That helped a lot. Now, this appeal by chief minister Yogi Adityanath would also benefit in a big way. Moreover, the entire exercise is also part of the exercise to boost local products and to stop mindless reliance on China which had been hitting the local potters by flooding the market with not-so-quality goods,” Prajapati said.Since 2017, the Adityanath government has been holding the Deepotsav function in Ayodhya, beginning with 51,000 earthen lamps in the inaugural year to 4, 10, 000 diyas in 2019 and 6, 06, 569 lamps in 2020 – setting newer Guinness world records.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/deepotsav-to-dazzle-with-9-lakh-earthen-lamps-in-ayodhya-45-lakh-more-across-uttar-pradesh-101634490142978.html
17-10-2021||Other||Singhu lynching barbaric, says Sukhbir||Amritsar Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday termed the recent lynching of a Tarn Taran man at the Sindhu border of Delhi as a barbaric act that had no place in a civilised society. He also questioned Punjab chief minister Charanajit Singh Channi’s decision to allow the Border Security Force (BSF) to extend its jurisdiction in the state. “Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi should come clean and tell Punjabis why did he acquiesced to extending the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) to cover nearly half of the state during his meeting with union home minister Amit Shah,” Sukhbir told reporters after paying obeisance at Bhagwan Valmiki Tirath Sthal. “Punjabis expect decisive action from you to defeat the conspiracy to establish central rule over Punjab through this decision which is also against the principles of federalism as well as the very ethos of democracy,” he claimed.He also targeted the Congress party for going in for symbolism alone in appointing a Scheduled Caste leader as the chief minister. “The leader should have intent to work and the Congress should allow him to work,” he added. Addressing a gathering, Sukhbir added that once the SAD-BSP government was formed in the state it would establish a University in the memory of Bhagwan Valmiki in the Doaba region. He said this University would be in addition to the one which would be established to commemorate the memory of Dr BR Ambedkar.Earlier in the day, SAD senior leader Bikram Singh Majithia slammed Navjot Singh Sidhu for his abusive language and unwarranted interference in state government affairs. He said instead of trying to befool people, both Sidhu and the CM needed to focus on how they will fulfil plethora of promises that they their party had made to the people in 2017, as almost all of these remained unmet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/singhu-lynching-barbaric-says-sukhbir-101634488942567.html
17-10-2021||Dehradun||After IMD warning, Uttarakhand CM appeals to halt Char Dham yatra for next 3 days||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday directed the authorities concerned to remain on alert and appealed to people so that they do not undertake the Char Dham Yatra amid warnings of heavy to very heavy rainfall in the state from October 17-19. His directions came after the Dehradun Centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an orange alert for Sunday forecasting heavy to very heavy rain in isolated places in the hilly areas of Uttarakhand along with moderate thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and hail. For October 18, it had issued a red alert with a forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall at many places and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places in Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Rudraprayag, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Almora, Nainital, Champawat, Dehradun, Tehri and Pauri Garhwal districts. It also predicted moderate to severe thunderstorms with lightning and hail. The IMD has also issued a red alert with a forecast of heavy to very heavy rain in Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Rudraprayag, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Nainital and Champawat districts. Amid the weather warnings, CM Dhami on Sunday spoke to chief secretary SS Sandhu on the steps being taken by the administration regarding the IMD warning and directed the police, state disaster response force (SDRF) and other agencies concerned to be on alert. “The agencies should be prepared to respond to any emergency arising out of the weather change. Response time should be less as much as possible with immediate relief for the affected people,” said Dhami. He also directed the authorities to specially focus on the Char Dham Yatra route. “Special care should be taken of the Char Dham pilgrims. I appeal to the pilgrims not to take the pilgrimage in the next two days as the route is expected to witness extremely heavy rain, especially in the hilly areas. On Sunday morning, there were about 16,000 pilgrims at Kedarnath shrine. I spoke to the Rudraprayag district magistrate to quickly enable the pilgrims to offer their prayers and leave the shrine for their lodgings due to heavy rain,” he said. The CM will later hold a meeting with the minister of disaster management Dhan Singh Rawat and other officials concerned on the preparations of the agencies to handle any emergency situation on October 18 and 19. The state police has appealed to the pilgrims of Char Dham Yatra to stay put where they are at present. “I appeal to the people to not travel in the hilly areas and stay where they are due to warning of heavy rainfall. Also, travelling in the hills is not safe as they often witness landslides and flash floods during heavy rain,” said Inspector General Amit Sinha who is the chief spokesperson of police headquarters. Earlier on Sunday morning, director general of police, Uttarakhand, Ashok Kumar visited the Kedarnath shrine during which he briefed the police personnel deployed there to ensure proper security arrangements and help the pilgrims in any emergency situation. SDRF Commandant Navneet Singh also directed all 29 teams across the state to be on high alert. “We have put out 29 SDRF teams based across the state to be on high alert so as to respond to any emergency situation. The SDRF control room has also been asked to be on high alert,” said Singh. Schools to remain closed in Nainital and Almora district Nainital and Almora district administrations have issued an order for the closure of schools on Monday in their respective districts due to heavy rain forecast. The Champawat district police have also issued an advisory to commuters to avoid travelling from Sunday to Tuesday as rough weather may cause landslides on roads especially on the national highway from Tanakpur to Pithoragarh. It has advised to travel only if it is “urgent”, otherwise avoid travelling on the national highway. The pilgrimage to the Purnagiri shrine in the district has also been banned till October 19 due to the weather warning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/after-imd-warning-uttarakhand-cm-appeals-to-halt-char-dham-yatra-for-next-3-days-101634487982595.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri: Investigators reviewing 147 videos for clues||The police team investigating the Tikunia violence in Lakhimpur Kheri has received over 147 videos of the incident and the footage is being reviewed by a dedicated team of investigators for further clues, officials said. The videos pertain to the chain of events at Tikunia on October 3 leading to an SUV ramming into peaceful protestors and the violence afterwards. Most of these videos were sent by eyewitnesses on the cell phone number issued by the police.The incident led to the death of eight people, including four farmers and a journalist. Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra is the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident. He is currently in judicial custody.A senior member of the team of investigators, who asked not to be named, said, “The videos received are being checked for their veracity before being used as clues to bridge the sequence of events that resulted in the violence. The entire process is being done in a very scientific manner.”The investigating team is also conducting raids to arrest key witness Sumit Jaiswal, who was believed to be in the SUV leading a convoy of three vehicles that rammed into the protestors. Jaiswal failed to appear before the police team despite being summoned.The other accused in the case Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti and Latif alias Kaale were sent to judicial custody after their police custody remand ended on Sunday. The investigators recovered a pistol registered in the name of Ankita Das and a repeater gun registered in the name of his gunner Latif from the residence of Ankit Das in Lucknow.Senior police officials camping at in Lakhimpur Kheri are in touch with senior farm leaders regarding the pan-India protest announced by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Monday. Additional director general (officiating) SN Sabat and inspector general (IG), Lucknow, Lakshmi Singh, along with 10 other Indian Police Service (IPS) officers, are camping in the district. “We are in touch with farm leaders. We have urged them to keep their protest symbolic, keeping in mind that the law and order situation in district is not disturbed,” Singh said.Besides Lakhimpur, senior police officials are posted in several districts of west UP to maintain law and order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-investigators-reviewing-147-videos-for-clues-101634487622659.html
17-10-2021||Patna||J&K killings: Bihar CM holds telephonic conversation with LG, expresses concern||Terming the killing of two labourers from Bihar and gunshot injury to another labourer in a terrorist attack at Anantnag in Jammu and Kashmir as unfortunate and sad, Bihar chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Sunday had a telephonic conversation with Lieutenant Governor of J&K Manoj Sinha about the attack. According to a press release issued by the Information and Public Relations Department, the Bihar CM expressed deep concern over the killings of natives of Bihar in the valley during his talk with the LG, J&K. The release said the CM is shocked by the incident and termed it as “very saddening”. The CM also announced a compensation of ₹2 lakh each to the families of two deceased in the attack, Raja Krishidev and Yogendra Rishidev. The CM has also directed the officials to extend benefits to the next of kin of the two deceased from schemes of social welfare and labour resources department, as per rule. The CM also prayed for the early recovery of the health of the injured victim in the attack Chunchun Rishidev.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jk-killings-bihar-cm-holds-telephonic-conversation-with-lg-expresses-concern-101634487022355.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Covid: Mission “Kavach Kundal” extended till October 31 in Pune||PUNE Although mission “Kavach Kundal” aimed to vaccinate the entire eligible population in the district with a first dose, and 75% of beneficiaries with a second dose by October 14, the target have not been met.District collector Rajesh Deshmukh on Sunday issued an order to health officers in the district to continue the mission till October 31. The collector has also stated that blocks including Haveli, Daund, Bhor, Indapur and Baramati have been able to vaccinate only 60-70% of its eligible population with the first dose, while the district average is above 90%. Although mission Kavach Kundal was launched by the central ministry and so the supply of vaccines remains smooth, the administration has not been able to meet its target. The collector also noted that healthcare workers, frontline workers and those above the age of 60 years have not yet been fully vaccinated. This despite the fact that the vaccination drive for these groups began in the month of January. Deshmukh said, “We aim to complete 100% first dose vaccination of all eligible beneficiaries and then atleast 75% complete vaccination. We will prioritise women beneficiaries for both shots. In villages which have seen a poor response to the vaccination drive, we will conduct special awareness programmes to dispel vaccine hesitancy. We will ensure that after October 31, no one in Pune district will remain devoid of vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-mission-kavach-kundal-extended-till-october-31-in-pune-101634486842409.html
17-10-2021||Patna||Bihar goes whole hog on Covid vaccination, 3 mega camps before Chhath||Beginning Monday, Bihar will hold three vaccination mega camps to administer Covid jabs to as many adults as possible before Chhath, a major Hindu festival celebrated in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand, in which devotees propitiate the Sun God. The other two mega camps are scheduled for October 28 and November 7, said the executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, Sanjay Kumar Singh, also the nodal officer for vaccination in the state. The four-day Chhath puja begins with “Nahaye Khaye” on November 8 this year. The state health department doesn’t want to slacken either its vaccination or testing tempo during the festival months of October and November. Bihar has set a target to vaccinate most of its 7.34 crore adult target population by December 31. Anticipating the fact that people would throng puja pandals during Dussehra, celebrated after a gap of two years after the pandemic in 2020, the state health department converted it into an opportunity to vaccinate those who flocked to puja pandals. A reasonable 17% (144,876 doses) of the state’s 854,979 Covid shots between October 11 and 15 were administered at puja pandals. The state health department had tasked district magistrates and civil surgeons to set up special vaccination camps at major puja pandals in their respective districts. With 9,321 jabs, Muzaffarpur topped the districts in terms of doses administered at puja pandals during the five-day period. East Champaran (9,055 doses) and Gopalganj (8,272) came second and third, respectively. State capital Patna was sixth, having administered 7,530 doses, which was 10.55% of the 71,323 doses administered in the district during that period. Sheikhpura topped in terms of coverage percentage, having administered 52.66% of its 2,772 doses at puja pandals during the five-day period. Bhojpur came next, with 43.05% of the district’s 18,895 doses administered at pandals. East Champaran’s performance was good both in terms of the number of vaccination doses administered to beneficiaries and coverage percentage (37.45%) at puja pandals during Dussehra. Jamui, with 1,070 doses administered at puja pandals against the district’s 12,402 shots to beneficiaries during Dussehra, Banka (1,007/12,056 doses), Jehanabad (944/13,914), Kishanganj (923/6,012) and Sheohar (179/3,396) were among the five most laggard districts. Bihar’s reported 495 new Covid cases during the Chhath festival on November 20 last year, when the state tally of active cases was 5,603. The situation is better this year. The state did not report any new Covid-19 case during the last 24 hours on Saturday. The count of active cases had also come down to 43, as per the state Covid-19 bulletin released on Saturday. “We want to keep up the tempo and vaccinate the maximum number of the target population while also simultaneously testing as many people as possible to ward off the threat of Covid-19. Though the situation is better, we do not want to lower our guards. We will have three mega vaccination camps before Chhath and will try to vaccinate as many people as possible before the festival,” said Singh. As on Saturday, the state’s first dose vaccination achievement was 65% while that of Patna was 76%. Its second dose achievement against the first dose is 30% against Patna’s 60%. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had on Saturday directed officials to test those coming from outside the state either by road or train during the festival season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-goes-whole-hog-on-covid-vaccination-3-mega-camps-before-chhath-101634486663741.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Covid: Three blocks in rural Pune account for 50% active cases||While the number of new Covid-19 cases continues to fall, 50% of the active cases reported are from the three blocks of rural Pune alone. Around 37 of the 73 hotspots demarcated by the district administration to contain the spread of the virus are from these three blocks alone, with 15 in Ambegaon, 10 in Haveli, and 12 in Junnar. As of Saturday, rural Pune accounted for 57% of the total 2,468 active cases reported in the district with Manchar village in Ambegaon reporting the highest number of active cases (80); followed by Wagholi in Haveli (71); Otur in Junnar (44); Awsari Khurd in Ambegaon (43); and Mandavgan Farata in Shirur (38). Villages with more than 10 active Covid-19 cases have been listed as hotspots by the district administration.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the Pune zilla parishad, said, “Although the number of new Covid-19 cases is falling and as a result, commercial activities are reopening, more people are interacting and we have to demarcate these villages as hotspots because the number of active Covid-19 cases is more than 10 and so, we are limiting the movement of people in these villages as they are hotspots so that there is a break in the chain of infection. However, we must also note that we have hundreds of villages under the Pune zilla parishad that have absolutely zero active Covid-19 cases and are absolutely free of the infection currently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-three-blocks-in-rural-pune-account-for-50-active-cases-101634486662293.html
17-10-2021||Patna||Woman dies at IGIMS||A model, who was allegedly shot at on October 12 in Basant Colony under Rajiv Nagar police station, succumbed to her injuries during treatment at IGIMS on Sunday morning, said SHO of Rajivnagar police station Saroj Kumar. During the investigation, it came to light that the victim, identified as Arti Devi, was in a relationship with one Rajiv Kumar. Police seized a liquor bottle from his home in a raid and sent him to jail. He is also a suspect in Arti’s murder, the SHO said. An FIR was lodged with Rajivnagar police station on the statement of Arti’s husband Suman Kumar against unidentified criminals..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/woman-dies-at-igims-101634486482357.html
17-10-2021||Patna||IIT-P introduces 3 new B.Tech courses||The Indian Institute of Technology, Patna (IIT-P) is set to introduce three new courses under the four-year B.Tech programme for the academic session beginning 2021, said institute officials on Sunday. Admission to these courses will be held through JEE-Advanced 2021, results of which have already been announced on October 15.The new courses are Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, Engineering Physics, and Bachelor of Science in Mathematics and Computing.According to the institute, the new programmes have been launched to meet the rising demand for new age technology and professionals from these fields.Professor in-charge of public relations, Rajendra Paramanik, said, “The institution has allotted 36 seats for admission in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science, 36 for Engineering Physics, and 48 for BS in Mathematics and Computing.”With the addition of these courses, the institute has increased its intake capacity to 547 from last year’s 427 seats, Pramanik said, adding that an additional 10% supernumerary seats are reserved for foreign candidates.Elaborating on the details of the newly launched courses, the university officials said that Data Science and Artificial Intelligence discipline teaches handling huge data volume. On the other hand, Engineering Physics course is a blend of engineering, physics and mathematics, while Mathematics and Computing Discipline is designed by combining mathematical and analytical components. These new programmes will give students abundant internships and job opportunities across the country and abroad as well, officials claimed.IIT-P already offers B.Tech programme in various disciplines, including computer science and engineering, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, chemical engineering, civil engineering and metallurgical and materials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/iitp-introduces-3-new-b-tech-courses-101634486362338.html
17-10-2021||Patna||Tejashwi kicks off RJD’s campaign from Tarapur||The opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) kicked off its campaigning from Tarapur constituency in Munger district for the forthcoming by-elections with party leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav addressing several street corner meetings and small rallies on Sunday.The by-elections are scheduled to begin October 30 for Kushweshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats.The RJD has fielded Arun Kumar as its candidate from Tarapur seat , that has become a multi-cornered fight with the Congress and the ruling Janata Dal(United) also fielding their nominees. Sunday’s rallies saw Tejashwi asking voters to extend their support to the RJD, besides the leader of opposition slamming the Nitish Kumar government for its alleged failures on several fronts such as employment, development and checking corruption. Several prominent leaders, including former MPs Alok Kumar Mehta and Jai Prakash Yadav, accompanied Tejashwi during the rally. According to party sources, Tejashwi will be camping at the constituency for next few days before leaving for Kushweshwar Asthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-kicks-off-rjd-s-campaign-from-tarapur-101634486303834.html
17-10-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: Cong sets up panel to coordinate campaigning||The Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) has set up a seven-member panel to ensure smooth coordination among the party’s star campaigners for Kuesheshwar Asthan and Tarapur by-elections, scheduled for October 30.The panel, led by former Youth Congress president Kumar Ashish, was constituted a day after RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav threw his support to Congress nominee Atirek Kumar, who is contesting from Kusheshwar Asthan assembly seat in Darbhanga.BPCC chief spokesman Rajesh Rathore said that the committee had already taken up the work to coordinate with the grassroots-level workers to the state leaders for the campaigning ahead of the much-talked visit of former JNUSU leader Kanhaiya Kumar on October 22. “Mrinal Anamay, Neeraj Yadav, Rajesh Kumar, Rajiv Sinha, Kamal Kumar Kamlesh and Gyan Ranjan are committee members,” said Rathore.The Congress party received a shot in the arm in the midst of campaigning for the by-elections as Tej Pratap Yadav announced his decision to campaign for the Congress’s nominee in fray for Kusheshwar Asthan, much to the discomfiture of his younger brother and opposition leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav.Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) working president Ashok Kumar, whose son Atirek Kumar is contesting Kusheshwar Asthan seat as the Congress nominee, said it was a great gesture to strengthen the secular forces that Tej Pratap would campaign for Atirek. “Tej Pratap had talked to Atirek and chalked out his tour programme,” said Ashok Kumar.Atirek is seeking election from Kushshwar Asthan, which remained a stronghold of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) since 1995. The Congress had won the seat last in 1985. In 1995, Raj Kumar Mahaseth, who represented the constituency as an Independent in 1990, won it for the Janata Dal. However, it’s been in the kitty of either the BJP or the JD(U) since 2000. JD(U) has bet on Aman Bhushan Hazari, while the RJD pins hope on Arun Kumar to wrest it for the party.Tej Pratap’s decision to support the Congress candidate might be seen as an embarrassment to his younger brother and opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav, who had unilaterally announced that the RJD would contest both Kusheswhwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats. The Congress resented the RJD’s decision as a ‘breach of coalition dharma’ and decided to contest both the seats.The Congress was planning to contest only one seat, Kusheshwar Ashthan, which was allotted to it under seat adjustment among the Grand Alliance (GA) in 2020 elections, and leave the other for the RJD. It has fielded Rajesh Mishra from Tarapur against the Janata Dal (United) candidate Rajiv Kumar Singh and RJD’s Arun Kumar Sah.BPCC president Madan Mohan Jha and party MLC Prem Chandra Mishra kicked off the party’s campaigning in Kusheshwar Asthan by paying their obeisance to the ditties at the famous local temple. Citing huge public support during the party’s meeting, Mishra claimed that the Congress was sure to win both seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-cong-sets-up-panel-to-coordinate-campaigning-101634486302349.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||12-year-old boy drowns in weir at Shahapur in Thane||A 12-year-old boy drowned in a weir at Shahapur taluka in Thane district on Saturday after he had been to the spot to wash his bicycle. Villagers claimed that the sand mafia had excavated sand from the area, which created a deep pit. Owing to this, the boy fell deep inside the water and was unable to come out.Shahapur police are investigating the incident. The victim, Rohit Gulave, was a resident of Kasara Vithhalwadi area of Shahapur. He used to visit a small part of the dam area near Moghavane village which is 2km away from his residence. On Saturday evening, he and his friends went to wash their bicycles and then stepped into water for a swim. Gulave got into the water from a different side and slipped deep inside. It is unclear why he was unable to see the surface of the water. His friends and the locals began a search for him.An officer from Shahapur police station said, “Some villagers and divers fished out the boy’s body on Sunday morning. We have registered an accidental death case and are investigating about the villagers’ claim on sand mafia.”A Moghavane village resident Shyam Dhumal said, “The weir is small but the sand mafia has ruined it so much. Now we can see deep underwater pits but the child didn’t understand [the depth] and drowned. Our children are regular visitors and now the weir poses a danger to their lives. We all went to Shahapur police station and submitted a complaint letter to them, stating details of the sand mafia’s activities and urged them to take action immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/12yearold-boy-drowns-in-weir-at-shahapur-in-thane-101634486002325.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||‘New aviation policy to give fillip to export of aircraft maintenance services by 2025’||In its bid to encourage air service operators to carry out aircraft maintenance activities within the country, the Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) in September announced a new policy, which includes leasing of land through open tenders and abolishing royalty charged by the Airport Authority of India (AAI) for the Maintenance Repair and Overhaul (MRO) business. Besides, as per the policy announced by civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia, land allotment for entities setting up MRO facilities will be for a period of 30 years from the current three to five years as the government aims to make India a “global MRO hub.” Industry experts said the new policy will not only aid in the growth of domestic aviation industry but could also spur export of MRO services outside India, especially in South-East Asia. At present, air service operators send their aircraft for maintenance to foreign countries – mainly to the Middle East and the South-East Asian region – as it is less expensive than the domestic market. Available market reports peg the Indian MRO industry (excluding defence) to be worth USD 2 billion annually, with domestic players barely handling 16% of the total business. The remaining 85% or almost USD 1.7 billion, especially in the area of components and engines, is currently done abroad. Early last year, the Centre reduced the goods and services tax (GST) rate on aircraft repair and maintenance work to 5% from 18% and announced that it will lease out airports’ land to repair units at discounted rates to attract investment and boost growth. “AAI is trying to facilitate the development of MRO industry in the country, in line with MoCA’s positive steps to stimulate the industry through National Civil Aviation Policy 2016 and in-sync with the prime minister’s campaign of creating an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” an AAI spokesperson said. The spokesperson added that tenders for setting up of MRO facilities at five AAI-run airports –Chennai, Begumpet, Chandigarh, Bhopal and Juhu – are in the “final stages”. Within MRO services, there are four main segments – airframe maintenance, engine maintenance, components maintenance and daily and weekly checks (termed as line maintenance). Of these, engines and airframes account for about 50%-55% of the work by value, with engine and component airframe maintenance the most lucrative business within the segment. Anand Bhaskar, managing director and chief executive officer at Air Works Group, which runs an independent MRO unit with facilities across locations, said the policy initiatives will boost investment in MRO sector and will also support the expected growth of the domestic aviation industry. Air works is the country’s largest private provider of line maintenance services (across 21 international airports) to foreign airlines flying into India. As per the Oliver Wyman report released early this year, India’s air fleet is expected to grow more than double by 2030 and see significant growth in its MRO market. “With the country’s aviation industry on a growth trajectory, it makes ample sense to capitalise this precious opportunity and expand the country’s aviation maintenance capabilities for greater self-reliance, job creation and to scale up the value chain, instead of just concentrating on airframes, which most Indian MROs currently do,” added Bhaskar. Just prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, the now-privatised Air India’s engineering arm, Air India Engineering Services Ltd (AIESL), had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Pratt & Whitney to launch a joint engine MRO facility in Mumbai. At present, the airframe MROs in India caters to overseas customers owing to the requisite infrastructure. “MRO industry will have to invest substantially in infrastructure to meet the challenges of fleet growth in both commercial and business aviation. With the new policy going to be implemented, we are looking to close these gaps over the next couple of years and ramp up to meet the demand of South Asia initially,” president of MRO Association of India and chairman of Max AeroSpace and Aviation Bharat Malkani said, adding that MRO Association expects exports of these services to take off by 2025 from India, attaining a value of USD 5 billion. Delhi-based infrastructure group GMR, which runs an MRO facility from Shamshabad airport in Hyderabad, said reduction in GST rates has reduced the cost of MRO services within India for domestic airlines, and the new MRO policy will help strengthen domestic business and boost investment. Industry experts believe that while overseas business is indeed attractive, Bhaskar said, “It is important that India also takes appropriate steps, not necessarily similar, to strengthen its indigenous aviation maintenance industry, on which all aircraft – regardless of type (commercial/business/defence) – depend.” With the number of aircraft to be inducted into the fleet of Indian air operators expected to be twice its current strength over the next few years, Bhaskar estimated that the domestic MRO industry could well grow at a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 10% or more, for the next few years. “In order to make India an MRO hub, the focus is required on creating infrastructure and building technology for engines, landing gears and major components maintenance. Presently, most engines, landing gears and components are being sent out of the country for maintenance,” a GMR spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-aviation-policy-to-give-fillip-to-export-of-aircraft-maintenance-services-by-2025-101634485942617.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath launches ₹611 crore projects for Shravasti, Bahraich in Uttar Pradesh||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of projects worth ₹611 crore for Shravasti and Bahraich districts of Uttar Pradesh through the virtual medium on Sunday.The projects include 87 worth over ₹390 crore for Shravasti and 144 worth ₹221 crore for Bahraich.Yogi Adityanath was scheduled to visit the two districts on Sunday but the helicopter could not land due to inclement weather conditions and returned to Lucknow. Later, Yogi Adityanath addressed people of both Shravasti and Bahraich through the virtual medium.Stating that both the districts have historical importance, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister said Shravasti is a holy place for Buddhists while Bahraich is associated with the sage Balark and also witnessed the valour of Maharaja Suheldev.It is said that Lord Buddha spent most of the ‘chaturmas’ (a holy period of four months) in Shravasti.The people in the country as well across the world look at Shravasti with immense faith, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister said, adding that it is the focal point of the four districts of the Devipatan division. The division has three aspirational districts including Shravasti. The government has made a concrete action plan for the development of these districts, Yogi Adityanath said.The Uttar Pradesh government has launched several projects to give a thrust to tourism in Shravasti and the construction of a new airport is progressing rapidly, he said.He said Bahraich has a special significance from the point of view of spirituality and culture, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the construction of a memorial at the historic victory site of Maharaja Suheldev.This memorial will emerge as a new tourist centre, adding to the pride and dignity of people of Bahraich, he said.The Prime Minister has given the mantra of “sabka saath, sabka vikas” for the development of the country and the state, the chief minister said, adding that the central and state governments were working to improve the life of every citizen without any discrimination.Under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana scheme, 42 lakh poor families have been provided houses in the state, he said. In Bahraich, housing has been provided to 1,36,105 beneficiaries under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Rural), 8,462 under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) and 2,049 beneficiaries under Mukhyamantri Awas Yojana, he said.Under the Swachh Bharat Mission, 4,85,384 individual toilets have been constructed in Bahraich. Similarly, 1,036 community toilets have been also built in the district, he said. These toilets have become an important means of protecting women’s dignity along with realising the vision that each citizen remains healthy, Yogi Adityanath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-launches-611-crore-projects-for-shravasti-bahraich-in-uttar-pradesh-101634485822130.html
17-10-2021||Pune||State’s health department exam in sick bay over scheduling issues||PUNE: The state government has embarrassed itself once again, with several students complaining about multiple centres across different cities having been allocated for the same paper (subject) on the same day for the Maharashtra public health department exam scheduled on October 24 and 31.This time too, the government has outsourced the conduct of the exam to Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL) which was blamed earlier as well for the fiasco wherein the government had to cancel the exam at the eleventh hour due to lack of preparation in filling up over 6,200 vacant posts in the state health department.Sandeep Godane, an aspirant, is facing the dilemma of having to appear for examinations for two different posts on the same day but in different districts. He had applied for group C posts of ‘telephone operator’ and ‘junior clerk’ with the state health department. While he has been allotted Kolhapur district for one examination, he has to give the other examination in Satara district, with both examinations scheduled on October 24.“I had applied for two different posts as I was eligible for them and have been preparing for the examination. But I was shocked after receiving my admit card. For one of the posts, I have got the exam centre in Kolhapur while for the other, I have got Satara district. How can I appear for two separate examinations to be held on the same day in different districts! This is complete mismanagement on the part of the state government and the agency appointed for conducting these exams,” said Godane. Godane is not alone for there are a total 8 lakh job aspirants who have applied for various posts with the public health department under groups C and D.Kamlakar Shete, student and vice-president of Yuvak Kranti Dal organisation, Pune city, said, “There are hundreds of students who are facing various types of issues related to hall tickets, addresses, examination centres and others for the recruitment exams. This has already happened last month and students had to pay the price for it as exams were cancelled at the last moment. Rather, the state government should have cancelled the company’s contract and given it to another company instead to carry out the examination this time.”Rohit Pawar, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator and grand-nephew of Sharad Pawar, hit out at Nyasa Communication saying that such agencies should stop playing with the future of aspirants. “The aspirants work hard while their parents, too, spend a lot of money on them. However, firms conducting the exams play with the future of these aspirants. This is not fair. It’s time exams are conducted through the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC),” Rohit Pawar said in a series of tweets.A Congress leader on condition of anonymity criticised the way the exam is being conducted amid several issues. “When the firm cancelled the exam at the last moment, the government should have replaced it with any other competitive agency. It seems the people in the establishment did not learn their lesson,” he said.However, Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL), refuted all such allegations saying that there are no issues with the exam centres.Puneet Kumar, managing director of NCPL, said, “Our arrangements for the scheduled examination on October 24 and 31 are going on well and we are trying to ensure zero error in the exercise. We have started issuing hall tickets to students as per the policy set by the state health department. About complaints coming from aspirants that they have been given different centres for the posts they have applied for, it is all as per the post and district circle where that student has applied.” If a student based in Pune has applied for a post in Akola district, he or she will be given an examination centre located in Akola district, he explained. “There are some people unnecessarily creating confusion and the students are getting worried,” said Kumar.Asked why the company had not learned its lesson from the previous experience, Mr Kumar said, “This time, we have taken extra care of all the arrangements and preparations. Accordingly, each and every examination centre has gone through an audit, not only by us but also by state health department officials. In each district, officials have checked the examination centre and its arrangements. We have then upgraded our call centre and increased its strength to 50. Our technical team is also working round the clock to make the entire online process of issuing hall tickets and other things errorless.”Health department response Meanwhile, Dr Archana Patil, director of the state health services department, said, “We have 52 cadres and eight different mandals under the department and if we conduct the examination for each cadre separately, this issue might get solved. But it is not possible and all the instructions related to this specific examination were given on the website clearly since the beginning. Applicants have applied for several posts in different districts and so, they have been given centres in that specific district. Still, we are trying to allocate the same examination centre for the posts applicants have applied for within the same division or district.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/states-health-department-exam-in-sick-bay-over-scheduling-issues-101634485704888.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Contract killings replaced by ‘govt killings’ to end opponents, Shiv Sena slams Centre||Attacking the Centre over the action by probe agencies against members of the ruling coalition Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), the Shiv Sena on Sunday said that contract killings have now been replaced by “government killings” to finish off political rivals.Party’s Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut in his weekly column ‘RokhThok’ listed down the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) action against Nawab Malik’s son-in-law and the Income Tax (I-T) department’s raid against deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and his relatives. “Use people’s money, government machinery to remove political opponents... Once upon a time, contract killings were prevalent in Mumbai. Hitmen were hired on contract to kill rivals. Now government killings have replaced contract killings. It appears that the central agencies are engaged in contract killings for party in power in Delhi. The policy now is to finish off unwanted political opponents by using the central agencies,” Raut wrote in his column in Sena mouthpiece Saamana.“The drama to defame Maharashtra is going on by falsely levelling allegations of corruption. The objective of these raids is to harass people and get them to bend down. But Maharashtra will not bow down, and that has been made clear by right from [CM Uddhav] Thackeray to [Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar],” wrote Raut.The Sena leader further slammed the Centre, stating that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was raiding homes of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh five times instead of finding the whereabouts of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Singh had accused Deshmukh of corruption when he was serving as the state home minister.“Singh had levelled allegations on paper and then fled. Find him. Singh alleged that Deshmukh asked police officers to collect ₹100 crore, and since then, right from CBI to ED (Enforcement Directorate) have been politically active with a sense of duty. But where is the police officer who levelled the allegations?” questioned Raut.He also targeted the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM Cares Fund) and asked why no questions were raised on it.Raut said the current Central government has made a “mess” of the democracy in the country. “Who is engaging in corruption, and who are the raids carried out on? This is a really important question. Nobody is ready to make the details of PM Cares Fund public. It is said that this fund is not a government fund but a private one. Funds worth crores of rupees are collected in PM’s name,” he wrote.Meanwhile, Sena’s ally Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), responding to former chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis’ remarks that if the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government had misused the probe agencies then half of the state cabinet would have been inside jail, said that the Opposition leader must not make such threats. “We dare them to put the entire state cabinet in jail. The Maharashtra government will not be scared by such threats. The central agencies were misused to harass the West Bengal [government] but people responded to BJP [in the Assembly polls] accordingly. In Maharashtra, too, people are watching and will give them [BJP] a befitting reply,” Malik said. He was referring to the West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress’ (TMC) thumping win against BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/contract-killings-replaced-by-govt-killings-to-end-opponents-shiv-sena-slams-centre-101634485703369.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Reopen closed extortion case against two constables, railway court orders||The railway court on Friday rejected the summary report filed by the government railway police (GRP) officers and asked them to represent the case against two constables who were accused of extorting money from outstation train passengers at Tilak Nagar railway station.According to the metropolitan magistrate court, there was sufficient evidence in the case to try the constables for extortion and assaulting the complainant Ajay Bose on February 22, 2017.According to the complainant Bose, who worked as a booking clerk in railways at Tilak Nagar railway station, he had witnessed two constables from Wadala GRP Pravin Patil and Sunit Chauhan, who were on duty at the exit gate, extorting money from passengers by checking their luggage, claiming security procedures and demanding money after spotting any flammable substance, even the hair oil or gutkha etc. Bose began recording a video on his mobile phone but was spotted by the constables and was assaulted by three people including the constables.The accused then deleted the video on his phone. The complainant registered a first information report (FIR) against the two constables under section 384 of the Indian Penal Code for extortion.The investigating officer and assistant commissioner of police Machindra Chauhan had then filed a summary report in front of the court after he found no evidence to book the accused.Bose followed the case and recovered the CCTV recordings of the spot showing the two men and the complainant recording the video. With the help of forensics, Bose also recovered the deleted video of 30 seconds showing the accused making enquiries with the passengers.The court observed that a prima face case was established against the accused for extortion, voluntarily causing hurt and destruction of evidence along with common intention. The court then ordered the rejection of the summary report filed by the assistant commissioner of police and asked the police to represent the case in front of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaireopen-closed-extortion-case-against-two-constables-railway-court-orders-101634485522651.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Dusserah, Navratri vehicle sales down this year as compared to 2020||PUNE Vehicle sales during the festival of Dusserah this year have been lower than 2020, as per data on new vehcles registered released by the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO).The decrease is seen both the car and the two- wheeler segment during the the nine-day Navratri period, traditionally an auspicious time for customers to invest in a new vehicle. Despite this, the total revenue generated by the RTO from new vehicle registrations has increased in 2021 by ₹1.5 crore+. Last year, a total of 6,454 new vehicles were registered during the Navratri period, for a total revenue of ₹31,97,78,668. Whereas this year, new vehicle registration has gone down to 4,330 in total, but revenue increased to ₹33,53,06,175.In the car segment last year, a total of 2,338 cars were registered and this year it droped to 1,249. “There is considerable drop in the sale of cars during the Navratri period compared to last year. Also two-wheeler registration has decreased,” said regional transport officer Ajit Shinde. Last year 3,794 new two-wheelers were registered, which went down to 2,684 this year. “There are two reasons for the drop in two-wheeler sales this year. Colleges are closed youths so parents didn’t buy vehicles this year. Another reason is as majority of workers use motorcycles to travel to their work place, they are not in town,” added Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dusserah-navratri-vehicle-sales-down-this-year-as-compared-to-2020-101634485343324.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Mess in recruitment exams of Maharashtra health department, say candidates; state denies claims||A week ahead of the examinations to fill the 2,739 vacant Class C category posts of the state public health department, as many as 2,869 candidates have complained of issues such as allotment of examinations centres in different districts, their photograph or signature on admission card (hall ticket) not matching, among other things. The health department, however, said that the candidates, who have applied for posts in various divisions, will get centres as per the division in which they applied. This means if a candidate applies for a job in Akola division, the candidate’s examination centre will be in Akola district.The state has received 405,163 applications to fill up 2,739 posts for which the examination is scheduled for October 24. The department started getting complaints from candidates after the hall tickets were distributed online on October 15.In an embarrassment for the state government, these examinations were postponed at the eleventh hour on September 24 after the firm, Nyasa Communication Pvt Ltd was unable to finish the preparations in time. The exams were scheduled for September 25 and 26. The recent complaints from candidates can cause further embarrassment to the government due to the aggrieved reactions.Nitesh Dadmal, a candidate from Chandrapur district, applied for two posts — a junior clerk in Akola, and a telephone operator in Thane. “I had chosen Nagpur as the centre for the examinations. But I was allotted a centre at Thane and another at Karanja, Washim for the exam on the same day. I am not financially well-off enough to travel to Thane for the examination,” Dadmal said. He claimed that when he applied for the same posts for the examination in September he was allotted a centre in Nagpur.Another candidate, Aditya Dinesh Wasawey, in a tweet said, he sought centres at Nagpur, Yavatmal, Akola, but got his centre in Ahmednagar. Wasawey, according to the hall tickets, had applied for two posts, junior clerk in Akola and chemical assistant, application for which was made to the office of deputy director of health services in Pune. He has received a centre at Yavatmal for the junior clerk position in Akola. While he received the centre at Nevasa in Ahmednagar. Dadmal added, “We expect the government to provide centres for which we applied and don’t create this confusion.”Responding to the issue of examination centres the state health department said that the candidates are expected to apply for a job in the district where they wish to work. Officials said if this condition is not kept then candidates, if appointed, will not resume work, or will seek transfer to their home district, such issues will adversely impact tribal areas. With regards to issues related to the photograph and signatures, the candidates have been advised to contact the firm Nyasa which will resolve the issue.“The applications of each candidate are examined individually, and examination centres are allotted based on the division of the appointment officer for the post. For instance, if a candidate applies for a post in the Akola division, the candidate would get an examination centre in Akola. The candidates are expected to appear for examination in the division they wish to work,” stated a state health department statement.It further said, “If we do not keep this condition then applicants will apply for posts elsewhere in the state. If appointed, then they might not join work or might not work after resuming work or seek a transfer from day one of the job. If this happens, the tribal areas will bear the bad consequences of this.”The department clarified that some candidates have made multiple applications for a post in multiple divisions. If exams are held for each of them it will take 1.5 to 2 years for this selection process to complete. “When candidates apply for a post they are unsure of which one they have liking or aptitude towards. Considering the probability of getting the job, they make multiple applications to different divisions, for different posts. And till the last moment, they are undecided as to which exam they would appear for.“The health department allows multiple applications, but they will only be considered for a post that they appeared for in the examination. These rules are noted in the advertisement, the guidelines and the notification. Still, candidates insist on being given the opportunity to appear for all the examinations,” said a statement from the health department, shared by Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, health.Dr Archana Patil, director of health services, said, “There are news reports in the media that there is a lot of mess and confusion in the recruitment process. These examinations are conducted as per the rules and nothing has been done to create confusion.”Rohit Pawar, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator and grand-nephew of party chief Sharad Pawar tweeted that the government must resolve the issue as many people would have to skip one examination. “Many will have to skip one exam as there are examination centres in different districts for two exams on the same day. The government should immediately instruct the company conducting the examination to solve the related problem and start the help centre and relocate the examination centre as per the convenience of the examinees (sic),” said Pawar, in a tweet on Sunday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mess-in-recruitment-exams-of-maharashtra-health-department-say-candidates-state-denies-claims-101634485342244.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai University releases SOPs for degree colleges set to resume on October 20||Three days ahead of reopening of classes for degree-college students, the University of Mumbai (MU) on Sunday released a standard operating procedure (SOP) for its affiliated colleges. While some colleges are ready to open their gates to students on October 20, others will hold internal meetings with their staff and management to discuss modalities and finer details. According to SOP, institutes that do not fall under any containment zone can reopen and only fully vaccinated students will be allowed to attend college. The university’s circular stated that colleges should give students an option for online as well as offline sessions. Institutes should possess Covid-19 vaccination certificates of every student and staff attending physical sessions. A six-to-eight feet gap between the lecturer and first benchers should be maintained. Last week, the state government had announced that colleges in the state can reopen on October 20, and individual universities in the state should take a final call and prepare a detailed SOP. Laying down rules to be followed at the entry gate and within the institute, the SOP has also listed measures that need to be taken if a Covid-19 case is detected. Every institute needs to have a medical practitioner available at all times. Any symptomatic person spotted should be isolated, and the nearest medical facility and concerned authorities should be informed in case a positive case come to the fore. Institutes need to ensure staggered timings for various streams or courses to avoid crowding at entry and exit points. Any shops, stalls or cafeterias inside or within the vicinity of campus should remain closed. Regular sanitisation of common surfaces and office spaces needs to be undertaken. These SOPs were released after a detailed meeting between college heads and vice chancellor at the university premises. TA Shiware, speaking for the management of Wilson College, said, “Initially, we will only call students for practicals. We have created a cluster of ten colleges in the vicinity and are conducting a vaccination drive during the weekend for students. However, there continues to be a big gap between two doses for certain vaccines. Hence, it will take time for all students to be able to attend college.” Shiware is also the chairman of Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges. Principals and college managements said they are yet to take a call on the reopening protocols. “The SOP was released on a Sunday. We need to discuss the same with the college management and staff before we take a final call. Moreover, Diwali vacations are due. So, we need to plan accordingly,” said a principal from a suburban college. Hemlata Bagla, principal, KC College, Churchgate, said, “We will first have a meeting with the staff on October 20 and discuss students from which stream or programme should be given priority based on the university SOP. We will also release an SOP that needs to be followed within our institute.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-releases-sops-for-degree-colleges-set-to-resume-on-october-20-101634485282549.html
17-10-2021||Pune||31-year-old in custody for killing his mother||PUNE A 31-year-old man has been remanded to the custody of the Pune police on Sunday for killing his mother after she allegedly refused to fund his drinking habit.The deceased woman has been identified as Vimal Dattopanth Kulte (60), and the arrested man is Sachin Kulthe (31), both residents of a society on Abhinavcollege road, Narhe, according to he police. Kulte has a drinking habit and worked as a replacement, part-time driver. He has studied till Class 12. He has a wife and a son both of whom live away from him due to his drinking, according to the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the man’s 44-year-old sister whom he informed about their mother’s death, but did not reveal how she had died.“He had already killed the mother and she was in their house in a bed. He went to his sister’s house and told her that their mother had passed away. They both rushed to his house and on the way he told her that they should not inform anyone and take her directly to a crematorium. The woman went upstairs and the man remained downstairs. When he realised that the woman was insisting on informing the police, he fled from downstairs,” saidassistant inspector PB Kanse of Sinhagad road police station who is investigating the case.The man’s father had passed away a few years ago and had left a plot of land and some money for the mother, according to police. “He used to beat her up when she did not have the money,” said API Kanse.The police took the body to Sassoon hospital for a post mortem and the doctors told the police that the woman had been injured with rods, sharp weapons as well as fists and kicks.“She died of multiple injuries. He apparently used his kada, a knife from the kitchen and a wooden stick to beat her and caused these injuries, including head injuries, which later led to her death,” said API Kanse.A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at Sinhgad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/31yearold-in-custody-for-killing-his-mother-101634485222163.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports zero Covid-19 deaths on Sunday||Mumbai reported zero deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday, October 17, the first time – according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data – since March 26, 2020. The state health department, whose daily figures vary from BMC’s on account of a reconciliation process, last recorded a zero-deaths day on February 22, 2021. On Sunday, Mumbai recorded 366 new Covid-19 cases, taking the city’s tally to 751,659, while the death toll remains unchanged at 16,180. The metropolis has reported 727,084 recoveries so far, a recovery rate of 96%. The city’s case fatality rate (the number of deaths per 100 positive cases) is 2.15% and there are 5,902 active cases. To be sure, Mumbai has been reporting fewer than 10 deaths per day for over two months. The last time Mumbai recorded deaths in double digits was August 1, with 10 deaths. Suresh Kakani, BMC’s additional municipal commissioner said, “The difference (between BMC and state data) may be due to the reconciliation process. Updates are made to the state data after verification. This may cause the BMC and state numbers to vary a bit. The major reason behind zero deaths in the city is due to vaccination and other reasons such as early detection and treatment.” Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal tweeted, “Mumbai recorded zero Covid deaths (for the first time) after March 26, 2020. This is great news for all of us in Mumbai. As municipal commissioner, I salute Team BMC for their spectacular performance. Let us all keep the mask on our face and let every citizen of Mumbai get vaccinated if some of us have not yet. I appeal to everyone to help us keep Mumbai safe.” According to BMC officials, though, the next one month up to November 20 will be crucial to keep Covid under control, and for the city to not witness a likely spike after festivals such as Navratri and Diwali, and after the reopening of schools, religious places, cinema halls and auditoriums. One official said that despite the Ganpati festival, the reopening of local trains, and the Navratri celebrations, there has been no spike yet. “However, the impact of Navratri and Diwali will be only known by November 20,” the official said. BMC allowed reopening of shops on all days up to 10 pm in the first week of August, followed by the reopening of local trains for fully vaccinated citizens on August 15. Further, in September it allowed Ganesh festival celebrations for citizens following Covid-appropriate norms and restrictions. The city allowed schools to reopen for Grades 8 to 12 to reopen on October 4, with religious places allowed to start functioning from October 7. This week, the BMC is also expected to allow reopening of colleges, cinema halls and live-entertainment auditoriums in the city. However, the BMC anticipates that even if a third wave hits the city, it will be milder than the second wave when Mumbai reported around 10,000 cases a day. Kakani said, “The period till December 31 is crucial, but we will observe it in phases. In the first phase, the impact of spread due to festivals and relaxations will be known by November 20. In the second phase, there will be New Year and Christmas celebrations which will have to be monitored, too. There is a possibility of international passengers arriving in Mumbai as many have long leave during Christmas and New Year. If there are more social gatherings during this period, it may result in a spike.” According to BMC officials, however, the chances of a spike will have to be viewed in tandem with the city’s vaccination status. The city has 9.2 million eligible adults, of which around 97% have received their first dose and 55% are fully vaccinated. By the end of October, the BMC aims to vaccinate every eligible citizen with the first dose. Civic officials pointed out that with so many festive days ahead, testing and vaccination may reduce as people may not visit a lab or a hospital for either, unless it is completely unavoidable. Until Saturday, 13,435,419 vaccine doses had been administered in the city of which 4,833,869 citizens were fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-zero-covid-19-deaths-on-sunday-101634484986833.html
17-10-2021||Pune||45-year old man in custody for sexual assault on 11-year old daughter||PUNE: A 45-year-old man has been remanded to custody in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Sunday for sexual assault and repeated molestation of his 11-year-old daughter, whom he allegedly later threatened to kill.The arrested man is a 45-year-old resident of Wakad gaonthan area and lives with two children, including the survivor, and his wife.“He is her biological father. The girl has described things and we have got his custody for five days. The mother has lodged a complaint,” said sub-inspector SG Goday of Wakad police station, who is investigating the case.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the minor’s mother who had confronted the man, who in-turn threatened to kill her, according to the complainant.The series of events came to light after the girl complained of misconduct by the accused on Thursday morning att around 8pm. The girl refused to comply with the accused man’s alleged demands after which he beat her up, according to the complainant. When the complainant asked about the wounds, the girl revealed what had happened. Upon being prodded further, the girl revealed that the man had touched her inappropriately before as well. The girl also allegedly revealed that six months ago, the man claimed to be checking if she had grown up and sexually assaulted her under the guise, according to the police.A case was registered under Sections 376, 376(AB), 376(2)(f), and 354(b)(b) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Sections 3, 4, 5(n), 6, 7, 8, 9(l)(n) and 10 of Protection of children from sexual offence (Pocso) Act has been registered at Wakad police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/45year-old-man-in-custody-for-sexual-assault-on-11-year-old-daughter-101634484862189.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Forest department advisory puts Mohmmadwai, Sinhgad fort on leopard alert||PUNE The Pune Forest Department, on Sunday, has issued an advisory for citizens accessing the forest areas around Sinhgad fort and Mohammadwadi in particular.The advisory asks all persons to ensure they are out of the forest areas before sunset at the latest.This comes after repeated reports of leopards being spotted in the areas.Sudhir Khirid a villager from Gorhe Budruk claimed that he had seen a leopard near the Tanaji Malsure garden late on Saturday evening. Khiri claimed that he was returning from the fort with his two children on a two-wheeler when he saw the animal. He immediately informed the officials at the check post.Pradip Sankpal, range forest officer of the Bhamburda range forest said, “We will check for pugmarks. As a safety measure, we are requesting tourists to avoid returning late from the fort.”A month ago, it was reported that a leopard was spotted in the Ambi area, 15km to 20 km away from the fort, the range forest officer stated.Mohammadwadi residents have been on alert ever since the report of a leopard on the outskirts of the area bordering the reserved forest was lodged with the forest department. Forest officer Mahesh Sanas said, “We have sounded an alert and requested walkers to stay away from isolated spots in the forest. People have been advised to keep their house lights on during the night and for walkers to play music on their phones while taking a stroll in the forest,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/forest-department-advisory-puts-mohmmadwai-sinhgad-fort-on-leopard-alert-101634484502136.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Visibility clears, Shirdi airport resumes operations||PUNE: Shirdi airport, which was facing a problem of low visibility since October 12, will once again resume operations from Sunday.Deepak Kapoor, vice chairman and managing director of the Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC), which manages operations at Shirdi airport, tweeted, “Shirdi airport functioning to full capacity now, with no low visibility or weather disturbances. All Indigo and SpiceJet flights are on schedule.”On Saturday, Kapoor had tweeted, “Low visibility issues are affecting flight operations at Shirdi airport. We are in touch with the IMD and various airlines. The situation will improve soon.”While Shirdi airport resumed operations on October 10, there was low visibility from October 12 due to which flyers faced a lot of problems.A passenger, Akash K, on October 14 tweeted, “Flyspicejet cancelled flight SG547 to Shirdi. Not helping send passengers, giving reasons of Pune airport and Shirdi airport not functioning. How do we travel? Unfair to customers!”Another passenger tweeted, “Poor planning again. Today’s (October 13) flyspicejet Chennai to Shirdi flight has been cancelled abruptly even after issuing boarding passes to 183 passengers. Knowing about inclement weather at Shirdi, the airline should have taken an early call and not at the last moment.”A majority of Chennai-based devotees who had planned to visit Shirdi Sai Baba for the first time since the shrine resumed operations faced a lot of problems. The flights were diverted to either Nashik or Mumbai and even cancelled on one occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/visibility-clears-shirdi-airport-resumes-operations-101634484262198.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 395 new Covid cases, four deaths||According to state health department data, Pune district reported 395 new Covid cases and four deaths due to the infection on Sunday. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million out of which 1.12 million have recovered, 19,887 deaths reported and 8,039 are active cases.Pune rural reported 237 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 363,375 and the death toll stood at 6,855 as three more deaths were reported on the day.Pune city reported 106 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 519,615 and the death toll stood at 9,184 as one new death was reported.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 52 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 267,860 and the toll stood at 3,499.The district, meanwhile, saw 15,894 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-Win dashboard and in total 11,500,263. Out of which 7,569,055 are first doses and 3,931,208 are second doses. A total of 266 sites saw vaccination out of which 136 were government centres and 130 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-395-new-covid-cases-four-deaths-101634483962309.html
17-10-2021||Other||{2015 sacrilege cases} DGP forms new special team to trace three dera members; withdraws order||Faridkot A day after forming a four-member team for a ‘special operation’ in connection with the sacrilege cases, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota has withdrawn his order. Sources said the new team was to be tasked with tracing ‘three absconding members’ of the Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda’s national committee, who are accused in sacrilege cases of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015.The decision (to form a new team) had caused consternation among officers as it was being seen as an attempt to undermine the power of the special investigation team (SIT), led by IG Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, that was already probing sacrilege cases.  The three absconding members of the dera’s national committee — Pardeep Kler, Harsh Dhuri and Sandeep Breta — remain untraced, after they were named as accused in 2018 in the Moga sacrilege case. They were nominated as accused in the Bargari sacrilege case earlier this by the SIT-led by IG Parmar. The SIT claims that the instructions to execute sacrilege at Bargari, Moga and Gurusar were given by the three to the district dera committee members. The trio was purportedly in direct contact with the sect headquarters for hatching the conspiracy. In the absence of the ‘linking evidence,’ the SIT has not gone for the questioning of dera Sirsa head Gurmeet Ram Rahim. After the retirement of IG Ranbir Singh Khatra in April, IG Parmar had recommended the name of DIG Bhullar to be nominated as a member of the SIT probing the sacrilege cases. However, no new member has been appointed even after six months.In May, the Parmar-led SIT had arrested six dera followers in connection with two sacrilege cases wherein torn pages of a ‘bir’ (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib was found scattered at Bargari on October 12, 2015, and derogatory posters were pasted at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village on September 25, 2015. In July, the SIT filed a charge-sheet against the accused. A supplementary charge-sheet in the case of theft of a ‘bir’ from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village is pending.PATIALA RANGE LAW AND ORDER REVIEWEDPatiala The state DGP, Sahota, also meet SSPs falling in Patiala Range to review the policing and law and order situation in this territory. Patiala IG Mukhwinder Singh Chhina was also present in the meeting. With assembly elections to be held next year, the DGP asked the SSPs to adopt a zero tolerance policy against the smuggling of drugs. He told the force that chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had ordered that unscrupulous or corrupt police officers were not to be spared. He added district police heads were to dispose of the pending cases at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2015-sacrilege-cases-dgp-forms-4-member-team-to-trace-three-absconding-dera-followers-101634483182003.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav attacks BJP over Nitin Agarwal filing nomination for deputy speaker post||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party over SP MLA Nitin Agarwal filing his nomination for the deputy speaker’s post in the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly with the support of the ruling party.“Which party does the candidate put up by the BJP belong to?” he asked.Nitin Agarwal was a minister of state in SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s government. He, along with his father Naresh Agarwal, joined the BJP in 2018. The SP’s petition seeking Nitin Agarwal’s disqualification was rejected recently and he, technically, continues to be an SP MLA even after joining the BJP.“What can be expected of a government which inaugurates already inaugurated projects, and lays the foundation stone of the projects, for which the foundation stone has already been laid?” the SP chief asked.Akhilesh Yadav also said the BJP government “has no work to do except changing names (of places or the projects of the previous government).”In a play on words, he said, “Uttar Pradesh needs a ‘yogya’ (competent) government and not a Yogi government.” The Samajwadi Party chief was speaking at a press conference at the party headquarters in Lucknow soon after former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) state president RS Kushwaha and former MP Kadir Rana joined the SP.Akhilesh Yadav reiterated his party’s demand for a caste census. When the Congress was in power at the Centre, Netaji (Mulayam Singh Yadav), RJD (Rashtriya Janata Dal) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav and Sharad Yadav had demanded that a caste census be done, he said.The Samajwadi Party chief also attacked the BJP government over the rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG.“At a number of places, the price of petrol has crossed ₹100 per litre, and the public is forced to buy everything at a higher price. The prices of diesel and LPG cylinders have also increased. Do they have an answer to this?” he asked.The Samajwadi Party chief, who has claimed that his party will win 400 seats in the 2022 UP assembly elections, said: “It has been heard that the BJP is going to deny tickets to its 150 MLAs. In the past, 100 MLAs protested in the state assembly against chief minister Yogi Adityanath. We already have 50 MLAs. So, the calculation is simple. We have crossed 300 seats already.”(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-attacks-bjp-over-nitin-agarwal-filing-nomination-for-deputy-speaker-post-101634482702709.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh deputy speaker election: Backed by BJP, plain sailing likely for Nitin Agarwal||The stage is set for a direct contest between the BJP government’s nominee Nitin Agarwal, technically a Samajwadi Party (SP) MLA, and the main opposition SP’s Narendra Verma for the election to the post of deputy speaker of the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly here on Monday.It is likely to be plain sailing for Agarwal, 40, in the election to the post of deputy speaker view of the BJP’s large majority (315 plus with allies and independents) in the 403-member Uttar Pradesh assembly that has seven vacancies.“We are going to have voting for election to the deputy speaker’s post after paying homage to former chief minister Kalyan Singh and others in the House at 11am. A decision in this regard was taken at the meeting of business advisory committee here on Sunday,” said UP legislative assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit.Nitin Agarwal was a minister of state in SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s government. He, along with his father Naresh Agarwal, joined the BJP in 2018. The SP’s petition seeking Nitin Agarwal’s disqualification was rejected recently and he, technically, continues to be an SP MLA even after joining the BJP.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath who, along with minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna, accompanied Nitin Agarwal for the filing of nomination papers, said traditionally the post of deputy speaker was reserved for the main opposition party. He said the BJP has followed the tradition and accepted the Samajwadi Party leader as the candidate for the post.The BJP, by fielding Agarwal, wants to give a positive message to the Vaish community whose representative the then finance minister Rajesh Agarwal resigned amid indications that he was being dropped ahead of the Yogi ministry’s reshuffle on August 21, 2019. Verma, 57, on the other hand, was accompanied by six BSP rebels and senior Samajwadi Party leaders, including leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary. He said the deputy speaker’s post should go to the main opposition party. Agarwal was like a younger brother to him, but had joined the BJP, he added. Verma alleged the BJP government was violating all democratic norms. The Samajwadi Party has 49 MLAs in the House and hopes for cross-voting from the BJP and BSP camps too. The SP has obviously fielded Verma, a Kurmi leader, to give the message that the party is a well-wisher of the Other Backward Classes (OBCs). Chaudhary said the SP was working out a strategy and he would not like to share the same at this stage. He also said the deputy speaker’s post was given to the main opposition and if the government agreed to this the SP candidate would get elected unopposed.“We are also getting ready for voting,” said Chaudhary.Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Aradhna Mishra ‘Mona’ said the party would take a call on supporting a candidate after consulting the high command soon. Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) legislature party leader Shah Alam aka Guddu Jamali was not available for comment. The Apna Dal (Sonelal), a BJP ally, has also requested the BJP government to field a Dalit or an OBC leader for the deputy speaker’s post. Senior Apna Dal (S) leaders were, however, not available for comment on the issue.“Yes, traditionally the post should have gone to a leader of the SP. The BJP is supporting Nitin Agarwal, who has left the Samajwadi Party and joined the BJP. This is politics being pursued ahead of the 2022 assembly election,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.This is not for the first time that an election is being held for the post of deputy speaker in the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly.There have been occasions when the state assembly voted to elect a deputy speaker in the past. On September 14, 1984, the late Hukum Singh, who was the minister for parliamentary affairs in the Congress government and later joined the BJP, was elected to the post securing 292 out of 319 votes polled. Two votes were declared invalid while the opposition candidate Riyasat Hussain got only 25 votes.Senior Congress leader and the then chief minister late Narain Dutt Tiwari said in the House he was feeling sad to hear the accusations that the opposition was not consulted before the election. Tiwari said consultations were held on the issue 10 to 12 times. Tiwari said he was still ready for consultations in the next five minutes though he would like to ensure that the election was completed now.“It is not proper that Uttar Pradesh assembly, an important House, does not have a deputy speaker. If you want, we are still ready for consultations,” he said.The opposition, however, insisted that the government did not have any consultation with any leader of the opposition parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-deputy-speaker-election-backed-by-bjp-plain-sailing-likely-for-nitin-agarwal-101634480601898.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports zero Covid-19 deaths for first time, shows BMC data||After a long and tiring battle with coronavirus, Mumbai on Sunday reported zero deaths due to Covid-19 for the first time since March last year, as per the data by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai. Meanwhile, the city registered a total of 367 new cases, taking the total tally to 7,50,808.According to the Mumbai civic body, the last time the city reported zero deaths was on March 26, 2020.#CoronavirusUpdates17th October, 6:00pm#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/69cwu0b322The death toll due to coronavirus in Mumbai remained unchanged at 16,180 today, while the recoveries touched 7,27,084 with 518 people getting discharged in the last 24 hours. This comes as a stark contrast to when the metropolitan was reported as high as 60,000 cases and nearly 400 deaths daily during the peak of coronavirus pandemic.The recovery rate now stands at 97% in the country's financial capital, whereas the positivity rate has dipped to 1.27%.There are 5,030 active cases in the city, as per the city's civic body data. A total of 28,697 tests were conducted on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-zero-covid-19-deaths-for-first-time-101634476671654.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath says Uttar Pradesh will give ₹50,000 compensation to kin of each Covid victim||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the Uttar Pradesh government will give ₹ 50,000 compensation to the families of each person who died of Covid in the state.Yogi Adityanath also said that the state government will soon issue guidelines for providing the compensation and each district will have a committee under the district magistrate to roll out and execute the scheme.“Make sure that no potential beneficiary is left out,” Yogi Adityanath asked the officials concerned at the Covid review meeting at his official residence in Lucknow.Earlier this month, the Supreme Court approved the Central government’s proposal of paying ₹50,000 to the next of kin of those who died due to Covid-19. Yogi Adityanath also said Uttar Pradesh had administered a total of 11.81 crore doses of the Covid vaccine till now and 501 new oxygen plants of the 548 sanctioned by the central government had become functional in the state.Uttar Pradesh currently has 119 active Covid cases and it recorded 10 fresh cases of the infection in the tests done in the last 24 hours, he said. Nevertheless, there was a need to keep all the systems for treatment of the disease in place, he said, adding that the overall recovery rate in the state is 98.7%. Yogi Adityanath also said Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be in Uttar Pradesh on October 20 and 25 to unveil key projects.On October 20, the Prime Minister will inaugurate the international airport at Kushinagar, the place where Gautam Buddha attained salvation. Many diplomats will attend the event, the chief minister said and asked the officers concerned to complete all necessary preparations for the programme in time. He also said that the PM will dedicate to people seven new medical colleges at an event in Siddharthnagar district of eastern UP on October 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-says-uttar-pradesh-will-give-50-000-compensation-to-kin-of-each-covid-victim-101634478141398.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai coastal road project: Koli fishing port to face permanent closure?||Cleveland Bunder is one of four artisanal fish landing centres in Worli Koliwada, which is one of Mumbai’s earliest fishing villages, in existence since before the Seven Islands of Bombay were merged through successive land reclamation projects in the 19th century. Now, fisherfolk say, the bunder is under serious threat of permanent closure due to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) coastal road project (CRP), arguably the city’s next frontier in land reclamation. Aaditya Thackeray, cabinet minister for environment and climate change (and MLA representing Worli constituency) did not respond to requests for comment. As of date, Koli community leaders estimate that Cleveland Bunder supports at least a fourth of around 500 families in Worli Koliwada who still rely entirely on artisanal fishing as a source of income. It provides harbour for a varying fleet of motorised and non-motorised boats, which range between 45 to 60 on any given day, and also employs several migrant fish workers in addition to the Kolis.Those operating from the bunder – locals estimate it to be at least 100 years old – may soon find themselves unable to access their customary fishing grounds. A barrier to their movement, in the form of an interchange bridge to connect the CRP with the Bandra-Worli Sea Link (BWSL) is on the anvil. MCGM recently began preparing to construct this segment of the controversial infra project, prompting nearly 200 boats from across the Worli fishing zone to gherao a temporary jetty at the CRP construction site on October 14.The plan and problems faced by fisherfolkThe civic body plans to construct two connecting bridges between the south-end of the BWSL and the north end of the CRP, as part of a link that will allow traffic to flow seamlessly between the two. Like BWSL before it, fisherfolk said this interchange will run parallel to Cleveland Bunder and severely constrict the only navigational route available to boats venturing out to open seas.As fishing boats leave the harbour, they traverse a narrow, zig-zag path to their fishing grounds which extend from the north near Mot Mauli (or Mount Mary) in Bandra to Walkeshwar in south Mumbai. The boats pass between two pillars (about 30 metres apart) that support the Bandra-Worli Sea Link overhead.Both the inter-tidal and sub-tidal areas of the beach are extremely rocky, and this route needs to be manoeuvred with great skill to prevent accidents. “We have been using the same navigation route for generations. After the Bandra Worli Sea Link came up, the route has become narrower and we have to be very careful,” says Rupesh Patil, member of the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Vyavsay Sahakari Society.Unlike cars on the road, steering a boat in open water is more complicated, with the wind and waves playing a major role in the safety of the vessel and its passengers. “One strong gust of wind can send our boats crashing against the pillars. It happened to many boats when BWSL was being constructed. Also, more than one boat cannot pass through the span at a given time. The pillars have slowed us down and made it an everyday risk just to reach our fishing grounds,” explains Deepak Vasudev, a fourth-generation artisanal fisherman from Worli Koliwada.As per the design plans for phase 2 of CRP — from Baroda Palace at Haji Ali to BWSL — another four pillars are to be erected directly within this precarious navigation route, which is used by fishermen every day. BMC has proposed to leave a gap of 60 metres between these pillars, which fisherfolk say is simply too little.“We require a span of at least 200 metres between the pillars to ensure safe passage. There is no doubt that if BMC continues as per their original plans, we will have to shut down Cleveland Bunder entirely. There will be no use for the boats because we won’t be able to take them out,” says Nitesh Patil, director of the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Vyavsay Sahakari Society (WKNVSS). Patil emphasised that they have appealed to multiple authorities to consider redesigning the interchange.Not a recent demand The first time that fisherfolk at Worli Koliwada raised the issue of their navigational channel dates back to at least October 2016, followed by representations sent to MCGM, fisheries department and various other arms of the state government in April 2017, November and December 2018. In yet another, dated October 2020, Vijay Kishor Patil (WKNVSS chairman), wrote, “The construction of two additional bridges in front of Cleveland Bunder... will completely cut off our access to the sea and nearshore areas which comprise our fishing zone.”“It is therefore imperative that the design is changed and that the distance (between the proposed pillars for the CR-BWSL interchange) is increased to at least 200 metres as we have highlighted in countless representations in the past,” the letter continues. Over a year and at least two more such representations later, fisherfolk say they have not received any formal acknowledgement of their concerns, from any authority.“We have met all sorts of officials to discuss this matter many, many times. All we are told is that adequate compensation will be given to project-affected persons. But that is not what we want. We want to continue fishing and there is no way we can do that if these pillars come up. What trade will we teach our children?” questions Marshal Koli, a resident of Worli Koliwada and a spokesperson for the Akhil Maharashtra Machimaar Kruti Samiti, a state-wide fish workers union.Work in progressThe predicament, which has loomed over Cleveland Bunder for the past several years, is fast coming to a head. On October 14, the Hindustan Construction Company (which is tasked with building Package 2 of the CRP, from Baroda Palace at Haji Ali to BWSL) anchored three buoys in the fishing waters just off Cleveland Bunder, to facilitate the movement of barges and tugboats in the area.“The anchors are there to support barges that will carry construction materials and machinery from our jetty to the construction site. We are just about to start digging the foundations of the bridge. It is the final arm of the coastal road’s southern stretch and is scheduled for completion by 2023,” an official with the BMC’s coastal roads department confirmed to HT on the day. However, when asked for a comment regarding the fishermen’s navigation route, the official declined to comment — as did two others who are directly involved in the project. Vijay Nighot, chief engineer in the BMC’s coastal roads department, said, “There will be no redesign of the interchange”.HT also reached out to officials in the fisheries department but did not receive a response in the matter. Former fisheries minister Aslam Shaikh, whom fisherfolk have written to directly, could not be reached for comment despite attempts. However, an official (formerly occupying the post of district fisheries officer), said while seeking anonymity, “It is up to BMC to take appropriate steps as the coastal road is their project. It is not the fisheries department’s job to intervene in these disputes. The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute has already conducted a social impact assessment for the project and a survey has been commissioned by from Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) to give the fishers proper compensation.”Demand for a design change to continue Shweta Wagh, an architect and researcher who has been closely mapping the impact of the CRP on fishing communities in Worli, remarked that reclamation has already grievously affected the livelihood of the community and that their demands can be easily accommodated through a design change. Given that physical works on the bridge have not yet commenced, and that the coastal road itself has been subject to design changes including the addition of 21 hectares of reclaimed land, a modification is certainly possible, Wagh claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-coastal-road-project-koli-fishing-port-to-face-permanent-closure-101634477001367.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Pune land deal case against Khadse: Sub-registrar gets bail; deed not undervalued, says court||While giving bail to the sub-registrar in the Pune land deal case registered against senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse and his wife Mandakini, a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court has observed that prima facie it does not appear that the sale deal registered in 2016 was undervalued to pay the stamp duty. The court also observed that there was a lack of material showing any connivance or meeting of minds of accused with each other, and actual involvement in any process connected with the proceeds of crime, including concealment, acquisition or use etc.Additional sessions judge, HS Sathbhai had granted bail to Ravindra Muley, a sub-registrar from Haveli, Pune on October 4.Advocate Mohan Tekavade had appeared for Muley and had argued that there was no loss to the state exchequer due to the registration of the agreement, the no-objection certificate (NOC) of MIDC was not required and the section of PMLA was not applicable in the case.In the detailed order, the court has said that from the material available on record, it is not established prima facie that prior to April 28, 2016 — the date of registration of land — accused Muley was a part of a conspiracy with alleged accused Eknath Khadse, Mandakini and son-in-law Girish Chaudhari. There are allegations of assisting the other accused or knowingly operating all the activities of using proceeds of crime for sale transaction, the material on record is not substantial to attract sections 3 and 4 of PMLA Act for money-laundering and punishment for money laundering.A specific charge against the accused Muley states that while working in the capacity as sub-registrar, he misused his position and registered the instrument sale deal showing a value of only ₹3.75 crores, which was originally valued at ₹22.83 crores. He also ignored the rights of MIDC over the land and did not insist on the NOC of MIDC, while registering the instrument.The judge observed a perusal of the papers of complaint and observed that the consideration shown was ₹3.75 crores, as per ready reckoner of the state government; however, the land was fetching the value of ₹22.83 crores. It appears that on the reckoner, the stamp duty of ₹1.37 crores was paid by the person who presented the document to Muley for registration. The judge stated that appropriate stamp duty of ₹1.37 crores was paid at the rate of 6% of market value on the deal. The judge further added prima facie appears no loss has been caused to the state exchequer; Muley cannot be blamed because the executors of the sale deal showed the consideration value as only ₹3.75 crores.The special judge further observed that the name of MIDC was not appearing in the ownership column of the land in question. The name of only one Abbas Ukani was appearing. Prima facie, it is not shown by the complainant that for registering the instrument, prior permission or NOC of MIDC was required. A perusal of the Registration Act, 1908, that the registration officer is not required to verify the title of the transferor, the judge said.He added that when the name of MIDC was not appearing in the ownership column of the land, of which, the sale deal came from registration before Muley and name of MIDC was appearing in the other right column of 7/12 extract, there was no propriety to ask for any NOC of MIDC, before registering the document.The Enforcement Directorate (ED) had alleged through counsel Hiten Venegoankar and Kavita Patil that Muley had misused his position and in connivance with other accused registered the instrument sale deal of land having a value of ₹22.83 crores by showing its market value at ₹3.75 crores. While registering he also did not take into account the rights of MIDC and did not insist on the NOC of MIDC, before registering the document.On September 4, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had filed a charge sheet, naming Eknath Khadse, Mandakini, son-in-law Girish Chaudhari, sub-registrar Ravindra Muley and Benchmark Buildcon Private Limited as accused in the Bhosari (Pune) land deal case.The court had taken cognizance of ED’s charge sheet and had issued a process against the accused to appear before it, after which Muley was taken into custody by the court.The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) had registered a first information report against Khadse, Mandakini, Chaudhari and the original landowner Abbas Ukani on HC’s directions. However, the agency and Pune Police later closed the case. It is alleged that when Khadse was the revenue minister in 2016, he used his position to manipulate the actual market price of the land, and it cost the state exchequer a loss of ₹61.25 crore. ED had alleged that Chaudhari and Khadse bought the land for ₹3.75 crore when its actual price was ₹22.83 crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pune-land-deal-case-against-khadse-sub-registrar-gets-bail-deed-not-undervalued-says-court-101634476821378.html
17-10-2021||Bangalore||Announce Muslim candidate as CM face in K'taka: Cong MLA challenges Kumaraswamy||Hitting back at former Karnataka chief minister H D Kumaraswamy over allegation that Congress is trying to destroy the minorities in the state, Congress leader BZ Zameer Ahmad khan on Sunday asked the Janata Dal-Secular (JDS) leader to announce a Muslim name for the next chief minister candidate for the state if the party comes to power."Let Kumaraswamy first announce and convince his father to announce a Muslim candidate or minority candidate for the next chief ministerial post in Karnataka instead of making allegations against Congress legislative party leader Siddaramaiah. Talking against the former chief minister and making allegations show his irresponsible behaviour," said Khan.The Congress leader said that Siddaramaiah has done everything for the benefit of the minority community, and alleged that JDS chief HD Devegowda does not have any concern towards the minority community."There were chances in Hassan and Ramanagara where Muslim candidates could have won the elections but he did not give tickets to minority candidates in Hassan and Ramanagara. And, now he is making allegations. Why could not he give a ticket to the grandson of former union minister Jaffer Sharief in Mandya instead of his son? It is the silly family politics," he added.HD Kumaraswamy earlier made allegations that Congress and Siddaramaiah are trying to destroy the minorities in Karnataka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/announce-muslim-candidate-as-cm-face-in-k-taka-cong-mla-challenges-kumaraswamy-101634475744713.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||‘Fewer cases of stubble burning in Haryana this time’, says Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said that the government has asked industries to use stubble for producing ethanol in a bid to stop farmers from burning the crop residue, which results in severe deterioration of air quality.“This time there are fewer cases of stubble burning. At some places those who are doing it, we are taking strict action against them,” Khattar added.The Haryana government has engineered a strategy to prevent farm fires during the paddy stubble burning season. Over 34 lakh acres are engaged in harvesting paddy crops in the state.The government has offered monetary incentives to farmers, introduced staggered paddy harvesting, created awareness through various campaigns, and panchayats have passed zero stubble burning resolutions to discourage farmers from burning crop residue.The government has also tied up with gaushalas, packaging companies, brick kilns, paper making and furniture industries to help utilise the crop residue. “The government is providing ₹1,000 per acre to farmers and industries are also coming to buy stubble this time,” Khattar told reporters and reiterated that they “will not let the pollution increase”.For 2021-22, ₹141 crore has been released under the crop residue management (CRM) scheme. The government is also planning on putting to use an additional previously unspent amount of ₹58 crores for stubble management this year.The ministry of environment, forest and climate change said on Friday that paddy residue burning has gone down by 18.28% in Haryana, in comparison to the same time last year. The state has reported 487 paddy burning incidents in comparison to 596 such incidents reported last year, the ministry added.The three districts of Karnal, Kaithal, and Kurukshetra account for 80% of stubble burning incidents in the state. The state government put 922 hotspot villages, 199 in the red zone and 723 in the yellow zone, under active monitoring. Fatehabad, Kaithal, Jind, Karnal, Sirsa and Kurukshetra districts were put under a red alert. All red and yellow zone farmers were given permission to buy crop residue management machines this year.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fewer-cases-of-stubble-burning-in-haryana-this-time-says-mohar-lal-khattar-101634472875659.html
17-10-2021||Dehradun||Heavy rain alert in Uttarakhand for Oct 18; CM Dhami assures all arrangements||In view of the heavy rain warning in Uttarakhand, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday assured that all arrangements have been made and alerts issued to take care of any emergency situation. The chief minister further directed the police, the SDRF and other personnel concerned to be on high alert at sensitive places. The chief minister's directions came after the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a red alert warning for Uttarakhand for Monday (October 18) along with an orange alert till Tuesday.Meanwhile, the CM urged all devotees undertaking Char Dham Yatra to postpone the yatra by a day or two amid heavy rain alert and safety concerns. Visitors to Badrinath temple have been requested to stay at safe locations due to heavy rain warnings; they have been further advised to stay back at Joshimath and Pandukeshwar until weather conditions improve."The agencies should be prepared to respond to any emergency situation arising out of the weather change... Response time should be less as much as possible with immediate relief to the affected people," Dhami said.The state has further barred trekking/camping, mountaineering groups from entering into the forest areas of Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve, Gopeshwar, from October 17-19, in wake of heavy rain alert for the state.Amid weather warnings, all schools in Chamoli, Uttarkashi district and Dehradun will stay shut on Monday, as per directions by the District Magistrate of the respective districts. Nainital and Almora administrations have also directed schools to be shut on Monday in their respective districts.The IMD on Sunday issued a red alert with a forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall at many places and extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places in Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Rudraprayag, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Almora, Nainital, Champawat, Dehradun, Tehri and Pauri Garhwal districts for October 18. The weather department warned of heavy rains in Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Rudraprayag, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Nainital and Champawat districts as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/heavy-rain-alert-in-uttarakhand-for-oct-18-cm-dhami-assures-all-arrangements-101634466236000.html
17-10-2021||Kolkata||Bengal districts to receive heavy rainfall till Oct 20, says forecast||Kolkata and several districts in north and south Bengal will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall from Sunday till October 20, said the Regional Meteorological Centre in the state capital. There will be heavy rainfall in the south Bengal districts of East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas on Sunday. The other south Bengal districts and Kolkata will also receive rainfall which will increase on October 19. “Due to the south-easterly wind, the rain will be accompanied by gusty winds from time to time,” said Sanjib Bandopadhyay, deputy director general of meteorology. In North Bengal, there will be heavy rainfall in Darjeeling, Alipurduar and Kalimpong on October 18, followed by heavy to very heavy rainfall in five other districts in the next two days. South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore district authorities have sounded an alert along the coastline and fishermen have been asked not to sail, said fisheries minister Akhil Giri. People in coastal towns such as Digha have been asked to stay away from the beaches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-districts-to-receive-heavy-rainfall-till-oct-20-says-forecast-101634469020488.html
17-10-2021||Bhopal||Man who rammed car into devotees at Durga idol procession in Bhopal arrested||The driver of a car, which allegedly knocked down devotees near a Durga idol immersion procession in Bhopal on Saturday, has been arrested and the vehicle seized, police said on Sunday.According to police, the condition of the two persons who were injured in the accident and were hospitalised is stable now."The person who was injured in this incident was admitted to a local hospital. As per the doctors, his condition is stable. The car driver has been arrested and the vehicle seized," said Irshad Wali, Deputy inspector general of police Bhopal.The mishap took place in the Bajaria Police Station area on Saturday night when a procession was taking the idol of Goddess Durga for immersion.The accused who was reversing his car with speed knocked down several devotees present at the site. Two people who were injured were admitted to the hospital."Further investigation is underway," added Wali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-who-rammed-car-into-devotees-at-durga-idol-procession-in-bhopal-arrested-101634467059185.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||Key rituals of Bade Hanuman temple, Baghamabari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj to be streamed live soon||All religious events and discourses of Baghambari Gaddi Math, besides aarti as well as other ceremonies of the Bade Hanuman temple in Prayagraj would be streamed live on YouTube.Swami Balbeer Giri, the newly appointed Mahant (head priest) of the Baghambari Gaddi Math and successor of Mahant Narendra Giri, is taking the initiative for the live streaming of events. He will soon launch a YouTube channel that will also show recordings of all important religious ceremonies of the Baghambari Gaddi Math and the Bade Hanuman temple. Content would be uploaded on the channel on a regular basis, Math officials said.The step is being seen by many as an effort of the newly appointed Mahant to resume the task of propagating the Sanatan Dharma after weeks of turbulence following the death of Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) chief and Baghambari Gaddi Math head Mahant Narendra Giri, who was found hanging in his room on September 20.“The clips of puja at Bade Hanuman temple were uploaded on YouTube in the past too, but only intermittently. Now we will be uploading content for the devotees on a regular basis on the dedicated YouTube channel that will also live stream events from time to time, of both the Bade Hanuman temple, the Math and the Lord Baghambeshwar Mahadev temple of Lord Shiva located within the Math,” said Mahant Balbeer Giri, who took charge of the Math and the Bade Hanuman temple on October 5 after a grand anointment ceremony. “We perform abhishek daily at the Lord Baghambeshwar Mahadev temple and this will be shown on the YouTube channel for the very first time. Likewise, on all major festivals and auspicious days, various religious activities are performed at the Math, which too would be shared with the people through this channel,” he said. Balbeer Giri said that some of the events that the people would be able to see online include Akhand Shat Chandi Path performed during Navratris, the bhandara or community meal held on Guru Purnima and the abhishek of Lord Shiva during the pious month of Shravan (the fifth month of the Hindu solar calendar).“We plan to also showcase the Vedic mantra recitation by the batuks or child scholars enrolled in Shri Mahant Vicharanand Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya, also located on Baghamabari Gaddi Math campus, through the channel,” he said.“Though all saints and senior workers of the Math and the priests of the Bade Hanuman temple, who are tech savvy would help in content generation, the rights to manage the content upload on the YouTube channel would be handled by me and one other person only. This is being done to ensure that only appropriate and befitting content that would evoke good interest among the devotees gets uploaded,” Balbeer Giri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/key-rituals-of-bade-hanuman-temple-baghamabari-gaddi-math-in-prayagraj-to-be-streamed-live-soon-101634468481195.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Allow theatres to operate at 100% occupancy||Theatres are reopening at long last in Maharashtra! Just a week more. I have met many people who asked me how I am feeling about this, since it has been a long wait. It certainly has! But I still didn’t have a concrete answer to “how am I feeling about this?”. The government has issued SoPs to restart cinema halls and theatres at 50% capacity. I have a Marathi film which is ready and awaiting release since the past one year. Before anyone asks why we did not release it on an OTT platform, which is the norm these days, I would like to inform them that it is not entirely in the hands of the producers. Also, the demand from OTT platforms for regional films is not that high. So, I am happy that cinema halls are reopening. Once the date of reopening was declared, my theatre group also went ahead and booked venues for performances. We started planning for the shows in excitement and realised that there is no way we can cover our per show expenses! We went through our expenses line by line, trying to cut corners wherever we can. But we have been cutting corners for the past ten years now. We know the drill well. But even with all this, the probability of a financial loss was high. Granted, that we are a non-profit group and the only intention is to present as many good performances that we can. But there is no way we can survive at 50% capacity. Especially at smaller venues. I spoke to other theatre groups and producers, who work at an amateur and commercial level. And everyone is facing the same problem. It is even worse for producers of commercial plays! Their team depends on the collection from the performances for their livelihood. The past year and a half have forced everyone to take up alternate professions. Many have taken up farming, selling vegetables, catering, driving or whatever can earn money for their family. There was some help from the government and NGOs, but I think everyone understands that there is only so much that others can do. Once we realised that there was going to be a loss because of 50% capacity, we reached out to the venue authorities and checked if we could save on rent expenses. But they explained that they have to incur maintenance costs and salaries of their staff as well. Salaries, which they (thankfully) paid when the theatres were shut. So, the only option is to increase ticket prices. But how much of a burden can we pass on to the audience? We cannot double our ticket prices, that would be unfair! And, also a poor move. The number of people who will come to watch the show will dwindle even further. It is a textbook catch-22 situation. I do think that the government has absolutely no vision for artists and the art. What our leaders should realise is that any particular place is known in the world because of its art. Whether it is architecture, gastronomy, museums, theatre, music. Unfortunately, that is being ignored here and is being allowed to die a slow death. Even an artist turned Minister of Parliament, Mr Amol Kolhe - who belongs to one of the ruling parties – has written a letter to the honourable chief minister regarding this. Cinemas can have multiple hundred shows at a time. It is difficult, but still, they can survive the 50% capacity clause in some way. But for theatre, it is impossible. Either the government should increase the seating capacity or should help the venues by providing some sort of a subsidy on rent. Just yesterday, I was stuck in a traffic jam because there was a crowd of people of the road who had visited a temple on the occasion of Dussehra. Multiple people were going through a metal detector at one time, pushing and pulling each other. At that time, I had an answer to the question “How are you feeling about theatres reopening?” – “I don’t know. I just don’t know”. Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-allow-theatres-to-operate-at-100-occupancy-101634467700217.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Your Space: Bandh, a democratic right, should not hit normal life||We have seen a lot of bandhs during the Covid pandemic. Several business operators are merely surviving and trying to keep their trade floating. I think it is unwise to again ask them to shut shop even for a day. We sympathise with the cause, but political parties need to find other ways to stage protests when continuous lockdowns have bled all sectors. Bandhs are not the way anymore. Businesses have suffered a great deal of loss during the lockdowns and they mostly cooperated with the authorities when they were ordered to shut shops. Such type of bandhs promoted by politicians irrespective of any political party would demoralise the business operators. We need to understand that it is just not about the shop owner. Many workers are also dependent on this sector. As the threat of a Covid third wave is still upon us, businesses should not have any restrictions and should be allowed to operate with maximum capacity before the possible wave hits us. Ankit Banpurkar Protest essential part of democracy The bandh was just for a day and all the essential services were allowed to operate. It is important to show solidarity with the victims. Non-violent protest is an essential part of democracy and sometimes certain issues need more attention. Santosh Nangare Bandh should not hit normal life It is a different situation when people by their own will decide to call a bandh. However, forcing it after the lockdowns does not seem appropriate. Bandh is indeed a non-violent form of protest, but it should not be misused and overused again and again. Many business operators have already suffered and are trying to revive trade during the unlock phase. I agree that some issues are extremely important and need public attention, but not at the cost of livelihood and public inconvenience. Adhishree Kulkarni Bandhs help to highlight injustice The recent bandh helped in sending across a strong message of solidarity. It is important that people know what has happened. Usually in a peaceful bandh, essential services are not affected. So, the daily lives of people are not hampered. Sometimes markets observe voluntary bandhs to highlight their issues. The issue of injustice reached people and many became aware of what really had happened. We should not shield injustice. It only gives strength to the oppressor. It is a collective responsibility of society to stand for each other and fight for justice. Amogh Dhamale Strikes affect businesses Traders and shop owners are responsible citizens and they have always cooperated with the administration and other stakeholders in society. That is why shops were closed for half of the day. There is a need to understand the needs and challenges faced by businesses as well. Rakesh Linge||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-bandh-a-democratic-right-should-not-hit-normal-life-101634467220104.html
17-10-2021||Patna||Campaigning set to pick up post puja for high-stake battle in Bihar’s Kusheshwarsthan||Bihar is witnessing two types of elections - a by-poll for two assembly seats and panchayat elections. While the stakes are high for the two assembly seats for both the Janata Dal-United (JD-U) and the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the panchayat elections, though not held on party lines in Bihar, too, have high-stake engagement, as is reflected through the scale of campaigning.Cars, SUVs, auto-rickshaws, hand carts, all been moving around announcing the claims of their candidates to transform the rural landscape like cities, with school pick up facilities for children, roads, hospitals, community centres, electricity, etc. Promises are raining. Durga Puja provided the opportunity for candidates to make their visibility more pronounced and connect with the migrants who have arrived and are likely to stay at least till Chhath or beyond.“Stakes are high this time, as funds for a lot of government schemes are now routed through the panchayati raj institutions. This has resulted in a higher number of candidates vying for posts. In rural areas, people are still largely ignorant and look up to local Councilors, mukhiya and other panchayat representatives for everything, be it the inclusion of name for old age or disability pension, Kisan Samman Yojana or crop loss compensation or just anything,” said Manoj Kumar, a labourer in Darbhanga’s village Kurson. But he, too, has his eyes on Kusheshwarsthan by-poll, which he feels could be a prestige battle.Barely a few kilometres from there, on the smooth road to pilgrim place Kusheshahwarsthan, the mood changes, with heavy security keeping watch on vehicles passing through and carrying out routine checks. The deployment of security personnel makes the importance of Kusheshahwarsthan amply clear, where Congress has also fielded its candidate defying the RJD diktat. The fissures in the Opposition rank, with Congress veteran Ashok Ram’s son Atirek Kumar jumping in the fray, may appear to fritter away advantage, but JD-U is not ready to be complacent even a wee bit, as it has pushed its top leaders into campaigning. Union minister and former JD-U president RCP Singh, whose ministry has included Chirag Paswan in its committee to spring a surprise, is also on the star campaigners’ list, while the party’s general secretary and state minister Sanjay Jha has been virtually camping there.With puja over, the campaigning by top NDA leaders is likely to gather momentum, with chief minister Nitish Kumar scheduled to join in the last leg. Before that, former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, VIP Party’s Madan Shahni and other senior leaders of the NDA will build the momentum. “JD-U has the edge because people have faith in Nitish Kumar as a leader who walks the talk, who delivers and who is head and shoulder above the rest. I have spent days in Kusheshwarsthan and I can feel the pulse a bit. Migrants coming to Kusheshwarsthan from far off places, alighting at Darbhanga airport and having a jerk-free ride to their homes narrate the difference. The experience of travelling 16 years ago is still a terse reminder to them. Even during the flood, the CM himself reached out to them by boat and ensured that they got relief without delay. Flood is not new to the area, but the changed response of the government is what has won people’s trust,” said Jha.In RJD, the responsibility rests on the shoulders of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, as party chief Lalu Prasad is unlikely to make it. To make things more complicated, there is speculation that his sulking brother Tej Pratap Yadav would campaign for Congress candidate Atirek and that could be a reason why Lalu Prasad has decided to stay away from the family drama. Former CM Rabri Devi is, however, back. Tejashwi, on the other hand, is gunning to pick up from where he left during the Assembly election, playing up youth issues like unemployment and corruption in a bid to corner the government, as he did in the Bihar Assembly. “Unemployment, corruption and poor condition of the state will be the key issues in the by-election and the people will certainly show the mirror to the double-engine government, which has delivered nothing,” he said on his arrival in Patna, hinting that Lalu Prasad’s frail health may not allow him to come to Patna despite his strong desire.In Kusheshwarsthan, there are eight candidates in the fray, including Chirag Paswan’s LJP (Ramvilas) candidate Anju Devi. It will be interesting to see which way Chirag cuts votes this time. Last time, he was openly against the JD-U. The LJP is known for its influence in the area, but this time Chirag’s uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras is with the NDA. Another interesting aspect is that former MP Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) has fielded Yogi Choupal from there, while his wife Ranjita Ranjan is the Congress observer for Kusheshwarsthan. But the contest is likely to be mainly among JD-U’s Aman Bhushan Hazari, son of late Shashi Bhushan Hazari, RJD’s Ganesh Bharti and Congress’ Atirek Kumar, while others could play spoilers for any of them in an electoral battle that could have serious ramifications on state politics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/campaigning-set-to-pick-up-post-puja-for-high-stake-battle-in-bihar-s-kusheshwarsthan-101634466561526.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||‘BJP govt working in the wrong direction’: Akhilesh Yadav on India’s global hunger index ranking, malnourishment in UP||Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Akhilesh Yadav hit out at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh over India’s ranking in the global hunger index (GHI).“Central government said we will make a 5 trillion economy, the UP government said it will make one trillion economy but India is behind Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal in the Hunger Index,” Yadav said at a press conference.He also alleged that the presence of the highest number of malnourished children in UP shows “that the BJP govt is working in the wrong direction”.Yadav was referring to the 2021 global Hunger index rankings in which India slipped to the 101st position out of 116 countries from its 94th position of 2020. Neighbouring countries Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, and coup-hit Myanmar in spite of being included in the ‘alarming’ hunger category have fared better than India. The report was published by Concern Worldwide and Welthungerhilfe, a German non-profit.The Indian government called the report, which was based on estimates by the UN’s Food and Agriculture Organization, “unscientific”, and claimed the assessment was done by an American firm that conducts global opinion polls. Welthungerhilfe has however denied claims of the report being based on an opinion poll.The Union government has come under heavy criticism from opposition parties for India’s fall in GHI.It is not clear which report Yadav was referring to when he claimed Uttar Pradesh has the highest number of malnourished children in the country, but Union minister for women and child development, Smriti Irani, had informed the Rajya Sabha in July that UP accounts for over 40% severely acute malnourished children in the country."As per ICDS-RRS (Rapid Reporting System) Portal, as on 30th November, 2020, 9,27,606 severely acute malnourished (SAM) children (6 months - 6 years) have been identified in the country, out of which 3,98,359 are from the State of Uttar Pradesh," Irani told Rajya Sabha in response to a question.Yadav also touched on the topic of caste census during the press conference, stating that “SP wants caste census to happen”.He also took a dig at his 2017 assembly poll coalition partner Congress, and claimed that political leaders like his father and the erstwhile party chief Mulayam Singh Yadav, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Lalu Yadav, and many other prominent leaders from South India wanted a caste census to be carried out during the tenure of the Congress-led government “but that did not happen”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-govt-working-in-the-wrong-direction-akhilesh-yadav-on-india-s-global-hunger-index-ranking-malnourishment-in-up-101634465455544.html
17-10-2021||Jaipur||Former Congress minister Mahipal Maderna passes away at 69||Former Rajasthan Congress minister Mahipal Maderna, 69, died on Sunday following a prolonged illness. He was recently released on bail in the infamous kidnapping and murder of ANM Bhanwari Devi. He was suffering from cancer and died at 7.44 am on Saturday. His daughter, Divya Maderna, is a sitting MLA from Osian assembly seat in Rajasthan. Maderna was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and after long judicial custody, he was out on bail for treatment. Several leaders, including chief minister Ashok Gehlot, condoled his demise. “Deep condolences on the demise of former minister and senior Congress leader Mahipal Maderna. I pray God to give strength to the family members to bear the shock and peace to the departed soul,” Gehlot tweeted. Former deputy CM, Sachin Pilot, tweeted, “The news of the demise of former minister Mahipal Maderna is extremely sad. My deepest sympathies are with the family of Maderna in this very difficult time. May God give peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family to bear this loss.” Leader of Opposition, Gulab Chand Kataria, said, “Sad to hear about the passing away of Mahipal Maderna. May God grant the departed soul a place at his feet and strength to the family members to bear this loss.” Maderna was a cabinet minister in the Gehlot government. He was in jail for around 9 years in the Bhanwari Devi case. On August 24, he was granted bail by the High Court. Bhanwari Devi was a government nurse in Jodhpur. Maderna and former MLA Malkhan Singh allegedly had illicit relations with her and she was abducted and murdered in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/former-congress-minister-mahipal-maderna-passes-away-at-69-101634464940985.html
17-10-2021||Other||Mount Harriet in Andaman to be named Mount Manipur in tribute to freedom fighters||As a tribute to the freedom fighters of Manipur, the Union government has decided to rename Mount Harriet, an island peak in Andaman and Nicobar islands. It will now be known as Mount Manipur, officials said.Union home minister Amit Shah made an announcement in this regard while addressing a public function at Port Blair in Andaman and Nicobar islands on Saturday.Shah said Manipur played a significant role in resisting the British in the Northeast during the 1857 revolution and in 1891. Manipur never gave up and the people there continued to fight. The state was the only one to implement its own constitution. Manipur war hero Yubraj Tikendrajit and General Thangal were publicly hanged in Fida, Imphal. The British thought that by hanging them, they had crushed the freedom movement but it did not happen. After that, Maharaja Kulachandra Dhwaja Singh and 22 freedom fighters were sent to Kalapani and kept on Mount Harriet. Today, in his memory, we would like to honour his contribution by renaming Mount Harriet Mount Manipur.Mount Harriet, the third-highest island peak in Andaman and Nicobar islands, where Manipur’s Maharaja Kulchandra Singh and 22 other freedom fighters were imprisoned during the Anglo-Manipuri war (1891).The Centre will also assist the Manipur government in constructing a memorial site at Mount Manipur in Andaman & Nicobar Islands.Expressing happiness on hearing the news, Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh tweeted, “In a fitting tribute to Maharaja Kulachandra & other Manipuri freedom fighters imprisoned at Mt Harriet in Kalapani, Hon’ HM Sh @AmitShah Ji has renamed Mt Harriet as Mt Manipur. We’re immensely thankful to PM @narendramodi Ji & Amit Shah Ji for such a great honour of our heroes.”In another tweet, Biren Singh said, “Further Hon’ HM Sh @AmitShah Ji has also announced that the Central Govt will assist Manipur in establishing a memorial site at Mt Manipur in Andaman Nicobar Island. The process for signing lease agreement between Andaman Government and Manipur Government is under process.”“Yet again, PM @narendramodi Ji & HM @AmitShah Ji has kindly given most befitting recognition to Manipur’s contribution to The Freedom Struggle, sealing for us a connection with national history. Indebted forever, Manipur salutes your leadership. Thank you,” he added.During this year’s patriot’s day observation in Manipur on August 13, the state government unveiled a monolith dedicated to the unsung heroes of the Anglo-Manipur war in 1891. As many as 21 names, including Maharaja Kulachandra, have been engraved on the monolith.In February 2003, an 18-member All Manipur Working Journalists’ Union visited Mount Harriet as part of their fortnight-long journey of tracing links with the past and called the then Lt Governor for the development of a memorial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mount-harriet-in-andaman-to-be-named-mount-manipur-in-tribute-to-freedom-fighters-101634462840801.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi to inaugurate Kushinagar International Airport on Oct 20||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate Kushinagar International Airport on October 20.Notably, Kushinagar is the place where Gautam Buddha attained Mahaparinirvana.Ambassadors of various countries will participate in this ceremony. A special delegation from Sri Lanka will also mark its presence at the inauguration ceremony.Earlier this week, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a review meeting regarding the arrangements for the inauguration ceremony of the international airport in Kushinagar district."The International Airport at Kushinagar, the Mahaparinirvana site of Tathagata Gautam Buddha, will be inaugurated by the Prime Minister on October 20. Ambassadors of various countries are to participate in this ceremony of international importance. A special delegation is also arriving from Sri Lanka. Keeping in line with 'Atithi Devo Bhava', necessary preparations should be made for the grand welcome of foreign guests," reads Chief Minister's Office (CMO) statement.During the review meeting, Adityanath gave instructions to officials to complete all the preparations on time and said that all efforts should be ensured to make this programme historic.He had said that cleanliness should be ensured in the inauguration ceremony and all the officers should work to make the ceremony successful.In another visit to Uttar Pradesh later this month, Prime Minister Modi will launch seven medical colleges in seven districts from Siddharthnagar on October 25."The Prime Minister is to inaugurate new medical colleges in seven districts of the state from Siddharthnagar district on October 25. This will be an important step in the course of the development of medical infrastructure in the state. All the preparations regarding the event should be completed in time. Along with Siddharthnagar, programmes should be organized in the remaining six districts," reads the CMO statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-kushinagar-international-airport-on-oct-20-101634457804669.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Case against Brigadier-rank officer for allegedly driving Lt Colonel to attempt suicide||A case was registered against a Brigadier-rank officer of the Indian Army by Pune Police for driving a Lieutenant Colonel-rank officer to suicide in Pune, officials said on Monday.The 43-year-old officer, undergoing a 6-month long training at the Military Intelligence Training School (MITS), was found dead in her room on Wednesday. She had been in Pune for the past three months and a case of accidental death was registered on Wednesday, an investigation into the matter is pending.“The deceased officer’s husband has lodged a complaint. He has alleged that the Brigadier was harassing her. It is neither sexual nor professional harassment. He is not from the department in which she was deployed. Beyond that, I cannot reveal any details,” said Namrata Patil, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone 5, Pune Police.A case was registered under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the Indian Penal Code at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-against-brigadier-rank-officer-for-allegedly-driving-lt-colonel-to-attempt-suicide-101634457440011.html
17-10-2021||Patna||Bihar’s Purnia and Saharsa divisions fighting losing battle against drugs||On September 13, Sunny Sinha, a 22-year-old employee of a private bank, was knifed to death near his house at Barihat locality under Purnia town area of Bihar. He opposed drug addicts cum drug suppliers who were consuming the substance beside his house. Later, police arrested four accused - all drug peddlers cum addicts, said officials.On October 12, Deepak Kumar Thakur, a 23-year-old was allegedly stabbed several times by drug addicts cum suppliers. Later, his body was recovered from near his house at Chainpur village under Bangaon police station of Saharsa district. Police arrested three accused, all drug addicts. Notably, the village came into the limelight in 2018 when Sagar Kumar Jha, a resident, secured 13th rank in the UPSC exam. The twin divisions of Purnia and Saharsa have been fighting a long battle against the drug menace. Blame it on the porous Indo-Nepal border, lack of awareness about the repercussions of drug abuse, months’ lockdown or the lure of easy money, the youth as well as children are steadily falling prey to drug abuse and its harmful consequences. “Smack (heroin) is the new lifestyle chemical drug craze, especially among the youth and children not only in these two divisions but in the whole state,” a senior police officer of Purnia told HT.He said, “Day-to-day recovery of contraband and arrests of youths below 22 years of age has worried us and we are shocked to learn the number of people involved in the racket.”Purnia superintendent of police Daya Shankar vowed to eliminate the racket after the murder of Sunny Sinha but nothing has come out of it. Police acted swiftly and arrested four of the accused, all drug addicts and drug suppliers, within a week but the racket continues to thrive.“Special police teams have been set up to keep a watch on drug abusers and drug suppliers and our effort has started yielding results,” the officer said. He exhorted the people to cooperate with police teams.Kamlesh Kumar Singh, station house officer of Bangaon police station in Saharsa, confirmed the drug angle behind the killing of the youth in Chainpur village. “Police will launch special drive against both drug addicts and peddlers.”“We are unsafe as drug addicts can be seen roaming in the streets almost every time and commit petty to heinous crimes to buy smack,” Kumar Pratyush 23, a law graduate of Purnia said, adding, “Recently, my cycle was stolen from inside the premises of my rented house.” He said, “I have lodged an online complaint to district police in this regard but nothing has come out of it.”“It is a matter of deep sorrow that our villages and towns are fast falling prey to drugs,” Saharsa-based social activist Amit Anand said and demanded a concrete and concerted drive by police and intellectuals to check drug menace. He expressed dismay over the alleged killing of the youth in Chainpur village by drug suppliers/addicts.Anand said, “Both Purnia and Saharsa killings have the same nature and they show that drug addicts and suppliers can go to any extent to satisfy their craze for drugs.”He hoped Sagar Sabita Devi’s mother, who won Mukhiya election this time, would do something to check the spread of drug menace in her Chainpur panchayat.“My prime focus is to bring progress and prosperity, and without education, it is not possible. Hence, my priority will be to spread education”, she said, adding, “Through consistent awareness campaigns, this can be checked.” Heroin, commonly known as smack, is sold in roadside shops in rural areas and youths below 25 years of age, as well as school-going, children can be seen consuming smack. “During the lockdown, when schools and colleges were closed, these children and youths fell into the grip of drugs,” a retired high school teacher of Khamgarha village in Araria, Narendra Mohan Jha, said. “It is not easy for police to bring them back on track,” he said. Chemically, smack is diacetylmorphine, a white, odourless, bitter crystalline compound which is easily available in shops in rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-purnia-and-saharsa-divisions-fighting-losing-battle-against-drugs-101634454080210.html
17-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM Bommai says tax cut on petrol likely. Gives a timeline||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Sunday his government will decide on reducing petrol prices by effecting a tax cut after reviewing the state's economy. "I have already said it is dependent on the economy," Bommai, who also holds the finance portfolio, was quoted as saying news agency PTI. “After the by-polls, I will review the economy, at that time if the economy has improved, there is an opportunity for it,” Bommabi said in response to a question whether there is any proposal to reduce taxes on petrol in Karnataka.The Karnataka chief minister was referring to the by-polls to be held in the Sindagi and Hangal assembly constituencies in the state on October 30. The counting of votes will take place on November 2.Bommai’s comments came as petrol and diesel prices were raised across the country for the fourth straight day on Sunday after a two-day pause. Petrol in Bengaluru is being sold for ₹109.53, up ₹0.37, for every litre on Sunday and consumers are paying ₹100.37 for the same amount of diesel.This is the second time this month that the Karnataka chief minister has said that his government will soon take a decision on reducing the duty on petrol and diesel amid the rising prices of fossil fuels across the country. “We will take a look at our financial position, revenues and then make a decision. Let us see,” Bommai said on October 10.Also read | ‘You must’ve taken free vaccine’: Union minister justifies fuel price hikePetrol and diesel prices were raised by ₹0.35 to ₹105.84 per litre and ₹ ₹94.57 per litre respectively in Delhi. The rates of petrol and diesel were increased by ₹0.35 in the national capital for the fourth consecutive day. In Mumbai, petrol prices increased by ₹0.34 to ₹111.77 and that of diesel went up by ₹0.37 to ₹102.52 per litre.In Kolkata, petrol rises witnessed a hike of ₹0.33 to ₹106.43 while the cost of diesel increased by ₹0.35 to ₹97.68 per litre. Consumers in Chennai will have to pay ₹103.01, up ₹0.31, for petrol and ₹98.92 for diesel, which was increased by ₹0.33.Also read | Diesel price in Pune breaches ₹100 mark, petrol sells for ₹110.92Oil companies started raising auto fuel prices over a week ago. The pause on the prices on October 12 and 13 came after a seven-day consecutive rise.On Saturday, Union minister of petroleum and natural gas Hardeep Singh Puri said that the consumption of petrol and diesel has increased as compared to the pre-Covid times. "Today, the consumption of petrol and diesel is higher by 10-15 per cent and 6-10 per cent respectively compared to pre-Covid times. I will not go into the price issue. We continue to work towards the price stability,” Puri said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-bommai-says-tax-cut-on-petrol-likely-gives-a-timeline-101634450236875.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||Sir Syed Day 2021: AMU marks 204th birth anniversary of its founder||Sunday, October 17, marks the 204th birth anniversary of Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, a philosopher and educationist, who, in 1875, established the Muhammadan Anglo-Oriental (MAO) College, known today as the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU). The occasion is celebrated as Sir Syed Day on the university's campus.“Vice-chancellor Professor Tariq Mansoor requests your gracious online presence at Sir Syed Day Commemoration Celebration, October 17, at 11am,” AMU's official Twitter handle posted on the eve of the celebrations. 𝐈𝐍𝐕𝐈𝐓𝐀𝐓𝐈𝐎𝐍 #SSDAY_Celebartions-2021Prof Tariq Mansoor #VC_AMU @ProfTariqManso1 requests your gracious Online presence at Sir Syed Day Commemoration Celebration October 17 @ 11am @dpradhanbjp @PMOIndia @EduMinOfIndia @PIBHRD @ugc_india @ANI @PTI_News pic.twitter.com/nZ6No7LCmoVarious awards such as AMU Outstanding Researchers Award, Young Researchers Award will be presented during Sunday's ceremony. According to a press release, Professor Qamrul Hasan Ansari will receive the award in the former category, while Dr Mohammad Zain Khan, Dr Mohammad Tariq and Dr Mohammad Arshad Bari will be honoured under the latter.Meanwhile, several AMU alumni took to Twitter to pay tribute to Sir Syed Ahmad Khan. Sir Syed Day 2021: A photo thread. There are few things in Aligarh which you always carry along with you. One of them is Sir Syed Day celebrations in the campus. Happy Sir Syed day to every Alig out there. Hoping for a better tomorrow and get-together. #SirSyedDaySalute to the visionary leader, educationist, historian, reformer, philanthropist, philosopher #SirSyedAhmedKhan The Man who became a movement ! Sir Syed taught us how to dream. Wishing a very happy #SirSyedDay to all Aligs around the world! pic.twitter.com/GmV12Yy7AgProud third generation Alig! Ye mera chaman hai mera chaman, main apne chaman ki Bulbul huṅ Jo abr yahaṅ se utthega, wo sarey jahaṅ par barsegaHar ju-e-rawaaṅ par barsega, har koh-e-garaṅ par barsegaYe abr hamesha barsa hai, ye abr hamesha barsega!#HappySSDay #Aligs pic.twitter.com/Z15dwDde7vSir Syed Ahmad Khan was born on October 17, 1817 in Delhi, and began his career as a civil servant. He established institutions such as the Gulshan School at Muradabad (1859), Victoria School at Ghazipur (1863), as well as a Scientific Society for Muslims (1863). In 1875, he established the MAO, patterning it after the Oxford and Cambridge Universities, notes amu.ac.in. Known in Urdu as the Madarsatul Uloom, the college, in 1920, was renamed to AMU, as it is known today, under the Aligarh Muslim University Act. One of the top universities in the country, it has three off-campus centres as well, with one each in Kerala (Malappuram), West Bengal (Murshidabad) and Bihar (Kishanganj).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sir-syed-day-2021-amu-marks-204th-birth-anniversary-of-its-founder-101634447873815.html
17-10-2021||Bangalore||32 families evacuated after police building tilts in Bengaluru: Reports||A multi-storeyed residential building belonging to the police department in Bengaluru tilted on Sunday after cracks reportedly developed near its basement, following which 32 families were evacuated. According to reports, families living in the three-year-old building in the police housing complex near Binny Mills have now been shifted to the newly constructed police quarters in the city's Nagarbhavi area.WATCH | Bengaluru building razed earlier this month after foundation started to collapseReports said that the Karnataka state police housing corporation has already initiated a probe into Sunday's incident, but occupants, on the condition of anonymity, told reporters that the work undertaken by the contractor was “substandard”. It is likely that the situation was made worse by the recent heavy rainfall in the city — since the beginning of October, Bengaluru received 77% more rain at 140 mm as against the normal 79 mm — the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) said. Several areas across the city were inundated leaving homes, cars, and property submerged along with the lives and livelihoods of people residing in low-lying areas of the city.The commissioner of the Bengaluru civic body told reporters that in view of the situation in the recent weeks, officials have now identified as many as 300 buildings for “safe demolition”, all of which are deemed to be in precarious condition. However, the owners of these residential buildings have been asked to provide evidence that the structures are safe, without which the authorities will carry forward with the demolition.WATCH: Three-storey building dramatically collapses in BengaluruAs many as four buildings collapsed in Bengaluru during the past three weeks and one of them was demolished after it tilted precariously. However, no casualties were reported since emergency responders managed to evacuate the people from the buildings in time.On October 7, a five-story apartment in Bengaluru's Kasturi Nagar collapsed only a day after seven died in Belagavi following building collapse. On September 27, a 70-year-old building in Bengaluru's Lakkasandra area had also caved in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/32-families-evacuated-after-police-building-tilts-in-bengaluru-reports-101634447238196.html
17-10-2021||Other||Historic ‘Bharat Milap’ event in Kashi leaves audience spellbound||Bharat Milap, an annual cultural event organised to commemorate Lord Ram’s return to Ayodhya after 14 years of exile and his reunion with his brother, Bharat, was held at Naati Imali Ground in Varanasi on Saturday. Thousands of people attended the festival organised the day after Dussehra. Bharat Milap, which reflects spirituality, antiquity and tradition, also carries forward the traditional legacy of the city. The festival began with the worship of Lord Rama, Sita and Laxman at Chitrakoot Ramlila Bhavan, few metres from the Imali Ground. Clad in white dhoti and undershirts with saffron gamachhas on their head, ‘Yadav Bandhus’ carried the chariot with those dressed as Lord Rama, Sita and Laxman, on their shoulders to the ground from the Bhavan. On the occasion, the spiritually charged people also chanted ‘Har Har Mahadev and ‘Jai Sri Ram’. As the chariot reached the ground, the priest offered prayers to Lord Rama, Sita, Laxman and Lord Hanuman. Kunwar Anant Narayan Singh, chief of the Kashi Royal family, also offered prayers to Lord Ram, Sita, Laxman and Hanuman amid chanting of mantras by priests. After the puja, he gave a gold coin to the priest like the previous years and then Lord Rama and Laxman met their brothers, Bharat and Shatrughan. Like the past year, the event also drew a huge crowd. A large number of young devotees took selfies, while others captured the moments into their cameras. Many people of Kashi settled in other cities also visited to witness the annual event. Special arrangements were made by the administration for the event. Besides, tight security arrangements were in place and cops in plain clothes were deployed at the venue. The Bharat Milap event is organised every year a day after Dussehra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/historic-bharat-milap-event-in-kashi-leaves-audience-spellbound-101634446937926.html
17-10-2021||Bhopal||3 injured after car rams into Durga idol immersion procession in Bhopal||Three people, including a teenager, got injured after a speeding car rammed into a Durga idol immersion procession in Station Bajaria area of Bhopal late night on Saturday, police officials said. The car driver fled the spot by driving the car in reverse gear and one of the injured, Roshan Mahawar, 16, was dragged with the car for a few metres, officials said. Mahawar has been admitted to Hamidia hospital where his condition is stated to be serious, said Irshad Wali, deputy inspector general of police (DIG), BhopalThe two other injured have been identified as Chetan Sahu, 26, and Surendra Sen, 25, they received minor injuries. All the injured belong to Chandbad area of Bhopal. DIG Wali said, “The procession was passing from Bajaria, a crowded area of the city, when a car hit Roshan Mahawar, Surendra Sen and Chetan Sahu from behind. The other devotees tried to stop the car but the driver drove the car in reverse gear and fled.”Police are trying to identify the accused with the help of CCTV footage and some videos shot by devotees. After the accident, the devotees created a ruckus and demanded action against police personnel for failing in maintaining the traffic.Senior police officers reached the spot and controlled the situation. One of the injured, Chetan Sahu, said a few police personnel were trying to manage the procession on the spot. “The car hit us suddenly. Before we could understand anything, the driver ran away. Sime action should also be taken against the local police station in charge for failing in giving protection to devotees during the procession.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/3-injured-after-car-rams-into-durga-idol-immersion-procession-in-bhopal-101634443339180.html
17-10-2021||Kolkata||Bearing brunt of rain, farmers in coastal Bengal stare at uncertain future||In May, after a very severe cyclone Yaas ravaged the coastal districts of West Bengal, 48-year-old Abani Mondol saw a glimmer of hope. Even though saline water from the rivers had gushed into his farmlands, the state government came to his help providing some varieties of paddy which were salt tolerant. Four months down the line, Mondol is again staring at an uncertain future. The extremely heavy and erratic spells of rainfall this monsoon in July and September killed all the salt-tolerant paddy crops which he was banking upon. “I had sowed salt-tolerant paddy in around seven bighas of land. The seeds were provided by the state government. But because of the extremely heavy spells of rain, the crops were lost. It rained so heavily that the fields remained waterlogged for at least two weeks. This was not just once. It happened multiple times this monsoon,” said Mondol, a resident of Sandeshkhali-II block in North 24 Parganas. After Yaas, around 1200 MT of salt-tolerant paddy seeds were distributed in the three coastal districts – East Midnapore, South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas. More than 38,000 farmers would have befitted from the seeds had they yielded paddy. “Each farmer was given a kit comprising six kilos of seeds along with seed-treating chemicals. Six varieties of paddy seeds – CSR-10, CSR036, CSR-43, Luna Swarna, Luna Sampad, Lunishree and Dudeshwar were distributed. Luna Swarna was distributed for the first time,” said Omkar Singh Meena, secretary of the state agriculture department. But most of the crops got damaged, even before they could be transplanted, as heavy rains battered the districts of south Bengal in July-end, resulting in floods in some districts. “The seedbeds, which were prepared with salt-tolerant paddy, remained submerged under waist-deep water for nearly two weeks killing all the crops. Later, some of the farmers sowed the conventional varieties but even that got damaged in the extremely heavy rainfall that hit the coastal districts again in September-end. In Sandeshkahli-II block, Aman paddy is cultivated across 9800 hectares. But only 2% – 3% crop coverage of salt-tolerant paddy now exists as most of the crops died,” said Chowdhury Monirul Haque, assistant director of agriculture, Sandeshkhali-II In Gosaba, a block in South 24 Parganas where paddy is grown in around 6000 hectares, nearly 90% of the salt-tolerant crops got damaged. “As the farmers could grow nothing after that failure, nearly 25% of the farmlands in Gosaba have been reported as fallow land,” said Ritesh Kundu, assistant director of agriculture, Gosaba. “With the help of the state government, we had prepared community seedbeds and sowed salt tolerant paddy in over 15 bighas of land. But the extremely heavy spells of rain in July and September damaged around 10 bighas,” said Gunadhar Patra, another villager from Gosaba. With their crops gone, farmers like Mondol and Patra are now mostly dependent on government schemes such as Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojna and the state government’s Krishak Bandhu scheme. “We get free rice and wheat from the state and central schemes. This apart we also get financial assistance from the state government under the Krishak Bandhu scheme. This is enough to sustain my family,” said Ananda Das, a villager from Sandeshkhali-II.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bearing-brunt-of-rain-farmers-in-coastal-bengal-stare-at-uncertain-future-101634441419629.html
17-10-2021||Indore||Indore: 3 including woman arrested for stealing cash, jewellery from house||Indore Police on Saturday arrested three people including a woman in a case of theft of jewellery and cash worth ₹one crore from a house.According to police, on the evening of October 13, jewellery worth ₹85 lakh and ₹15 lakh cash were stolen from the residence of complainant Rahul Agarwal, a resident of Gumashta Nagar under Chandan Nagar police station area.After investigation, it was revealed that Rahul Agarwal's wife Madhuri Agarwal and his brother-in-law Vaibhav were involved in the theft.Indore Police arrested Madhuri Agarwal, Vaibhav and another person Arbaaz for the involvement in the crime.Briefing mediapersons, Mahesh Chandra Jain, Superintendant of Police, Indore (West) said, "The police analysed the CCTV footage in which two people were seen entering the house. On the basis of the footage, one person has been identified as Vaibhav. We took him in custody and interrogated him. During interrogation, Vaibhav disclosed that his sister Madhuri had made the plan for this theft. Vaibhav was accompanied by another person Arbaaz.""When Madhuri was taken into custody and interrogated, she said her sister-in-law had more money and jewellery, so she had planned this. She had taken her mother-in-law to the doctor on the day of the incident. Meanwhile, she had already informed her brother Vaibhav about all the gold and cash kept in the house. Vaibhav stole all the jewellery and cash within 20 minutes," added Jain.Police recovered the jewellery while the ₹15 lakh cash could not be recovered. The accused are being interrogated. The investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-3-including-woman-arrested-for-stealing-cash-jewellery-from-house-101634440343696.html
17-10-2021||Delhi||Rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR, likely to continue for next few hours||Residents in several parts of Delhi on Sunday woke up to cloudy skies, which soon made way for rain, as projected by the Regional Met Centre, New Delhi. “Light intensity rain/drizzle would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of entire Delhi (Narela, Jafarpur, Nazafgarh, Dwarka, Palam, IGI Airport, Mahrauli, Chhatarpur, IGNOU, Aya Nagar and Dera Mandi,” the met centre, which issues weather forecasts for Delhi-NCR and northwest India, said in its 3:30am bulletin. 17/10/2021: 03:30 IST; Light intensity rain/drizzle would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of entire Delhi ( Narela, Jafarpur, Nazafgarh, Dwarka, Palam, IGI Airport, Mahrauli, Chhattarpur, IGNOU, Ayanagar, Deramandi),In an updated 6:35am bulletin, the agency said that light to moderate intensity rain would continue to occur over and adjoining areas of entire Delhi, as well as parts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. Siwani, Meham, Sonipat, Tosham, Rohtak, Kharkhoda, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mattanhail, Jhajjar, Farukhnagar (Haryana) Saharanpur, Noida, Ghaziabad, Modinagar, Indirapuram, Gangoh, Deoband, Nazibabad, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Kandhla, Bijnaur, Khatauli, Sakoti Tanda, Chandpur,The early morning rain in the national capital is also in line with the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) forecast from around 5am, in which the weather body said that isolated places across the Capital would see light rain/drizzle “during the next two hours." Light rain/drizzle would like to occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of entire Delhi during the next 2 hours.News agency ANI also shared visuals of showers lashing the Delhi-NCR region. Rain lashes Delhi-NCR; visuals from NH-24 in East Vinod Nagar area"Thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain would continue to occur over & adjoining areas of many places of entire Delhi and Noida during the next 2 hours," says India Meteorological Department pic.twitter.com/gkvltUvyxsPreviously, Delhi received heavy rain on several days in August-September, during the peak of the monsoon season. A particularly intense spell of rain, on September 11, resulted in flooding at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport, the busiest airport in the country, and one of the busiest in Asia, as well as globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-lashes-parts-of-delhi-ncr-likely-to-continue-for-next-few-hours-101634435396257.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jubbal Kotkhai: Turf of two former CMs set for keen triangular contest||The Jubbal-Kotkhai constituency has remained the political battleground of two former chief ministers, Thakur Ram Lal and Virbhadra Singh. In this by-election, the contest is triangular between Congress’s Rohit Thakur, BJP’s Neelam Saraik and BJP rebel Chetan Bragta, who is fighting as an independent candidate. The fourth candidate in the fray is Suman Kadam, an independent, but he has not been able to cut much ice with the voters. An affluent apple-growing region, the constituency is known for throwing up big surprises in poll results. The segment has been reshaped since it was carved out initially. About a dozen villages of Nawar valley, which used to be part of the Rohru constituency earlier, were clubbed with Jubbal-Kotkhai about a decade back, changing the demography and equations for the political parties. The constituency had for long been the bastion of former chief minister Thakur Ram Lal. He first won it in 1967 as an independent by defeating then Jansangh’s Balanand Chauhan. Thakur later joined the Congress and continued his winning streak in 72, 77 and 82 till the time he was appointed governor of Andhra Pradesh. Thakur, a close confidant of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, had to step down as chief minister after his son’s name figured in the mass tree-felling scam. Virbhadra Singh, who was then the industries minister for state in the Union government, was Indira’s pick for the chief ministership in 1985. Virbhadra chose to contest his by-election from Jubbal-Kotkhai and won. Thakur Ram Lal returned to the state after a major controversy in Andhra Pradesh after N Bhaskrao was appointed chief minister when Telegu Desam stalwart NT Rama Rao was away to the United States for surgery. Thakur returned but couldn’t go along well with Virbhadra. He contested the next elections as a Janata Dal nominee against sitting chief minister Virbhadra and won. Thakur won three more elections and remained a member of the Vidhan Sabha till his death in 2003. Thakur’s grandson Rohit Thakur has won two elections. In 2017, he lost to Narinder Bragta of the BJP by a narrow margin of 1,060 votes. Narinder Bragta’s untimely death in June 2021 necessitated the by-election. His son Chetan is harping mainly on his father’s legacy — his contribution as the horticulture minister for the apple-growing region, mainly introduction of anti-hail guns. Chetan, who till recently was touring the constituency with BJP ministers, is now out of the saffron fold. He has been allotted ‘apple’ as the election symbol. “Na hum Congress waley, na hum BJP waley, hum sab seb waley” is the motto of his supporters, mostly BJP workers, during campaigning. “I will live up to the dreams and vision of my father for the constituency,” says Chetan. As an MLA and chief parliamentary secretary, Rohit largely contributed towards strengthening the road network in the constituency. He has the strong Congress vote bank and his personal rapport going in his favour. Rohit is repeatedly attacking the BJP government over the poor roads in the area. “The Theog-Hatkoti road, which is the lifeline of the apple belt, is still incomplete. The BJP made mere announcements and did nothing on the ground,” says Thakur. BJP candidate Neelam Saraik, the three-time Zila Parishad member, is facing a tough situation in her very first big election, especially in the wake of resignations by party office-bearers of the entire block in favour of Chetan. Neelam is counting on her grassroots electoral experience to set the tide in her favour. There are more than 36,000 women voters in the constituency and she is the lone woman candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jubbal-kotkhai-turf-of-two-former-cms-set-for-keen-triangular-contest-101634421848292.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 103 fresh Covid-19 cases||Himachal logged 103 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,21,306 while death toll mounted to 3,703 after two patients died of the infection.Among the fresh cases, 60 were reported in Kangra, 17 in Mandi, eight in Bilaspur, seven in Shimla, five in Kullu, four in Una and one each in Hamirpur and Solan.The active case count has come down to 1,298 while recoveries reached 2,16,288 after 164 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 49,659 cases reported till date, followed by 31,327 in Mandi and 27,390 in Shimla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-103-fresh-covid-19-cases-101634421008218.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||82 fresh Covid cases detected in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 82 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Of the total cases, 67 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 15 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 122 with active positive cases reaching 855, a drop of 40 patients from yesterday. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 406.Officials said with 37 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 12 cases in Budgam.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,25,686 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.42%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,30,967 and the death-toll stands at 4,426.Jammu district has the highest number of 1,144 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 842 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/82-fresh-covid-cases-detected-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101634420888186.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Drop-out cases among TB patients doubled in Covid pandemic||The district has witnessed a two-fold increase in the number of tuberculosis cases reported in the district since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, which is known to prove fatal for those with a compromised immune system. The findings in the industrial town of Ludhiana are not unique, as per the World Health Organisation there has ubiquitously been a significant increase in cases of students afflicted with the disease dropping out. Drop outs among tuberculosis patients in Ludhiana increased from 4% to 8% during the pandemic.As things are return to normalcy, there has also been a spike in the number of tuberculosis cases being reported across the district. As per district TB in-charge Ashish Chawla during the first and second waves of the pandemic, the drop out rate had been almost 8%.“It was largely because of the exodus of migrant labour districts. Those who lost their jobs returned home and many discontinued their tuberculosis treatment. Now with the labour returning, tuberculosis cases are also beginning to rise again,” said Chawla, adding that locals who stayed behind continued to be treated. Patients also took advantage of the government scheme of allowing patients to keep a stock of medicine for a month. “Normally, we would detect 6,000 to 7,000 cases in a year, but this year the figures have crossed 13,000 already. However, there has been no rise in tuberculosis deaths and it maintained an average of 4%,” said Chawla.No spike in Covid deaths due to tuberculosisWhile most people believe that tuberculosis patients are more susceptible to Covid, but the report compiled by the district health department has shown no such trend.“Around 1% of tuberculosis patients were found to be Covid positive, which is the same as the national average of cases. I believe it was largely because of the widespread coverage of the coronavirus vaccination program,” said Dr Chawla.Most tuberculosis cases detected in dingy migrant coloniesIt was seen that more cases were being reported from urban areas due to a a large influx of migrants and poor working and living conditions in water-tight compartments. “The lifestyle of the urban population is such and they do not pay much attention to the warning signs, owing to which, more cases are detected from urban areas. As may as 80% of the cases are of pulmonary tuberculosis,” he said.What WHO report saysAs per WHO’s 2021 global tuberculosis report, reporting of tuberculosis cases in India went down by 41% between 2019 and 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. The UN health agency said 1.5 million people worldwide had died of the bacterial disease last year, a slight rise from the 1.4 million deaths in 2019. The increase in tuberculosis deaths, a first in more than a decade, took place in mainly 30 countries with the highest caseload, including India. The report said the number of people newly diagnosed with TB and those reported to national governments fell to 5.8 million in 2020 from 7.1 million in 2019.WHO estimates that some 4.1 million people currently suffer from tuberculosisbut have not been diagnosed with the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-drop-out-cases-among-tb-patients-doubled-in-covid-pandemic-101634420648291.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Domestic help nabbed for theft at Chandigarh house||A domestic help has been arrested for stealing ₹30,000 from the house of his employer’s relative in Sector 7, Chandigarh. The accused has been identified as Deepak Bhandari, who has been working at the house of a businessman, Sunil Kumar, in Sector 7 for the last two years. In his complaint, Kumar said Deepak stole ₹30,000 from his sister’s house in Sector 7. A case under Section 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Sector 26 police station. In another incident, Kali Parsad, a resident of Sector 15, alleged that some unidentified people decamped with two mobile phones, and a bag containing clothes and wristwatches, from his house. A case under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) of the IPC was registered at the Sector 11 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/domestic-help-nabbed-for-theft-at-chandigarh-house-101634420473202.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hilal Rather joins Peoples Conference||Hilal Rather, son of former J&K finance minister and senior National Conference leader Rahim Rather, on Saturday joined the Peoples Conference.Last year, Hilal Rather was arrested in a bank fraud case for alleged misappropriation of ₹177 crore from term loans sanctioned by the Jammu and Kashmir bank for his ambitious township project, Paradise Avenue at Narwal Bala, Jammu.Rather joined the Peoples Conference in presence of PC president Sajad Gani Lone.Welcoming Rather into the fold, party president Sajad Gani Lone said he is a new generation leader who will, in the future, play a pivotal role in the politics of J&K and facilitate its transition from changelessness to change.“I have known him for decades now. He (Hilal) is an enterprising, educated and capable young man who has the interests of the people of J&K at the core of his politics. Interestingly, he had promised me long back that he will join me one day in this caravan of change. And today he has fulfilled his commitment,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hilal-rather-joins-peoples-conference-101634420472200.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||PUTA elections:Three file nominations for president’s post||Three candidates have filed their nominations for the post of president for the upcoming elections of the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA), as per the list of valid nominations released on Saturday.The three candidates include present PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar. The other two candidates, Manu Sharma and Yajvender Pal, are from the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET). The election for the office-bearers of PU’s teaching body is scheduled on October 28. Saturday was the last day to file nominations and valid nominations were released after scrutiny. Candidates can withdraw their nominations on Sunday after which the final list of candidates will be released. For the post of vice-president, three candidates, Anil Kumar (UIPS), Ikreet Singh Bal (Dental College) and Supinder Kaur (law department), are in fray. Also, three candidates, Amarjit Singh Naura (biochemistry), Kashmir Singh (biotechnology) and Naresh Kumar (UIET), have joined the contest for the post of secretary. Minto Rattan (UIET), Sarvnarinder Kaur (biophysics) and Shivani Sharma (philosophy) are expected to fight for the post of joint secretary.A total of 10 candidates have filed nominations for executive Group-I, nine for Group-II and 12 for Group-III.Last year professor Mohammed Khalid had contested against Mritunjay Kumar for the president’s post, and the Mritunjay-Naura group had managed a clean sweep against the rival Khalid group.Dental faculty to take part in polls after two yearsTeachers from PU’s dental institute will take part in the PUTA elections this time after boycotting PUTA for the last two years. In 2019, the dental college teachers had boycotted PUTA, citing that the teachers’ body has done nothing for them, especially regarding the issue of their promotion policy, which still remains unresolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/puta-elections-three-file-nominations-for-president-s-post-101634420471015.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Snatchers flee with woman’s gold chain, teen’s mobile phones||Snatchers struck once again on Friday, taking away a 56-year-old woman’s gold chain in Sector 47 and a teenager’s mobile phones in Kishangarh.The woman, Usha V Nambiar, a resident of Zirakpur, told the police that she and her family were at the Ayappa temple in Sector 47 for Dussehra prayers. There she noticed a man lurking around her. When she stepped outside to wait for her son to fetch their car, the man snatched her chain and fled with his accomplice waiting on a motorcycle nearby.Onlookers ran after the motorcycle, but the snatchers managed to flee. Later at night, three scooter-borne men targeted a 19-year-old youth at Kishangarh. In his complaint, Johnson, a resident of Bapu Dham, said he was in Kishangarh to attend a party with his friends. Around 11.30pm, he and a friend were near Shivalik Garden Chowk, when three men on a Honda Activa approached them and snatched two mobile phones from his hand. Separate cases under Section 379-A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code were registered at the Sector-31 and IT Park police stations, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhsnatchers-flee-with-woman-s-gold-chain-teen-s-mobile-phones-101634420469332.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate elections: Last phase of polling on October 17||The over two-month-long Panjab University (PU) senate elections will conclude on Sunday with polling at the remaining 61 booths of the registered graduate constituency.Voting at 211 booths was held on September 26. Of the eight constituencies in the senate, the registered graduate is the largest with 3.61 lakh voters and elects 15 members to the governing body. Polling for the remaining seven constituencies is over and 32 candidates have been declared elected. The senate elections began on August 3 with polling booths set up across seven states and UTs.As many as 43 candidates are in fray from the registered graduate constituency, including a few former student leaders. Counting of votes will start on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-elections-last-phase-of-polling-on-october-17-101634420468175.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Different speed signages in Chandigarh confuse motorists||Ever since uniform speed limits were notified in the city in April, speed signages all over city roads are being updated and new ones are being installed at many places. However, on some roads, the old signages haven’t been taken down yet. So, much to the surprise of commuters, on some roads, the speed limit for light motor vehicles is both 50km/h and 60km/h. A check of roads in the city revealed that on many roads both signages are present. These were seen on various intersections along the entire Sukhna Path. There were also two boards put up together on the Sector 7/8 dividing road. President of the Sector 8 Resident Welfare Association (RWA) RS Gill said, “This is something we have recently noticed near our sector. The authorities must ensure that such speed signs are removed as soon as possible as commuters are being confused.”Road safety activist Harpreet Singh said, “The confusion will also be among the traffic police who have to implement the speed limit. People following different speed limits can be dangerous.”However, the traffic police claimed to have put up speeding nakas only on roads where the speed limits have been updated and where the previous signages had been removed. Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Traffic, Manisha Choudhary said, “We have been regularly following up this issue with the UT engineering department to complete the work at the earliest. We are also getting our own survey conducted to find out such discrepancies and will inform the department so that these can be rectified.”The traffic police were informed about two signages with different speed limits put up together on the Sector 36-37 dividing road. However, the older signage stays put.As per the updated rules, speed limits for light motor vehicles are 60km/h on dual carriageway roads (roads with dividers) and 50km/h for single carriageway roads (roads without dividers). Earlier on some of the dual carriageway roads, the speed limit was 50km/h, which is why the signage is being updated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/different-speed-signages-in-chandigarh-confuse-motorists-101634420417108.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two Chandigarh residents fall prey to online fraud||Two city residents were targeted by online fraudsters. A Sector 23 resident was duped of ₹20.12 lakh by imposters who claimed to be employees of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA). In his complaint, Narinder Singh, a resident of Sector 23, alleged that he got a call from an unidentified number, with the caller posing as an employee of the IRDA. The caller told him that he could help him claim the maturity amount of his insurance policy. Later, he received calls from different numbers and they took his bank details, following which ₹20.12 lakh were withdrawn from his account. A case under Sections 419, 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered. In the other case, a resident of Sector 39, lost ₹18,000 while trying to sell furniture through an online portal. In his complaint, Ravi Bhusan Kansal, a resident of Sector 38, told the police that his daughter had posted an advertisement on OLX for selling old furniture. He said a man,identifying himself as Manoj Kumar, contacted him about it. To make the payment, he shared a link and asked him to click on it. As he accessed the link, ₹18,000 were debited from his account. A case under Sections 419, 420 and 120 -B of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-chandigarh-residents-fall-prey-to-online-fraud-101634420415985.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s dengue cases double in a day, 205 found infected||The dengue infections continue to rapidly multiply across the tricity as 205 fresh cases surfaced on Saturday, a twofold rise from 101 infections on Friday.Mohali reported 147 cases, followed by Chandigarh with 32 and Panchkula 26. So far this year, Mohali has detected 1,411 confirmed dengue cases, far ahead of Chandigarh’s tally of 365 and Panchkula’s total of 297.As many as 12 people have also lost the battle to the infection in Mohali, while the UT and Panchkula have not reported any fatality.The Chandigarh health department has already issued 7,594 notices to violators, warning them to clear stagnating water to prevent mosquito breeding, while 434 people have been challaned for not adhering to the notices. Covid: No new case in Mohali, Panchkula; two test positive in ChandigarhBattling the steady rise in dengue cases, the tricity got some respite with Panchkula and Mohali reporting no fresh Covid-19 infection on Saturday.Even Chandigarh logged only two cases, making it the tricity’s lowest single-day tally in over 18 months. Both patients are residents of Sector 28.With this, tricity’s active caseload also dropped to 60, including 28 in Chandigarh, 26 in Mohali and six in Panchkula.Chandigarh has found 65,299 patients positive till date, of whom 64,451 have been cured and 820 have died. Mohali’s case count of 68,775 includes 67,681 recoveries and 1,068 deaths.In Panchkula, of the total 30,749 cases, 30,365 patients have recovered and 378 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-dengue-cases-double-in-a-day-205-found-infected-101634420415003.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cracker ban goes up in smoke on Dussehra: Chandigarh Police lodge 10 FIRs||As many as five Ramlila associations and seven individuals are facing legal action for violating the firecracker ban imposed by the Chandigarh administration during the Dussehra celebrations on Friday.Police on Friday night booked five Ramlila associations for use of crackers while burning Ravana effigies at the Dussehra events in Sectors 28 and 34, and Maloya and Manimajra.Three people were also booked for bursting crackers near the Dussehra ground in Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26.On Saturday, similar cases were registered against one Naseem, who burst crackers at Ramlila Ground, Sector 27D, and two unidentified people who violated the ban at the Circus Ground in Sector 17 and Ramlila Ground in Sector 29. As the sale of crackers is also prohibited in the city, a shopkeeper from Sector 42 was also booked for violating the order.May face six-month jailAll FIRs have been lodged under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. If proven guilty, the convicts may face imprisonment up to six months or fine up to ₹1,000.Reacting to the police action, president of the Sector 28 Ramlila Association, Bikram Singh said, “It has hurt our religious sentiments as Hindus. Other religious communities are allowed to celebrate their festivals anyway they like, so why the bias against us? The administration will harass us in a similar manner on Diwali.”Gulshan Kumar, president of the Sector 20 Ramlila Association, that had organised the Dussehra celebrations in Sector 34, said, “These cases are frivolous. Why wasn’t the ban on crackers shared when we were given permission for the event? Adhering to the ban, which came two days before the event, would have required ripping the effigies apart to remove the crackers.”City BJP chief to take up matter with governorBJP unit head Arun Sood, who was present at the Sector-34 event, where crackers were burst despite a warning by the SDM (South), said any criminal action against people for just celebrating a festival was unacceptable.Stating that he will speak to the Punjab governor and UT administrator about this, Sood said, “The authorities with their dictatorial orders have hurt Hindu sentiments. After I raised concerns over whether the NGT order will be applicable in Chandigarh on Dussehra, why didn’t the administration check its legality? It is not wrong to break an unfair law and Gandhiji had done the same by making salt at Sabarmati.”Sood added that effigies erected in Sector 40 and Ram Darbar couldn’t even burn properly without crackers, which was inauspicious as per Hindu customs regarding cremations.He said a complaint had also been submitted at the Sarangpur police station about cops, who misbehaved with children and kicked down a four-foot Ravana made by them.A day before the festival, Sood had called a meeting with two Ramlila bodies of the city and told them to celebrate the festival as per traditions and that he will ensure they don’t face any action. Even after the FIRs, the organisers laid blame with the authorities.“We have registered FIRs against the violators, and anyone found instigating people to violate the cracker ban will not be spared,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cracker-ban-goes-up-in-smoke-on-dussehra-chandigarh-police-lodge-10-firs-101634420413971.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur knifepoint robbery solved with arrest of five||Police have cracked the September 28 knifepoint robbery at a Zirakpur shop with the arrest of its former worker and her four accomplices.Police said the accused, Navneet Kaur, alias Monika, hailing from Faridkot, used to work for the victim at Ashui Cosmetics near Patiala Chowk, Zirakpur.Her accomplices include her husband, Gurpreet Singh, brother Manveer Singh, who lives in Ludhiana, and Manpreet Singh and Manjinder Singh, both hailing from Faridkot. On September 28, the victim, Manpreet Singh, a resident of Patiala, was robbed of a gold chain and kara at knifepoint at his shop. Navneet’s accomplices had entered the premises posing as customers, while she waited in a Toyota Innova parked outside. Before fleeing, the accused also took away the CCTV DVR. The snatched gold chain and kara, along with the knife and vehicle used in the crime, have been recovered by the police. The accused are facing a case under Sections 451 (house trespass), 379B (snatching after preparation made for causing death, hurt or restraint) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code. They were produced before a court on Saturday and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-knifepoint-robbery-solved-with-arrest-of-five-101634420412753.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: IMD issues orange alert, predicts up to 40mm rain||After a spell of dry days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange warning for moderate rain up to 40mm and gusty winds in the city on Sunday. Orange (be prepared) is the second-highest of the four-colour IMD warning system, warning of bad weather, with potential effect on commute and power supply.Red (take action), the most severe, is issued when extremely bad weather has significant risk to life. Yellow (be aware) indicates several bad weather, which could worsen, and green reflects all is well and no advisory is issued.With paddy procurement underway in the region, the IMD has warned against keeping harvested produce in the open to avoid damage. Farmers also shouldn’t apply fertilisers or pesticides in this period, while the public in general must take precautions against the rain and the winds.“The showers will be a result of a low-pressure area moving over the region and also interacting with a weak Western Disturbance. Most of the impact is expected on Sunday, while chances of rain will continue on Monday as well,” said Manmohan Singh, director, IMD, Chandigarh.A major drop in the mercury is also expected with the change in weather. Depending on when the rain starts, the maximum temperature may fall by 10 degrees, according to IMD officials.On Saturday, the day temperature rose to 36.4°C from 35.9°C on Friday, just 0.1 notch lesser than 36.5°C on October 12, the hottest day in the month in over 13 years.The night temperature also rose from 19°C to 20.6°C. Over the next three days, highs and lows of 28°C and 20°C are expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhimd-issues-orange-alert-predicts-up-to-40mm-rain-101634420411696.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||16-year-old bike taxi customer killed in hit-and-run mishap in Chandigarh||A 16-year-old boy, riding a bike taxi to reach home after returning from Rajasthan, was killed after a truck rammed into the two-wheeler near the Railway Station traffic lights on Friday.The victim, Dev, a resident of Old Indira Colony, Manimajra, was dragged for several metres as the motorcycle got stuck under the heavy vehicle, before its driver sped away.The bike taxi driver, Rakesh Kumar of Sector 29, was also injured. Kumar told the police that Dev had booked the bike taxi through InDriver from Tribune Chowk to reach home after arriving from Rajasthan on a bus. During their commute, a truck loaded with gas cylinders hit his motorcycle from behind. The injured were shifted to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, from where Dev was referred to PGIMER. But he died during treatment. Onlookers managed to jot down the truck’s registration number as PB-13AB-4594. Police have launched a search for its driver after booking him under Sections 304-A (causing death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by endangering life) of the Indian Penal Code at the IT Park police station. Woman hit by truck dies
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Woman’s body in plastic bag: Bihar man held, prime suspect on the run||Probing into the discovery of a woman’s body in a plastic bag on the Kharar-Ropar highway on August 21, police have arrested a Bihar native, an accomplice of her absconding lover.Police said the prime suspect, Pankaj Kumar, and his cousin, Nitish Kumar, who has been arrested, strangled the victim, Sanjana Devi, after sedating her. “They killed her at their house in Badmajra on August 15. After she died, they tied up her hands and feet with a rope, packed the body in a plastic bag and dumped it on the highway,” said Navjot Singh Mahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Mohali. The crime came to fore after passers-by notified the police about the foul-smelling plastic bag. Victim had eloped with accused in FebDuring investigation, police traced the victim’s husband, Subodh Sharma, to Bihar.He revealed that Sanjana had eloped with Pankaj in February, and had also taken their two sons, aged nine and six, along. Since then, she and the children had been living with Pankaj and Nitish in different places in Mohali, including Phase 1, Badmajra and Balongi. Nitish was arrested from Balongi following a raid, while Pankaj remains at large. During questioning, Nitish revealed that his cousin was no longer interested in Sanjana, and wanted to get rid of her and her sons.Before her murder, he left her two sons at different undisclosed locations in the wee hours of August 15. “Police teams were working to trace the children and nab Pankaj,” said the SSP.The accused are facing charges under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/womans-body-in-plastic-bag-bihar-man-held-prime-suspect-on-the-run-101634420408354.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pulwama encounter: Top LeT commander, another militant gunned down by forces||Jammu and Kashmir police claimed to have killed two militants suspected of killing police and civilians, on Saturday. A top Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) commander, involved in the killing of two constables, was among those killed.The terrorists, Umer Mushtaq Khandey and Shahid Khurshid, were killed in Pulwama district. Khandey was among the top 10 commanders operating in Kashmir. Khandey was involved in the killing of two constables – Mohammad Yousf and Suhail Ahmad – in Baghat in Srinagar in February, police said.The operation to track down the militants was launched during the night at Drangbal Pampore as they were hiding in a three-storied concrete building.“LeT commander amongst top 10 terrorists namely Umar Mustaq Khandey who was involved in the killing of two police personnel at Baghat Srinagar & other terror crimes trapped in Pampore encounter,” Vijay Kumar, inspector general of police, Kashmir, said in a tweet.Khandey was in August named among the top 10 militant targets by police, along with Salim Parray, Yousuf Kantroo, Abbas Sheikh, Reyaz Shetergund, Farooq Nali, Zubair Wani and Ashraf Molvi, Saqib Manzoor and Wakeel Shah. Police are committed to hunt down these militants, Kumar said.Based on specific inputs regarding the presence of terrorists, two operations were carried out in Pulwama last night and Srinagar on Friday evening, resulting in the killing of two militants belonging to LeT, Kumar said. Police identified the killed militants as Shahid Bashir Shiekh and Tanzeel Ahmad, both residents of Srinagar. They were involved in recent killings of a civilian and a probationary sub-inspector in Srinagar.In the Pulwama encounter, one militant identified as Shahid Bashir Sheikh of Habba Kadal, Srinagar, was killed, Kumar said.“As per police records, he had joined the terror folds recently and was linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). He was involved in the killing of a civilian Mohammad Shafi Dar (PDD Employee) at Batamaloo Srinagar on October 2. He was also responsible for creating terror among the locals by threatening, intimidating and killing civilians,” Kumar said in a tweet. TRF which stands for The Resistance Front is an arm of the LeT.In another operation at Hamdaniya Colony, Bemina, one militant identified as Tanzeel Ahmad of Habba Kadal, Srinagar, was killed. “As per police records, he had joined the terror folds recently and was linked with proscribed terror outfit LeT (TRF). He was involved in the killing of PSI Arshid Ashraf at Khanyar area of Srinagar in September,” Kumar tweeted. Shahid and Tanzil were also collaborators in the recent killings of a chemist and two teachers in Srinagar, Kumar said. “Incriminating materials, including arms (2 AK 47 rifles) and ammunition, have been recovered from the site of encounters,” the inspector general said.Police has shot dead 13 militants in nine encounters after a spate of civilian killings in Kashmir this month.“We have neutralised 3 out of 5 terrorists of Srinagar City within less than 24 hours,” Kumar tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pulwama-encounter-top-let-commander-another-militant-gunned-down-by-forces-101634420288258.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Devinder Rana, Slathia get rousing reception in Jammu||Devender Singh Rana and Surjeet Singh Slathia, on Saturday, were accorded a rousing reception on their maiden visit to Jammu after joining the Bharatiya Janata Party. Rana strongly pitched for upholding the cause of Jammu, saying he will not compromise with the interest of the region even if it meant sacrificing his political career.“Jammu Declaration, a concept of Jammu, for Jammu and by Jammu, is a narrative from here for inclusive Jammu and Kashmir to achieve the objective of socio-economic, political and developmental parity between all the regions and sub-regions with no region and no section, irrespective of caste, creed and religion, nurturing feeling of deprivation or discrimination, domination or subjugation,” Rana told a strong gathering of thousands after arriving his residence in a mega rally from Airport, covering the distance of less than two kilometres in three-and-a- half hours, adding that the unprecedented affection and enthusiasm demonstrated by the people is an endorsement of the Jammu Declaration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/devinder-rana-slathia-get-rousing-reception-in-jammu-101634419748038.html
17-10-2021||Bhopal||Mob forces MP girl to take off burkha: Police||A girl was forced to remove her burkha and face covering by a group of people in Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday afternoon after suspecting that the man on whose scooter she was riding pillion was a Hindu, police said. No case has been registered in the connection with the incident that took place in Islam Nagar and a video of which went viral soon after, but preventive action had been taken under section 151 of IPC against two people, an official sad. In the video, a man from the group, who is apparently shooting the video, is heard telling the girl her act was disgracing "our" community, while some women can be seen trying to force her to show her face. "A youth and the girl arrived in Islam Nagar in the afternoon. Some people stopped them and asked the girl to take off her burkha and show her face. It is suspected that the people believed the man was Hindu and the girl Muslim," Intkhedi police station in charge RS Verma told PTI. "No case has been registered but preventive action under section 151 of IPC was taken against two men seen in the video, who were let off with a warning to not repeat such an act," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mob-forces-mp-girl-to-take-off-burkha-police-101634416151229.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | The myna that fled Kabul||Horrific images of Afghans clinging to the wheels and falling of evacuation aircrafts onto Kabul rooftops defined global perceptions of the aftermath of the Taliban takeover in August. But a tale of a unique escape has emerged several weeks later and it serves as a small but heart-warming counterpoint to the evacuation tragedy. The revelation came this month from no less an entity than the French Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates, Xavier Chatel, and he had kept this little story locked up in his kind heart all these weeks. Chatel took to Twitter and his recount of the great escape of a Common myna and her Afghan refugee owner, Alia, found global resonance.It emerges from Chatel’s narrative that Alia arrived at the Al Dhafra air base in the UAE. Alia had fled Kabul exhausted, with an unusual possession: a bird. “She had fought all the way at Kabul airport to bring the treasured little thing with her. For sanitary reasons, the bird could not embark on the plane from Al Dhafra air base to Paris. She cried silently. I was moved. I promised to take care of the bird at (my) residence, feed him. She could visit him anytime and take him back. I won’t forget her look of desperate gratefulness,” tweeted Chatel.Chatel took Alia’s myna under his wing, accorded the myna diplomatic treatment and the bird currently occupies pride of place at the Ambassador’s residence in Abu Dhabi. The myna has learnt to mimic the French word, Bonjour, but after inflicting a series of petulant pecks on the good Chatel and peppering his gleaming car with nervous poop! Alia, who is safely in Paris, managed to trace Chatel on Twitter, and was anxious to know the fate of her feathered sweetheart. Her separation from the myna turned into a symbol of fleeing Afghans torn apart from their homes, families, possessions and life itself. “She was so happy to see her bird cared for. She wanted me to teach him French. Alia, your bird has become the embassy’s mascot, but he is here for you, and if I can, I’ll take him personally to you one day,” was Chatel’s promise to a grateful, reassured Alia on Twitter.The jungle’s necklace Nishant Prabhakar likes to label himself a “tree entrepreneur”. A resident of Panchkula’s Sector 7, Prabhakar’s family owns lands 2 km away from Morni town under the revenue jurisdiction of village Balig. He has innovatively planted trees of the Himalayan high-altitudes such as the Deodar, spruce, fir and oak in the Morni hills. When he is not attending to his beloved trees, Prabhakar is busy saving the snakes that wander into his homestay at village Balig. The local workers he employed killed a couple of the snakes before Prabhakar put an end to the needless killings. A firm believer in granting rights to exist to every living being, including plants, Prabhakar also saved a baby cobra that wandered under his bed and then climbed the curtains in sheer fright.Last week, a veritable necklace of the Morni jungles, cast in gorgeous jade, strayed into the homestead. A local lady from Balig, who collects fodder from the jungles, spotted the venomous species, a Northern White-lipped pit viper (Haryal) draped in the thick foliage. She informed Prabhakar so that he could kill the viper and thus supposedly rid the homestay of “danger”. But to the surprise of the locals, and it set the long tongues wagging, the viper has stayed put in the homestay till now, safe under Prabhakar’s indulgent eye. A persistent Prabhakar strives to change the locals’ perception of wildlife, especially snakes, by taking calculated risks and leading from the front to conserve biodiversity. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-the-myna-that-fled-kabul-101634416149309.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | All of us must give back to society||Every individual can make a unique contribution, positive or negative, to society. Those who have much to give in terms of knowledge and skill decide to shut themselves and live in a cocoon due to reasons best known to them, which deprives society of a chance to make a difference in the lives of those in need. It is the responsibility of every person to share the knowledge they have acquired as it not only helps others but also the person sharing the knowledge. They must let their skills help others let the unique fragrance of their personality to pervade society. Personality is a complex and confusing word. It is generally understood, especially in this part of the country, in a rather narrow sense of the word. Most perceive it to imply certain evident traits such as physical attributes, charm, smartness, communication skills, social acceptability and so on. However, in truth, personality is to a person what fragrance is to a flower. Just as a big and beautiful flower is useless unless its fragrance saturates the air, similarly a handsome man or a beautiful woman needs to let their personality shine through. Those with a beautiful mind can become a tool of social change if they adopt the mission of spreading goodness and happiness. The tricity, because of its quaint charm, is a home to many people who are blessed with a unique power to give in diverse fields such as art and culture, business, education, or sports, but most of them are indifferent to the fate of others as they are comfortable in their own locked jails. Fortunately, there are some who are proactive and have taken upon themselves to make a positive difference and are changing many lives through their interventions.Some philanthropists may feel happy by simply signing a cheque to get rid of the guilt of their luxurious lifestyles, but this may mean little unless they accept bringing social change as their personal responsibility.I am lucky to be working with some who want to make the tricity beautiful in every possible way. During my close association with some of them, I have realized that they are not doing it for photo-ops and are genuinely concerned about certain issues that deserve urgent attention. It may be in as diverse fields as generating ideas to help administration, motivating the youth or encouraging young writers, and sportspersons or helping preserve our culture and heritage. My personal focus is om efforts to stop the sharp decline in moral values of the youth. Gifted achievers such as general VP Malik (retd), VK Kapoor, IPS(retd), Vivek Atray (IAS,retd), BN Goswami, NishaLuthra, and many others have dedicated themselves to the common good to improve the lot of others.Though silent personal examples of such achievers have inspired and influenced many lives when they were in position of authority, they are now devoting quality time to various organisations for a better reach. Because of their concerted efforts many organisations such as the think tank Suvichar, Chandigarh Literary Society, Vibrant Networking Forum, PlayWrite, Chandigarh Chapter of Indian National Trust for Culture and Heritage, and The Narrators to name a few are doing an admirable work and more and more responsible citizens are supporting the noble causes.There is need to create a shared awareness among the fortunate and gifted citizens, necessary for collective action for improving individuals, especially the youth, who are trustees of posterity and functioning of government and private organisations. I hope it will motivate otherwise indifferent and unconcerned achievers who have the choice of expanding their lives and becoming nobler than themselves to celebrate the sheer joy of giving.colcheema1942@gmail.com(The writer is a Panchkula-based freelance contributor)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-all-of-us-must-give-back-to-society-101634415787760.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Super-100 programme: 26 Haryana govt school students bag IIT seats||As many as 26 students trained under Haryana’s flagship ‘Super-100’ programme have bagged IIT seats this year by clearing JEE Advanced exam, an official spokesperson said. The students who pass 10th class with more than 80 per cent marks from government schools are selected for this programme after a multi-layered screening process. The cost of lodging, food, stationery, transport, mock tests etc. is being borne by the state government. The coaching is being provided by Vikalp Foundation in Rewari. In this programme started in 2018, admission is given to the meritorious students of the state government schools after which they are prepared for the competitive examinations to get admission in higher educational institutions of the country. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will felicitate such meritorious students at a state-level function scheduled to be held on October 22 in Panchkula. The spokesperson said in 2019-21 session, training has been completed by 119 students in Rewari and Panchkula centres for the non-medical stream. During the JEE (Main) examination, 54 students qualified for the advanced test, out of which 26 students of the state have confirmed their seats in IITs. In this programme, 10 students from SC category have secured their place in IIT and Sushil Kumar from Ambala has an All India Rank of 192 in the SC category. In OBC category, eight students have qualified. At the same time, eight students of general category have also secured the seats. In view of the success of the programme, Khattar had directed to increase the number of centres of Super-100 programme to four last year so that maximum students of the state could draw the benefit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/super100-programme-26-haryana-govt-school-students-bag-iit-seats-101634415607761.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Moga market committee chairman joins Akali Dal in presence of Sukhbir Badal||Moga market committee chairman and senior Congress leader Rajinderpal Singh Gill, a close associate of local MLA Harjot Kamal, joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal in Ludhiana on Saturday. Inducting him in the SAD, Sukhbir said, “I assure him (Gill) that he will get due respect and suitable responsibility in the party.” The move was seen a jolt to the local Congress unit in Moga with party leaders blaming MLA Kamal for the development. Nihal Singh Wala market committee president and Congress leader Parampal Singh Takhtupura said, “This will hurt us badly in the upcoming assembly elections. Rajinderpal Singh’s family was with Congress from the beginning. All this is happening to the functioning of Harjot Kamal.” “How will we go to the polls when senior leaders are leaving the Congress?” he asked. Former Baghapurana MLA and senior Congress leader Vijay Sathi said, “The chairman was facing harassment at the hands of the MLA. We request our state leadership to take action.” MLA Kamal did not respond to calls and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-market-committee-chairman-joins-akali-dal-in-presence-of-sukhbir-badal-101634415487875.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer union leaders, opposition parties responsible for Singhu lynching: Punjab BJP chief||Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ashwani Sharma on Saturday said that farmer union leaders and opposition parties were solely responsible for the “horrific killing” at the Singhu border near Delhi. In a press release, Sharma alleged that Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait was fanning anti-national sentiments and is playing with fire by giving “provocative speeches” in a desperate attempt to further his political career. The state BJP chief said the Singhu and Tikri borders have turned into hubs of heinous crimes like murders, assaults and lootings. “Every time a crime is committed, the union leaders immediately distance themselves from it. This is a democracy and the law of the land cannot be taken into hands by people who further their political ambitions. People have suffered immensely for one year as this agitation has disrupted their daily lives,” he said.“I was attacked on the Jalandhar-Pathankot highway a few months ago and the police are yet to take any concrete action against those behind the murder attempt,” said Sharma. The law and order situation in Punjab was in a shambles but the chief minister was more concerned about travelling to other states to lodge protest, he alleged. “He should focus on giving good governance to people in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-union-leaders-opposition-parties-responsible-for-singhu-lynching-punjab-bjp-chief-101634415067503.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu lynching: Will upgrade security, say farmer unions||Facing flak over the gruesome killing of a man at the Singhu border, farmer leaders on Saturday said they will upgrade security by installing CCTV cameras and increasing the number of volunteers at the protest sites even as they asserted that the incident will have no impact on the agitation against the Centre’s three agri laws. Lakhbir Singh, a 36-year-old Dalit farm labourer, was lynched on Friday allegedly by a group of Nihangs who accused him of desecrating a Sikh holy book. His body was found tied to an overturned police barricade at the Singhu Border protest site, with the left hand chopped off and over 10 wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons. One Sarabjit Singh has been arrested and remanded in police custody for a week. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions is spearheading the protests, issued a statement on Friday distancing itself from the incident and said that it wanted to make it clear that “both the parties to the incident”, the Nihang group and the victim, have no relation with the Morcha. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), which is leading the charge at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, said more cameras would be installed and there shall be a change in the deployment of volunteers at the protest site in the wake of the Friday incident. “So far volunteers affiliated to local groups of farmer unions were deployed at the protest site to monitor the situation and coordinate security-related issues. But it has been decided now that such volunteers shall be deployed only by SKM at protest sites,” BKU’s media in-charge Dharmendra Malik told PTI. It was also decided that the groups or individuals who are participating in the movement but hold ideologies that are different from the SKM’s policies shall be asked to vacate the protest sites or adopt the agendas of the farmers’ collective, he added. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar of Bharatiya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh, which is part of SKM, said that the farmers’ body stays proactive whenever such an incident occurs and revises its security details, if needed. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, general secretary of BKU (Lakhowal), alleged that the incident was a ploy to divert attention from the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singhu-lynching-will-upgrade-security-say-farmer-unions-101634415007817.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC general secretary offers legal aid to Singhu lynching accused||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) general secretary Bhagwant Singh Sialka on Saturday offered legal assistance to the accused arrested in connection with the killing of a man allegedly by nihangs at the farmers’ protest site at the Singhu border. In a social media post, Sialka, a lawyer, said, “At the Singhu border, the Sikhs present there took action as per the Khalsa tradition. I will pursue the case registered against nihang Saravjit Singh.” Talking over phone, Sialka said that nothing was above the Guru for a Sikh. “If anyone comes to attack Guru, a Sikh has right to defence. Some forces are making a hue and cry over it. They are actually justifying the sacrilege,” he added. Incident tragic, says Jagir KaurTerming the Singhu border incident as tragic, SGPC president Jagir Kaur claimed that conspiracies were being hatched to derail the farmers’ struggle against the central government’s three agriculture laws. “Had the government come forward to resolve the farmers’ issues, these unfortunate incidents would not happen. It has been 10 months since the farmers are sitting at the Delhi border, but the government is not addressing their concerns,” she said. Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal chief Harnam Singh Khalsa said the Sikhs who took the step had no option but to uphold dignity of their religious scripture. “The Centre and Punjab government have not shown sincerity toward resolving the issues of sacrilege. The sangat will contribute to help the nihangs fight legal battle,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-general-secretary-offers-legal-aid-to-singhu-lynching-accused-101634414827544.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column | Pitfalls of stardom without claim to fame||A young man with no claim to fame, except that he is a superstar’s son, has landed himself in a soup. Strangely, barring his genealogy, the 23-year-old has absolutely no credentials to speak of, be it noteworthy educational qualifications, or an oeuvre of work, and yet he has been the blue-eyed boy of the paparazzi and has been touted as the ‘next star kid to look out for’ by media moguls and pundits.The social media has been his crib and has cradled him with much aplomb. He was ‘papped’ partying hard with friends, ‘vacaying’ at gorgeous locations across the world and even captured as he left and entered his house. He has 1.6 million followers on a particular social media site and an exclusive fan club to his name, and yet he does not have a single movie to his credit, except lending his voice to a cartoon character in the dubbed version of a Hollywood film.In a twist in the tale, the golden boy is in knee-deep trouble for substance abuse. The social media is abuzz with the viral videos and snapshots of the young man in custody and crying his heart out. The opinions are diverse and so are the reactions of the well-known and not-so-well-known. Our very own Parliamentarian famous for his gargantuan vocabulary has not been found lacking in both–his grandiloquent expression of the situation and in doling out sympathy towards the distressed family. However, here are a few lessons to be learnt from the episode. For one, how much attention should be paid to star kids? Should they be exposed to this kind of unwarranted media attention or should there be a restriction? Psychologists believe that most stars or public figures are adults and are, therefore, able to handle the media attention and pressure in a significantly better manner. Unnecessary publicity and the glare of glamour is a completely different ball game when it comes to child stars, let alone star kids who have not intentionally chosen to be a part of it. In foreign countries, a number of celebrities have chosen strict restrictions on how the paparazzi can take their pictures. It is also their right to have their kids’ faces blurred when ‘papped’. Such restriction can certainly allow the star kids some privacy and let them lead a peaceful life ‘far from the madding crowd’.The second lesson to be learnt is what happens when the media attention is not unwarranted and the star kids start enjoying the celebrity status meted out to them ignoring their lack of individual identity? Once again psychologists believe that this is a threatening situation where the child stars or star kid get accustomed to fame and develop serious disorders as their lives are initially constantly broadcast and later they fight the threat of invisibility. As they enjoy celebrity status, they tend to overstep some boundaries, which may be decency or law and order. The drama that has unfolded after the arrest of the superstar’s son is similar to what happened to the son of an actor-turned-parliamentarian. The actor has practically lived his life in and out of prison and rehabilitation centres. Between his stints at jail, Bollywood’s very own ‘Khalnayak’ showed streaks of talent and immense potential, which could have been exploited further had he been able to stay grounded. The third lesson is for the media and the public. Both should learn to give some star kids some space and not unnecessarily harangue them or lavish them with undeserved idolatry. Let them attain celebrity on their own merits, rather than for their lineage.sonrok15@gmail.com(The writer is an associate professor at SD College, Ambala Cantt)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-pitfalls-of-stardom-without-claim-to-fame-101634414647389.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Unite like-minded parties against Centre’s BSF jurisdiction extension: Akali Dal leader to Badals||Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia on Saturday appealed to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch Parkash Singh Badal and party president Sukhbir Singh Badal to bring all like-minded opposition parties on one platform to oppose the central government’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab.Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, the Akali MLA also appealed to all village panchayats in the state to rise above party lines and pass resolutions against the decision. “The party is ready for a struggle to ensure this anti-Punjab decision, which is part of a conspiracy to bring the state under central rule, is withdrawn. We may even launch a ‘jail bharo’ agitation,” he added. It is not a mere coincidence, he alleged, that Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi met Union home minister Amit Shah on October 5 and the decision was taken nine days later.“CM Channi tried to wash his hands off the issue with a mere statement instead of opposing the move in concrete terms. State home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa has no right to continue in office after this move as it was the second time he sold off the interests of the state to the Centre,” the Akali leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/unite-like-minded-parties-against-centre-s-bsf-jurisdiction-extension-akali-dal-leader-to-badals-101634414467535.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column | My journey from the fourth estate to PR||My parents wanted me to become a doctor, but Fate had other plans and I failed to clear the Punjab Medical Entrance Test, which was held for the first time in 1980 for MBBS aspirants. Disappointed with my performance, I decided to pursue graduation in arts and later pursued masters in journalism and mass communication from Punjabi University, Patiala. I strived hard to become a journalist but destiny still had other plans. I eventually, joined as a public relations officer in the government.As an intern, I opted to join the Indian Express for my practical training in 1985 while pursuing a masters degree in journalism. Those days, it was reputed to be nursery for budding journalists as hands on training was immaculately imparted by an expert team of sub-editors, who made trainees write a lucid copy or cull out apt headlines for news stories. I still remember several pleasant and unforgettable instances during my brief stint of little over six weeks as a trainee. The brief training speaks volumes for the creativity and ingenuity, which was the hallmark of its editorial team that taught me the ins and outs of the profession. At the time, Rahul Singh, the son of the renowned columnist Khushwant Singh, was the resident editor of the Chandigarh edition. Once I edited an agency story and suggested a very crispy header that hit the headlines on page one of all its editions across the country. Resultantly, my news editor who was impressed took me to the resident editor’s office next morning. After a cursory glance at the story, he not only appreciated my work as projected by the news editor but also offered me cup of tea, which I hesitatingly declined in anxiety. Then he asked me whether I was interested to work as a reporter in the field. Without giving a second thought, I replied in the affirmative. Showing magnanimity, he even went a step ahead to offer me a job of stringer at Ropar, my native place. With this lucrative offer in hand to start a career from prestigious national daily as a journalist was nothing less than a bonanza that too without passing through the ordeal of unemployment. I was on cloud nine. Having expressed my gratitude to the news editor for his personal indulgence and benevolent gesture, I hesitatingly asked, “Sir, what would be the salary.” He said, “It won’t be salary but remuneration on basis of column-wise contribution, which will generally come to be something around ₹ 600 to ₹750 per month.” He, however said,” Once you prove your worth as professional with utmost dedication, resilience and sincerity, you’ll be permanently taken on pay rolls as a staffer, but mind it... it’s a long journey. Few people leave it in mid way. Others hit the bull’s eye and now the choice is yours”. Obviously, these words of caution fell flat on my ears.Enthused, to become an inseparable part of the fourth pillar of democracy, I anxiously discussed the matter with my father, who at once sarcastically retorted, “Couldn’t you find a better job than this, that too with a meagre salary.” Being a staunch votary of government service, he always enumerated its countless merits in terms of job security coupled with pensionary benefits to lead a happy post retirement life. My father, who was already in government service, convinced me not to join as a scribe till the result for the gazetted post of information officer, for which I had applied almost a year ago, was declared. Finally, the much-awaited verdict came and my father’s wishes were fulfilled when I got an appointment letter to join a Class-I job in the Punjab government. Destiny deprived me of a God-sent opportunity to become a journalist of a national daily and pushed me into altogether a different stream of PR, as both professions are absolutely diverse and poles apart!opinder.lamba@gmail.comThe writer is additional director (press) to the Punjab chief minister||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/my-journey-from-the-fourth-estate-to-pr-101634413987327.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kundli lynching case: Sonepat court sends accused to seven-day police remand||Nihang Sikh Sarabjeet Singh, who had surrendered before the police on Friday taking responsibility for the murder of Lakhbir Singh in the Kundli lynching case, was produced before a local court in Sonepat on Saturday and sent to seven-day police custody. Sonepat deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Virender Singh, “During interrogation, the accused has named four more Nihangs in the gruesome murder, besides identifying others. The number of accused in this case is likely to be more than five. We had sought two weeks’ remand. We will also invoke the SC/ST Atrocities Act against the accused. We have to make some recoveries from the accused, including weapons used in the crime and the clothes the victim was wearing. We will also take him to Gurdaspur and Chamkaur Sahib for the identification of other accused involved in the crime,” the DSP added. A senior police official pleading anonymity said they had recovered a sword from the accused but it was not used in the crime. Advocate Monark Bhardwaj, who appeared for Sarabjeet Singh, said the court has directed the police to conduct his counsel’s medical examination daily. “ The court has also directed the police to ensure that I get to meet my client to discuss the case. The police will have to submit report of my client to the court daily,” he added. Sarbjeet allegedly hurled ‘abuses’ at some mediapersons when asked about the reason behind the lynching when he was coming out of the court. Meanwhile, members of the Nihang community have started leaving the protest site where they had been camping for months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kundli-lynching-case-sonepat-court-sends-accused-to-seven-day-police-remand-101634413928487.html
17-10-2021||Other||Singhu border lynching victim cremated amid tight security||Amritsar Farm labourer Lakhbir Singh, who was lynched, allegedly by the nihangs, at the farmers’ protest site at Singhu for alleged sacrilege, was cremated on Saturday at his native Cheema Kalan in Tarn Taran amid tight security in the presence of his close family members.The cremation took place in the dark. No Sikh priest was present to perform the Ardas (Sikh religious prayer) and no one from his village Cheema Kalan attended the cremation, police sources said. Only 12 family members including wife Jaspreet Kaur, sister-in-law Simranjit Kaur, mother-in-law Sawinder Kaur, sister Raj Kaur and his three minor daughters were present for the last rites.The district administration had sent a vehicle to Sonepat to bring the body of the deceased, which reached the village about 7pm. It was cremated immediately. According to sources close to the family, as there were allegations of sacrilege against Lakhbir, some people from the village had told the family that only cremation would be allowed and thereafter none of the family members would be allowed to perform any kind of religious ritual.A large contingent of security personnel was deployed at the cremation ground as police escorted Lakhbir’s body in an ambulance. Two people, Sarabjit Singh and Narain Singh, belonging to the Sikhs’ Nihang order have been arrested so far. The body of Lakhbir Singh was found on Friday tied to a barricade at the Delhi-Haryana border, where the anti-farm law protesters have been camping, with a hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons.Hours after the macabre crime, one Sarabjit Sigh, wearing the blue robes of the Nihang order, claimed that he had “punished” the victim for “desecrating” a Sikh holy book.  — WITH PTI INPUTS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/singhu-border-lynching-victim-cremated-amid-tight-security-101634413567310.html
17-10-2021||Other||Minor among 2 crushed under train in Ludhiana||Two persons, including a minor, were crushed under a train near Dholewal while returning home after attending Dussehra celebrations, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred on Friday evening. The identities of the duo are yet to be ascertained, said police. The minor appears to be around 15 while the other victim is in his early 30s, they said. According to the eyewitness, the duo scaled a boundary wall to cross the railway track but was crushed under the Chandigarh – Amritsar Express train. After the incident, the train pilot alerted the railway authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-among-2-crushed-under-train-in-ludhiana-101634413447477.html
17-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Woman, aides booked for holding 52-year-old captive||Furious over her sister allegedly eloping with a man, a woman and her aides kidnapped his 52-year-old mother from EWS Colony, police said on Saturday.The accused, Meenu, had held the victim, Babita, captive, and refused to release her until her sister returned home, alleged Saurav, the victim’s son-in-law, in his complaint to the police.Saurav, a sanitation worker, said Babita’s son, Akash Kumar, had gone missing on October 9.The next day, Meenu, along with her aides, Poonam, Vicky and others, turned up at their house, claiming that Akash had eloped with her sister.She took his mother-in-law along on the pretext of finding them, but had since illegally detained her.ASI Resham Singh of Division Number 7 police, who is investigating the case, said they had launched an investigation to arrest the accused, who were facing a case under Sections 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianawoman-aides-booked-for-holding-52-year-old-captive-101634413207587.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan to NCB during counselling: Will work for society, devote myself to country||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan, during his counselling at the office of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) told officers that now on, he would work for the society and devote himself to the country and the poor.Khan was counselled along with the seven others arrested with him early this month in the cruise drugs seizure case.Counselling of the arrested accused in a narcotics case is a general practice by NCB. Those caught for the first time in a drug case or show symptoms of addiction are subjected to counselling after the interrogation ends. For counselling, NCB officers take help of community leaders, religious preachers or other respectable figures of the society. The practice is undertaken to motivate and encourage an addict to come out of drug addiction, NCB said.“During counselling, he [Khan] said that he will work for the society now and devote himself to the service of the country and the underprivileged,” said an NCB officer, requesting anonymity of name.Khan is presently lodged in Arthur Road prison in connection with the alleged seizure of banned drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 3.He was arrested by NCB under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Special NDPS court judge VV Patil will pronounce the order on his bail application on October 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-to-ncb-during-counselling-will-work-for-society-devote-myself-to-country-101634413028510.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Forensic report key to establish crime in drug cases, says high court||A high court bench granted bail to an accused in a drugs case, observing that the forensic report in drug seizure form the foundation of the prosecution’s charges and if the same is not there, the entire case would fall flat. The high court bench of justice Gurvinder Singh observed that no doubt the Supreme Court has held that a challan even if not accompanied by a report of the chemical examiner or of the expert cannot be said to be incomplete. “However, it needs to be highlighted that the said cases did not pertain to an offence under the NDPS Act. A case under the NDPS Act can only survive in case the prosecution is able to establish that the article recovered is indeed a contraband and which can only be established on the basis of its chemical examination,” the bench said. The court was hearing a bail plea from one Vinay Kumar from Sirsa arrested in December 2020. According to the police, Kumar was possessing 7,000 Tramadol Hydrochloride tablets when arrested. The challan was presented before the trial court on March 4, 2021, but without the chemical examination report. The period of 180 days, which is mandated for filing of challan as per provisions of NDPS Act expired on June 20, but the prosecution did not file the forensic report. Kumar filed for bail on June 22 on the ground that in the absence of report of FSL, the challan could not be said to be complete. However, the plea was dismissed by the trial court. The court said that in other (not related to drugs) cases, even the ocular version coupled with some medical evidence or some other circumstantial evidence may suffice to bring home the guilt of the accused. “..the contention of the petitioner that the report of FSL form very foundation of the case of prosecution and is an integral part of the challan cannot be brushed aside (in NDPS cases),” the bench said, quashing the trial court’s order and allowing bail to the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/forensic-report-key-to-establish-crime-in-drug-cases-says-high-court-101634413027399.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Randhawa demands probe by HC judge into Singhu murder||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Saturday demanded an inquiry from a sitting high court judge to find out the actual causes of lynching of a man at Singhu Border on Friday. Randhawa said this is a sensitive issue which relates to the religious beliefs of the people and is also associated with the farmers who had been peacefully protesting from almost a year against the draconian farm laws of Union government. “At this crucial juncture, it was important to identify anti-social elements inciting religious sentiments and defaming the farmers’ agitation.” Being a home minister of the state, the deputy chief minister categorically mentioned that the Haryana government as well as the police could not disassociate itself from this incident as the responsibility of maintaining law and order lies with the state government concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/randhawa-demands-probe-by-hc-judge-into-singhu-murder-101634412727334.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Air quality ‘very poor’ in three Haryana cities, ‘poor’ in 11||Air quality of at least three Haryana cities has entered the ‘very poor’ category and that of 11 others was ‘poor’ amid the crop-residue burning incidents in the region. An air quality bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board revealed the jump in the incidents of burning of the crop residue, polluting the air in the region. The report says the air in three cities is of ‘very poor’ category. Manesar has the worst air quality in the state with 327 points on the Air Quality Index (AQI), followed by Karnal’s 326 and Gurugram’s 308. The air quality of 11 other cities of Haryana has been classified as ‘poor’ (see graphic). Of the 20 cities of the state chosen for the air quality bulletin, not even a single city has ‘good’ or ‘satisfactory’ air quality. According to the officials of the state pollution control board, the quality of air has deteriorated with the sudden rise in the incidents of stubble burning. On Friday, the state saw maximum 363 active fire locations (AFLs) as detected by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC). The total number of stubble-burning cases in the state this season (between September 15 and October 15) has reached 850. Though the AFLs are far below the last year’s 1,835 for the said period, officials of the state agriculture department are concerned about the imp[ending spurt in farm fire cases as the harvesting of the parmal varieties is at peak. The chief secretary has already issued directions to the deputy commissioners to check stubble burning in their respective areas. Block-level flying squad teams comprising BDPOs, tehsildars, agriculture department officials and police personnel have also been formed by the district administration for the timely action against the erring farmers. Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said these teams will access the live reports of the stubble burning and take immediate action against the farmers. Member secretary to Haryana State Pollution Control Board S Narayanan said fresh directions have been issued and concerted efforts are being made to ensure a check on straw fires.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-quality-very-poor-in-three-haryana-cities-poor-in-11-101634412547418.html
17-10-2021||Lucknow||Air in UP cities turns very poor with AQI spiking in 24 hours||Air pollution spiked across Uttar Pradesh with cities reporting very poor air qualities as per Air Quality Index (AQI) data of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), on Saturday. The drop in air quality has been caused by a spike in activity due to the festive season and drop in average day temperatures as winter sets in, experts suggest.According to the data, the AQI in Agra turned to 274 from 214 within 24 hours, in Baghpat district of West UP the AQI turned to 307 from 176, in Bulandshahr, it went from 202 to 299. Ghaziabad in the NCR region recorded AQI of 349 from 235 within 24 hours. The higher the AQI value the more polluted the air. An AQI above 200 is considered poor while that above 300 is categorised as very poor by the CPCB. Very poor air can have a very severe adverse impact on health if exposed to it for long.Particulate matter 2.5 and 10 formed the major air pollutants in most UP cities that can be caused by increase in human activity that occurs during festivities. Burning of effigies also impacts the air quality but the impact is local, according to experts.The depleting air quality signals towards setting winters where the environment gets dense limiting pollutants to disperse. This results in higher AQI. The average day temperature according to the Indian Meteorological Department has dropped by 2.1 degrees Celsius in a week.“A large AQI value in a region shows that people in that area are breathing in more polluted air. Besides harmful gases, particulate pollution forms a major chunk of polluted air which has long-lasting, adverse impacts on health,” said environmentalist Sukant Sinha.The state of air quality has alerted government officials. “We are closely monitoring the AQI numbers of UP cities. Several measures including fines on polluting industries have been taken to reduce pollution. We have also set in place several strict measures to curb air pollution in the coming days,” said Ajay Kumar Sharma, member secretary of the UP Pollution Control Board||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/air-in-up-cities-turns-very-poor-with-aqi-spiking-in-24-hours-101634412367300.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt harassing farmers by delaying procurement: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has accused the BJP-JJP coalition government of harassing farmers by forcing them to sell paddy and other crops below the minimum support price as procurement is poor. “The bajra growers are forced to sell their produce at ₹1,000 per quintal against the minimum support price of ₹2,250 per quintal. Even after adding ₹600 to Bhavantar Yojana, the farmers are incurring a loss of about ₹600 per quintal,” Hooda said. Hitting out at the government over shortage of fertilisers amid mustard cultivation season, the former chief minister said farmers have to wait in queues for hours for di-ammonium phosphate (DAP). “Due to the policies of the government, farmers are not getting fertilisers and seeds. There is delay in procurement, crop lifting and payments,” he said. “We have started ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ campaign to expose all the anti-people policies and failures of the government on behalf of the Congress legislature party. We will awaken the government by raising people-centric issues. The first successful programme was done in Karnal and the next stop would be Jind after the Ellenabad by-elections,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-harassing-farmers-by-delaying-procurement-hooda-101634412307347.html
17-10-2021||Other||Will make Punjab power surplus again: Sukhbir at poll events in Ludhiana||Ludhiana Lambasting the Punjab government over recurring power crises ahead of the assembly elections next year, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal promised that if voted to power, he will make the state power surplus again.“The power crises in the state is not due to shortage of coal, but due to the failure of the state government. Demand increases every year, but the government failed to increase power generation, due to which residents are bearing the brunt. The SAD government had set up the thermal power plants. If voted to power, we will again turn the state into a power surplus one,” said Sukhbir, in the city on Saturday to participate in a series of political events in four constituencies of the city including Ludhiana West, Central, South and Atam Nagar. At one of the events, Sukhbir said that the chief minister must not rely upon photo-ops alone, adding, “Punjabis are looking up to you to take decisive action on the injustice done to Punjab by the central government.” During the day, Sukhbir also inducted Moga market committee chairman Rajinder Pal Singh Gill, who had left the Congress recently, into the SAD fold. He interacted with industrialists, traders and other professionals and presented his vision for Punjab to them. Separate interactions were held with Jain and Valmiki community members and economically weaker sections. An event ‘Breakfast with Badal’ was held in Ludhiana west where residents and industrialists met him. He added that the SAD-BSP alliance will establish enough solar capacity to make free power subsidy bill redundant in two years. “We believe that initiatives like availability of assured cheap power coupled with focus on the philosophy of ease of doing business can bring in fresh investment besides encouraging our home-grown entrepreneurs to expand,” he added, claiming that homeless Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes would be given ₹5 lakh each for houses. Badal also promised to revive the Parvasi Bhalai Board which was constituted in the previous SAD led government’s tenure. ASHU A DACOIT: SUKHBIRAddressing a gathering of traders and industrialists at Guru Nanak Dev Bhawan in the city, Sukhbir called Punjab cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu a dacoit, alleging that he was looting the state and its people. IN LUDHIANA SOUTH, FARMERS SHOW BLACK FLAGS TO SUKHBIRUnder the umbrella of farm unions, a group of around two-dozen residents protested against Sukhbir by waving black flags during his visit to the Lohara are of Ludhiana south constituency on Saturday. The SAD, however, claimed that the protesters were not farmers, but the entire episode was an opposition stunt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-make-punjab-power-surplus-again-sukhbir-at-poll-events-in-ludhiana-101634412247301.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai exceeds national average in crashes involving kids during school commute||A survey on the safety of the commute of school children across 14 cities found that Mumbai exceeded the national average in the number of children who have been involved in an accident while commuting to or from school. The survey covered 11,845 respondents including parents of school going children (Class 1 to 12) and 5,711 children between classes 6 and 12 across major metropolises including Mumbai, Delhi, Kolkata, Pune, Ahmedabad and Bengaluru. The survey conducted after the outbreak of the Covid pandemic found that in Mumbai, 11% of the parents said that their children had been involved in an accident while commuting to or from school, as against the national average of 6%. The research methodology was divided into two components — qualitative and quantitative — using a mixed method research technique. To capture the latter, a questionnaire comprising 10 questions was asked from the respondents, which included queries like whether seats of the school transport were equipped with seatbelts; whether the school conducted any workshops for road safety education and whether riders wore helmets during the commute to and from schools. Additionally, in-depth interviews were conducted with school authorities, school boards, school bus drivers, van or carpool drivers, child road safety experts, traffic police officials, school authorities. The survey found that Mumbai topped in terms of rash driving while Delhi and Vijaywada topped with respect to absence of safety gear in school transport. It also emerged that about 33% children had witnessed a crash during their commute to school, while 6% of them were involved in a road crash or a near-miss situation during their commute to and from school. Data from the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) reveals that 11,168 children below the age of 18 lost their lives to road crashes in 2019, contributing to 7.4% of all crash deaths. Out of these 379 deaths were reported from Maharashtra. Factors like poor road infrastructure, relatively unsafe vehicles, limited enforcement, and bad road-user behaviour contribute to the everyday risks faced by school children while commuting. Such risks are faced in both school affiliated and private transport, the study stated. While 47% of the surveyed respondents whose child cycled to school reported that there were no cycling paths en route or even around the school, 30% of parents whose child walked to school reported missing footpaths around the school zone. The survey was undertaken by SaveLIFE Foundation in collaboration with Mercedes-Benz Research and Development India (MBRDI). “As of date, over 25 states and Union Territories have announced the reopening of schools. Our findings through this report have once again emphasised that the right to a safe commute to school is as important as the right to education itself. A comprehensive national and state school transport safety policy can ensure that,” SaveLIFE Foundation founder and chief executive officer Piyush Tewari said. “We hope that this study will help all stakeholders further extend our vision of zero casualties to all modes of road transport,” said Manu Saale, managing director and CEO, MBRDI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-exceeds-national-average-in-crashes-involving-kids-during-school-commute-101634412067185.html
17-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana Sanskritik Samagam to organise dance drama on October 23||Ludhiana Sanskritik Samagam, in collaboration with artists of Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra, New Delhi, will organise dance-drama ‘Shri Ram’ at Guru Nanak Bhawan here on October 23. Padma Shri Shobha Deepak Singh, director, and vice-chairperson, Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra, said the opus is based on Ramayana, which was first produced as Ramlila in 1957 and has since been staged every year for a month during the festival of Dussehra. SK Rai, general secretary, Ludhiana Sanskritik Samagam, said that the Covid-19 guidelines will be adhered to during the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-sanskritik-samagam-to-organise-dance-drama-on-october-23-101634411828550.html
17-10-2021||Other||Artiste playing Dasrath in UP village Ramleela suffers cardiac arrest, dies||An artiste, playing the role of Raja Dasrath, in the Ramleela of village Hasanpur, in Bijnor, died after he suffered cardiac arrest, while on stage, on Thursday night.Spectators clapped in appreciation of his performance, and they later came to know that he died of cardiac arrest and the Ramleela was stopped to pay tribute to him.Adesh of Hasanpur said that his uncle, Rajendra Singh, 62, had been performing the role of Dasrath for over a decade, as he was again on Thursday night.The scene was the departure of Ram to the forest and grieved Dasrath directed his minister, Sumant, to go along with Ram and convince him to return home after venturing into the jungle. The scene was that King Dasrath saw Sumant returning without Ram and the sad king began calling out to Ram.After calling out to Ram, Rajendra fell on the stage and didn’t get up. Spectators clapped to appreciate his acting but they later came to know that he died of cardiac arrest.The play was immediately stopped, and artists and spectators offered tribute to the departed soul. The incident became the talk of the village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/artiste-playing-dasrath-in-up-village-ramleela-suffers-cardiac-arrest-dies-101634411768560.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: HIV+ woman sent to detention to prevent her from indulging into prostitution||A Dindoshi session’s court recently upheld the order of the metropolitan magistrate court that had directed the detention of a woman for a period of two-years to counsel her from indulging into prostitution. The court said care and protection, apart from her rehabilitation, can be taken by detaining her. It added that as the woman is HIV-positive – which can be easily transmitted – “the setting free of the victim at large is likely to pose danger to the society.”Additional sessions judge SU Baghele dismissed the application of her father and disposed of the plea. The court refused to agree to her counsel’s arguments that as she was financially sound, she is not likely to indulge in immoral activities. The court said that prima facie, from the first information report (FIR), it appeared that the woman agreed to indulge into prostitution after accepting ₹1 lakh.The metropolitan magistrate had passed an order on August 20, directing the woman’s detention for a period of two-years under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956. After the police had got a tip-off, they had carried out a raid and rescued the woman.The woman’s father had challenged the magistrate court, claiming that the magistrate had failed to appreciate the factual matrix and the legal provisions in the proper perspective. The state, however, had claimed that there was no error in passing of the said order.The counsel, appearing for the woman’s father, had argued that she was from a reputed family and her father worked with the state government and that the family is financially sound. He can maintain the expenses of his daughter and the woman was willing to go to her family. She was nabbed owing to a misunderstanding and detained because she is HIV-positive, her father’s counsel argued.The counsel also stated that her custody should be given to her father as there was no material to suggest that the woman would pose any danger to the society.The state had argued that the woman was caught red-handed and sent for vocational training. As she was HIV-positive, the order of the lower court is proper.After going through the documents, the court observed that the care and protection of the woman can also be ensured by detaining her, as directed by the magistrate “so as to ensure that the victim leads a normal life in future, after getting necessary brainwashing.” As the woman is suffering from HIV, which can be easily transmitted through sexual intercourse, “the setting of the victim at large is likely to pose danger to the society”, due to which the factual scenario in the case at hand is different from the factual scenario in the cases and judgements relied upon, said the court.Judge Baghele observed that the order of the magistrate is correct and legal and does not warrant any interference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hiv-woman-sent-to-detention-to-prevent-her-from-indulging-into-prostitution-101634411767296.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik: NCB witness is family friend of Sameer Wankhede||Maharashtra minority welfare minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik on Saturday again raised questions over the operations the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) against the alleged drug peddling pertaining to Bollywood. He claimed that the central agency has used a man named Fletcher Patel, who is a family friend of its zonal director Sameer Wankhede, as a panch or witness in three different cases in the past two years. Malik shared a few documents on Saturday and raised doubts on the agency’s witnesses. By releasing pictures from social media, Malik said Patel was Wankhede’s family friend. He has alleged that Patel had shared a photograph with a woman, calling her ‘lady don’ with hashtag ‘Sister’. The woman is one of Wankhede’s relatives and it needs to be checked if Patel and the woman had any connection with the raids on Bollywood celebrities, the minister said. He also alleged that the woman in the photograph is an advocate and an office-bearer of the film cell of a political party. “An independent panch or witness needs to be an independent citizen in any case registered under any law. Fletcher is a family friend of Wankhede as he has shared a picture with the relative of the officer. Fletcher is also seen with Wankhede in many functions organised to felicitate the officer. Does this not raise questions over the veracity of the cases registered by the agency? Earlier, the courts had rapped the investigating agencies on such dubious witnesses as they weaken the cases,” Malik said.He said as many of the NCB raids were against Bollywood actors, it needs to be checked if there was any nexus involved in it. “How can a family friend be a part of the raids? The agency has been indulging in selective leaks related to the raids to defame the government and the film industry. Many actors were raided and paraded by the agency. It needs to be checked if there was any big game behind all these raids,” he said.Earlier, in two press conferences in two weeks, Malik had alleged that two witnesses in the cruise drug party raids were allowed to handle the accused. He had said one of the witnesses, KC Gosavi, is facing criminal cases, while another, Manish Bhanushali, is a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) officer-bearer. Malik had also alleged that his son-in-law, Sameer Khan, was framed in a drug case.Wankhede refused to comment on Malik’s allegations. Another NCB officer said that Patel is the Mumbai president of Army veterans’ group Sainik Federation and has an Army background. The photograph in which he is seen with Wankhede was an event held at CSMT where the federation had felicitated the NCB zonal director on Kargil Vijay Diwas on July 26. At the event, they pledged to curb the menace and threat of narcotics from the country.The officer further said that Patel is a highly-trustworthy person. “As a panch, we always require people like him who have army background, because such individuals are physically and mentally strong, and especially are of very help in operations against peddlers/suppliers who are strong in physique,” the NCB officer said.Patel said, “I am an ex-serviceman and Mumbai president of Sainik Federation. Yes, Sameer Wankhede’s sister is like an elder sister to me. Even if she is like family to me, that can’t stop me from helping NCB in their drive against drugs. I have been helping NCB as my social responsibility and nobody should question my integrity. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-minister-nawab-malik-ncb-witness-is-family-friend-of-sameer-wankhede-101634411707321.html
17-10-2021||Other||Hyderabad police seize 300kg marijuana, arrest two||Hyderabad police on Saturday seized 300 kilograms of ganja worth ₹30 lakh and arrested two inter-state smugglers in connection with the seizure, Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar said.“Hyderabad City police, task force and east zone in a joint operation arrested two inter-state ganja smuggler. 300 kilograms of ganja worth 300 lakh has been recovered. We have seized one vehicle also,” Kumar, said,“The accused Vilas Bhausaheb Dhokane, Dnyaneshwar Mohite, are natives of Aurangabad and Ahmed Nagar districts of Maharashtra. Their modus Operandi is to take ganja from the Andhra-Odisha border in the Vizag rural area,” said the police commissioner“So we have detected the entire gang and now we are also in touch with Andhra Pradesh police and Odisha police. We have returned a letter to DGP Odisha also identifying some names and persons and also with Andhra Pradesh. In this joint operation, we will ensure that this menace is removed from Telangana.”They were booked under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, said the police.The accused persons along with seized drugs are being handed over for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyderabad-police-seize-300kg-marijuana-arrest-two-101634411528564.html
17-10-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu CM Stalin distributes aid worth ₹2.87 crore||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin distributed financial assistance and welfare aid amounting to ₹2.87 crore to 560 beneficiaries here on Saturday and presented a prized book to a child marathon runner for spreading awareness on UNDP’s sustainable development goals (SDGs).V Sharvesh covered 750 km from the Thiruvalluvar statue in Kanyakumari district to Chennai’s landmark structure - Valluvar Kottam - to spread awareness on the SDGs, the blueprint for a better and a more sustainable future.“I congratulated the boy V Sharvesh of Sairam School for creating awareness on the SDGs and gifted him the book ‘Maaperum Tamizh Kanavu’ (A Great Tamil Dream),” the Chief Minister tweeted on his micro-blogging site and posted a photograph of the boy receiving the book from him.Stalin, who launched a slew of programmes at his home constituency of Kolathur here, distributed welfare assistance worth ₹2.87 crore to the 560 beneficiaries. Apart from dedicating an ambulance for the use of the upgraded government suburban hospital at Periyar Nagar, the chief minister presented educational aid and furniture to the Corporation high school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-cm-stalin-distributes-aid-worth-2-87-crore-101634411468719.html
17-10-2021||Other||Covid-19 graph continues to show decline in Kerala; 7,995 new cases recorded||Kerala reported 7,995 new positive cases and 57 Covid-19-related deaths on Saturday, taking the total affected in the state to 4,837,560 and the death toll to 26,791.State health minister Veena George said 79,722 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and there are 211 wards across 158 local self government bodies with a weekly infection population ratio above ten per cent.Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of fresh infections -- 1,280, followed by Thiruvananthapuram with 985 and Kozhikode 937.“There are 90,885 active Covid-19 cases of which only 9.8 per cent are admitted to hospitals,” the minister said in a release.Meanwhile, 11,769 persons recuperated from the disease, taking the total cured to 4,728,497.According to the release, of those found infected today, 27 reached the state from outside while 7,562 contracted the disease through their contact. The source of infection of 321 persons is yet to be traced and 45 health workers are also among the infected.Currently, there are 314,640 people under observation of which 10,404 are in isolation wards of various hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-graph-continues-to-show-decline-in-kerala-7-995-new-cases-recorded-101634411467588.html
17-10-2021||Other||AIADMK, cadre will be saved: Sasikala at Jayalalithaa’s memorial||Ousted AIADMK leader V K Sasikala on Saturday visited the mausoleum of her housemate of three decades and former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa in the same car once used by the latter with the party flag fluttering on its bonnet. Sasikala left her residence from Chennai T Nagar residence at 10.30 am, with her supporters standing along the road route to greet her. At Jayalalithaa’s memorial, Sasikala turned emotional and was seen wiping her tears, while laying a wreath.“Everyone knows the reason I came here so late. I don’t want to talk about the past. I have poured my heart to her (Jayalalithaa). I told her whatever happened (in the past five years). I am confident Thalaivar (MGR) and Amma (Jayalalithaa) will save the AIADMK and its cadre. The future will be good,” Sasikala told reporters after the visit. “Amma and I were inseparable. I spent more than half of my life with her,” Sasikala added.Jayalalithaa’s resting place on Chennai’s Marina beach along with other Dravidian stalwarts is significant for the AIADMK. Sasikala last visited this place on February 15, 2017, before proceeding by road to Bengaluru to surrender before Parappana Agrahara prison authorities for serving a four-year jail term in the disproportionate assets (DA) case. Sasikala had planned to visit the memorial following her return from Bengaluru prison earlier in February this year. However, the then AIADMK government led by Edapaddi Palaniswami, whom she had handpicked as Tamil Nadu chief minister before going to prison, had closed the mausoleum, citing maintainable work, just a few days after opening it in a bid to prevent her entry.Sasikala had “stepped aside” from politics before the April 6 assembly elections as none of her former protégés or senior AIADMK leaders met her. But since their defeat, she has been engaging over phone and releasing audio clips of conversations with AMMK and the AIADMK cadre. She has been consoling the AIADMK cadre that she will “set the party right”.Reacting to Sasikala’s visit, former AIADMK minister and spokesperson D Jayakumar described it as “stunt” saying that she can be considered for an “Oscar Award ” for her “acting skills” but will never be allowed back into the party. “Every day lakhs of people visit Amma’s memorial, and she (Sasikala) is just one among them. There is no need to talk more about the visit,” he said.Sasikala will visit M G Ramachandran’s residence in Ramapuram on Sunday morning to mark 50 years of ADMK (later renamed AIADMK). Her visit comes a day before the AIADMK is set to enter in its golden jubilee year, and days after the party’s humiliating defeat in the recently-held local body polls across Tamil Nadu, that was swept by the ruling DMK. The defeat in newly-carved nine districts is the AIADMK’s third since Jayalalithaa’s passing in December 2016. Edappadi Palanisami and O Panneerselvam, both Sasikala’s loyalists turned foes, have been running the party in a dual leadership. Following her imprisonments, the duo expelled Sasikala and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran, who went on to float the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) along with Sasikala’s supporters with the sole aim of retrieving the AIADMK. Despite the AIADMK leadership stonewalling Sasikala, Panneerselvam, in particular, is has been softer towards the idea of her return to the party due to being sidelined by the Palaniswami camp and both belong to the same Mukkalathur community. Sasikala continues to hover and threaten the AIADMK’s present set up, which is currently Tamil Nadu’s principal opposition, leading the NDA alliance after a decade of ruling the state. “As of now, Sasikala’s electoral strength is zero,” said political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy. “No doubt, Sasikala is bold and has a stature and community support, but until she can be an electoral force, the AIADMK will neither respect nor take her back.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aiadmk-cadre-will-be-saved-sasikala-at-jayalalithaa-s-memorial-101634411409737.html
17-10-2021||Other||Applications invited for temporary cracker sale licence in Ludhiana||The Ludhiana police commissionerate has invited applications for the issuance of licences for selling firecrackers on a temporary basis.Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said that the police will issue licences to 37 shops at six locations, including 13 shops at the Grain Market in Salem Tabri, five shops in Model Town Extension, four shops in Dugri Phase 2, nine shops at GLADA ground on Chandigarh Road, three shops at Chara Mandi, Haibowal on Humbran Road and three shops in a ground near Lodhi Club road.The police chief said the applicants can avail the application forms from the police from October 18 to 19. They can submit applications from October 21 to 22. The police will conduct a draw of lots on October 26. The traders can start selling rackers from October 29 till Diwali. He said the temporary licences are being issued on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/applications-invited-for-temporary-cracker-sale-licence-in-ludhiana-101634411408568.html
17-10-2021||Other||K’taka CM Bommai inaugurates scheme to expand govt’s public outreach||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said a government can become pro-people only if all the institutions working in rural areas function effectively.“With the motto of serving people in rural areas, the government will reach the people at their doorstep,” the chief minister said at the launch of ‘District Administration’s March Towards Villages’ in the village of Surahonne in Nyamati Taluk to address people’s woes and complaints in rural areas.The government has chosen 227 villages where the scheme would be launched to convert them into model villages.Bommai said it is not the district administration, which is reaching the villages but the entire government machinery is. Under the programme, the district authorities would spend time in the villages, understand the problems there and resolve them at the earliest.The chief minister said, “When development reaches people, their struggle reduces helping them live a stable life.”He further said preparations were under way to distribute rations at the doorstep of the people and that the social security schemes too would reach the people that way.He said the people need not visit the Taluk offices to get issues sorted out as they can be resolved, even issues regarding pensions, at the gram panchayats-level.All officials, right from the chief secretary to the gram panchayat officers, must join hands to serve, said the chief minister.The government has also planned to provide all facilities to the gram panchayats under the Janasevaka programme, and the pilot project would be launched in all the 28 assembly constituencies of Bengaluru on November 1 through mobile phone, Bommai said.He said over 400,000 houses for the poor have been built in one-and-a-half years while 100,000 are being built in the cities for the slum-dwellers.Addressing people at Kundur in Honnali Taluk of the district, Bommai said development would take place in rural areas through ‘Amrit Schemes’ launched on the platinum jubilee year of Indian independence.Under the Amrit scheme, each village would get ₹2 crore for developmental work and 7,500 Stree Shakti groups or self-help groups of women would get ₹1 lakh each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-cm-bommai-inaugurates-scheme-to-expand-govt-s-public-outreach-101634411407230.html
17-10-2021||Bangalore||Private museum plans encyclopedia to revive museum culture, popularise art in Bengaluru||The Museum of Art and Photography (MAP), a Bengaluru-based private museum, is working to bring out an encyclopedia to make Indian art more accessible and inclusive, as part of its efforts to bring back the museum culture of Bengaluru.Bengaluru has a strong connection with art but it has been mostly limited to interests of a few with little efforts to attract more people like tourists to make museums part of their itinerary in India’s IT capital.“While there are not enough platforms to freely access information on Indian art history, our encyclopedia will help connect the arts with the community. All the content that we produce is designed to engage diverse communities, ranging from young learners atschools to researchers to anyone with a latent interest in art,” a spokesperson from MAP told Hindustan Times in an email response. “Our content will go beyond the usual art forms to include more neglected works of craft and design, as well as folk and tribal art. Through this effort we hope to push the boundaries of what is considered ‘fine art’ to build a more fair and nuanced platform.” With art currently perceived as an activity of the elite, there are few beyond this fraternity who take art seriously or persuade others, especially youngsters, to learn more about the subject that is intertwined with history, culture and tradition.The Congress government between 2013-18 tried to revive the museum culture as part of its Brand Bengaluru initiative to induce tourists spend more on museum visits, creating a new revenue stream for the state coffers.Bengaluru has a rich culture of art and places like Vishweshwaraiah Museum, HAL, Kempegowda, Venkatappa Art gallery, National Gallery of Modern Art, Chitrakala Parishath, and NIMHANS museum, among others, have tried to keep the culture alive in the city.However, museums have become mostly part of the itinerary of excursions for school students. In comparison, Indians who travel to European countries are enthusiastic to visit museums.MAP said that museums in India are elitist spaces.“India thus does not really have a museum-going culture. Even Indians who line up to go to museums abroad shy away in India as museums in our country have unfortunately earned the reputation of being either dry and serious when associated with historical objects or elitist and intimidating when associated with modern and contemporary art. This perhaps is one of the main reasons behind the low footfalls, as people do not feel comfortable enough to walk into a museum on a Sunday to spend the afternoon with their families and kids,” MAP said in its response.Vishweshwaraiah Industrial and Technological Museum, in its activity report for 2019-20, said that it attracted a total of 1.18 million visitors. But of this only 557,000 were general visitors and the remaining were mostly school students or visitors to its outreach programmes like science fairs.Though MAP is a private organisation, its efforts, art experts say, are likely to help revive the culture of museums on Kasturba Road, which has three such establishments and could help connect other galleries in the city.The Karnataka government is working to infuse fresh ideas into the tourism sector with initiatives like a book on unexplored destinations, reviving the brand of the state and its biggest city, Bengaluru, and promoting weekend getaways, as it looks to revive the fledgling travel industry sector in the post-pandemic era, Hindustan Times reported on September 29.From over 180.4 million tourists in 2017, the numbers rose to 228.5 million in 2019 before dropping to 77.6 million in 2020, data from the state economic survey shows. The state had also announced a tourism policy for 2020-25 not just to promote more travellers for exploring the state but also attract investments to ₹5,000 crore and provide direct and indirect jobs to over 1 million people. Karnataka accounts for nearly 12% of overall tourist visits in India and saw over 600,000 foreign tourists coming to the state in 2019, which dropped to 165,000 the following year. The previous BS Yediyurappa-led state government has set aside ₹2,645 crore for the tourism department in its budget for this fiscal.Street arts like that of Baadal Nanjundaswamy -- making mermaids and crocodiles in potholed roads or the “MoonWalk” video in which he made a model walk in a space suit in a crater-filled road of Bengaluru -- are appreciated for their messaging but not as a serious art. Localities like Malleshwaram are witnessing campaigns to create artworks on walls along roads that have become a hit to clean the streets of the city and provide a more colourful experience.Tourism initiatives had earlier included organising museum walks, food walks and other activities in Bengaluru and around it as part of the programme to promote spending at least $100 more by tourists in either visiting such sites or spending on memorabilia and merchandise.“Whoever wants to get into it (merchandising), we have to get someone strong as they have to pump money to sustain it,” Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, Karnataka’s minister for higher education, IT & BT, Science & Technology, told Hindustan Times earlier.Suresh Jayaram, a Bengaluru-based art historian, said that MAP and others are trying to position themselves to infuse fresh ideas to revive the museum cluster in the city. “If you have vision, you can make Bangalore a city with the art community involved and also public, young children who can have a more experiential kind of tours than rushing kids from one end of the other (in museums during school excursions),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/private-museum-plans-encyclopedia-to-revive-museum-culture-popularise-art-in-bengaluru-101634411350865.html
17-10-2021||Pune||More than half of Pune district fully vaccinated, 90% first dose||Pune: After the Mission Kavach Kundal aimed to ramp up vaccination through various drives, including the 75-hour marathon campaigns, Pune district has been able to fully vaccinate over 50% of its population and 90% with the first dose. Pune city has been able to vaccinate the highest number of beneficiaries with both first dose and second dose. More than 0.3 million people have benefited from the mission, highest of whom were from the rural areas of Pune. Under the Mission Kavach Kundal, the administration aimed to vaccinate 100% beneficiaries with the first dose and at least 75% of the beneficiaries with the second dose. The mission continued for over a week during the Navratri and Dussehra celebrations from October 8 to October 14. Under the mission, a total of 386,177 beneficiaries got the jab of which 94,000 are from Pune city, 73,000 from PCMC and 0.218 million from Pune rural. The mission conducted several initiatives to maximise Covid-19 vaccination, including a 75-hour non-stop marathon at over 13 centres. Of the 13 centres, seven were from Pune rural where 16,112 got their first dose and 16,702 got fully vaccinated, PCMC has four centres where 6,549 got their first dose and 10,269 were fully vaccinated and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) ran only two centres which saw 75 hours of vaccination drive where 425 people got the first dose and 1,185 people got their second dose. In the mission, a total of 51,242 people got the vaccine, of which 28,000 people got their second dose. Highest number of people from the rural areas benefited from the mission. Under the mission, along with government vaccination centres, private vaccination centres were also running with full potential as a result over 0.386 million people got the vaccine, of which 94,000 were from Pune city 76,000 were from PCMC and 0.218 million were from Pune rural. Zilla Parshad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “Due to the smooth supply of the vaccine, we were able to vaccinate the highest number of beneficiaries from rural areas and arrange for the maximum centres. Our staff from other departments were also engaged in the task and so we could bring many beneficiaries to the centre. Hopefully, by this year, the entire district will be completely vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/more-than-half-of-pune-district-fully-vaccinated-90-first-dose-101634411349623.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t upset Punjab farmers: Pawar’s advise to Centre||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday said the Union government should handle the ongoing agitation against new farm laws with sensitivity, keeping in mind that majority of protesters are from Punjab, a border state. The country has paid the price of upsetting Punjab in the past, he said, referring to former prime minister Indira Gandhi’s assassination during Khalistan militancy.Speaking to reporters at Pimpri near here, Pawar, who has handled defence and agriculture portfolios at the Centre, was replying to a question about the farmers’ agitation on Delhi borders which has been going on for several months.“I have been there (to the protest site) two-three times. The Union government’s stand does not seem rational,” he said.Participants in the agitation are from many states including Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, but most of them are from Punjab, Pawar noted.“My advice to the Union government is, do not let farmers of Punjab get upset, it is a border state. If we upset the farmers and people from border regions, then there will be other ramifications,” he said.“Our country has paid the price of upsetting Punjab, even (then prime minister) Indira Gandhi lost her life. On the other hand, farmers of Punjab, irrespective of whether they are Sikh or Hindu, have contributed to food supply,” the NCP chief said.People living in border areas face several security-related issues which those living in states such as Maharashtra do not experience, he said.“Therefore, when a person who is making sacrifices is sitting in protest with some demands for a long time, paying attention to him is what the nation requires,” Pawar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-upset-punjab-farmers-pawar-s-advise-to-centre-101634411348553.html
17-10-2021||Other||MLAs can’t visit my office with contractors, says Kerala PWD minister||Kerala public works department (PWD) minister P A Mohammed Riyas on Friday said he sticks to his recent statement in the state assembly that MLAs should not visit his office with contractors of various projects as it will create trouble in the future.Riyas made his stand clear on the issue after a section of media reported that he was criticised in the legislative party meeting of the CPI(M) MLAs over his statement in the assembly on October 7.Talking to the media, Riyas, who is also a CPI(M) leader, dismissed the reports, saying no MLAs had criticised him in the legislative party meeting.“The MLAs need not visit the minister’s office with contractors. That will create issues in the future. The contractors have their associations. They can approach the ministry if they have any issues to discuss,” Riyas had told the assembly on October 7.Later, a section of media had reported that Riyas was criticised in the legislative party meeting of the CPI(M) legislators, forcing him to tender an apology.“There was no such discussion in the legislative party meeting of the party MLAs. None of the MLAs raised such an issue. The news reports that it was discussed and I had expressed regret are baseless. But let me clarify that I will not go back from my stand and that is actually the stand of the LDF,” Riyas told reporters.The ruling CPI(M) also came out in support of Riyas saying what he said was the stand of the Left Democratic Front (LDF).Reacting to a query, party state secretary in-charge A Vijayaraghavan said the minister was explaining the stand of the party and the government.“CPI(M) has already made clear its stand on issues like this. What the minister explained was the stand of the party. The CPI(M) has a clear stand on how the government should function, how the ministers’ offices should function. Our stand is that there should not be any recommendations and things should go on smoothly even without any recommendations,” Vijayaraghavan said.When asked about the legislative party meeting, the party chief said he was not part of that meeting and alleged that reporters were writing stories as if they had taken part in the CPI(M) legislative party meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mlas-can-t-visit-my-office-with-contractors-says-kerala-pwd-minister-101634411347386.html
17-10-2021||Patna||Juvenile kills self in Bihar correction home, 10 inmates escape: Police||A 16-year-old boy, accused of abducting a girl, allegedly killed himself at a correction home in Bihar’s Bhojpur district late on Friday evening under mysterious circumstances, officials said. The family members, however, alleged murder.Following the incident, at least 10 inmates managed to escape from the facility. The custodial death brought district officials on their toes and Bhojpur district magistrate Roshan Kushwaha ordered a probe into the matter.According to the assistant director, Child Protection Unit, Bhojpur, Binod Kumar Thakur, the deceased is a resident of a village under the town police station of Buxar district. He was brought to the facility located at Dhanpura under the jurisdiction of the town police station on October 6.Thakur said as per routine, the pre-dinner counting of inmates took place around 7.30 pm. All the inmates then reached the mess for dinner. After taking dinner, the boy went to the bathroom on the first floor of the correction facility. He locked the door from inside and hanged himself with the help of a towel. The incident came to light when other inmates found the bathroom locked from inside and the home staff broke open the door. He was immediately rushed to Sadar hospital where the doctor declared him brought dead. Currently, 87 juveniles are residing in the correction facility in which 14 were staying in quarantine rooms. Taking advantage of the chaos that prevailed after the incident, 10 inmates of the correction home escaped at around 9.30 pm. Thakur said, adding, many adjoining areas of the town have been cordoned off. Parents of the inmates have been informed, he added.Thakur, while talking with reporters said, “The juvenile who died by suicide tried to kill himself earlier as well by consuming phenyl. After the officials learnt about his suicide attempt, he was rushed to the local hospital for emergency treatment.”The deceased’s elder brother informed that his younger brother eloped with a girl and took her to New Delhi. Family members caught them and handed them over to the local police where an FIR was already lodged on the statements of the girl’s kin. The brother alleged murder because he said several injury marks were found on his body.Taking a serious note of the incident, the DM visited the spot on Saturday morning and enquired about the incident. He asked the additional district magistrate (ADM) to conduct a preliminary enquiry of the matter. He said that the body has been sent to Sadar hospital where a post-mortem would be performed by a three-member medical board and it would be videographed. Meanwhile, the mother of the deceased raised question about the police inaction which, according to her, led to the boy’s drastic step. She alleged that the Buxar police have not carried out any conclusive probe regarding the elopement by the deceased.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918, Roshni Foundation (Secundrabad) Contact Nos: 040-66202001, 040-66202000, ONE LIFE: Contact No: 78930 78930, SEVA: Contact No: 09441778290 .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/juvenile-kills-self-in-bihar-correction-home-10-inmates-escape-police-101634411287276.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab fails to frame policy for organic cotton cultivation||Punjab lacks a policy to promote organic cotton cultivation even as farmers associated voluntarily with it see viability of chemical-free production of the cash crop.Farm experts say cotton crop is considered the largest consumer of pesticides and insecticides and Punjab can reduce its chemical load with a dedicated policy on organic farming.Since the chemical-free fields have lesser irrigation requirements, organic farming of cotton can pay dividends in the long term, they say.Jaitu-based Kheti Virasat Mission (KVM), an accredited agency to provide certification to organic growers, has roped in 55 farmers from various districts to opt for organic cultivation of cotton.“Since 2019, we have brought about 100 acres, against Punjab’s 3.25 lakh hectare area this kharif season, under organic cotton. Biggest challenge in organic farming is that a farmer has to keep his field free from any chemical use for three years. The government should frame a policy to grant financial incentive to such farmers for three years,” said KVM executive director Umendra Dutt.He said organic farming is the key for Punjab to reduce pesticide footprint in the agriculture sector. Groundwater table has been depleting due to injudicious extraction of the natural resource and chemical-free farming is needed to meet futuristic needs.SK Verma, head of Sirsa-based Central Institute for Cotton Research (CICR), a central organisation, said non-allergic and toxin-free dyes are a new natural way of clothing.“Like food products, organic fabric has a vast market. People like a natural way of clothing that is free from chemicals and toxins to avoid allergies. The CICR has a bank of traditional seeds that are provided to farmers to boost organic farming, but Punjab is lagging behind in the initiative,” said Verma.Punjab agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha admits that the state needs to think and explore ways to promote organic cultivation of cotton.“Cotton is a traditional cash crop in districts of the Malwa belt. Since 2015, it has faced two major pest attacks that crashed the rural economy. We should study models of other states in this direction,” he added.A progressive farmer from Fazilka district’s Katehra, Vinod Jyani, says coordinated efforts can help farmers get handsome returns from the vast market of organic fabric. He has sown conventional seeds on a 17-acre land in his native village.Bt cotton seed field can produce an average of 10 quintals of cotton from an acre whereas Jyani is expecting 8 quintals from certified traditional seeds.“A Ludhiana-based textile company has offered to pay 15% above the highest open market rate of raw cotton that is already touching about ₹7,700 per quintal. Loss in yield can be compensated with higher prices for genuine organic produce,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-fails-to-frame-policy-for-organic-cotton-cultivation-101634411167276.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 16 fresh Covid cases, lowest single-day count this year||Punjab on Saturday reported 16 fresh Covid cases, lowest single-day count this year, taking the tally to 6,02,008, according to a medical bulletin.With no Covid-related fatality reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll stood at 16,541. The state saw a positivity rate of 0.07 % on Saturday, the bulletin said. The number of active cases, however, slightly increased to 219 in the state. Among fresh cases, three each were reported in Jalandhar and Pathankot and two in Amritsar, the bulletin said. With 24 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,248, it said. A total of 1,49,80,391 samples have been collected for testing in the state so far of which 31,231 were tested on Saturday. As many as 1,15,341 doses of the vaccines were administered in a day, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-16-fresh-covid-cases-lowest-single-day-count-this-year-101634410927325.html
17-10-2021||Mumbai||1,553 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, lowest since May 2020||Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 1,553 Covid-19 new cases with 26 deaths, which is the lowest one-day figure reported over the past 17 months.On May 16, 2020, Maharashtra recorded 1,606 cases, the highest single-day spike until then, with 11,347 tests, giving a test positivity rate of 14.15%. On Saturday, Maharashtra conducted 100,944 tests, giving a positivity rate of 1.54%. Maharashtra’s overall positivity at present is 10.82%.“The low numbers could be because of the fewer tests carried out due to the Dusshera holiday on Friday,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid-19 task force of Maharashtra. “We typically see a drop after weekends too. There is definitely a gradual decline in the number of cases, but it is always advisable to look at the weekly trends and the test positivity rate,” he said. According to Joshi, the next weeks are crucial because of the upcoming Diwali festivities. “People have to remain cautious and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour in order to avoid a post-Diwali spike,” he said. Experts say that we may see a sudden spike any time a newer variant of the virus strikes. Joshi said that he anticipated the third wave sometime between December and January. The declining Covid numbers have led to reduced hospitalisations too. The civic-run 1850 bed Seven Hills Hospital has been working with 30% occupancy since mid-September. “We are now functioning more like a referral centre and patients are being transferred to us from other hospitals,” said Maharudra Kumbhar from Seven Hills Hospital.The state’s case tally has now reached 6,589,982, while the toll stands at 1,39,760. Pune leads with 19,534 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 16,180 and Thane with 11,401. There are currently 29,627 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 8,089 patients, followed by Mumbai with 6,056 active patients and Thane with 3,943.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said the figures have declined due to vaccinations and medication. “We have been very proactively taking steps to rein in the virus as well as undertaking mass vaccinations. This has paid rich dividends in the form of reduction in cases,” said Dr Awate.Dr SN Mehra, medical director, Masina Hospital, said it appears that the second wave is almost controlled. “We hardly get any Covid-19 patients in our hospital. This is in sharp contrast as in May-June this year, our entire wards were filled with Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Mehra.Meanwhile, Mumbai on Saturday reported 319 Covid-19 cases, the lowest single-day spike seen in October so far. This is also the second time in October that the city has reported cases below 400 in a day. On October 4, Mumbai reported 339 cases. On other days of this month, Mumbai has reported over 400 cases, and an overage of over 500 cases each day. On October 6, Mumbai reported 624 Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in over 2.5 months.On Friday, BMC conducted 33,002 Covid-19 tests. These are slightly lower in number, in comparison to the number of tests conducted on an average daily in October — 39,000-40,000 tests. The positivity rate for Saturday was 0.9%.Authorities said the lower number of tests can be attributed to the festival celebrations of Dussehra on Friday.There were 499,448 vaccine doses administered on Saturday, bringing the total number of doses to 91,280,897.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1553-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-lowest-since-may-2020-101634410869177.html
17-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana traffic police to crack down on vehicles sans high security number plates||The traffic police initiated a drive to check vehicles without high-security number plates on Saturday. The team also issued warnings to those with illegal vehicle modifications, such as additional high beam lights.The drive was carried out near Ayali Bridge on Canal Road, under the supervision of the joint commissioner of police (JCP – City and Traffic) Deepak Pareek.Pareek said the residents, who were found driving vehicles without high-security number plates or with high beam lights, were issued warnings. The police will start issuing challans to the violators a day or two later.He added that automobile dealers who allow vehicles to leave the showroom without high-security number plates in violation of the Motor Vehicle Rules should also get ready to face legal action.“The violators came up with different excuses. Some of them said that they didn’t get the high-security number plates installed because they wanted special registration numbers for the vehicles and were waiting to get the same,” said the JCP.The JCP added that the traffic police have roped in consultants and NGOs to improve traffic flow amid the festive season.He added that the police are also seeking feedback regarding traffic problems from the residents through social media. He further said that the traffic police have formed several enforcement teams comprising tow away vans to take action against violators of traffic rules.For the past few weeks, the enforcement teams have been working during the day as well as evening rush hours in areas such as Ghumar Mandi, Chaura Bazar, Station Road, Malhar Road, Focal Point Industrial area, Vardhman Chowk, Samrala Chowk, Chandigarh Road, and Ferozpur Road, to manage the flow of traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-traffic-police-to-crack-down-on-vehicles-sans-high-security-number-plates-101634410867311.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 309 new Covid cases, four deaths||Pune: As of Saturday, Pune district has reported 309 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.12 million have recovered, 19,883 deaths and 8,089 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 55,000 doses vaccinated on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 172 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 363,138 and the death toll stood at 6,852 as three more deaths were reported on the day. Pune city reported 92 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 519,509 and the death toll stood at 9,183 as one more death was reported on the day. PCMC reported 45 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 267,808 and the toll stood at 3,499 as no more deaths were reported. Pune also saw 55,693 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Saturday and in total 11,482,696. Of which 7,562,965 are first doses and 3,919,731 are second doses. A total of 690 sites saw vaccination of which 470 were government centres and 220 were private centres||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-309-new-covid-cases-four-deaths-101634410808619.html
17-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu border lynching: Dalit outfits demand strict action against culprits||Chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) Vijay Sampla on Friday said a day after a Tarn Taran man was lynched at the Singhu border, various Scheduled Caste organisations submitted complaints to the commission seeking justice. In a statement, Sampla said while handing over the complaints to the NCSC at the commission’s head office in New Delhi, the representatives and office-bearers of various SC organisations condemned the heinous crime. “Lakhbir Singh was murdered with brutality and the victim’s family should be brought to justice as soon as possible,” the NGOs demanded. “The SKM and other farmer leaders, who are sitting on the Singhu border, must be held responsible of this brutal incident as the man was killed despite their high-level security. Not only this, the farmers’ organisations took 12 hours to comment on the incident, showing that they were not concerned,” the SC bodies claimed. The SC organisations, who met Sampla on Saturday include Bhartiya Baudh Sangh, Rashtriya Bhantu Sansi Samaj Vikas Sangh, Shri Guru Ravidas Vishwa Mahapeeth (Delhi Province), Jai Baba Rama Peer Janmotsav Committee, National Scheduled Caste Alliance, Delhi Prantiya Raigar Panchayat, Valmiki Mahapanchayat, Shri Sant Kabir Janmotsav Committee, Akhil Bhartiya Bairwa Vikas Sangh, SC/ST/OBC & Minority Employees Welfare Association, Jangpura Bhogal SC/ST Resident Welfare Association and many more. Meanwhile, Sampla assured the office-bearers of all organisations that he himself is keeping a close eye on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singhu-border-lynching-dalit-outfits-demand-strict-action-against-culprits-101634410807488.html
17-10-2021||Pune||I insisted that Uddhav Thackeray become Maha CM: Sharad Pawar’s snipe at Devendra Fadnavis||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said he had insisted that Uddhav Thackeray become the chief minister of Maharashtra after Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) was formed around two years ago. Pawar’s remarks came on Saturday after BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis claimed Thackeray covertly nurtured ambitions to become a CM but kept talking about installing a “Shiv Sainik” on the post. Earlier in the day, Fadnavis, who served as Maharashtra chief minister between 2014 and 2019, had alleged that the MVA government was formed through dishonesty. “I feel that respected Uddhavji should now accept that he had ambitions of becoming a chief minister which he fulfilled. In politics, having ambitions is not wrong. But if you wanted to keep the word, you could have made senior Sena leaders Diwakar Raote, Subhash Desai or Eknath Shinde the CM,” Fadnavis said. Speaking in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Pawar said, “When we held a meeting to form the MVA and to discuss the leadership of the alliance, I forced him (Uddhav Thackeray) to become the chief minister. I have seen these people since their childhood. (Shiv Sena founder) Balasaheb Thackeray and I might have political differences, but we were close.” The NCP president then went on to say that he saw nothing wrong for a son of a person who contributed for Maharashtra to become the CM. “I thought why not the son of a person who had contributed for Maharashtra should become the CM and I insisted Uddhav Thackeray to become the chief minister. Fadnavis had worked with Uddhav so he knows how Uddhav is. He should stop questioning repeatedly about how Uddhav became CM,” the NCP chief said. Pawar said the MVA government will last full five years and the constituent parties will be re-elected (in 2024 polls). Reiterating that the Centre was misusing central agencies in Maharashtra, Pawar said the income tax raids on Pawar family members were unnecessarily carried out for many days as there was pressure on I-T sleuths “The Central agencies are being misused to destabilise the Maharashtra government. But I am sure it would not work and this government will complete five years tenure complete.” Pawar also attacked former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh without taking his name in connection with the Anil Deshmukh case. “Allegations of extortion were raised against (then home minister of Maharashtra) Anil Deshmukh by then Mumbai police commissioner. When it was asked to Mumbai police commissioner whether the police implemented Deshmukh’s alleged instructions to police to collect money then he denied it.” (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/i-insisted-that-uddhav-thackeray-become-maha-cm-sharad-pawar-s-snipe-at-devendra-fadnavis-101634410570225.html
17-10-2021||Other||Allahabad: Train services resume on Delhi-Howrah route||PRAYAGRAJ: Train services on the Delhi-Howrah route of North Central Railways (NCR), Prayagraj division, which had been disrupted since October 15 (Friday) due to derailment of 24 empty wagons of a goods train between Ambiyapur-Rura stations of Kanpur-Tundla section, was restored on Saturday morning. The Delhi-Howrah Up line was made operational at 12.15 am on Friday night, while the track on the down line could be restored around 6.30am on Saturday. Chief public relations officer (CPRO) of NCR, Shivam Sharma informed that following the derailment of the empty wagons of the goods train going towards Deen Dayal Upadhayay Junction on Friday, several trains were diverted via Tundla, Etawah, Jhansi and Ghaziabad because of which these trains were delayed. After restoration work of about several hours, the track going towards New Delhi was opened at 12.15am and the line towards Howrah was cleared for normal traffic at 6.30am on Saturday. After the restoration of the route, the first train 2404 Prayagraj-Jaipur Express passed through the down line on Saturday morning. With the restoration of Up and Down lines, trains are now running on the designated routes, although the same are being passed with caution at the effected site, said Sharma. On the wee hours of Friday, an empty freight rake returning from New Delhi derailed in Kanpur Dehat. Because of the derailment, railways had to divert routes of 12 passenger trains and cancel eight others. The accident occurred at around 4.15am near Ambiapur railway station, 53km away from Kanpur central station. The rakes were heading towards Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya junction of the East Central Railway zone when the mishap took place. No injuries or casualties were reported in the accident. A total of 24 wagons derailed affecting the New Delhi-Kanpur corridor following which several trains had to be diverted via Lucknow and Jhansi for New Delhi while a few had to be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-train-services-resume-on-delhi-howrah-route-101634410509762.html
17-10-2021||Pune||PMC appoints agency to survey, regularise illegal overhead cables||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appointed a private agency to survey illegal overhead cables in the city and charge them fees to regularise it. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Laying of overhead cables is illegal. There are unauthorised and hazardous cable TV, mobile and internet wires all over city. To avoid laying charges, agencies and operators draw overhead cable network across the city and affects the civic body’s revenue. PMC is facing financial problems because of the Covid situation.” Post the agency surveys the overhead cables in the city, PMC will charge for laying the wires plus 10 per cent fine. As the charges would be high, PMC expects operators to henceforth do away with drawing of cables overhead and seek permission from PMC for underground network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-appoints-agency-to-survey-regularise-illegal-overhead-cables-101634410508535.html
17-10-2021||Other||Protests erupt in Ludhiana against killing of SC man at Singhu border||Various Hindu organisations staged a protest against the brutal killing of a Scheduled Caste (SC) man near Singhu border, at Chaura Bazaar on Saturday. Demanding strict action, the organisations burnt the effigy of the accused.Members of the Akhil Bhartiya Shivsena Rashtrawadi and the Hindu Shakti Morcha marched to the Chaura Bazaar and staged a protest.Rohit Sahni, district head, Hindu Shakti Morcha, said, “There was no evidence that the victim was trying to desecrate the holy book, but members of the Nihang community brutally killed him and hanged the body from the barricade.” He demanded stern action against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protests-erupt-in-ludhiana-against-killing-of-sc-man-at-singhu-border-101634410387279.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Post reopening of Pune airport, night operations to remain shut after October 30||The Pune airport which will remain close between October 14 and October 29 will only continue day operations after its restart as runway work will continue during the night time till first week of December. “The Indian Air Force has given tentative date of airport restarting its night operations from the first week of December,” said a Pune airport official. The Pune airport which went into complete shutdown from Saturday, saw flyers footfall reaching till 15,000 in the second week of September. “The airport has seen a surge in footfall in last two months, first it crossed 10,000 during second week of September and now it was crossing 15,000 before it was shutdown,” said the official. As per information provided by official twitter handle of Pune Airport, on Friday, 18,327 flyers used Lohegaon facility (8,524 arrived and 9,803 departed) from 63 flights. “If the runway work completes in first week, then we can expect night flights from the following week (second week of December),” said the official. People continue to vent out anger against Pune airport over twitter as many had booked night flights. Mohini tweeted: “If the Pune airport is shut from 8am to 8pm post October 30 why was my ticket issued by GoAir from Pune to Bengauru at 1:25am and why is the airline still issuing tickets post that time?” Gaurav Sinha tweeted: Why u took booking for a 2345 hrs flight from PUN to MAA (Chennai) for 8th Nov 21 when airport ops was only allowed until 8pm? My entire itinerary has gone for a toss due to abrupt cancellation now and you have not given me Plan B. I need a resolution. As per earlier information provided by an official, airport was to be functional for 24 hours from October 30. The passenger footfall at Pune airport has increased by 22% in September from the previous month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/post-reopening-of-pune-airport-night-operations-to-remain-shut-after-october-30-101634410207339.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Pune city experiences dip in minimum temperature||Pune: Minimum temperature in Pune reported a dip to 18.4 degrees Celsius during the early hours of Saturday which was 0.1 degrees cooler than normal. After the monsoon withdrew from the state, Saturday was the coldest day for Pune city. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), days may remain warmer, but nights are likely to remain cooler in the next few days. According to the weather department, Shivajinagar reported 18.4 degrees Celsius. Lohegaon and Lavale reported 20.2 and 20.3 degrees Celsius respectively. Pashan was relatively cooler with 19.1 degrees Celsius. Chinchwad reported 21.9 degrees Celsius and Magarpatta reported 22.7 degrees Celsius being the warmest part of the city on Saturday. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune, said that the day temperature may go as high as 36 degrees Celsius in parts of the city in the next few days. “Night temperature or minimum temperature is likely to remain around 18 to 19 degrees Celsius giving a feel of chill. Day temperatures on October 17 and October 18 may remain around 33 degrees Celsius making the day warmer. The sky will remain clear and the day shall be dry,” said Kashyapi. Day temperature in Shivajinagar, Pune was reported to be 33.4 degrees Celsius which was just 1.7 degrees warmer than normal. Rains in Vidarbha and Marathwada As per weather department officials, a low-pressure area lies over northern parts of the Central Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood. It is likely to move west-northwestwards and reach south Odisha-north Andhra Pradesh coasts. “Isolated areas in Vidarbha and Marathwada may receive rainfall till October 17 along with thunderstorms and lightning. Isolated parts of central Maharashtra may also receive rainfall along with thundery activity. However, Konkan and Goa shall remain dry in the next few days,” said IMD officials. Mercury Count Area—Min temp (in degrees Celsius) on Saturday Shivajinagar --18.4 Pashan----19.1 Lohegaon ---20.2 Chinchwad----21.9 Lavale---- 20.3 Magarpatta ---- 22.7 Source: IMD, Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-experiences-dip-in-minimum-temperature-101634410089538.html
17-10-2021||Other||Flesh trade racket busted in Ludhiana, six arrested||The Moti Nagar police busted a flesh trade racket with the arrest of six accused, including three women, from a house in Baba Deep Singh Nagar on Friday night.The arrested accused were identified as Seema Devi of Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Kalawati and Seeta of New Ambedkar Nagar, Ram Kumar Yadav of Dholewal, Sunil Kumar, and Naresh Kumar of Mohalla Basti. Seema Devi, who is the kingpin of the racket, was running it from her house. Acting on a tip-off, the police conducted a raid on the house and arrested the suspects.Assistant sub-inspector Mewa Singh, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR under Sections 3, 4, and 5 of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flesh-trade-racket-busted-in-ludhiana-six-arrested-101634410087155.html
17-10-2021||Pune||Residents oppose clearing of forest land at Warje Malwadi||The work for Sanjeevan Udyan, urban forest, has begun full-fledged after the inauguration in August 2021, by clearing of the trees on the 35-acre hill near Dukkar Khind, Warje Malwadi. But according to locals, the clearing of trees will affect the avifauna in the area.Arnav Gandhe, a BE Comp student of Msc biodiversity, Garware College, said, “Sanjeevan Udyan has been planned within an area of pre-existing woodland spread across 35 acres. This woodland and the Mahatma tekdi (hill) plateau together are home to more than 115 species of avifauna recorded for the last seven years. It is also home to more than ten species of mammalian fauna, and many amphibians and reptiles which would certainly face a severe habitat loss due to such culling”“Moreover this culling of trees has been started on the onset of winter which is the prime period for winter migrations of avifaunal diversity observed in Pune. Similar to other the hills of Pune Mahatma tekdi is also used as a halt by these migrants, which would hazard their populations,” he said.Gandhe said, “When such a huge project is planned the necessary project impact assessment including the biodiversity assessment is a must.”This is the second such urban forest in Warje after Smriti Van, another urban forest, being jointly developed by the state government, union forest ministry, and a local non-government organisation (NGO).According to the forest department, Sanjeevan Udyan will also be known as ‘oxygen park’ where landscaping, beautification, pollution control and planting of medicinal herbs and plants will be given top priority.Rahul Patil, deputy conservator of forests for the Pune region, said that the forest department will offer all support, including trees to be planted on a 35-acre land parcel.He also clarified, “Only deciduous species are being cleared. Earlier in that area, since it was barren, only Gliricidia trees were planted and according to the Maharashtra forest documents, we are allowed to clear two hectares (5 acres ) of Gliricidia in the urban area. We will be planting more indigenous trees in its place to create a better urban forest.”According to Gandhe, “Winter followed by Summer is another threat to the mass plantation of native species as due low water table and severe heat, the planted trees would get affected. Even if they are watered by PMC tankers, the guarantee of such regular care remains a question.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-oppose-clearing-of-forest-land-at-warje-malwadi-101634409907382.html
17-10-2021||Other||Young trader kills self over business losses in Baghpat||MEERUT Upset over business losses during the Covid-19 pandemic, a young trader shot himself dead in Suryangar locality of Baraut in Baghpat district, police said on Saturday. The deceased, Sandeep, 35, was a resident of Tugana village in Chhaprauli panchayat in the district, who had opened a grocery shop in Suryanagar locality. He opened his shop on Friday and after sometime he shot himself with a country made pistol. Hearing sound of gunshot, other shopkeepers reached there and informed the police about the incident. Inspector of Baraut Kotwali, Ravi Ratan Singh reached the spot and the injured trader was taken to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead after examination. Singh said that Sandeep’s maternal uncle Yashpal Singh had lodged a report in which he said that Sandeep was upset and under stress due to losses in his business. Villagers also expressed similar reason. The inspector said that the incident was being probed from every possible angle and added that it could also be a fallout of a family feud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/young-trader-kills-self-over-business-losses-in-baghpat-101634409307535.html
17-10-2021||Delhi||Gogi’s aide ordered killing of man who celebrated murder of his boss||Deepak Singh alias Radha, an alleged gangster of the Tillu Tajpuria gang was shot dead by members of the rival Jitender Gogi gang on October 11, because he had thrown a party to celebrate Gogi’s murder, Delhi Police said on Saturday after arresting four men in the case.Police have also confirmed that Deepak’s murder was planned by gangsters lodged in two different jails in Delhi.Police officers privy to the investigation said on Saturday that the police have formally arrested jailed gangsters -- Rohit Moi(Gogi’s second-in-command) from Tihar and another close aide, Kapil Maan from Mandoli jail. Two others, Sahil Solanki and Naveen Sharma have also been arrested.Officers said Moi planned the murder because he had learnt about Deepak throwing a party outside his house in Rohtak, Haryana, on the night of September 24 -- the day when Gogi was shot at 18 times by two gunmen, allegedly members of the rival gangs, inside a courtroom at Rohini district court.The two gunmen entered the court room dressed as lawyers; waited for over half an hour for Gogi and shot him 18 times, within seconds of Gogi entering the court room. Until his arrest in March 2020, Gogi, a resident of Alipur in outer Delhi, who had at least 19 criminal cases, was on top of the list of Delhi Police’s most wanted men. Gogi was arrested from a flat in Gurugram along with his aides Rohit Moi(currently arrested for last week ‘s murder) and Kuldeep Fajja (died in a police encounter earlier this year.)Delhi Police and the prisons are on high alert since Gogi’s murder. Police suspect that Gogi’s associates may try to murder Tillu.A police officer, privy to the questioning of the four men, said Deepak was not an active member of the Tillu gang but had thrown a party after Gogi’s death.“Gangster Rohit Moi got to know about Deepak celebrating Gogi’s murder through his friends. Moi spoke to another key gang member, Kapil Maan, at the Mandoli jail and planned the murder. They also followed Deepak for 4-5 days. Currently, Moi is running Gogi’s gang from inside jail, and another absconding member Deepak Pehal alias Boxer is running the gang from outside,” a police officer said.On the evening of October 11, Deepak was shot dead outside Rohini sector 15-16 market. Deepak had at least five criminal cases against him.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal, said, “ Immediately after the incident, our teams analysed CCTV footage and activated our sources. We also mounted technical surveillance and arrested Sahil Solanki, a close associate of jailed gangsters Rohit Moi and Kapil Maan. They have also been arrested from jail. Another person Naveen Sharma has also been arrested in the case. We are questioning them and probing the case.”The Jitender Gogi gang is embroiled a decade long rivalry with the Tillu Tajpuria gang, led by Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuria. In the last ten years, over two dozen have died in the gang war between the two groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhigogis-aide-order-killing-of-man-who-celebrated-murder-of-his-boss-101634399346278.html
17-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Thak thak’ gang targets Jammu & Kashmir admin official in Khanpur||A deputy labour commissioner in the Jammu and Kashmir administration was targeted by two members of a “thak-thak” gang who fled with her bag containing some cash, her ID and an ATM card in south Delhi’s Khanpur area, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said the 47-year-old woman is a resident of Vasant Kunj. “On Thursday, when the victim was going to Faridabad in a car, two men came on a scooter and signalled her to stop at the Khanpur T-point after claiming that the vehicle was leaking fuel,” said DCP Jaiker.Police said that her 15-year-old son was also present inside the car but she asked him to stay inside.According to the DCP, as soon as she stopped the car and got down to check it, one of the miscreants rushed towards her and snatched her sling bag. In the subsequent struggle, she told police that she received a few scratches, and the men sped away in their two-wheeler.DCP Jaiker said that they have registered a case under sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against unknown persons.Police said they are scanning the CCTV footage around the area to ascertain the identity of the snatchers.“We are looking at all angles and are further investigating the matter. CCTV cameras installed there are also being scanned,” said the DCP.Talking about the general modus operandi of thak-thak gangs, another police official said that they usually target people travelling alone, and distraction is their primary tool.“Once they notice valuables in vehicles, they distract the driver by claiming a flat tyre, or like in this case, a petrol leak. Once the driver opens the door, they quickly steal the valuables and flee,” said the senior police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhithak-thak-gang-targets-jammu-kashmir-admin-official-in-khanpur-101634399166388.html
17-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 22-year-old, who raped minor cousin in Kotla Mubarakpur, arrested||A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her 22-year-old cousin brother at her house in south Delhi’s Kotla Mubarakpur, police said, adding that the accused was arrested two days ago.According to deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker, the girl’s mother approached police on Thursday, claiming the accused allegedly raped her daughter on two occasions when the latter was alone at home. “The mother claimed that she had gone to her native village in Uttar Pradesh two months ago, leaving the girl alone at home, and returned to Delhi just recently. Her daughter was allegedly warned by her cousin against disclosing the sexual assault, and she opened up to her mother only when she returned,” said the DCP.Police said a case was registered under sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act at the Kotla Mubarakpur police station, and the accused was subsequently arrested from his house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi22yearold-who-raped-minor-cousin-in-kotla-mubarakpur-arrested-101634398866283.html
17-10-2021||Delhi||Marginal dip in Delhi University cut-offs for top courses in third list||The Delhi University on Saturday released the third cut-off list for admission to various undergraduate courses in around 65 colleges with seats in several popular courses such as English, Economics, Computer Science, History, and Political Science still up for grabs in some sought-after institutions with a marginal dip in the range of 0.25 to 2 percentage points.Admissions under the third list will be conducted between Monday and Thursday. While colleges can approve admissions by October 22, students can pay their fee by October 23 (5pm). Students can also cancel their admissions in previous colleges and take admission in another college after paying a cancellation fee of ₹1,000, university officials said.Though DU has around 70,000 sanctioned seats, colleges have admitted more than their capacity in some courses as DU does not follow the first come first serve policy for admissions. Till Friday, 51,974 candidates had paid their admission fee.This year, 11 undergraduate programmes had released a 100% cut-off in the first list. Of these, seven are still available under the third cut-off list recording a drop in the range of 0.50 to 3 percentage points.Of the courses demanding perfect scores under first cut-off, Political Science (Hindu College), Computer Science (Hansraj College), and Psychology (Jesus and Mary College) had closed admissions in the second list.Ramjas College closed admissions in Political Science on Saturday.Shri Ram College of Commerce had reduced its 100% cut-off in two courses – BCom (Honours) and Economics – to 99.12% and 99.75% respectively for the second list. On Saturday, these dropped further for the unreserved category, locking it at 99% and 99.5%, respectively.DU’s Deen Dayal Upadhyay College and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies – who had initially set a 100% cutoff in Computer Science – have reduced it to 97% and 97.25% under the third list in the unreserved category.Similarly, Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College which had set a cut-off of 100% for its BCom course in the first list has now reduced it to 97.25% on Saturday.Popular courses such as Economics, English, History, Physics, Chemistry, and Mathematics have seen a drop in the range of 0.25-2 percentage points in most colleges keeping it in the range of 96-100%. Students who have scored below 90% have little to no options in these courses in the unreserved category.Vibha Singh Chauhan, principal of Kirori Mal College, said that the subsequent cut-offs for unreserved category in her college are unlikely to go below 90% as per previous years’ trends. “All principals are cautious about reducing cut-offs... There have been overadmissions in several courses,” she said.For Computer Science, which emerged as a popular course this year as three colleges set 100% cut-off in the subject, admissions are closed in 11 out of the 20 colleges offering the course.Most colleges have either closed admissions in Political Science or have continued to set high cut-offs in the subject. Of the 45 colleges offering Political Science, admissions are closed in 17 colleges and are open in the remaining with cut-offs mostly ranging between 97-100%.Students wanting to study Political Science can still apply to Lady Shri Ram College (98.50%), Kirori Mal College (98.75%), Sri Venkateswara College (98.25%), IP College (97%) and Kamala Nehru College (98%).English too is still open in third cut-off in more colleges such as LSR (98.50%), Hansraj College (98%), Ramjas College (98%), and Sri Venkateswara College (97.75%), Gargi College (97.25%), and Kamala Nehru College (96.75%).While students can still apply for Economics at SRCC (99.5%), Hansraj College (99%), and Hindu College (99%), the subject is closed in Miranda House, Kirori Mal College, Rajdhani College, and Aryabhatta College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/marginal-dip-in-delhi-university-cut-offs-for-top-courses-in-third-list-101634397852157.html
17-10-2021||Delhi||25-year-old shot dead over parking dispute in southwest Delhi’s Dabri||A 25-year-old man was shot dead allegedly by two persons in a fight over a parking in southwest Delhi’s Dabri area, police said.A senior police officer said they received a PCR call on Friday regarding firing in Dabri area. After reaching the spot, police found blood scattered on the road, and came to know that injured Afroz Alam was rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital where he was declared brought dead.A case has been registered on the complaint of an eyewitness at the Dabri police station. The complainant told the cops, Suhel Khan and Raja had parked their bike in front of Alam’s house. When the latter reached his house, he asked Khan and Raja to remove their bike. An altercation ensued, in which Alam was shot in his head.Police said that they are checking the CCTV footage, and the mobile phones of the accused have been put on surveillance to nab the accused persons, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25yearold-shot-dead-over-parking-dispute-in-southwest-delhi-s-dabri-101634397006250.html
17-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC launches drive to check mosquito breeding sites in schools, malls||In order to check the spread of vector-borne diseases such as malaria, dengue and chikungunya in schools and malls, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) inspected 807 schools and malls in its four zones for mosquito breeding sites on Thursday and Friday, officials aware of the matter said.The civic body found mosquito breeding sites on premises of nearly 100 establishments.Civic officials said 71 notices and 19 challans were issued to them under the Delhi Municipal Corporation (Malaria and other Mosquito Borne Diseases) Bye-Laws, 1975.SDMC’s additional municipal health officer (AMHO), Dr Lallan Ram Verma, said mosquito breeding was found in schools at Manglapuri, Kakrola, Dwarka, Gopal Nagar, Sainik Enclave, RK Puram, Vikaspuri, Vasant Kunj and Greater Kailash areas.“The malls, where mosquito breeding sites were found, are located in Dwarka, Panchsheel Vihar and Chirag Delhi. The public health department has also been running an awareness campaign on radio, in newspapers, and through SMSes,” he said.Verma said, “In order to make people aware, the department has also put up 200 banners, pasted 2,371 stickers and has distributed 10,106 handbills.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisdmclaunches-drive-to-check-mosquito-breeding-sites-in-schools-malls-101634396706484.html
17-10-2021||Delhi||Suspect behind murder of ASI’s son arrested in encounter in Delhi||A suspected sharpshooter, who had been absconding after allegedly killing the son of an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) last week, was caught in an encounter with the police in Dwarka.Police said the suspect, identified as Anil Joon, who was shot in the knees during the encounter and is currently undergoing treatment, allegedly had plans to carry out more such murders.Police said that on October 7, the ASI’s teen son, Takesh, was hacked to death by Joon and a few accomplices. An FIR was registered under sections 302 (murder), 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC at the Chhawla police station.During the course of investigation, police identified Joon, a resident of Najafgarh, as one of the attackers and it was ascertained that the criminal is an active member of Kapil Sangwan alias Nandu gang. Investigators said he was planning to carry out more such attacks to spread fear and extort money during the ongoing festival season.Police said they received information about his movement and laid a trap near Dhoolsiras Chowk in Dwarka.Joon, who came there on a bike, was asked to surrender but instead, he took out a pistol and fired upon the police team which hit the bulletproof jacket of two cops.Joon was hit in the knees during counter fire, following which he was taken to the hospital where he is undergoing treatment. A case was registered under relevant sections of the IPC and the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisuspected-sharpshooter-behind-murder-of-asi-s-son-arrested-101634395866091.html
