18-10-2021||Delhi||Politics intensifies as Delhi civic bodies begin Chhath Puja preparations||New Delhi: Politics over the ban on Chhath Puja in Delhi this year in the light of Covid 19 pandemic intensified on Monday with the BJP-ruled municipal corporations announcing that they have begun preparations for the annual festival. The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has already announced that it will celebrate the festival, albeit with Covid protocols. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) banned Chhath Puja on September 30 -- the second consecutive year that the authorities prohibited the celebrations. Mukesh Suryan, the mayor of South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), said directions have been issued to the officials to start preparations at sites where Chhath Puja will be held. “I have recently inspected on Chhath Puja ghat in Vasant Vihar. We will be holding the community festival on 148 Chhath ghats. The festival will be held and there are no doubts in our minds that permission will be obtained,” Suryan said. Leader of the house in SDMC Inderjeet Sehrawat said the Chhath festival will be held “like every year”. “We have decided to keep the preparations ready from our side. The permission will be secured,” he added.However, the BJP has been blaming the Delhi government for the ban on the festival, and urging the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) dispensation to get the nod so that festivities could go on. Last Thursday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who is the DDMA chairperson, to allow the festival with Covid protocols. On October 12, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia wrote Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, urging the Centre to issue guidelines for the Chhath festival as soon as possible following consultation with health experts.Chhath Puja, a three-day festival, will be celebrated between November 8-10 this year. It is most popular in states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and parts of Madhya Pradesh.With 4 million constituents, of the total 14.7 million registered voters in Delhi, poorvanchalis have emerged as a major cultural and political block in the city during the last decade, and the observance of Chhath festival-- which is observed six days after Diwali-- in public places has also grown proportionally. From just 72 ghats in 2015, the number of Chhath sites in Delhi has grown to 1,108 in 2019.BJP MP from Northeast Delhi Manoj Tiwari, one of the most prominent Poorvanchali BJP leader, launched a yatra in his constituency on October 9 against the DDMA ban.Chhail Bihari Goswami, the leader of the house in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said they are going ahead with the Chhath ghat preparations, disinfection and fogging of the designated sites. “We have earmarked at least one to two sites in each of the 104 municipal wards under our jurisdiction. Preparations will be made in anticipation of permission being granted,” he added. Shyam Sunder Aggarwal, the mayor of the east DMC said majority of Chhath ghat sites in densely populated east Delhi areas are located along the Yamuna between Wazirabad and Noida border. “I have held review meetings with senior officials. Cleaning of sites along the river will be initiated on mission mode so that devotees don’t face any problem. Besides deploying sanitation staff, mobile toilets and fogging machines we will also carry out repair work of approach roads on major ghats,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/politics-intensifies-as-delhi-civic-bodies-begin-chhath-puja-preparations-101634581610079.html
18-10-2021||Other||Hazratganj lit up to dazzle, courtesy LMC||The market of Hazratganj has been decked with colourful lights by the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) for the festive season.“We have installed running lights and spiral lights in the heritage market of Hazratganj, as it is one of the oldest markets of the city. The spiral lights will be left even after Diwali while the running lights will be removed,” said Ajay Dwivedi, municipal commissioner.“Now, demands have started coming in of decorating other markets like Aminabad, Alambagh, Chowk, Bhootnath and Patrakarpuram. However, due to limited resources we have only decorated the heritage market of Hazratganj. We will decorate other markets as and when the resources are available,” he said.Kishan Chand Bhambwani, president, Hazratganj Traders’ Association, said, “The market is looking beautiful and all the traders are full of praise for the LMC. Had they contacted us, we would have taken the responsibility for the protection and maintenance of the lights. Traders will help the LMC in any step taken for the benefit of the market and promotion of sales.“It is after 2010, when Hazratganj got its makeover with buildings painted in a uniform colour, uniform signboards, stone pavements, Victorian style lights, balustrades that the LMC has taken interest in making the area beautiful. All the traders will support LMC in maintenance of these decorative lights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hazratganj-lit-up-to-dazzle-courtesy-lmc-101634581608944.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Decision to increase gap between 2 Covid doses not political or due to shortage: Dr Bharti Pawar||PUNE: The decision to increase or decrease the gap between two doses is based purely on scientific evidence and not political considerations or shortage of vaccines, said Dr Bharti Pawar, minister of state in the ministry of health and family welfare. She was addressing a press conference at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Monday. Earlier, Cyrus Poonawalla, founder of the Serum Institute of India (SII), said that the government had increased the gap between two doses from one month to three months due to shortage of vaccines.Interacting with the media about the work carried out by the PMC during both waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, Pawar said, “The decision to increase the gap between two doses was based on evidence and studies undertaken by the ICMR, the central health ministry and various other experts. It was not a political decision and neither was it due to shortage of vaccines. We also have a medical task force which works on this and so, political statements do not matter.”On August 13, Poonawalla said that a gap of two months between two doses of Covishield is ideal however the current gap of three months and the earlier gap of just one month are both wrong. “A two months’ gap is ideal. Also it is true that the number of antibodies would decrease after six months however memory cells are present in the body. It is advisable to get a third dose or booster shot six months after the second dose. Unless the virus has reduced nominally across the world, we might need to take vaccines,” Poonawalla said. SII is the largest manufacturer of Covid-19 vaccines and is supplying over 90% of the required vaccines in the country.Dr Pawar said that the decision regarding the booster dose and allowing people who have got only one shot of the vaccine to travel would also depend on expert opinion and not political statements. On Sunday, state health minister Rajesh Tope said that the state government is contemplating whether or not to allow people who have got only one dose of the vaccine to travel by train or visit malls – activities that are currently reserved only for those who have taken both shots of the vaccine.However, task force member, Dr Sanjay Oak, said, “According to the ICMR, the ideal gap between two doses is 82 days which is currently applicable. Also, the task force has recommended to the government that though we cannot remain in a state of lockdown perpetually, this unlock cannot be a substitute for Covid-19 appropriate behaviour like wearing a mask or following basic respiratory hygiene. Also, it is not advisable to allow people who have got only one shot to travel freely as both doses are essential and immunity levels after one dose are not enough.”Pawar also lauded the work carried out by the Pune Platform for Covid-19 response, a volunteer and citizen group formed during the pandemic and invited the team to Delhi to explain their model so that the same could be replicated in other cities as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/decision-to-increase-gap-between-2-covid-doses-not-political-or-due-to-shortage-dr-bharti-pawar-101634581596322.html
18-10-2021||Other||1 killed in gunfight between two NSCN factions in Nagaland||One person was killed in a gunfight that took place on Sunday night between the Unification faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-U) and the Niki Sumi-led Khaplang faction of (NSCN-K) near the NSCN (U) designated camp Khehoi in Niuland area under Dimapur district, officials said.People familiar with the development told HT that the deceased was an “additional secretary” of the NSCN (K) Niki Sumi group, identified as Atoka Kinimi. The incident happened at around 11 PM.The people cited above said four cadres of the NSCN (K) Niki Sumi group were in the area reportedly to pick up some of their cadres who were allegedly being held by the NSCN (U) in their camp at Khehoi. Upon nearing the camp area, NSCN (U) men allegedly stopped the vehicle carrying the NSCN (K) Niki group cadres which ensued in an exchange of gunshots.People familiar with the matter also informed that one NSCN (K) Niki group cadre was shot dead during the encounter while one was “apprehended” by the NSCN (U), another was caught by the police and one ran away.It was learnt that since both groups are currently in a ceasefire agreement with the government of India, they are tied to the Ceasefire Ground Rules, which were apparently violated by both sides.Chairman of Ceasefire Monitoring Group (CFMG Nagaland) Lt. Gen. (retired) AS Bedi is said to have rushed to the spot on Monday to take stock of the situation and held meetings with both groups. The situation is stated to be under control but tense.Meanwhile, the NSCN (K) Niki group, in a statement, questioned the motive of the Naga national political groups (NNPGs), of which the NSCN (U) is a part, behind the killing of their “additional secretary” Atoka Kinimi at a juncture when all Nagas are yearning for peace. The statement said that fratricidal acts amongst Naga groups will not benefit the ongoing Naga political talks in any way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-killed-in-gunfight-between-two-nscn-factions-in-nagaland-101634581594870.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Two killed, 1 injured in three separate cases; at least 2 minors apprehended||New Delhi: Two persons were killed and another was injured in three separate crimes that took place reportedly over minor issues in south and central Delhi areas between Friday night and early Sunday morning. At least one of the crimes was committed allegedly by minor boys.In one of the murder cases that took place on Sunday evening in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar, an 18-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by his neighbour following an altercation. The entire incident was captured in a CCTV camera installed in the lane where the murder took place.The victim, identified by his first name Imran, worked as a painter and police said that the initial enquiry has revealed that the two allegedly had some enmity over a girl. Imran’s relative, Ayesha, said that he was having food at home when the neighbour called him outside around 7 pm. In the video footage, Imran is puportedly seen resisting attempts by three boys to pull him to an adjacent lane when one of them allegedly attacks him and stabs him in the abdomen. The video further shows the two boys accompanying the attacker attempting to further attacks even as the latter kicks Imran twice, following which he falls on the ground.The suspect is purportedly seen stabbing him further and then leaves the crime scene as a few others, who gather around the spot, are seen helping the injured man.A case of murder was registered and several teams were formed to nab the suspect, said deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker.The second murder took place on Friday night in Anand Parbat’s Nehru Nagar, where a man was stabbed to death allegedly by a man, identifed as Vivek (18), over ₹500 that he sought for buying marijuana. A case of murder was registered at the Anand Parbat police station and the suspect was arrested on Monday. DCP (central) Shweta Chauhan said that Vivek was consuming liquor near a Ramlila park when he was approached by the victim who allegedly sought money to buy the drug and snatched ₹500 from his pocket. “In a subsequent altercation, the suspect stabbed him to death and fled the spot,” said the DCP.In the third case, a tea seller, Ram Kishan (26), was shot in the leg allegedly by four juveniles following an altercation over a delay in serving refreshment at his stall near Safdarjung hospital in south Delhi in the early hours of Sunday. Police said the teenagers were drunk and three of them were apprehended. Police are on the lookout for the fourth suspect, said DCP (southwest) Gaurav Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-killed-1-injured-in-three-separate-cases-at-least-2-minors-apprehended-101634581412721.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Covid third wave prep: PMC appoints 6 paediatricians||Although the number of Covid-19 cases has gone down, the administration is preparing for a third wave. The PMC has appointed six paediatricians full time, and is preparing to appoint additional paediatricians on a contract basis. Dr Ashish Bharti, chief medical officer at the PMC health department said, “Despite Covid-19 wave receding, we are still preparing for the third wave which was anticipated to affect children the most. We have appointed six full time paediatricians at our hospitals and have also processed the appointment of additional paediatricians in case there is a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. We have paediatricians that will cater to the paediatric requirements in civic hospitals.” PMC data reveals that in the first and second Covid waves, the number of children with Covid-19 fell from 11.15% to 9.94%. Although the absolute number of Covid-19 patients aged under the age of 18 was more in the second wave than the first, in terms of a percentage of overall cases, the number is lower in the second wave. As per PMC data, the first Covid-19 wave which lasted from May 2020 to October 2020 saw 200,00 patients of which 22,792 were aged below 18 year. This accounts for 11.15% of the patient population. Of these 22,000 patients, 31 died and 22,761 recovered. However in the second wave, between March and October 2021, 298,000 patients were reported, of which 29,661 were below the age of 18, which is 9.94% of the patient population. In the second wave, deaths due to the infection among children was also lower, 26. The case fatality rate in the first wave was 0.14% and in the second wave it was 0.09%. Currently, 141 active Covid-19 patients are aged under 18, of the 1,003 active cases reported in the city on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-third-wave-prep-pmc-appoints-6-paediatricians-101634581352645.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||MPD-2041: Public hearing focuses on housing for urban poor, ownership rights||On Day One of the public hearing on the Master Plan of Delhi-2041 (MPD-2041) on Monday, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) held consultations with the public on issues concerning migrant workers and the urban poor living in the national capital. A total of 8,781 people were invited to attend the public hearing, DDA officials said.The consultations were divided into six slots and issues discussed included affordable housing for migrant workers, facilities for street vendors, provision for ownership rights to people living in resettlement colonies, provisions for day care centres or crèches, and recognition of unauthorised residential colonies that have come up on Zone O (Yamuna floodplains).The draft MPD-2041 is the vision document for the city’s growth over the next two decades, and proposes to make Delhi a 24X7 city with night-time economy, affordable housing, mixed development and transit-oriented development.Following the row over the limited time given by the DDA for public hearings, the land-owning agency has put out a detailed schedule for public hearings that will be held between October 18 and November 10.While the DDA has invited a total of 17,162 people to participate in the two-day session beginning October 18, it will hold chapter-wise hearings from October 25, officials said. The DDA has received over 1,200 objections/suggestions to MPD-2041 related to environment, economy, transport and mobility, and shelter, among others. Nearly 10,000 comments were received for the land use plan proposed under the draft master plan, while another 2,900 comments were received on development control norms. A senior DDA official said on condition of anonymity, “There were a lot of people who discussed very local issues related to sanitation and lack of toilets. There were some who spoke about the need for housing.”DDA officials said they have got suggestions regarding affordable housing for the urban poor. The demand is that at least 10% of the land for housing be reserved for low-cost or affordable housing and provision be made to protect existing slum clusters.With municipal corporations carrying out surveys to identify street vendors in various markets, DDA officials said they received suggestions from people that vending zones in markets be clearly demarcated. Residents of Savda Ghevra, a resettlement colony which came up 15 years ago, submitted objections over the delay in getting ownership rights. Residents demanded that provision be made in the MPD-2041 to provide them ownership rights and essential civic infrastructure such as public transport, markets and community centres, and that development be planned in such a manner as to aid them in getting more employment.While the Centre announced the PM-UDAY scheme in 2019 to give ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi, there are around 80 such colonies which are unable to avail of the benefit as their area falls in Zone O of the MPD-2021— the land planning zone which encompasses the Yamuna floodplains, where the National Green Tribunal has decreed a status quo.Anil Sharma, a resident of Jaitpur, said, “I raised the matter in the public hearing on Monday. I requested DDA to exclude 52 colonies in and around Badarpur assembly constituency from Zone O. In the new master plan, the DDA has divided Zone O in two parts. But we want the DDA to remove our colonies completely from Zone O so that development work can take place and we can get ownership rights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mpd2041-public-hearing-focuses-on-housing-for-urban-poor-ownership-rights-101634581238963.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Wettest October: Delhi breaks a weather record for 15th straight month||New Delhi: The Capital continued its trend of breaking a weather record every month this October, with Monday’s spell of long and widespread rain being the most in 24 hours since 1956, according to records from the weather office, and also leaving the city with its wettest October since 1960.Delhi has now broken a weather record for the 15th straight month, records showed.Data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) showed that Delhi recorded 87.9 mm rainfall between Sunday night and Monday, the most in a day since an October 1956 day when Delhi recorded 111mm rain.
18-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man arrested for kidnapping traffic cop during checking drive||A 29-year-old man was arrested on Monday evening for allegedly kidnapping a traffic constable during a checking drive in Surajpur on Sunday. The police identified the suspect as Sachin Rawal, a resident of Ghodi Bacheda village in Greater Noida. The traffic constable, Virendra Singh, 38, said he had received information that the suspect was moving in a stolen vehicle. “I stopped the suspect’s Maruti Swift Dzire in Surajpur around 9.45am and asked to produce vehicle’s registration paper. The suspect asked me to sit inside the car, saying that he would show the vehicle’s papers on a mobile phone,” Singh said. “As soon as I entered the car, the suspect locked the doors and drove away the vehicle for around 8km. I was shocked as he was not slowing down the vehicle despite repeated requests,” the constable said. Singh dialled 112 and alerted the police. A police team started tracing the suspect’s car. Then the suspect dumped the constable near Ajaibpur police check post and fled with the car, the police said. Sohanveer Singh, sub-inspector at Surajpur police station, said the police launched a search and arrested the suspect from Ghodi Bacheda village on Monday evening. “We have also seized the car. Initial investigations showed that the suspect had stolen the car from a showroom in Gurugram two years ago on the pretext of a test drive,” he said. A case has been registered against the suspect under sections 364 (kidnapping), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 368 (wrongfully concealing or keeping in confinement, kidnapped or abducted person) of the Indian Penal Code. “The suspect will be produced in court on Tuesday,” said the sub-inspector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-arrested-for-kidnapping-traffic-cop-during-checking-drive-101634581063572.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Over 60,000 get Covid vaccine jabs in Lucknow in a day||Over 60,000 doses of Covid vaccine were administered in the state capital on Monday while the health department had arranged over one lakh doses. Till 8pm, 60,598 doses had been administered. “Rain restricted many beneficiaries who avoided coming out of their homes,” said Dr Manoj Agrawal, chief medical officer, Lucknow.“We will continue focusing on vaccination in the next two days also just as we did today (Monday). This will help those beneficiaries who had to skip their dose to get the same without delay,” he added. Lucknow has till now administered a total 42,87,909 doses of the vaccine which is maximum among all the districts.During the day, vaccination picked up late and 21,121 doses were administered between 11am and 1pm. As heavy rain lashed the city late evening and overcast conditions prevailing for the entire day, number of beneficiaries at vaccination centres was fewer than the usual. In the state capital, 354 centres conducted Covid vaccination.In state, 1,71,9969 doses were administered till 8pm at 15,778 vaccination centres. “Focus will be more upon rural pockets that lag behind urban areas in vaccination coverage,” said Dr Agrawal.UP crosses 12-cr Covid vaccination mark
18-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt revives plan to rationalise bus routes in the city||New Delhi: The Delhi government is reviving its plan to rationalise bus routes in the city with the introduction of electric buses on smaller routes and increasing the frequency of buses on major trunk routes, senior officials privy to the development said on Monday.In 2018, the Delhi Integrated Multi-modal Transit System (DIMTS) Limited had prepared a fresh report -- “Route rationalisation and last mile connectivity” -- on the direction of the city administration but its implementation was put on hold due to the northeast Delhi riots, assembly elections, and then the Covid-19 pandemic. “Now, the transport minister (Kailash Gahlot) has directed all officials to take up the matter again and revisit the bus route rationalisation plan of Delhi and include electric buses, as well as non-motorised public vehicles, for last mile connectivity,” said a senior transport official on condition of anonymity.The first phase of the project aims to provide bus service to everyone within 500 metres of walking distance for residents. As part of the plan, trunk routes -- connecting large towns and mostly running on arterial roads -- will connect all zonal hubs in Delhi with a frequency of 5-10 minutes. The trunk routes will be fed by primary routes at a frequency of 10 to 20 minutes. These in turn will be connected via village connectivity or feeder services, running at a frequency of 20 to 45 minutes. This will be achieved by increasing the number of buses and reorganising the bus routes, an official said, adding that at present, many routes are obsolete. Officials said that currently, buses operating on the trunk routes have a frequency ranging from 10 minutes to 1.5 hours. The other routes also see similarly large frequency gaps.Officials said the three-tier routing pattern will be superimposed by commercial business districts (CBD) circulatory routes to connect the major commercial hubs in Delhi. Officials said the idea is to optimise the existing bus fleet for better service to customers.With Delhi planning to induct electric buses, Gahlot has directed officials and stakeholders to include it in the route rationalisation plan. A total of 300 e-buses are being procured by the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), a first in the national capital. Of these 300 e-buses, 200 are to be provided by JBM while the remaining will be manufactured by Tata Motors. Additionally, the Delhi government gave its go-ahead for procurement of another 465 e-buses under the cluster scheme last month.“The first prototype, of the electric buses the government is bringing to the city, will be pressed into service in a week or two. Initial reports suggest that e-buses run fewer kilometres compared to the existing CNG buses in the city. Therefore, initially, the e-buses will be rolled out on smaller routes. Later, depending on their performance, charging time and feedback from passengers, they will be put on longer routes,” said a second transport official. Experts said that currently, the frequency of DTC or cluster buses in Delhi is highly unpredictable. “This is because of the presence of a large number of routes and limited number of buses for these routes. Therefore, some stops may have buses at every five minutes, some at every 30 minutes or more. Therefore, the overall system becomes unreliable. In a trunk and feeder based system, the trunk corridor, which has the maximum number of buses, gets highly reliable service as buses are not stuck in neighbourhood traffic. Thus, the waiting period for the next bus is far lower and the service is much more predictable, leading to a more reliable service,” said Amit Bhatt, executive director at World Resources Institute, India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-revives-plan-to-rationalise-bus-routes-in-the-city-101634580692665.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||BJP MLA from Ayodhya gets 5 years in jail in 28-year-old fake mark sheet case||Indra Pratap Tiwari, BJP MLA from Gosaiganj in Ayodhya, was on Monday sentenced to five years in jail by a special court in a 28-year-old case of using fake mark sheet to get admission in college.Special judge of MP/MLA court Puja Singh delivered the verdict and Tiwari, who was present in the court, was taken in custody and sent to jail.The court also slapped a fine of ₹8,000 on him.Indra Pratap Tiwari alias Khabbu Tiwari was elected from Gosaiganj assembly constituency in the last assembly elections.The case was lodged against Tiwari in 1992 by the then Principal of Saket Degree College of Ayodhya Yaduvansh Ram Tripathi in Ram Janmabhoomi police station.He Had alleged that Tiwari used a fake marksheet to get the admission. Tiwari was also elected as Secretary of the college students union in that year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-mla-from-ayodhya-gets-5-years-in-jail-in-28-year-old-fake-mark-sheet-case-101634580161346.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Ram temple: Experts tasked with getting sunlight to illuminate idol every Ram Navami, says Champat Rai||Champat Rai, general secretary of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, on Monday stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken up with experts the issue of designing the Ram temple’s sanctum sanctorum in Ayodhya in such a way that sunlight illuminates Lord Ram’s idol every Ram Navami. The Trust has already set a deadline to enthrone Ram Lalla (infant Lord Ram) in the sanctum sanctorum of the Ram temple in Ayodhya by December 2023 to allow devotees to worship the deity.Lord Ram’s birthday is celebrated on Ram Navami, which falls in March or April. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken up with space scientists the issue of the Sun’s rays illuminating Lord Ram’s idol every Ram Navami for a few minutes at noon,” Rai said to the media after a two-day meeting of the Ram temple construction committee began in Ayodhya on Monday.“Scientists are making efforts and they are hopeful of a positive outcome,” added Rai.The Sun’s rays reach inside the Sun temple at Konark in Odisha and a team of scientists, astronomers, architects and technical experts are planning to design the Ram temple’s sanctum sanctorum (also) in such a way, said a Trust member. Committee chairman Nripendra Misra discussed with experts the technical issues related to the ongoing construction work of Ram temple. For his part, Rai said: “At present casting of the raft above the temple’s foundation is going on.” “A maximum temperature of 22-23 degrees centigrade is required at the time of casting. For this, work (casting) is being done during the night. Ice in large quantity is also being used to maintain the temperature,” said Rai. “At present, the night temperature is around 25 degrees centigrade. So, ice is being used to maintain temperature,” he added.According to the Trust, a 1.5-metre thick raft is being placed above the foundation. The plinth will be constructed using Mirzapur stone granite above this raft. After that, placement of stones for the sanctum sanctorum of the Ram temple will start.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ram-temple-experts-tasked-with-getting-sunlight-to-illuminate-idol-every-ram-navami-says-champat-rai-101634580452666.html
18-10-2021||Noida||‘Disgruntled’ farmers block traffic, occupy expressways across Gautam Budh Nagar||Vehicular movement was affected on the Greater Noida-Noida side of the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway from 12pm to 5pm on Monday as Bhartiya Kisan Union (Tikait), or BKU-Tikait, members blocked the highway in protest. The traffic police had to divert vehicles to the service lane of the expressway.Around 500 farmers on several tractors and cars, and on foot marched from Zero Point on Yamuna Expressway to Chilla border in Noida. Later, 200 farmers also sat on protest outside the Noida Authority office, said police. Sunil Pradhan, BKU-Tikait media in-charge, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the farmers’ union organised a massive protest on Monday. “We have several demands, including employment for farmers’ children, education, healthcare facilities, increased compensation, developed plots to farmers whose land was acquired, etc. We have organised protests in the past too, but the officials just give us assurances and do not find a concrete solution,” he said.Farmers are disgruntled with the Noida, Greater Noida and the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development authorities, which have acquired around 80,000 hectares of land from farmers for developmental purposes since 1976. Noida, established in 1976, acquired around 20,000 ha, Greater Noida, set up in 1992, acquired 38,000 ha and Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), established in 2002, acquired around 20,000 ha for various projects, including the airport at Jewar. The three authorities still need to acquire more land for developmental works such as basic infrastructure, industrial usage and residential usage. Meanwhile, farmers have been protesting against the Noida authority for the past 47 days, alleging that their needs have been ignored during the development of the industrial towns. On Monday, farmers from Yamuna authority villages also joined the protest and blocked traffic in Sector 6 and other parts of the district. “We demand 10% of residential land for our families against the total land acquired by the authorities , 64% more money than what we have got so far, old abadi settlements in villages, unregulated construction in villages and corruption-free work in government offices,” said Sukhbir Yadav, a farmer leader who has been protesting for the last 47 days.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police, (traffic) Gautam Budh Nagar, said that traffic was diverted to the service lane of the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway due to the protest. “The farmers later reached Chilla border and protested for 15 minutes. We diverted Delhi-bound traffic to the DND Flyway,” he said. He said the farmers left the spot at 5pm and went to the Noida Authority office. Pranjal Kumar, a commuter, said that he was caught in a traffic jam on the expressway for half-an-hour in the afternoon. “The traffic police should have alerted the commuters in advance about such a protest,” he said.The farmers’ protest exacerbated the problem caused by rain, construction work on the underpass, and some potholes on the expressway near Sector 150, the DCP said, adding that traffic on the expressway had been slow since the morning. “The Noida Authority is developing an underpass at Sector 150. The construction work had made the road rough. Vehicles were moving slowly at the spot,” the DCP said.A senior manager of Noida Authority, who requested not to be named, said due to construction work one carriageway of the expressway was blocked. “Due to rain, the road on the other carriageway had become rough. We repaired the road and vehicular movement resumed at 9.30am,” he said.Later in the day, a farmers’ group also reached Dankaur railway station and claimed to have halted a Delhi-Howrah train. However, Arvind Pathak, station house officer, Dankaur police station, said the train had halted as it did not get a green signal. “The farmers reached there and captured some photos. The police soon asked them to leave,” he said.Top officials of the Noida, Greater Noida authorities and Yeida met with the farmers around 7pm at the Noida Authority’s main administrative building in Sector 6 and discussed their issues. Farmers said they have demanded written assurances from the officials.“We are discussing all their issues and taking appropriate action so that their issues can be addressed as per the law,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty of the Noida authority and in-charge of farmers’ issues.Later at night, farmers said the talks failed to yield results. Farmers continued to sit at the authority office late into the night and said they will continue the agitation till their demands are accepted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/disgruntled-farmers-block-traffic-occupy-expressways-across-gautam-budh-nagar-101634580411318.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Environmentalists allege GMC’s laxity for waste dumping near Hindon floodplains||City-based environmentalists on Monday hit out at the Ghaziabad municipal corporation (GMC), alleging that the civic body has been lagging behind in controlling dumping of garbage in the floodplains along the Hindon River and the forest area behind Mahamaya Stadium in the city.Activist Vikrant Sharma, who recently filed a petition with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for the alleged dumping of solid waste at different places near Raj Nagar Extension on a daily basis, said, “Dumping of garbage and solid waste continued near the floodplains of the river even after I filed the petition. Such an activity is not allowed. The tribunal had also directed to stop dumping these there in connection with a petition filed in 2015. I shot pictures and videos of the garbage scattered at the floodplains, and also apprised district administration officials regarding this,” Sharma said.“Such activities have also been witnessed behind the Nandi Park area and on the floodplain side of the Hindon elevated road in the past as well,” he added.Echoing similar views, environmentalist Akash Vashishtha said that he appraised the GMC officials after witnessing dumping activities near the floodplains of the Hindon River. “The river stretches and floodplains need to be cleared and any such dumping activities should be stopped with an immediate effect. I have also complained to the district administration officials about this issue. If such activities continue, the river ecology and the habitat around it will be disturbed even more,” he said.“Similar dumps can also be witnessed near the city forest area behind the Mahamaya Stadium, though there is an order of status quo and other measures for restoration, as directed by the Allahabad high court in October 2012,” Vashishtha added.The area behind the Mahamaya Stadium, which once had a dense tree cover, is a designated ‘city forest’ under the Master Plan 2021, and is located close to the Hindon River.Councillor Rajendra Tyagi had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) after hundreds of trees in the city forest were damaged following garbage dumping and overflowing of sewage. When contacted, GMC commissioner MS Tanwar said that he will direct the officials concerned to take care of the dumping issues immediately.City health officer Mithilesh Kumar, meanwhile, said that after the sites at Raj Nagar Extension were abandoned, the GMC has been ensuring the people that daily solid waste is being picked up from major road stretches and localities with the help of door-to-door garbage collection vehicles. “The GMC is not involved in dumping any solid waste -- either at the city forest or at the floodplains of the Hindon River. It is likely that some unidentified persons are dumping garbage at the city forest... and we have seized the vehicle or equipment used to dump solid waste from the Khoda locality,” Kumar said.Ghaziabad is estimated to generate nearly 1,200 metric tonnes of daily solid waste, but officials say that there is a deficit of 300-400 metric tonnes on a daily basis. “The capacity is being enhanced to plug the gap. The solid waste is going to our garbage factories in Sihani, and the remaining waste is getting processed at the Indirapuram and Pratap Vihar sites. One more factory will be opened at Ret mandi. We will take up the processing of garbage at the Galand site shortly, where setting up of a waste to energy plant has been proposed,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/environmentalists-allege-gmc-s-laxity-for-waste-dumping-near-hindon-floodplains-101634580402969.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi pollution: Govt launches Red light on, Gaadi off||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Monday started a month-long ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign across 100 traffic crossings to reduce vehicular emissions.As the campaign began on Monday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to people to “contribute” in the fight against pollution and make the campaign successful.“Please do contribute in this fight against pollution. Whenever you stop at the red light, please turn off your car’s engine. This will save fuel and also help reduce pollution. We all Delhiites will together reduce pollution in Delhi,” Kejriwal tweeted on Monday. Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai visited the ITO crossing in the morning and gave roses to commuters, appealing them to turn off their car’s engines at red signals as well as extend their support to make this fight against pollution a success. “To reduce vehicular pollution, the Delhi government has started a ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign from today (Monday). Data by the Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA) shows that if people follow the exercise of switching off engines at traffic signals, pollution can be cut down by 13-20%,” Rai said.“This is a public campaign. We all will have to fight together to beat pollution. I appeal to the public to follow the campaign,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-pollution-govt-launches-red-light-on-gaadi-off-101634580401630.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Rain brings pollution down, air quality improves||Noida’s air quality improved on Monday as heavy to moderate rainfall in the region brought the mercury and pollution levels down. Air quality in the city has been oscillating between the “very poor” and “poor” categories for past the three days. However, authorities said, following heavy to moderate rainfall in the region over the past 24 hours, the effect of stubble burning (that takes place in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana) in Noida lessened, and dust suspended in the air settled, leading to improvement in air quality.An air quality index (AQI) reading between 0 and 50 is considered ‘good’, between 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, between 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and between 401 and 500 ‘severe’.According to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI reading for Noida on Monday was 45 against 288 a day earlier. Ghaziabad’s AQI reading also saw a marked improvement on Monday--45 against 310 on Sunday. Greater Noida’s AQI reading was 38 against 224 a day earlier.Officials at India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that while the amount of rainfall could not be recorded for Noida on Monday (a day earlier it was recorded at 22mm) because of technical issues, the Safdarjung observatory in neighbouring Delhi (considered representative for the national Capital region) recorded an average rainfall of 87.9mm over the past 24 hours.The rainfall also bought the region’s mercury down by over seven degrees Celsius over the past 24 hours. According to the IMD, the maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida on Monday were recorded at 23.1 degrees Celsius and 20 degrees Celsius against 30.9 degrees Celsius and 25 degrees Celsius a day earlier. At Delhi’s Safdarjung, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 23.9 degrees Celsius, nine degrees below the season’s average, and 20.1 degrees Celsius, two degrees above the season’s average.“Maximum temperatures may spike, and hover around 29 degrees Celsius while the minimum temperature may be recorded at 21 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. There will be mist in the morning while the day will be cloudy,” said an official from IMD.According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the AQI reading will be good for the next 24 hours as well.“Local land surfaces are wet and so dust re-suspension is minimum, which will lead to low PM10. Presence of western disturbance has led to scattered rainfall over north India, leading to low biomass burning. This condition improved AQI with low PM2.5. Fire counts reduced to 170... Moist surfaces inhibit re-suspension of dust which will keep AQI in ‘good’ category for next 24 hours,” said a statement by Safar on Monday.Particulater matter (PM)10 and PM2.5 are considered the main pollutants in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-rain-brings-pollution-down-air-quality-improves-101634580394018.html
18-10-2021||Noida||GB Nagar admin starts land acquisition process for Delhi-Mumbai e-way stretches||The land acquisition process for the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway stretches, which falls under the Gautam Budh Nagar region, has started after the issues were recently resolved, officials said on Monday. The expressway will be connected with the Noida international airport being developed at Jewar through this 8.1-kilometre stretch.“We have issued a notification to start the land acquisition process in Jewar tehsil. The farmers have been given a time period of 21 days to file their objections, if any, in this regard. We have got the details of farmers, whose land falls into the alignment of this stretch... The Haryana government wants to acquire the land at the earliest so that the work can be put on fast track,” said Balram Singh, additional district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.After the deadline of 21 days, the administration will start surveying and measuring the land.In a notification, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on October 12 this year asked the Gautam Budh Nagar administration to begin the process so that the agricultural land of farmers can be acquired for the construction of the stretch. Similarly, the NHAI has also asked the administration in Haryana to acquire the land in its region, so that the entire stretch can be built connecting the airport with the expressway.In Jewar tehsil, only agricultural fields and barren lands are coming under the project site, and there are no permanent structures on it, thereby making it easy to acquire, said officials.The stretch will be elevated, and will pass over the Yamuna River that divides Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Of the 31.2-kilometre- long stretch between the airport and the expressway, the 8.1-kilometre- long area falls under the Jewar tehsil. Five revenue villages, including Dayanatpur, Falaida Bangar, Karauli Bangar and Rampur Bangar, will also come under the project. Initial estimate shows that 69.36 hectares of agricultural land will be required for the project in Jewar.In 2019-end, the Union minister for road transport and highways, Nitin Gadkari, had directed the NHAI to explore options to connect Jewar with the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway at Ballabgarh to provide additional link to the new airport with the rest of the Delhi-NCR, according to the NIAL officials.The Jewar to Ballabgarh link road will be ready much before the airport project, which is likely to be operational by 2024.The link is crucial because passengers travelling from Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) in Delhi, or the Jewar airport would not have to depend only on Yamuna Expressway and Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, said Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) officials.“As the dry port logistics hub is coming up in the Dadri region of Greater Noida, a direct link to the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will be of immense benefit. The Jewar airport will witness an influx of passengers with this direct connectivity, and it will also be of help in further development of this region,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of Yeida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-admin-starts-land-acquisition-process-for-delhi-mumbai-e-way-stretches-101634580392798.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Dengue cases in Ghaziabad at 645, highest in seven years||With the dengue case count in Ghaziabad touching 645 on Monday, the district is seeing its worst outbreak of the vector-borne disease since 2014, when 928 cases were reported in the district with two fatalities, health officials said on Monday. Officials said the district is seeing an average of 17 new cases daily and the cases will decline only by end-October, as was the case in the previous years. Of the 645 cases reported till Monday, 333 have been recorded in the month of October while the rest were reported in the month of September. As per records, the daily average of dengue cases in September was 10.4 cases, which sharply increased to 17.33 in October. “From Tuesday, we will be starting a one-month special drive for communicable diseases. Our focus will be to trace people having symptoms of vector-borne diseases such as dengue and malaria, while simultaneously continuing with fogging and anti-larvae drives. We have also identified eight high risk zones in rural areas while eight have been identified in urban pockets,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. The eight localities identified in urban centres include Sewa Nagar, Vijay Nagar, Police Line, Kavi Nagar, Loha Mandi, Surya Enclave, Mahindra Enclave and Shastri Nagar. Health officials said a majority of dengue patients were turning to private hospitals for treatment while those with viral fever etc, were reaching government facilities for treatment. “The cases of dengue have not shown a decline so far. Patients are mostly turning to private hospitals for treatment and many of these hospitals are full. The rain over the past two days has again caused water-logging in many areas and this may aid spread of dengue. It has been a pattern over the past several years that dengue cases decline only by end-October, when the temperature starts to drop,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital, said his hospital has treated about 15 cases of dengue so far. “Twelve of them were admitted to the hospital while three were treated as out-patients. We still have about 150 patients with fever coming to our OPD (out-patient department) daily and we take up investigation of about 100-125 samples daily. We do not have dengue or malaria cases, but viral fever. Patients are taking five to six days to recover,” Dr Teotia said. The first case in the district was reported on September 1, officials said. Health department records further indicate that the district registered the first 100 cases of dengue on September 15, within span of 15 days. The tally of 200 cases came in nine days, on September 24 and 300 in the next six days on September 30. The tally further climbed to 400 in another six days on October 6, and to 500 cases in the next five days, on October 11. The last 100 cases to reach 600 came in a span of five days on October 16. Till Sunday, 381 of 624 dengue patients required hospitalisation. The dengue positivity rate is also high with a rate of 29.79% of the 2,094 samples tested, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dengue-cases-in-ghaziabad-at-645-highest-in-seven-years-101634580340976.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Three Noida residents die in accident in Uttarakhand||Three Noida residents died while as many were injured when the SUV they were travelling in fell into Alaknanda river in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand on Sunday evening. The deceased were identified as Deepak, 27, a resident of Atta village in Sector 26, Arvind from Sector 82, and Sandeep Tanwar, 27, from Jhundpura village. The injured were identified as Akshit Chauhan, 25, from Sector 46, and Harendra, 26, and Sunil Awana, 27, from Sector 11.Local police said that personnel from the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and the Gopeshwar police started a rescue operation after getting information at 5pm.Rajendra Singh Rautela, in-charge of Gopeshwar police station, said that the accident took place about one kilometre from Chamoli town. “Two persons died on the spot while another succumbed to injuries in the hospital. The three injured persons are undergoing treatment in the hospital,” he said, adding that the police informed the victims’ families after the accident.The victims’ family members said that the six friends had gone there for pilgrimage.Sandeep’s father Sudesh Tanwar, said that his son ran a guest house in Noida. “Sandeep and his five friends left Noida on Friday for Badrinath and Kedarnath in a Toyota Fortuner SUV. They visited some places, and on Sunday they were returning home when the accident took place,” he said. Tanwar said that the accident took place amid heavy rains. “My son was driving the SUV. While trying to escape a collision with another vehicle, he lost balance of his SUV and fell into a gorge before plunging into Alaknanda river,” he said. According to Tanwar, the deceased’s family members brought the bodies from Uttarakhand for the last rites on Monday. Devendra Awana, a resident of Jhundpura village and Sandeep’s neighbour, said that Harendra and Sunil are recovering. “However, the condition of Akshit is critical due to severe injuries,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-noida-residents-die-in-accident-in-uttarakhand-101634580338146.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Noida falls short of target in mega vaccination drive||Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday vaccinated only 18,450 people against its target of 30,000 during the mega vaccination drive against Covid-19. However, health officials said that falling short of target is “not a cause of worry”.Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the district has achieved more than 100% first dose coverage among its population. “The district has an estimated population of 1.589 million who are eligible for Covid-19 vaccine, and we have already vaccinated 1.76 million people with the first dose. However, there is still a floating population in the district which is turning up to get first dose vaccine. Monday’s vaccination figures are satisfactory and not a cause of worry,” said Dr Tyagi. Of 18,450 doses administered on Monday, 10,655 people got their first dose while 7,795 got their second dose, the officials said.Dr Tyagi also said that October so far has seen more number of second dose beneficiaries than the first. “Since October 1, the number of beneficiaries for first dose has been lesser than those for second dose by almost 50% on a daily basis. In October so far, over 50,000 people have got the first jab while over 95,000 received the second dose,” he said. As many as 107 Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) carried out the vaccinations on Monday, of which 46 CVCs were in Bisrakh block, 18 each in Dankaur and Jewar blocks, and 25 in Dadri.“Of these, 30 CVCs are regular ones that run on a daily basis, while the rest were created in community halls, schools and government offices across the district,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. According to the Co-WIN portal, Gautam Budh Nagar has administered a total of 2,653,862 jabs, of which 1,760,075 are first doses and 893,787 are second doses. Meanwhile, the district health department is also continuing to focus on administering first dose vaccines among 45+ age group. “In a survey conducted in September, there were over 50,000 people from 45+ age group who were yet to get their first jab. With special CVCs for the target group and mobilisation by local health workers, we have managed to get most of them vaccinated. Now, only about 12,000 people from this age group are left without their first dose,” said Dr Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-falls-short-of-target-in-mega-vaccination-drive-101634580336846.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt floats tender for new version of its jobs portal, Rojgar Bazaar 2.0||The Delhi government has issued tenders for developing a portal, Rojgar Bazaar 2.0, to act as a facilitator for providing employment related services to the youth of the national capital. The site will use artificial intelligence to draw up the best job matches and will offer end-to-end employment related information to those on the lookout for jobs in the city, the government said in a statement on Monday. “Tenders were floated by the Delhi government’s employment department on October 14. The Rojgar Bazaar 2.0 will be a gateway to access skill training, career guidance and skill credentialing and a mobile app will also be made available,” the statement issued by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s office read. Sisodia said the launch of Rojgar Bazaar 1.0 in August last year, at the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, turned out to be “a lifeline for the unemployed youth as well as small businesses of Delhi”. “Over 1.4 million job seekers and 1 million jobs have already been advertised on the current Rojgar Bazaar portal and no other job matching platform by any state government has been so successful,” he said. “But we don’t want to stop there. The Rojgar Bazaar 2.0 portal will bring together all services related to skill training, career guidance and job matching on a first-of-its-kind digital platform in India. In addition to AI based smart-matching and employer verification, the platform will also provide a range of other critical services. This will range from skilling, career guidance, skill credentialing and automated analytics services, all of which will help in enhancing the job seekers’ ability to gain meaningful livelihood,” Sisodia said. While services such as skilling and career guidance will help the job seeker to pursue an aspirational career, a strong analytics platform will provide the government with rich insights to frame policies and drive on ground positive impact, the minister further said. As a substantial number of unorganised workers cannot access the digital platform, the Delhi government will also put in place centres from where they can access the Rozgar Bazaar platform and to also drive synergy with other ongoing social sector programmes, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-floats-tender-for-new-version-of-its-jobs-portal-rojgar-bazaar-20-101634580275828.html
18-10-2021||Noida||With 13 fresh cases, dengue tally in GB Nagar climbs to a 10 year high of 223||With 13 new cases on Sunday, the dengue tally in Gautam Budh Nagar has touched 223, the highest the district has seen in the past 10 years. There has been no death from the vector-borne disease in the district so far this year, health officials said. The daily dengue tally is compiled a day late in the district; hence Monday’s count will only be known on Tuesday, officials said. According to official data, the district saw 14 cases in 2012, 69 in 2013, 0 in 2014, 176 in 2015, 17 in 2016, 13 in 2017, 28 in 2018, 40 in 2019 and 28 in 2020. “A total of 223 cases have been reported in Gautam Budh Nagar since January this year. The district currently has 24 active cases of dengue and patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district. At present, dengue testing is being done in the district Hospital, the Post Graduate Institute of Child Health (Child PGI), and the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.When asked, district malaria officer Rajesh Sharma said the spurt in dengue cases is due to the prolonged rainfall this year. “This year, we have seen rainfall for a longer period of time than in previous years. Because of that, water kept accumulating in areas and in artificial spaces, making them an ideal environment for mosquito breeding. As a result, transmission of the virus increased,” Sharma said.To make matters worse, the district health department is on alert following a fresh spell of rain over the past two days. A total of 365 teams of officials have been constituted to undertake preventive measures to contain the spread of the vector-borne disease, health officials said. “These teams are tasked with destroying mosquito breeding sites under their jurisdiction and to ensure intensive fogging and spraying of anti-larvae medicine. A total of 175 teams are under the Noida authority, 75 are under Greater Noida authority, 20 are under Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority, 18 are under nagar panchayats, and 74 teams are under district panchayat raj officer. Apart from these, three teams are under the DMO,” said Sharma.The District Hospital in Sector 30, has been declared as the district-level sentinel lab by the state health department, informed Sharma. “All samples that are declared positive for dengue by private hospitals and health centres are first verified at the sentinel lab and only then included in the official tally. The district health department has been instructed to verify only those samples which have been declared positive by the ELISA (enzyme-linked immunoassay) test. The positive cases from the district hospital, Child PGI, and GIMS are already being tested on ELISA and are directly included in the official tally,” said Sharma. He further said five rapid response teams (RRTs) have been formed at the district and block level to immediately inform and act on any case of viral fever in their areas. Meanwhile, a two-week ‘Dastak’ programme, or door-to-door campaign, for the identification and treatment of patients affected by various diseases such as dengue and malaria will start from Tuesday, said Sharma. Under the Dastak programme, ASHAs (accredited social health activists) and health workers from anganwadis will go door to door to educate residents on measures to be taken to prevent vector-borne and communicable diseases.“Under the programme, the 743 ASHAs in Gautam Budh Nagar have been targeted to reach 200 households each. In total, the district health department aims to reach at least 148,600 households,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-13-fresh-cases-dengue-tally-in-gb-nagar-climbs-to-a-10-year-high-of-223-101634580274425.html
18-10-2021||Other||Kushinagar international airport opening: Kala namak rice to be given to world guests as Buddha’s prasad||International guests attending the inauguration ceremony of the Kushinagar international airport on October 20, will take away kala namak rice as prasad of Lord Buddha, who took Mahaparinirvana (breathed his last) on this land.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the international airport – the 29th in India and fourth in Uttar Pradesh – near the site of Gautam Buddha’s Mahaparinirvana. Also present will be Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Lord Buddha is said to have broken his fast by consuming kheer made of the rice on the banks of River Haryanvati and also gave it to his disciples. The Buddha is also said to have given the grains of this rice to farmers of the region and asked them to cultivate it.The GI (geographical indication)-tagged kala namak rice is famous for its rich aroma, taste and health benefits. The rice finds mention in the work of the first Chinese traveller and Buddhist monk Fa-Hien who visited India in the early 5th Century in search of holy Buddhist scripture.Now, when Kushinagar is set to host a global event with the arrival of international dignitaries and Buddhist monks, the authorities have come up with a plan to gift kala namak rice to guests in attractive, bright red bags with the quote ‘Lord Buddha, before his parinirvana from this holy place of Kushinagar, had given Buddhism to the world. He had also given his prasad, kala namak, to the farmers of this region in India. May his blessings be showered on the receiver of this gift’. “The day of the inauguration (October 20) is also Buddh Purnima, which is a special and an auspicious day for Buddhists. As such, the prasad of Lord Gautam Buddha in the form of kala namak will be of great importance,” an official said.In 2017, kala namak was listed for promotion under the ODOP (one district one product scheme) of Siddhartha Nagar, the place associated with the birth of Lord Buddha. ODOP along with other promotional efforts of the government paid off when Kala Namak variety, on the verge of extinction, saw a major jump in production from 10,000 hectares (in 2010) to 50,000 hectares (this year).Meanwhile, the state government is making all efforts to make this global event a grand success and CM Yogi Adityanath is personally monitoring preparations for the event.On Monday, local MPs, MLAs and leaders held meetings to make the programme successful while authorities were also seen racing against time to complete preparations.The airport will have direct flights from Buddhist countries including Japan, Myanmar, Thailand, Sri Lanka, Korea, China and other nations with significant Buddhist following.- Abdul Jadid||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kushinagar-international-airport-opening-kala-namak-rice-to-be-given-to-world-guests-as-buddha-s-prasad-101634580272865.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||RSS Abhyas Varg begins, Mohan Bhagwat to reach Ayodhya today||Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale inaugurated the five-day Akhil Bharatiya Sharirik Abhyas Varg in Ayodhya on Monday, a day before RSS chief Mohan Baghwat is expected to reach the temple town on Tuesday on a three-day visit to attend the event. The all-important event, held every fifth year in which RSS volunteers are apprised and trained on how to propagate nationalism, Indian culture and promote Swadeshi along with other such issues among masses, is being organised outside Nagpur after a long time when assembly polls are due in Uttar Pradesh early next year.RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat is expected to interact with volunteers, Ram temple construction committee chairman Nripendra Misra, Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust chief Mahant Nritya Gopal Das and other members.Senior functionary Bhaiyyaji Joshi and other office bearers from 45 provincial units are attending the event. Due to rainfall, the event scheduled in the evening was shifted to another location near Naya ghat. According to Trust members, the RSS chief is likely to hold informal discussions with Misra about ongoing construction work of the Ram temple. Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust, is likely to apprise Mohan Bhagwat about other development projects proposed in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rss-abhyas-varg-begins-mohan-bhagwat-to-reach-ayodhya-today-101634580033589.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Firing in busy Kishangarh market leaves SUV driver critically injured||In an incident of shooting on Monday afternoon, at least four unidentified men opened fire at a Fortuner SUV in the busy market of Kishangarh, south Delhi, critically injuring its 26-year-old driver and triggering panic among residents and shopkeepers. Police suspect that the attempted killing was the fallout of a 17-year long rivalry between two local families.According to police, there were three occupants in the car when the firing took place around 1pm — Somraj alias Dhami Pehalwan was seated in the front passenger seat, while Shafiq alias Lucky drove the vehicle. Dhami’s personal security officer Krishan was seated in the rear, police said. While Dhami and his PSO escaped unhurt, Shafiq suffered gunshot wounds to the head and hand. He was admitted to a private hospital in Vasant Kunj, where his condition is stated to be critical, police said.The three were returning from the Patiala House courts after attending a hearing related to a murder that took place last year, in which Dhami and his brothers were the accused. “Dhami in his statement said one Harender Maan and his relatives are behind the attack. Harender is the brother of Ashok Maan, whose murder Dhami and his brothers stand accused of. A case of attempt to murder and firing has been registered at the Kishangarh police station. We are probing all angles,” said deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Gaurav Sharma.A majority of shops in Shani Bazaar Road in Kishangarh were open at the time of the shooting, police said. Dhami’s white Fortuner was barely 70-80 metres from his house, when the four men who were lying in wait for him opened fire, said a police officer, quoting statements of local residents and shopkeepers.“As the bullet hit the SUV driver, he lost control of the vehicle and it crashed into a shop nearby. The attackers fled in the ensuing chaos,” the officer said, asking not to be named.The officer said Dhami’s family had a rivalry with Maan’s family spanning nearly 17 years and it started over the business of running Blue Line buses, which were phased out in 2012. “Both families live near each other in Kishangarh. In 2004, Ashok Maan acquired some Blue Line buses and entered the transport business, impacting the transport business of Dharamveer and his brothers Devender Pehalwan and Dhami. That triggered the enmity. After the phasing out of Blue Line buses, both families got into the real estate business and continued their enmity. Their rivalry worsened in 2019, when a member of Dharamveer’s family was shot at and they suspected the role of Maans,” the officer said.On February 11, 2020, Ashok, an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) volunteer, was shot dead and his brother Harender was injured after a few assailants opened fire during the victory procession of elected AAP legislator Naresh Yadav in Kishangarh. The Maans accused Dharamveer and his brothers and they were arrested for murder, the police said.“Prime facie, we are not ruling out the longstanding rivalry angle behind Monday’s firing,” added the officer quoted above.Of late, the city has witnessed a rash of gang war related killings. Last month, gangster Jitender Maan alias Gogi was shot dead in a courtroom at the Rohini courts by two assailants dressed as lawyers, before they were gunned down by the police. Gogi’s arch rival and jailed gangster, Sunil Maan alias Tillu Tajpuriya, is among the five suspects arrested in that case so far.Within a week after Gogi’s murder, a member of jailed gangster Manjeet Mahal’s gang was shot dead in Najafgarh, allegedly by four hitmen of the rival gang led by Kapil Sangwan alias Nandu, who is currently operating from abroad, according to police sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhifiring-in-busy-kishangarh-market-leaves-suv-driver-critically-injured-101634580032447.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||2022 UP election: Allahabad west seat to have 27 more polling booths this time||With a view to ensuring social distancing and safety of people during voting process in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, more polling centres and centres would set up for the upcoming UP assembly polls 2022 as compared to 2017 edition of the state election, say officials.In Prayagraj, which has 12 assembly constituencies, the Allahabad west seat will have the maximum 27 more polling booths than the last state polls while Koraon seat will have 10 more polling centres than the last assembly election, they add.The changed numbers of polling booths and centres have been sent to the State Election Commission by the district officials and soon it will be duly published as per the set norm, district officials share. ADM (administration) Vijay Shankar Dubey said the Election Commission has directed that one polling booth should be made for every 1200 voters. “Earlier there was one polling booth for every 1400 voters. In such a situation, a new proposal for polling booths and centres has been finalised at the district level and sent to the Election Commission for its approval,” he said. As per the proposal, after Allahabad West seat, 20 polling booths will be increased in Pratappur assembly seat followed by 19 in Handia constituency. In Phulpur assembly constituency also, 15 polling booths are proposed to be hiked. In Allahabad south assembly seat, 10 polling booths will be increased while in Meja and Karchana assembly constituencies nine polling booths each would be increased. Eight polling booths are also proposed to be hiked in Soraon and Allahabad north assembly constituencies while seven polling booths are to be increased in Koraon assembly seat, five in Bara and one in Phaphamau assembly seat. As for polling centres, after Koraon seat which would have maximum 10 more centres than last time, six polling centres will be increased in Allahabad west, three each in Allahabad north, south and Karchana assembly constituencies, two each in Bara, Soraon and Handia assembly constituencies and one each in Meja and Phulpur assembly constituencies. There are no changes proposed in the number of polling centres in Phaphamau and Pratappur assembly seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/2022-up-election-allahabad-west-seat-to-have-27-more-polling-booths-this-time-101634579972746.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||GRAP measures for ‘moderate to poor’ called in ‘with immediate effect’ in Delhi||New Delhi: The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on Monday called in the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) -- the emergency action plan for winters, when pollution levels spike in the Capital -- and said that the measures listed under the “moderate to poor” category will kick in with “immediate effect” in Delhi.In an order on Monday, the CPCB further said that agencies need to “be ready” to implement the measures under the ‘very poor’ category. Among the measures launched from Monday are stringent action against open garbage burning in landfills and other spaces; enforcement of all pollution control measures in industries and power plants; ensuring that all brick kilns remain closed in Delhi-NCR; regular mechanised sweeping and water sprinkling on roads with high dust; strict vigilance to control any visible pollution; strict enforcement of pollution under control (PUC) norms; strict action against dust pollution in construction sites; deployment of traffic police personnel to ensure smooth movement of traffic, especially in vulnerable stretches; ensuring non-destined trucks do not enter Delhi; and strict enforcement of the Supreme Court ban on firecrackers. The Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas (CAQM) had in two separate meetings last week recommended the implementation of all Grap measures listed under the ‘poor’ category and some measures under the ‘very poor’ category from October 15. The measures, however, were not called in immediately as the CAQM’s sub-committee was looking at reviewing the measures that need to be in place. In its order on Monday, the CPCB said the air quality was expected to be in the ‘satisfactory’ category till October 20 and then start deteriorating from October 21, under the impact of northwesterly winds blowing from Punjab and Haryana. It asked the agencies to be prepared to implement measures listed under the ‘very poor’ category as the pollution levels rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/grapmeasures-for-moderate-to-poor-called-in-with-immediate-effect-in-delhi-101634579852775.html
18-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan governor stresses on bridging digital gap for students in rural areas||Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra on Monday stressed on bridging the digital gap in the present era of information and communication technology so everyone can get practical benefit of online education.He was addressing an online inaugural session of Massive Open Online Courses' (MOOCs') teacher training programme and e-learning organised by Delhi University.He said the basic objective of the new education policy was an all-round development of the students.In order to make quality education accessible to everyone from urban to rural areas, special emphasis has been laid on online and digital education in the new education policy, Mishra said.He said the earlier education system was focused on learning and delivering results. Students were assessed on the basis of scores obtained, which was a one-way approach to student development, he said.The governor said the new education policy lays emphasis on such a structure of education which will help the students at different stages of learning.MOOCs is a web-based free distance education programme that ensures the participation of students from geographically remote areas in the field of education, he explained.MOOCs and e-learning will open new doors of accessible online education in the context of the new education policy.Mukul Kanitkar, National Organisation Secretary of Bhartiya Shikshan Mandal said that in the era of online education, along with bridging the digital gap, it is also a big challenge to stop digital misuse.He suggested that we develop educational intranet as an alternative to Internet for educational activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-governor-stresses-on-bridging-digital-gap-for-students-in-rural-areas-101634572738339.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: 4 more arrested, farmers called for questioning||LUCKNOW The SWAT team of the crime branch on Monday arrested four more accused in the Lakhimpur violence case. Among these was a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker, Sumit Jaiswal, who was present in the vehicle that allegedly mowed down four farmers during a protest against the agricultural laws on October 3, officials said. The other three arrested people -- Shishupal of Lakhimpur Kheri, Nandan Singh of Lucknow and Satya Prakash Tripathi of Kaushambi -- were present in the remaining vehicles which were part of the convoy.The team also recovered a revolver in the name of Satya Prakash and three live cartridges from his Kaushambi residence, according to a press statement shared by the police.“The accused will be questioned about the incident and their involvement in it. We will also apply for their police custody remand, if they fail to cooperate in the interrogation,” said a senior police official.In one of the many videos that went viral after the violence, Jaiswal was seen exiting the leading SUV after it rammed into farmers. He also spoke to the media, alleging that the protesters pelted the vehicle with stones before it rammed into them.With the arrests on Monday, the total number of arrests in the case now stood at 10. Six people, including main accused Ashish Mishra, son of BJP junior minister Ajay Mishra Tani, Ankit Das and four others were arrested earlier. All the accused were in judicial custody.Meanwhile, five farmers from Tikunia and nearby areas who participated in the protest on October 3 also appeared for questioning before the investigation team. They were allowed to return home after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-4-more-arrested-farmers-called-for-questioning-101634579312748.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police bans Eid-e-Milad processions owing to Covid-19, except 2 locations||Ahead of Eid-e-Milad, Mumbai Police has banned any procession on the occasion of the festival owing to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, news agency ANI reported citing an official statement. The prohibition is, however, exempted for Mumbai City district and Mumbai Suburban district, the statement added.In the two regions where the ban will not be applicable, only a total of five trucks carrying a maximum of five people on each vehicle will be permitted. However, even in such cases, prior permission of police will be required and adherence to Covid-19 protocols, such as wearing of masks, using hand sanitisers and maintaining physical distance are mandatory, the statement issued by the deputy commissioner of Mumbai Police (Operations) and spokesperson, Chaitanya S read.
18-10-2021||Gurugram||Rain effect: Gurugram breathes in good air after consecutive very poor air days||Buoyed by heavy spells of rainfall on Monday, the air quality in Gurugram beat a dramatic retreat from the very poor category to the good category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin. On Monday, the city reported an air quality index of 36, a sharp improvement from 332 (very poor) recorded on Sunday. Neighbouring cities of Delhi (AQI 46), Noida (AQI 45), Greater Noida (AQI 38), Ghaziabad (AQI 45) in the National Capital Region (NCR) also reported good air quality, except for Faridabad, where the air quality was recorded to be satisfactory (AQI 55). The city received 42mm of rainfall from 8.30am on Sunday to 8.30am on Monday, according to records of the India Meteorological Department. On Monday, the city saw strong surface winds throughout the day after it stopped raining early in the morning. Officials of the CPCB on Monday said that the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category over the next few days before it starts deteriorating to the poor category again.The CPCB also held a meeting for operationalisation of the anti-pollution measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) measures in the NCR, and decided that “actions under ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category should be rigorously implemented with immediate effect in Delhi-NCR.” The implementing agencies in the NCR states were also instructed to be ready to implement actions under the very poor category, as and when the air quality starts deteriorating. Over the next few days, between October 21 and 24, air quality is likely to fluctuate between the moderate and poor category, after which light rain is likely in NCR. On Sunday, HT had reported that although Gurugram had very poor air on the CPCB’s AQI bulletin, the air quality started improving due to rainfall, as 10 of the 12 local air quality monitors recorded satisfactory AQI, while two recorded a moderate AQI reading.S Narayanan, member secretary of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said, “There are predictions of air quality deteriorating in the coming days, so we will take action accordingly and implement action suggested under Grap measures for poor quality of air. Measures for very poor air quality will be implemented if the situation worsens.” Under the plan for the poor category, measures that are implemented usually pertain to stopping garbage burning in landfills and other places, imposing heavy fines on persons responsible, stringently enforcing all pollution control regulations in industries and thermal power plants, ensuring that all brick kilns remain closed in Delhi-NCR as per the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), ensuring periodic mechanised sweeping or sprinkling of water on roads with heavy traffic and dust generation potential. Under the very poor category, measures taken up under Grap include stopping the use of diesel generator sets, implementing a surge in parking fee by three to four times, stopping use of coal or firewood in eateries and urging people with respiratory or cardiac problems to stay indoors.On Monday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 31.8 degrees Celsius (°C), two degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 19.8°C, which was four degrees above the normal. The humidity level was recorded at 92% at the end of the day. The minimum temperature on Monday was four degrees lower than what was recorded on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rain-effect-gurugram-breathes-in-good-air-after-consecutive-very-poor-air-days-101634579014868.html
18-10-2021||Gurugram||3rd sero survey: Over 69% of children in Gurugram show immunity against Covid-19||Over 69% of children aged 6-17 years in Gurugram district were exposed to Covid-19 during the second wave of the pandemic, showed results of the third serological survey released by the health department on Monday. According to the results, antibodies were found in 68.4% of children between the age group of 6 and 9 years, while antibodies were found in 70.4% of the children aged 10-17 years. Gurugram reported overall seropositivity of 78.3%, higher than the overall seropositivity in Haryana of 76.3%.In urban areas of Gurugram, antibodies were found in 80.3% of the surveyed population and in rural areas, antibodies were found in 77% of the population. Around 3,000 samples were collected from Gurugram, including those of 1,200 children. In the second statewide serological survey, held in October 2020, 16,512 samples, including 800 from Gurugram, were tested, following which a seropositivity rate of 14.8% was recorded, with the urban population showing a seropositivity rate of 25.9% and rural population 10.1%A serological survey finds the level of antibodies that may have been developed either after an infection or being vaccinated. The results will help the department plan strategies and assess their preparedness for the third wave of Covid-19. In the third sero survey, children were included for the first time to assess the level of immunity in this vulnerable and unexposed cohort.State health minister Anil Vij, while releasing the report on Monday, said, “The survey was conducted in all districts of Haryana by health department in collaboration with department of community medicine, PGIMS, Rohtak. In this round of sero survey, sample size was increased up to 36,520 as compared to previous sero surveys conducted in the state where it was 18,700 (seroprevalence- 8%) in first round and 15,840 (seroprevalence -14.8%) in second round. As per the analysis done, the seropositivity in third round was found to be 76.3% (urban 78.1% and rural 75.1%).” Explaining the results, Rajeev Arora, the additional chief secretary for health, said that such results are an impact of the aggressive Covid-19 vaccination programme that supplemented a higher seroprevalence in the community. “Although, the results of this round of sero survey are somewhat near to the level of achieving herd immunity, large proportion of population is still vulnerable. Therefore, enforcing Covid-19 appropriate behaviours is still our utmost priority to safeguard our population of Haryana,” Arora said. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “The seropositivity is according to what had been predicted by the experts, we now also know what percentage of children were exposed to Covid-19. But, as cases are still being reported, the main focus should be on following all safety protocols. Along with that, people should get themselves vaccinated for better precaution.” In Haryana, the highest seropositivity was observed in Kurukshetra (85%) and lowest was observed in Faridabad (64.2%).Dr Rajesh Kumar, a former head of the department of community medicine and school of public health at PGIMER, said, “These results show that a high percentage of children in Gurugram were exposed to Covid-19 during the pandemic whether it was symptomatic or asymptomatic along with the general population and have developed antibodies. We also have to see the transmissibility factor of the virus, the Delta variant was highly transmissible, but if there is a mutation again then seroprevalence can be higher too. But, still a large part of the population has not developed antibodies, so Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is a must.”In the first statewide serological survey, held in August 2020, 18,905 samples, including 844 from Gurugram, were tested, following which a seropositivity rate of 8% was recorded, with the urban population showing a seropositivity rate of 18.5% and the rural population 5.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/3rd-sero-survey-over-69-of-children-in-gurugram-show-immunity-against-covid19-101634579013707.html
18-10-2021||Gurugram||U-turn underpass near Ambience Mall a major relief: Residents||Residents heaved a sigh of relief as the U-turn underpass near the Ambience Mall opened on Sunday, as it will not only help reduce travel time due to reduced distance, but also help them avoid getting penalised for violating the rules of road rationing scheme in Delhi during winter months.The facility opened on Sunday on a trial basis. Commuters in Gurugram heading towards Ambience Island, DLF Phase 3 and Sector 24 said they have started saving at least 20-25 minutes of travel time during peak hours. “Earlier, I had to cross the MCD toll in Delhi, drive through the service lanes of the expressway and then take a U-turn below the Rajokri flyover to head back towards Gurugram. This meant driving through the heavily congested Sirhaul toll, which could, at times, take over 40 minutes to cross during peak traffic hours,” Devendra Trivedi, a resident of Sector 24, said.Trivedi said that the same journey took him around five minutes to cover on Sunday.Several residents also highlighted that the opening of the underpass will end wrong-side driving violation, a common sight on the stretch between DLF Phase-3 and Ambience Mall on the service lanes of the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway.Commuters said that the opening of the underpass will also prevent wrong-side driving by those seeking to avoid going to Delhi to take a U-turn when the odd-even vehicle numbering rule is in place to curb pollution.“Back in November 2019, when the odd-even scheme was in implementation in Delhi, I was fined ₹4,000 at the border just for taking a U-turn to head towards Ambience Mall. With the opening of the underpass, entering Delhi is no longer needed and will help hundreds of Gurugram residents who were inadvertently fined in the odd-even scheme,” Harshit Shukla, a resident of Sector 70, said.Sanjeev Gulati, a resident of DLF Phase-3, said, “At any given time of the day, vehicles can be seen driving on the wrong side along this 900-metre stretch. These are mostly e-rickshaws, autorickshaws, and cabs that drop off their fares near the mall, all avoiding crossing the MCD toll and paying commercial tax. With the underpass now opening, this should no longer be an issue.”The deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Ravinder Singh Tomar, said that the underpass will help reduce traffic congestion at the Sirhaul toll plaza and assist police with managing vehicle movement.“We are anticipating a drop of 25-30% in traffic volume at the Sirhaul toll plaza once the underpass is fully functional. After the trial period is over, we will depute marshals near the facility for at least one week to understand the traffic pattern and recommend changes if required. We are closely monitoring the situation,” Tomar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/uturn-underpass-near-ambience-mall-a-major-relief-residents-101634579012563.html
18-10-2021||Gurugram||U-turn underpass near Ambience Mall opens for trials after several delays||After missing several deadlines, a U-turn underpass near the Ambience Mall, located just before the Sirhaul toll plaza, opened for traffic movement on a trial basis. The facility helps reduces travel time by around 20-25 minutes during peak traffic hours as it cuts the distance for taking a U-turn by around five kilometres.The 377-metre underpass provides passage to commuters coming from the direction of Shankar Chowk to head directly towards DLF Phase-3 and Ambience Island instead of crossing into Delhi, amid the heavily congested traffic at the toll, and then taking a U-turn below the Rajokri flyover to head back towards Gurugram.Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that the underpass opened early Sunday on a trial basis. Saurabh Singhal, the NHAI consultant for the project, said, “During the trial, NHAI officials will be carrying out a safety audit of the underpass to check if safety measures such as signage and reflectors are properly placed, whether speed-calming measures need to be installed to check speeding inside the facility, spot blind turns or sharp bends, lighting is adequate, among other such features. Depending on the outcome of the audit, NHAI will take a further call on continuing with the trial or permanently opening it,” Singhal said.In the past, NHAI officials had opened underpasses even before the projects were completed. The Medanta and Iffco Chowk underpasses were opened in August 2017 and March 2019, respectively, even though the Medanta underpass did not have a direct electricity supply while the drainage outlet at Iffco Chowk underpass was not completed, both of which inconvenienced commuters.A senior NHAI official privy to the matter, who did not wish to be named, said that the trial is being carried out to avoid such mistakes and it is likely to be in place till Diwali. The official said that unless major defects are found, the facility will be opened permanently.The official, however, said that during the trial period, the use of the underpass will be regulated. “As and when we discover defects or any issues that need to be addressed, we will be closing the underpass for short periods. The idea of the trial is to find out issues and fix them before opening it full time,” the official said.On Monday afternoon, the underpass was closed for a few hours due to electrical works.Work on the underpass started on March 5, 2019, with a deadline of September 2020. However, due to the coronavirus outbreak, and lack of manpower, the work got delayed and various deadlines were set in July 2021, August 2021, and the latest one on October 15, which was announced by the union transport minister Nitin Gadkari while visiting the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway last month.“We had aimed to finish the project by October 15. However, some electrical work and road work could not be completed in time. We had aimed at opening the facility a few days before Diwali on a full-time basis, however, it was later decided to carry out a trial in the interim, instead,” the NHAI official cited above said.The access road leading towards the underpass is 559 metres long and the service road is seven metres wide. The speed limit inside the facility is 40kmph, and the underpass is 14 metres wide with a 5.5-metre vertical tunnel clearance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/uturn-underpass-near-ambience-mall-opens-for-trials-after-several-delays-101634578952502.html
18-10-2021||Other||Security forces recover arms, ammunition in Manipur||In a joint operation, a combined team of the Imphal East district police commandos unit and 16 Assam Rifles on Monday recovered arms and ammunition from the different areas of Andro Chingthak and the neighbouring area of Maringthel in Manipur’s Imphal East district, officials said. Sharing the information in a Facebook post on Monday, chief minister N Biren Singh said, “After getting reports of frequent gun firing at night around Andro area, I have instructed the district police to take up necessary action. Today, a combined team of Manipur police and Assam Rifles conducted a search operation at Andro Chingthak and the neighbouring area of Maringthel.”“During the search ops, the following items were recovered (i) 1 improvised AK Rifle with magazine (ii) 2 nos. of 9 mm Pistol with magazine both marked as ‘Made in Japan’(iii) 2 nos. of Wireless Set both marked as “BAOFENG’(iv) 15 nos. of AK rifle ammunition (v) 21 nos. of 9 mm ammunitions(vi) 18 nos. of detonator and (vii) 15 nos. of empty cases of assorted ammunition,” he said.According to a press release issued by Imphal East district police, the above-recovered arms and ammunition were seized at 9.35 am by observing due formalities.In another crackdown, the Manipur police also arrested two persons along with 40 soap cases of heroin powder which were concealed at the rooftop of an autorickshaw while frisking near Hatta Public Hospital area under Imphal East district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/security-forces-recover-arms-ammunition-in-manipur-101634578712652.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Injured in encounter, ATM thief dies during treatment in Pratapgarh: Police||An alleged ATM thief, who was injured during a police encounter at Babu Tara village in Pratapgarh late Saturday night, died during treatment on Sunday night, police said. According to reports, joint teams of Lalganj police and SWAT team had raided Babu Tara village on Saturday night after a tip-off about presence of miscreants in the house of one Gaffar. Police said the miscreants were planning to commit some heinous crime. However, when the police reached the site, the miscreants opened fire on them. Two constables Satyam Yadav and Shriram were injured and were admitted to hospital. One miscreant identified as ATM thief Taufiq also received injuries and was admitted to hospital where he died while undergoing treatment, SHO Lalganj Kamlesh Kumar Pal said. He added that Taufiq aka Babbu was arrested in Gujarat for stealing cash from ATM machine and was recently released on bail. Pal said Taufiq’s aide Khursheed was arrested later near Tilori Madarsa in Pratapgarh after an encounter and was sent to jail. Khursheed has a case of Gangster Act lodged against him at Sangipur police station, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/injured-in-encounter-atm-thief-dies-during-treatment-in-pratapgarh-police-101634578592503.html
18-10-2021||Patna||Bihar makes Covid-19 tests must for arrivals during Diwali, Chhath puja; ramps up vaccination||The Bihar government has made Covid-19 testing mandatory for those returning to the state for Chhath puja and Diwali, chief minister Nitish Kumar told reporters on Monday.Kumar also said security forces will maintain strict vigilance at transit hubs like railways stations, bus stands, and inter-state border checkpoints to ensure Covid-19 protocols are maintained. He also assured that the administration will make the necessary arrangements for proper Covid-19 testing at these spots.The Janata Dal (United) supremo, while speaking to reporters on the sidelines of his 'Janata Ke Darbar Mein Mukhyamantri' forum, also stated that the state will make all arrangements to inoculate those who enter the stage unvaccinated.Also Read: Bihar migrants start returning from KashmirBihar has undertaken a mega vaccination campaign in anticipation of Chhath puja, and has scheduled two vaccination camps, the first on October 28 and the second on November 7. The state aims to vaccinate most of its 7.34 crore adult population by December 31.The government also undertook vaccination efforts during Dussehra by turning puja pandals into vaccination camps. Around 17% (144,876 doses) of the state’s 854,979 Covid shots between October 11 and 15 were administered at puja pandals, Hindustan Times had reported.Additional chief secretary (health) Prataya Amrit told Hindustan Times that the administration will also undertake a door-to-door campaign to inoculate people with their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, between October 18-20.The three day mega vaccination campaign is based on the voter list of panchayat elections in the state. Till Saturday, 35% of the state’s 73.44 million eligible adult population had not been inoculated with even one dose, and around 70% had been administered their first dose, as per the state health department data. Thus, to bolster the ongoing vaccination program ASHA and anganwadi workers have been roped in to conduct the door-to-door vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-makes-covid-19-tests-must-for-arrivals-during-diwali-chhath-puja-ramps-up-vaccination-101634578062647.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Trees in Fatima nagar housing society illegally cut: PCB||PUNE Residents of KP Tower 1 co-operative housing society in Fatima nagar have alleged that the sub-contractors appointed by the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) to prune trees in the area, have illegally chopped down whole branches of at least four trees, in violation of the Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, 1975. The PCB tree department said that no permission was given to prune or cut any trees in the area in which Esha Towers Society and KP Tower 1 are located. Jayant Kangane PCB’s garden incharge said, “No permission was taken for cutting or pruning the trees. We have received a complaint and accordingly a notice is being issued to the society. Later, a penalty can be levied on the violator.” The society’s managing committee has sent a letter to the PCB stating: “Trees have been chopped off without cogent and plausible reason leaving only the stub. We have been given to understand that permission has been granted from your end. One such tree in the society parking space is also chopped off without informing us. If no permission has been given, then law must move in.” Society chairperson Patty Ferrao said, “The intention of the contractors was to cut off the entire tree, but they halted their axing after we raised a strong objection. We are against chopping of trees and want more trees to be planted in the society.” Another resident Naymussari Mandil said, “There was a complaint from the neighbouring society that a snake had scaled the wall. Instead of minor pruning, the contractor brutally chopped off the branches in such a way that only the stub remains. Those who chopped the trees had not obtained permission for the work.” Hemanshu Shah, chairman, Esha Society said, “Nobody from our society came seeking permission to prune tree branches. It was done by those faced with problems like mice entering their houses from the overgrown tree branches. The tree branches have been cut in such a way that fresh leaves have started growing again. The trees have not been cut from the trunk and the pruning was done at a height of above ten feet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/trees-in-fatima-nagar-housing-society-illegally-cut-pcb-101634578353167.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||SP legislators hold protest over rising prices of cooking gas||LUCKNOW Samajwadi Party (SP) legislators on Monday staged a protest against the BJP government at the centre over the rising prices of cooking gas and fuel, outside the UP Assembly building here.Carrying cut-outs of LPG cylinders and black balloons, MLAs, MLCs and other leaders took to the streets and raised anti-government slogans. The protest was held ahead of the one-day special session of the state assembly. In a tweet, party president, Akhilesh Yadav posted a picture of his party’s protest, and stated: “Cylinder worth ₹1,000 is proving to be costly for the public. It will prove to be costly for the BJP in the 2022 election. End of BJP.” In another tweet Akhilesh said: “Oil for aircraft of the rich is cheaper than petrol-diesel for vehicles of the poor. The BJP is robbing the poor and stashing cash in the safes of the rich. Today, petrol pumps have become money pumps for the BJP. The BJP was, is, and will be the party for moneyed people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-legislators-hold-protest-over-rising-prices-of-cooking-gas-101634578232526.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Magh Mela: Preparations begins in Prayagraj||Preparations have begun for the forthcoming Magh Mela set to kick-start on the banks of Sangam from January 14, 2022. The annual religious fair attracts pilgrims and devotees from across the country.This time the Magh Mela will be held in six sectors, and the tent city would come up within them, informed district officials.District Magistrate Sanjay Kumar Khatri recently held a meeting with officials of various departments concerned to discuss the preparations for the annual fair. The proposals, made on the various aspects of the fair, will be now placed before the Prayagraj Mela Authority Board proposed to be held on October 27, and after this, the proposal would be sent to the state government for final approval, officials added.“At present, we are preparing to organise the annual fair in six sectors. The departments concerned have given their reports, which would now be placed before the Prayagraj Mela Authority,” said DM Khatri.In the meeting held at Sangam Auditorium on Thursday, the blueprints of the last two Magh Melas were placed in front of the DM and discussed. Changes made in the Magh Melas of 2020 and 2021 due to the pandemic were also discussed.Held immediately after 2019 Kumbh, the Magh Mela of 2020 was held in six sectors. In such a scenario, the comparative reports of both were discussed, said an official, who was present in the meeting.Discussions on holding the fair on the Arail side too were discussed, and the DM has sought an action plan from all departments, including Electricity Department, Health Department, Water Corporation, Ganga Pollution, Roadways, Municipal Corporation, PWD, Irrigation and Flood section, the official added.In light of the pandemic, officials of the Health department have been specifically asked to prepare an effective action plan. Already tenders for laying the chequered plates in various sectors of the tent city have been invited, and the PWD department has also kick-started the construction of pontoon bridges for the upcoming fair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/magh-mela-preparations-begins-in-prayagraj-101634577394696.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor: Third Covid wave threat not over; ready to vaccinate kids but awaiting norms||Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Monday cautioned that the threat of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is not yet over. She also said that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is ready to vaccinate around 3 million children, but is waiting for guidelines from the Central government. The civic body has also issued guidelines for reopening of colleges from October 20. A day after the city reported zero-Covid death, Pednekar while speaking to mediapersons on Monday, said, “We cannot yet say that the third wave will not come as the threat is still there. We need to follow all the Covid- safety protocols as we are heading towards festivals such as Diwali.”Pednekar added, “The vaccination drive for children will start after receiving guidelines from the Central government and the required stock of vaccines for this age group.”The decks were cleared for children to be included in India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive after the government’s subject expert committee (SEC) on October 12 recommended granting an emergency use authorisation (EUA) for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin for the two to 18 age group.In the city, schools have reopened for classes 8 to 12, owing to which BMC had earlier indicated that it is ready to vaccinate the city’s adolescents as soon as the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) permits the vaccination programme for children. It also said that it will not require any infrastructure upgrade for the rollout of vaccination for children.Meanwhile, BMC also issued a notification permitting the reopening of colleges in the city from October 20. All the guidelines issued by the University of Mumbai (MU), including staggered timing for lectures, social distancing and vaccination, will have to be followed by the colleges. BMC in the notification has asked colleges to get in touch with their local ward officers for vaccinating students and staff members who are yet to get their first or second doses.The civic body has also allowed the reopening of theatres and auditoriums at 50% capacity as approved by the state government. The state in its guidelines last week had allowed only people with Covid-19 vaccination certificates or the Aarogya Setu app showing their status as “safe” to visit theatres and auditoriums.Meanwhile, the city reported 371 cases and four deaths on Monday, taking the tally to 752,030 and toll to 16,184. There are 5,723 active cases in the city. On Monday, 79,692 vaccine doses were administered to citizens. Around 97% of the eligible population has got at least the first dose, while 55% have got both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-third-covid-wave-threat-not-over-ready-to-vaccinate-kids-but-awaiting-norms-101634576972262.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Increase in liquor sales in Pune as compared to 2020: Excise department data||PUNE With bars and restaurants now allowed to stay open till 11pm in the city, the sale and consumption liquor has seen a revival.Data released by the state excise department pegs the increase in Pune district at 19% as compared to the first 10 months of 2020. The state excise department said that sale and consumption of beer has seen an 18% increase over 2020. “There is a good demand for IMFL (Indian made foreign liquor) and wine, which was not so much in 2020. The average IFML sold in 2020-21 was 12,588,617 litres, while we see an increase to 14,970,326 litres in 2021-2022 (from April until September). Similarly, wine consumption and buying has also gone up where in 2020-21 it was around 500,992 litres and in 2021-22, it is 596,571 litres. Beer of all sorts, mild, strong and craft included have seen an 18% increase with 2021-22 at 13,093,284 litres as compared to 11,070,957 litres in 2020-21,” said Santosh Zagade, superintendent, state excise department. Karan Bhandari of Talli, said,” There has been a slight increase in sale of liquor, between 10% to 15% post the extended deadlines. Sales are yet to pick up on weekdays where people tend to come for early lunches.” Zagade also said that country liquor though has seen a 16% increase with more people opting for beer and wine. “The sales show a good revival from the pandemic, which is because of extended deadlines and things returning to normalcy,” he added. Restaurants renew licences As per the state excise department, eveysingle restaurant and bar on their record has renewed the liquor licence for 2021-22.According to the excise department, Pune district had 2,792 restaurants and bars (including night clubs) before the pandemic. Until August 2020, only 1,886 had renewed their licences, but now, the balance have renewed as well. Karan Shewale, of The Linkin Barrel, said, “I have renewed my licence but still haven’t got a freehand over the time limit, which is creating a problem as patrons tend to walk in late.” According to Zagade, Although Covid affected the running of bars and restaurants, allowing these establishments to be open till 11pm has helped. “Across all types of bars a total of 2,792 registered licences in the district have been renewed.” He added, “We also rejected 336 licenses which had come for renewals and 61 licenses have been submitted for surrender or cancelation due to unforeseen circumstances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/increase-in-liquor-sales-in-pune-as-compared-to-2020-excise-department-data-101634576672239.html
18-10-2021||Other||123 active Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh, 9 new cases reported||LUCKNOW: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh now stands at 123. In 42 districts there are no active cases while in 17 districts just one active case is under treatment, according to the data from the state health department. In all, nine fresh Covid cases were reported on Monday against 1,39,654 Covid samples tested in the past 24-hours, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. 27 fresh dengue cases in Lko State capital reported 27 fresh dengue cases on Monday from different areas, including Aishbagh, Mal, Alambagh, Aliganj, Gosaiganj and Indira Nagar. These patients have been provided medicines, said a press statement from the office of chief medical officer, Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/123-active-covid-cases-in-uttar-pradesh-9-new-cases-reported-101634576612305.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Cinemas, restaurants: Charging stations for e- vehicles mushrooming in Pune city||PUNE The Inox multiplex theatre at Bund garden is laying claim to being the first cinema in India to be equipped with charging stations for electric two-wheelers and four-wheelers.The charging points will be in the multiplexe’s parking lot.While there are several housing societies and even restaurants, especially on the highways, which have charging stations, the option of charging up while watching a movie is certainly the first here in Pune at Inox.“The duration of a movie is long enough for EV users to charge their vehicles fully. Our first-of-its-kind initiative would allow them to utilise their time effectively while they comfortably watch a movie. With this installation, we have fulfilled our responsibility towards the enhancement of EV charging infrastructure. Owners of electric vehicles can now charge their vehicle at a high speed speed of 1.5 km/min, on payment, while the company providing the charging stations will also provide normal speed charge options free of cost,” said Rajeev Patni, COO, INOX Leisure.“Since the usage of electric vehicles is growing in India, we would also like to offer maximum convenience to our patrons. Therefore, we are planning to set up more such charging stations at locations which are appropriate and feasible,” he added. A charging station has been installed at the Deshpande restaurant on the Pune-Solapur Highway near Indapur. It is a restaurant on the highway and hundreds of vehicles stop here for breakfast, lunch or dinner. “Looking at the new technology and demand from our customers, we decided to install a charging station in our restaurant’s parking area. It is a paid service for the customers, but people can charge their vehicle and enjoy food at our restaurant,” said Vaibhav Deshpande owner of the restaurant. On other hand residential housing societies have also geared up for installing the infrastructure in their society premises. Vipul Alekar resident of New Avenue Park housing society in Hadapsar area said, “Currently there are five electric cars in our society and more people are interested in buying these cars in future. As we live in a housing society it is not possible to have individual charging units, so we are in talks with a couple of companies that are going to install the charging points in our parking spaces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cinemas-restaurants-charging-stations-for-e-vehicles-mushrooming-in-pune-city-101634576192466.html
18-10-2021||Other||Narayanpur SP, accused of beating his driver, removed from post by Chhattisgarh CM||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel removed Superintendent of Police (SP) of Narayanpur district, U Uday Kiran, from the post on Monday, after the SP was accused of thrashing his driver for not keeping the official car clean, officials said. However, the SP, a 2015-batch IPS officer, denied the allegations and said he just reprimanded the driver.“We expect police officers to be strict against the criminals… To beat a junior employee is not acceptable. Instructions have been issued to remove Narayanpur’s superintendent of police for his behaviour,” the chief minister tweeted.A senior police official said that the incident took place on Monday morning. A senior official of Bastar also took cognizance of the issue and asked for an explanation. “I have taken cognizance of this issue… Would ask for an explanation from the concerned officer and based on the report I would ensure appropriate action,” said Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P.The driver, Jailal Netam, a police constable, was sent to a hospital. He told the media that the SP thrashed him for not cleaning the official vehicle.On Monday afternoon, a group of office-bearers of Sarva Adivasi Samaj (SAS), an umbrella body of tribal communities, handed over a memorandum addressing the Governor and chief minister, to Narayanpur collector seeking action against the SP. “The Adivasi samaj has given a memorandum mainly over three points, including the alleged incident of assault with the driver, and further action will be taken after an investigation into all these issues,” collector Dharmesh Sahu told media.Kiran denied all allegations against him.“The constable called another vehicle just because the vehicle was not clean… I told him that the one-day rent of a vehicle is ₹2,000 and he should have cleaned the vehicle instead of calling another one. I did not thrash him, his allegations are baseless,” said Kiran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/narayanpur-sp-accused-of-beating-his-driver-removed-from-post-by-chhattisgarh-cm-101634575473143.html
18-10-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh launches special drive against illicit liquor trade, patrolling up in border areas||LUCKNOW: In view of the festival season, the excise department of Uttar Pradesh (UP) has launched a special drive against illicit liquor that would continue till November 5. The excise and police department teams have also increased patrolling near Haryana, Uttarakhand and Nepal borders, to check cross border smuggling of liquor. The drive has been launched in wake of the chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s instructions to the department to act against those behind the manufacture, sale and smuggling of illicit liquor in the state. Excise minister Ram Naresh Agnihotri said that in view of the festive season, joint teams of excise, police and administration would be constituted by district magistrates and superintendents of police, to carry out checking drive. “The joint teams will carry out raids at suspected places of the manufacture and sale of illicit liquor and at the suspicious highway vends, located near national/state highways. To prevent the sale of illicit liquor, the stock available at excise shops will also be verified,” the minister said. Additional chief secretary, excise, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said during the special drive, vehicles on the main roads would be checked so that the smuggling of illicit liquor in the guise of transportation of other goods could be prevented. “Instructions have been issued to register FIRs against the persons involved in the trade of illicit liquor under the relevant sections of the Excise Act as well as under the various sections of the IPC,” he said. Senthil Pandian C, excise commissioner, said during the drive, any person could inform about the manufacture, sale or smuggling of illicit liquor on the toll-free numbers 14405 and 18001805331 and WhatsApp number 9454466019. “Instructions have also been given to inspect the suspicious godown, cold storage, RO water plants, paint and thinner shops, FL-16/17 shops in the industrial area,” he said. “Strict vigil would be maintained in the border areas of Haryana, Nepal and Uttarakhand to prevent smuggling of illicit liquor,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-launches-special-drive-against-illicit-liquor-trade-patrolling-up-in-border-areas-101634575412219.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Swargate and Katraj BRTS corridor bus-stop doors, a risky proposition||PUNE It’s a daily risk for passengers travelling on the Swargate and Katraj BRTS corridor as the automatic doors at bus stops on this route are not functioning.Which means passengers have to use their own judgement of when to get on, and off, a bus – their lives in the hands of the bus driver’s awareness of the same.Officials of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limted (PMPML) claim that daily, at least 10,000 passengers travel this route, most of whom are office goers. During peak hours, morning and evening, passengers crowd the bus stations and as the automatic doors are always open. The risk of someone falling onto the road is high, as happened at the Padmavati bus station on Sunday. “I was waiting for the bus to go to Swargate and as there was crowd and my leg slipped. Luckily no bus was coming. This needs to be changed and PMC should make proper safety arrangements for passengers,” said Sagar Abnawe, the commuter who slipped and fell. This 5.5 km stretch was revamped recently and there are seven bus stations on this route, which traverses residential areas. PMPML traffic manager Dattatray Zende said, “The safety arrangements at all the bus stations have been made from our side and its the duty of PMC to see if these doors need repairing. Still, we will take a follow up of this issue and get the automatic doors operating.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/swargate-and-katraj-brts-corridor-bus-stop-doors-a-risky-proposition-101634575232505.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Driving on wrong side par for course on Dapodi to Nigdi stretch of highway||PUNE Driving on the wrong side of the road is a common occurrence on the old Pune-Mumbai highway – the Dapodi to Nigdi stretch. The wrong-side-of-the-road option reduces the commute for motorists who can avoid taking a U-turn to get to the other side of the highway.The accident on Sunday, where two people lost their lives, is a stark reminder of the risks involved.On Sunday afternoon, a motorbike coming towards Nigdi from Dapodi via the grade separator, moved left to enter the service road after crossing the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) lane in Akurdi.However, the bike hit the median. The rider and pillion were thrown into the air and died on the spot.There are a total of 20 “in” and “out” points in terms of access to the highway– 10 on the Dapodi to Nigdi route and 10 on the Nigdi to Dapodi road.“Many people come from the wrong lane risking their lives. We penalise them but still people continue to drive from the wrong side,” said a traffic constable on duty at Akurdi, requesting anonymity.“The stretch is not an accident prone. Yesterday (Sunday’s) incident was rare. The impact turned out to be severe because the two-wheeler was at a high speed,” saidinspector Ganesh Jawadwad, Nigdi Police.Sanjay Jadhav who lives in Nigdi said, “Speeding is one of the major issues on this road especially early in the morning and late at night.”Amol Vanjari, a resident of Akurdi, said, “People on his stretch flout the rules without any worry as there are no traffic police after the morning hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/driving-on-wrong-side-par-for-course-on-dapodi-to-nigdi-stretch-of-highway-101634575052704.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Pune-Mumbai expressway accident: Three killed, six injured in multi-vehicle pileup||PUNE Three people were killed, while six others were injured and rushed to a hospital after a collision on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway stretch passing through Borghat on Monday morning. These deaths are in addition to the two persons on a motorbike who died in a collision on the old Pune-Mumbai highway, the stretch passing through Akurdi in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Sunday.In the incident on the expressway, only one of the deceased has been identified - Israr Ahmed Khan (35), a resident of Bahraich, Uttar Pradesh. According to officials, Khan was driving a goods’ carrier. One of the six injured has been identified as Rajesh Saroj, the cleaner travelling with Khan. The police are verifying the identifies of the two other deceased and the five injured.The deceased were taken to the district government hospital for a post-mortem.“There were two goods’ carriers, two cars, one trailer, and one bus. We are still identifying who rammed into whom first. We have only been able to identify one deceased yet - driver of the goods’ carrier. The families of the two other deceased have not yet identified their bodies - we have called everyone’s relatives,” said havaldar Bipin Khale of Khopoli police station.A case has been registered at Khopoli police station.In a separate incident on Sunday, the two people who died in an accident were identified as Aryan Narendra Parmar (21), who was riding a motorbike and Shweta Ashok Gajbhiye (21), who was riding pillion. The bike rammed into another two-wheeler on the old highway stretch in Akurdi. Both students of engineering were instantly killed, while the women riding the other two-wheeler, was injured. A case has been registered against the deceased rider at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punemumbai-expressway-accident-three-killed-six-injured-in-multi-vehicle-pileup-101634574875298.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Pune’s active Covid count falls below 8k first time in eight months||PUNE Pune district’s active Covid-19 district count fell below 8,000 for the first time on Monday after eight months as the district reported 7,509 active Covid-19 cases on February 17, 2021, as per the state health department. However, Pune continues to account for 28 per cent of the state’s active Covid-19 count which is the highest for any district in the state. On Monday, the Pune district reported 258 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million out of which 1.12 million have recovered, 19,899 deaths reported and 7,843 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 150 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 363,525 and the death toll stood at 6,860 as five more deaths were reported on the day. Pune city reported 79 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 519,694 and the death toll stood at 9,189 as five more deaths were reported on Monday. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 29 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 267,889 and the toll stood at 3,501 as two more deaths were reported.Pune also saw 54,126 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-Win dashboard on Monday and in total 11,555,449. Out of which 7,590,538 are first doses and 3,964,911 are second doses. A total of 735 sites saw vaccination out of which 553 were government centres and 182 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-active-covid-count-falls-below-8k-first-time-in-eight-months-101634574632150.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Alleged Bangladesh criminal killed in Lucknow encounter||A Bangladesh national, carrying a reward of ₹50,000 and suspected to be the kingpin of a gang that robbed houses along railway tracks in Uttar Pradesh and other states, was killed in an encounter with the police in the Gomtinagar area of Lucknow, police officials said on Monday. Lucknow deputy commissioner of police (east) Sanjiv Suman said Hamza alias Abul of Khulna district of Bangladesh died after a police encounter near Dayal crossing under Gomtinagar police station limits in the early hours of Monday. Abul and members of his gang opened fire at the police team that intercepted them near the railway lines near the crossing, the officer said, adding that the other gang members managed to flee. Hamza was injured in the encounter and taken to the civil hospital where doctors declared him “brought dead”. Police arrested three other alleged members of the gang — Sheikh Rubel, 26, Alam, 27, and Rabiul, 23 —last week for their involvement in several incidents of robbery and loot at houses along the railway lines in Lucknow and other cities. The arrested men had told the police during interrogation that they were members of a gang that entered West Bengal in India from Bangladesh, the police said. They first used to conduct a recce along railway tracks and then committed the crimes, the police added. Once a house was marked, they reached the spot via train, committed loot and fled by jumping onto passing trains. “The gang used the networks of trains and rail tracks to conduct recce, reach the marked location and then escape from the spot after committing the crime,” said the officer. After robbery, the accused used to share the loot and travel back to West Bengal from where they smuggled the looted items to their families in Bangladesh. In case the looted amount ran into several lakh rupees, the accused returned to Bangladesh and lay low for some time before coming back to India to commit another loot, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/alleged-bangladesh-criminal-killed-in-lucknow-encounter-101634574392127.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends shop, restaurant timings; records 1,485 new Covid-19 cases||Amid a sustained decline in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Maharashtra, the state government further eased restrictions and decided to extend operational timings for restaurants and shops from the current 10pm deadline. Maharashtra, meanwhile, clocked 1,485 fresh Covid-19 cases, its lowest single-day spike in cases in over 17 months (524 days). On May 12, 2020, the state had added 1,026 cases. Mumbai added 371 fresh cases on Monday. A day after clocking zero fatalities, Mumbai saw four fatalities on Monday. State health minister Rajesh Tope said it has decided to extend shop timings in Mumbai till midnight, while restaurants remain open till past 1am. The disaster management department will draft guidelines for allowing operations beyond 10pm, which is expected to kick in around Diwali. The state government on Monday announced that amusement parks, excluding water rides, in the state will resume operations from October 22. A decision on water parks will be made at a later date, a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said. On Monday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a series of meetings, including with the members of the Covid-19 task force, to decide further easing of Covid-19 restrictions in line with the decline in the number of Covid cases. Besides that, he also met representatives of theatres and cinema halls, and a delegation of truck, tempo and bus transport federation. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, too, was present in the two meetings.“Today, a decision was made to allow shops in Mumbai to remain open till midnight. Similarly, the last order in restaurants can be placed at 1am, a decision has been taken on this as well. Besides Mumbai, local administration in other parts of Maharashtra must decide on the shop and restaurant timings,” Tope told reporters in a press conference in Jalna, after the task force meeting.“Restrictions are being gradually eased as the number of Covid cases is on the decline. Amusement parks, auditoriums, and theatres will be opened from October 22. There has been a constant demand to extend the timing of the restaurants and shops. Guidelines for extending the hours of restaurants and shops across the state will be out soon. Amusement parks can be operated except water rides,” the statement said on Monday. The NCP had made a formal request with the chief minister about extending the operational timings of the shops and restaurants given the upcoming festival season.While allowing further restrictions, Thackeray said that the threat of the third wave has not passed yet and people must not remain lax in following all precautions. The statement added, “Although the second wave has subsided, the danger of the third wave is still there and it is important to wear a regular mask, keep a safe distance and keep your hands clean. There needs to be an awareness campaign about it so that people do not get lax about it.”Thackeray also directed officials of the public health department to remain in touch with the Centre on the vaccines for children. He further directed the department to make the necessary preparations for vaccinating children once the Centre takes a decision.Another statement also said that the theatres and cinema halls, which will reopen in the state from October 22, should start with proper fire and structural safety checks. During a meeting with office-bearers of the Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association, he said an appropriate solution would be worked out in coordination with the finance department to address the woes of single-screen cinema halls that are facing financial difficulties. In the meeting with the delegation of the Maharashtra State Truck, Tempo, Tankers and Bus Transport Federation, Thackeray said that the state finance, urban development, and transport departments will be given directions to find suitable solutions to the various issues raised by the transporters. The delegation sought exemption on annual motor vehicle tax, provision for parking spaces for buses and vehicles across the state. They also sought to lift the ban on heavy vehicles to enter cities limits during certain hours, and cancellation of expired transport cases.Thackeray said that the UD department would plan adequate parking spaces for trucks and buses in the cities. “A proper solution will be worked out immediately in the case of transporters in the state who are facing financial crisis due to Covid-19,” a statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-shop-restaurant-timings-records-1-485-new-covid-19-cases-101634574272701.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Murder in Shahjahanpur: Lawyers in UP to abstain from work tomorrow||LUCKNOW The Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh on Monday announced that lawyers across the state will abstain from work on Wednesday in protest against the killing of lawyer Bhupendra Singh inside the district court complex in Shahjahanpur. The council also demanded ₹50 lakh compensation and a government job for the kin of the deceased. Prashant Singh ‘Atal’, member-secretary, Bar Council of UP, demanded that the government must take note of all such incidents of attack on lawyers across the state. “Lawyers will abstain from work on Wednesday in protest against the incident,” he said. Singh demanded proper checking at entry points in all district courts to prevent entry of unwarranted elements. The Bar Council also urged the state government to implement Advocate Protection Act so that lawyers could discharge their legal duties without fear. Condemning the incident, Paresh Mishra, member, Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh, demanded adequate security measures on all court premises in UP. “The existing security measures in district courts, including in the state capital, are just a show piece,” he said. “High court like security measures must be enforced in all district courts of UP,” added Mishra. ‘DFMD a showpiece at dist court’ The Door Frame Metal Detector (DFMD) installed at the entrance of the Lucknow district court (gate number three) is just a showpiece, said lawyers. “Cops deployed at gate number three at district court never check anyone. Now, there will be checking just for a few days after the Shahjahanpur incident. As the issue subsides, security personnel will again become careless,” said Rohit Kant, lawyer, district court. UP Special Security Force?The Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPSSF), a dedicated unit for security at district courts across the state, is yet to be constituted. This proposal was passed after the sensational killing of a double murder accused in a courtroom in Bijnor district before the chief judicial magistrate on December 17, 2019. June 12, 2019 Murder of first-ever woman president of UP Bar Council, Darvesh Yadav, took place inside the district court campus, Agra. Feb 28, 2019 Advocate Jagnarayan Yadav, 63, was shot dead inside the district court campus, Basti. Feb 13, 2020 Two groups of lawyers clashed on court campus in Lucknow. In the incident, one group used crude bombs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/murder-in-shahjahanpur-lawyers-in-up-to-abstain-from-work-tomorrow-101634573672626.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||NCP attacks NCB over counselling session for Aryan Khan||While Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik attacked the Narcotics Control Bureau again on Monday alleging that the central agency resorted to cheap publicity with the claim of counselling actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan in jail, the Bharatiya Janata Party alleged that the NCP leaders have been hindering the NCB probe and it may badly affect the investigation leading to the risk to the security of the country. Reacting to the claims by the NCB officials that agency’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede had a counselling session with Aryan Khan, Malik demanded that the NCB should release the video of the counselling session. He said that the NCB officials should stop planting stories for cheap publicity and if they have had a session with the accused, they should come out with the video evidence. “The officers who talk about electronic evidence should come out with the video on counseling Aryan Khan to clarify about when did they do the counselling, did they actually go inside jail,” Malik said. According to the media reports Wankhede held a counselling session with Khan and other seven accused in the cruise drugs seizure case, two days ago. The accused are currently lodged in the Arthur Road prison. BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye alleged, “NCP leader and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik has been repeatedly targeting NCB, which has been taking strict action against drug peddling. All the parties should support the drive by the central agencies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-attacks-ncb-over-counselling-session-for-aryan-khan-101634573612358.html
18-10-2021||Ranchi||Minors raped by 10 in Gumla village, two held: Police||Two men, in their early twenties, were arrested on Monday for allegedly raping two minor cousins on Dussehra day in a forest area in Gumla district, even as another accused committed suicide at his home after the incident, police said. As per a statement issued by Gumla district police, the two arrested accused were identified as Sameen Asur (22) and Prem Oraon (24). Police said medical tests of the survivors had been done and a case registered with Gurdari police station under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. “The arrested accused have been identified by the complainants. One accused, Ajit Bhagat, committed suicide after pressure started mounting from fellow villagers. Other seven accused have been identified and raids are being conducted to arrest them,” the statement issued by district police said. Gumla superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib and deputy superintendent of police Manish Chandra, who paraded the arrested accused before the local media, did not respond to phone calls and messages. Police said that based on the complaint filed by the two girls, the incident occurred around 2 pm on Friday when they were returning home after attending a local fair along with their cousin brother from a nearby village when 10 youths riding three motorcycles started teasing the girls. The accused started beating the cousin of the two girls as he protested. The boy was forced to run away from the spot following which the group took the two girls deep inside the jungle and raped them. They forcibly took the two girls to a different location where they again raped them around 10 pm, the complaint said. “The accused finally fled the spot after they saw villagers approaching them who were alerted by the cousin brother of the two survivors. The villagers, along with the two survivors, then approached the police after which a case was registered and an SIT formed to crack the case,” the police statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/minors-raped-by-10-in-gumla-village-two-held-police-101634573073083.html
18-10-2021||Other||Patna University submits proposal for campus redevelopment||PATNA: The Patna University (PU) on Monday submitted a proposal to the state education department for redevelopment of its campus which would incur an estimated expenditure of ₹137.33 crore, said officials. PU has proposed to construct new academic and administrative blocks to accommodate rising number of students and improve its managerial work.Earlier on October 1, PU’s vice chancellor Girish Kumar Choudhary proposed education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary for construction of new buildings and renovation of Wheeler Senate House during the foundation day event of the varsity. Following the discussion with the minister, PU submitted elaborate proposal for the department’s approval.Anil Kumar, media in-charge of PU said, “We have pitched the plan for constructing multi-storey new academic block at cost of ₹82.83 crore and administrative block at ₹54.50 crore. The proposed constructions will be done on 4.50 acre land available between Krishna Ghat and VC’s residence. We have submitted the estimated budget and proposed architecture blueprint to the education for their approval.”Kumar said students are facing difficulty in attending classes due to inadequate infrastructure availability. He added, “With rising number of students in post-graduation courses, infrastructure available at Darbhanga House is running short for conducting classes properly. The class arrangement at Darbhanga House was made when the number of students pursuing post-graduation courses were much less than present. Besides, the education department has also increased seats in several courses in recent years. Consequently, the classrooms available at Darbhanga House is not sufficient to accommodate students. Several PG departments are running classes in two shifts to admit all students.” “We plan to shift PG departments of humanities and social science to the proposed academic block and allot the vacated space at Darbhanga House to Vanijya Mahavidyalaya which is conducting classes in four shifts in a small portion allotted at Patna College to ease commerce students”, he added.Darbhanga House is a unit of PU used for hosting around 40 post-graduation courses.PU officials said that the campus redevelopment will create better teaching and learning environment at the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patna-university-submits-proposal-for-campus-redevelopment-101634573072069.html
18-10-2021||Patna||33 juveniles escaped from remand home: Nine still on run||Nine out of 33 juveniles, who escaped from Aurangabad remand home on Friday, are still on the run, said police. Aurangabad SP Kantesh Kumar Mishra said that fifteen boys returned on Saturday while four others surrendered before the Kaimur police and five were caught from separate places. On Friday evening, 33 juveniles went on the rampage at the remand home. They allegedly vandalised the premises, damaged furniture, windowpanes, generator, etc., worth lakhs, tore official papers and attacked the staff after the delay in serving food. An FIR has been lodged against five named persons with the Muffasil police station on the statement of injured jawans. Aurangabad DM Sourabh Jorwal told HT that a probe panel led by DDC Anshul Kumar comprising four officials, including SDPO and SDM, has been formed. The DM has sought a detailed report on what led to the escape despite the security. The DM said, “If we found laxity on part of any of the staff members, they will be punished. The incident is serious,” The DM had already removed assistant director Santosh Choudhary from his post over dereliction of duty. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/33-juveniles-escaped-from-remand-home-nine-still-on-run-101634573015453.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||Raj Thackeray gets into Hindutva mode, meets Hindu seers from UP||In the backdrop of the municipal elections scheduled next year, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has gotten into Hindutva mode. On Monday, Hindu seers from Uttar Pradesh met MNS chief Raj Thackeray at his residence seeking his support for establishing a Hindu nation.The two seers from Uttar Pradesh who go by the name of Guru Ma Kanchan Giriji and Jagatguru Suryacharaji met Raj Thackeray for an hour after criticising Chief Minister and his estranged cousin Uddhav Thackeray for abandoning Hindutva. “Raj Thackeray supports Hindutva ideology and the best thing about him is he does what he says,” said Guru Ma Kanchan Giriji. “Since both BJP and Raj Thackeray’s ideology are similar on Hindutva, they should come together,” she added.She even went to the extent saying that she was ready to be a bridge to bring them together. She said that Raj Thackeray would be visiting Ayodhya in December and the saints will welcome him in a grand manner. With regards to the opposition of Raj Thackeray towards North Indians, she insisted that Raj Thackeray loved them and they had no reason to fear him.After a series of defeats in successive elections, Raj Thackeray in January 2020 reinvented his party by shifting towards Hindutva. He unveiled a new saffron flag with a rajmudra (seal) of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, with the party’s name below it. Last week, during Dussehra, the MNS put ‘Proud to be Hindu’ banners in many places across the city.MNS leader Bal Nandgaonkar said Raj Thackeray has inherited Hindutva ideology from his ancestors. “The MNS will continue to pursue our Hindutva agenda,” said Nandgaonkar. Political analyst Hemant Desai said it was the BJP’s plan to project ‘Raj Thackeray as a Hindutva icon’ in view of the upcoming BMC polls. “As Uddhav Thackeray is again talking of Hindutva, the BJP wants someone to counter him,” said Desai. After the breakup of the alliance by the Shiv Sena after the 2019 assembly elections, the BJP has been keen to have an alliance with the MNS to split the Sena’s votes. However, Raj Thackeray’s anti-North Indian agenda has played a spoilsport. BJP Maharashtra Chief Chandrakant Patil who met Raj Thackeray in August told him to shed this agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raj-thackeray-gets-into-hindutva-mode-meets-hindu-seers-from-up-101634572772275.html
18-10-2021||Patna||MeT predicts heavy rain in Bihar till October 20, orange alert for Supaul||Light to moderate rainfall occurred at most places over the state during the past 24 hours, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Monday.Patna Meteorological Centre said the state is experiencing sudden rain under the influence of the weather system formed over the neighbouring state.CK Singh, a meteorologist at Patna Meteorological Centre, said, “A low-pressure area lying over south Madhya Pradesh has now shifted towards southwest Madhya Pradesh & neighbourhood. Besides, another cyclonic circulation has formed over Gangetic West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha. Under the influence, easterly winds will continue to blow in the state. Light to moderate rain at most places and heavy rain at several places accompanied with thunderstorm activities is likely in the state till October 20.”As per the daily bulletin issued, Parsa and Amnaur in Saran district received 37.2mm rain followed by Jandaha in Vaishali 27.2mm, Tarari in Bhojpur 26.4mm, Chandan in Banka 22.8mm, Bahadurganj in Kishanganj 21mm, Triveniganj in Supaul 18.4mm during the past 24 hours.Patna Meteorological Centre has also issued an orange colour warning for Supaul district forecasting heavy to very heavy rain on Tuesday while a yellow-colour alert has been issued for six districts including Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Kishanganj, Araria and Purnea. As per India Meteorological Department (Hydromet division), Bihar recorded 110.6mm actual rain against the normal rain of 53.1 mm between October 1 to October 18 which is 108% excess.Anil Kumar Jha, the agriculture expert, said, “The untimely rain in the state will have a negative impact on crops. The excess rain that occurred this month has resulted in an abundance of moisture in the soil. Consequently, farmers will face difficulty in harvesting ready Kharif crops due to moisture while sowing for rabi crops including lentils, oilseeds and grams will be delayed. Sowing of Rabi crops is done between October to mid- November in the state..”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/met-predicts-heavy-rain-in-bihar-till-october-20-orange-alert-for-supaul-101634572176526.html
18-10-2021||Other||Priest killed, 3 hurt after health dept vehicle runs over their bike in Kaimur||BHABUA:A 70-year-old was killed and three members of a family critically injured in Kaimur district on Monday when the bike they were travelling on was hit by a four-wheeler on Bhabua-Mohania state highway under Bhabua Town police station limits, police said. The three family members, along with the priest, were going to another village to fix the marriage of their girl.The deceased was identified as village priest Sinhasan Dubey. Critically injured Mahendra Bind, Shivmuni Bind and Vipin Bind were taken to Sadar hospital at Bhabua by locals where doctors referred them to BHU Trauma Centre in Varanasi.The driver and other occupants of the the SUV, which belonged to health department, fled the scene before police reached the place and seized the vehicle. “We are investigating the case,” said inspector Rama Nand Mandal, station house officer of Bhabua Town police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/priest-killed-3-hurt-after-health-dept-vehicle-runs-over-their-bike-in-kaimur-101634572174088.html
18-10-2021||Other||Nitish demands action; BJP wants Indo-Pak T20 match to be cancelled||PATNABihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday said he was “saddened” over the killing of people from the state in Kashmir and demanded immediate action.Talking to reporters, Kumar said, “I am deeply saddened by the incident in Jammu. As soon as the information came, we talked among ourselves (ministers) and to the officials in Kashmir also. The government is worried about the Biharis being killed there,” he said. “I spoke to Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha on phone and said it seems people from outside the state working there are being targeted. This time, people from Bihar have been killed. This is a matter of concern for us. He assured us that the administration was monitoring the situation and promised to provide security to them,” said the CM.“Any citizen is free to work in any part of the country. Nobody has the right to give ultimatum to anybody. Country is one and J&K is also part of the country,” he said and promised all possible help to families of the deceased. “State officials are in touch with their counterparts in Jammu and Kashmir and their bodies will be brought to their respective villages,” he said. Bihar police chief also spoke to J&K’s chief secretary and director general of police and made a request to ensure deployment of police teams and patrolling in the areas where people of Bihar reside and work in J&K, a tweet by ANI said. Bihar’s deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, whose party BJP is part of the ruling alliance in the state, demanded cancellation of Indo-Pak T20 World Cup match. “I think such things (India vs Pak match in upcoming ICC T20 World Cup) should be halted so that Pakistan gets a message that if they keep supporting terrorism, India will not stand by them on any matter,” he said.Earlier, union minister Giriraj Singh, who is from Bihar, said, “The match between India and Pakistan in the coming days needs to be given another thought in the wake of the attacks happening on Hindus in Jammu and Kashmir. The relations are not good right now.”Leader of opposition in the state, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, targeted Nitish Kumar’s government over the compensation amount announced earlier. “Bihar government gives ₹4 lakh for death due to snakebite but just ₹2 lakh to Bihari workers who have gone out for livelihood and were killed by terrorists. Amazing!” he tweeted in Hindi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nitish-demands-action-bjp-wants-indo-pak-t20-match-to-be-cancelled-101634572173020.html
18-10-2021||Other||Bihar migrants start returning from Kashmir||ARARIA/BANKAAround 40 migrant workers have returned home in their village in Bihar’s Banka district alone since Sunday night following the recent targeted killings of people from other state in Kashmir, according to locals. Over the last two weeks, four migrant workers from Bihar — Raja Rishidev and Yogendra Rishidev from Araria, one Birendra Paswan from Bhagalpur and Arvind Kumar Sah of Banka — have been shot dead in Kashmir, A fifth one, Chunchun Rishidev from Araria, is battling for life at a hospital in Kashmir after sustaining bullet injuries. Chunchun’s father Teju Rishidev, 70, a resident of Mirzapur in Araria, is a worried man. “My two sons are in Kashmir and I have come to know that one of them, Chunchun, was shot. I want both my sons, Chunchun and Brahma, to come back as early as possible,” he says.Nunu Devi, mother of Yogendra Rishidev who was shot dead in Anantnag, says, “My son had gone to Kashmir four months back. He is survived by three children and a widow. The government should help us.”“Hundreds of people from Raniganj block alone are in Kashmir, besides several hundreds from other blocks of Araria. The government should arrange for their safe return,” says Ashish Kumar Bhagat, a local activist.Bihar’s Seemanchal region, comprising four districts of Purnia, Katihar, Araria and Kishanganj, is regarded as a hub of migrant labourers, who work mainly in Punjab, Delhi, Mumbai and of late Kashmir.Meanwhile, in Lakhpura Parghari village of Banka district, the mood is of overwhelming gloom and fear. Its resident Arvind Kumar Sah, 23, one the four killed in the valley, was to get married in two months.“We want our Army to kill all those involved in such attacks,” says Mantu Kumar Sah, his younger brother. Father Devendra Sah demanded to call off the forthcoming India-Pakistan of T-20 world cup match. Pankaj Mahto (40) and Bhagirath Mandal (35), who returned from Kashmir to Banka on Monday, said, “We were working in building construction. Some ran their own businesses. We had gone there about four months back and were happy but suddenly attacks came and we were forced to flee.”Locals say that after the dilution of Article 370 stripped Kashmir of its special status, the state became an addition to destinations for migrant workers. “Earlier, most of the migrant workers who used to go there were Muslims. Over the last few months, Hindus too made a beeline in search of work,” says Ramvilas Rishidev, a resident of Mirzapur village in Araria district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-migrants-start-returning-from-kashmir-101634572171914.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai saw 99.9% increase in built-up area in 27 years, reveals study||A recent study, published in the peer-reviewed Springer Journal of the Indian Society of Remote Sensing, found that Mumbai lost 58.17% of its open spaces, 40% of its green cover and about 25.30% of water bodies between 1991 and 2018. During these 27 years, the city saw a corresponding increase of 99.9% in its built-up area. The study also demonstrates correlation between increase in built-up area and a rise in micro-climactic “urban heat island’ phenomena. Over 27 years, researchers have noted, Mumbai’s average temperature has increased by a worrying two degrees celsius.The study (’Urban Heat Island Dynamics in Response to Land-Use/Land-Cover Change in the Coastal City of Mumbai’) was conducted by researchers from the Faculty of Natural Sciences at Delh’s Jamia Millia Islamia University in New Delhi, Osmania University in Hyderabad, and Aligarh Muslim University, Uttar Pradesh.Researchers used NASA landsat datasets and imagery to study changes in land-use, land-cover and land surface temperatures over 603 sq kms of Mumbai city and suburbs.Shahfahad, a senior research fellow at JMU and lead author of the study, said, “We found that rapid uncontrolled urbanisation over the past five-six decades attracted a large population by providing better economic opportunities. As a result, natural land use patterns such as vegetation cover, scrublands, wetlands, and open lands have all been transformed on a large scale into built form.”The area of open land fell by more than half from 80.57 sq. km in 1991 to 33.7 sq. km in 2018. Mumbai also saw reduction in water bodies from 27.19 sq. km to 20.31 sq. km during the same period. Conversely — due to conversion of open lands, green cover and water bodies — the extent of built-up area nearly doubled from 173.09 sq km in 1991 to 346.02 sq. km in 2018.These transformations were found to radically alter land surface temperature dynamics, leading to more intense urban heat island formation. “We observed that the average temperature in 1991 was 34.08 degrees Celsius. It rose to 36.28 degree Celsius in 2018 (a 2.2-degree Celsius increase) under the heat island zones (vulnerable areas), thus exposing people to higher heat risk,” said Shahfahad.Roshni Udyavar Yehuda, president, Institute of Environmental Architecture and Research, who was not involved with the study, said, “The urban heat island effect is caused due to increase in hardscapes such as building materials including concrete, steel and glass, both on the buildings and on streetscapes or open spaces.” “Curtailment of wind flow which often occurs in urban areas due to closely built vertical structures is also a problem,” she explained, emphasising that such micro-climactic changes must be clearly reflected (and prepared for) in Mumbai’s official development plan.Other experts, too, expressed concern over these findings, which disproportionately affect disadvantaged communities. “The urban heat island effect and population density have a strong association. In Dharavi, the urban poor suffer the most since they can’t afford houses or air conditioners. Those living in high rises or gated communities, on the other hand, may not be as badly affected as they have access to air conditioners and means to reduce heat exposure,” said Akshay Deoras, a meteorologist with the University of Reading, UK.Deoras also clarified that the worst affected are those who must commute long distances to work (as is common in Mumbai) as well as those working outdoors.The associated impact on urban heat owing to an increase in built-up area, he explained, may not even affect residents of the area but labourers, small-shop owners, and domestic help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-saw-66-increase-in-built-up-area-in-27-years-reveals-study-101634570491580.html
18-10-2021||Other||Punjab CM should explain double-speak on extension of BSF jurisdiction: Sukhbir||Bathinda Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday condemned Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for downplaying the dangers posed by the Centre’s move to increase the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) to nearly half of Punjab. He also accused the CM of double-speak on the issue.“Channi is speaking with a forked tongue on the extension of BSF deployment in Punjab. On the one hand he says, there is no need to spread panic while on the other he offers an all-party meet,” Sukhbir, who was in Abohar on Monday, said. He added that the very purpose of calling an all-party meeting as proposed by him had been defeated by this assertion that there was no need to worry. Sukhbir said Channi should also explain why he was objecting to the move if he thought the SAD was unnecessarily worried.“Channi is only making a show of a protest after a public backlash. It seems the CM is trying to spread the Centre’s narrative that the move is not a major violation of the state’s autonomy. He should explain why he agreed to the proposal in the first place when he met Union home minister Amit Shah on October 5. He should also explain, why he has not held any concrete protest on this issue till now.”Sukhbir added that the SAD has taken a principled stand on this issue as it would weaken the cause of federalism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-should-explain-double-speak-on-extension-of-bsf-jurisdiction-sukhbir-101634570372091.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Lawyer shot dead inside Shahjahanpur court complex, another lawyer arrested||LUCKNOW A lawyer was shot dead allegedly by another on the district court premises in western UP’s Shahjahanpur district on Monday over an old rivalry, following which four cops were suspended for negligence, said police.Bhupendra Pratap Singh, 40, was found dead in the record room on the second floor of the court complex around 11:40am. Cops arrested a lawyer, Surendra Kumar Gupta, for the alleged murder of Singh who had a long standing property dispute with him.“Surendra has confessed his crime before the police,” said S Anand, SP (Shahjahanpur). Singh had filed two dozen cases against Gupta. Upset over this, Gupta allegedly killed him, said cops.An FIR of murder (Section 302 of the IPC) and criminal conspiracy (Section 120B of the IPC) was lodged against Gupta at Sadar Bazar police station of Shahjahanpur. Taking strong exception to a serious crime like murder on the court premises, four police personnel, including an inspector, were placed under suspension, said ASP (City) Sanjay Kumar.People in the nearby offices said they rushed to the record room after hearing a gunshot and found Singh dead. Singh had an injury on the side of his head and his clothes were soaked in blood, said the SP. “A country-made .315 bore pistol was also found near the body. We have sent the body for a post-mortem examination and formed a team to investigate into the case,” he said.The SP, along with Shahjahanpur DM Indra Vikram Singh and other senior officials, reached the spot minutes after the incident. A forensic field unit was also called in to collect evidence from the site.Advocates in the district, launched an indefinite strike, demanding the killer’s immediate arrest.The incident raised questions over the security arrangements on court premises. Opposition party leaders condemned the incident and took pot shots over the law and order situation in the state. “The judicial fraternity is an integral pillar of our democracy. The brutal murder of an advocate on court premises in broad daylight is another chilling reminder that no one is safe in today’s UP - not women, not farmers and now not advocates,” tweeted Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra.Former UP chief minister and president of Samajwadi Party Akhilesh Yadav took a jibe at the government and tweeted, “The public murder of the lawyer in the court complex in Shahjahanpur has exposed the truth behind the false propaganda of the ‘encounter sarkar’. Under the BJP government, UP has become ‘number one in ease of doing crime’.”Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati tweeted, “The murder of a lawyer on the court premises of Shahjahanpur is very sad and shameful, which exposes the law and order situation under the BJP government here and their claims in this regard. Now, finally the question arises that who is safe in UP? The government should pay proper attention to this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lawyer-shot-dead-inside-shahjahanpur-court-complex-another-lawyer-arrested-101634569831576.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||20 inmates of Adharwadi Jail in Kalyan test positive for Covid||Twenty inmates of Adharwadi jail in Kalyan tested positive for Covid-19 on October 9. As per the jail authorities, these inmates were recently sent to the jail, and when the RT-PCR test was conducted, 20 of them tested positive. The inmates have been sent to Thane Civil Hospital for treatment.“All of them had mild symptoms and they were recently sent to jail after the magistrate’s order in different cases. They will be soon released from the hospital and sent to Adharwadi Jail quarantine centre,” said Ankush Sadafule, superintendent of the jail.Earlier, the jail authorities used to keep the Covid-infected inmates in a quarantine centre set up at a private school near the jail. However, since the schools have reopened, the centre at the school was shut. Now, the jail authorities have reserved two barracks in the jail itself where tests for the new inmates are done.“Those at the new barrack underwent tests. Out of them, 20 tested positive and immediately they were shifted to the hospital,” added Sadafule.Civil surgeon of Thane Civil Hospital, Kailas Pawar, said, “We have around 20 jail inmates admitted in the hospital a few days ago. They are recovering now and will be released in the next few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/20-inmates-of-adharwadi-jail-in-kalyan-test-positive-for-covid-101634569417929.html
18-10-2021||Pune||FYJC admission deadline extended till October 21||PUNE The state education department has extended the deadline for the Class 11 (FYJC) online admission process till October 21. All seven rounds of the first- come first-served (FCFS) process were completed on Monday. While after completion of the three regular rounds, one special round and all seven rounds of FCFS, still 41,400 seats have remained vacant in Pune and Pimpri- Chinchwad. So far, a total of 71,925 students have admitted to 317 colleges in Pune.As per a circular issued by the department on Monday, the FCFS round has been extended till 6pm, October 21. Students who have not yet registered for the admission process can register. Students holding an ATKT and those with any passing percentage in Class 10 (SSC) can register for admission.“There are students who want to either cancel their admission or students who have not yet completed their admission process due to various reasons. So it was decided to extend the admission period upto October 21. Also those students have passed under the ATKT category with one subject remaining, even they can take admission,” said Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fyjc-admission-deadline-extended-till-october-21-101634569411574.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||BJP nominee Nitin Agarwal elected deputy speaker of Uttar Pradesh assembly||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nominee Nitin Agarwal, who is technically still a Samajwadi Party MLA, was elected deputy speaker of the Uttar Pradesh legislative assembly, defeating the SP’s official nominee Narendra Verma by a margin of 244 votes here on Monday.Agarwal, who served as a minister of state in the Akhilesh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party government and later joined the BJP in 2018 with his father Naresh Agarwal, secured 304 votes while Verma got 60 votes. Out of the 368 votes polled, four were declared invalid in counting after nearly three-hour long polling by secret ballot. The outcome of the election for deputy speaker indicated apparent cross-voting in favour of candidates of both the parties.“I congratulate Nitin Agarwal, a young and experienced leader, for his victory with a heavy margin. The Samajwadi Party failed to mobilise even the opposition’s votes for its nominee Narendra Verma. This election is a reflection on the outcome of 2022 assembly polls,” said chief minister Yogi Adityanath soon after assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit declared Agarwal elected.The Uttar Pradesh assembly has a sanctioned strength of 404 members, including one nominated member. It has seven vacancies and the nominated member does not have voting rights in the deputy speaker’s election, thereby bringing down the current voting strength in the House to 396 members. The BJP has the support of at least 316 members. They include 304 of the BJP, nine of the Apna Dal (S) members and three independents. Questions are being raised about 28 abstentions and also about how the BJP member got only 304 votes against the support of at least 316 and how SP nominee Narendra Verma secured 60 votes against the SP’s effective strength of 46 against 49 listed party members in the House. Three SP members Shivpal Singh Yadav, Hariom Yadav and Nitin Agarwal do not identify themselves with the Samajwadi Party. While the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) staged a walk-out before the voting and the Congress officially stayed away from the election, their rebels were seen taking part in Monday’s voting. The BSP has 16 listed members and two unattached members. The Congress has seven listed members, including two rebels. Yogi, in his congratulatory address, also said the BJP has considered UP as a family while the SP was not able to rise above the family considerations. He said his government has always engaged in dialogue with the opposition, while the SP has followed the policy of opposing and it failed to give the name of any SP leader for election as deputy speaker in the past four- and-a-half years. He said his government has followed the tradition of giving the deputy speaker’s post to the main opposition party as Agarwal is technically an SP member. He accused the SP of betraying its candidate by not mobilising support for Verma even among the opposition parties. He said the SP leader has called election unfair though poll was held by secret ballot and not by using EVMs (electronic voting machines). Minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna said viewing the opposition’s strength in the House, the SP nominee should have got 78 and not just 60 votes.Leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary (SP), while congratulating Agarwal, countered Yogi’s observations and said the SP fielded Verma despite being aware of the outcome. He said in the 2022 assembly elections, the SP would be voted to power and the BJP would go to the opposition benches. He also said the SP did not seek any support from the Congress or the BSP and yet his party’s candidate got 60 votes.He said the BJP candidate secured only 304 votes, indicating whom the people would vote for in the 2022 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-nominee-nitin-agarwal-elected-deputy-speaker-of-uttar-pradesh-assembly-101634569171692.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Lions’ enclosure at Katraj zoo to get ₹3.36-crore trench||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has approved ₹3.36 crore for a trench at the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological park in Katraj. The trench will be constructed around the enclosure that holds the lions. A pair of Asiatic lions arrived from the Sakkarbaug zoo in 2017 as part of an animal exchange programme. The PMC is acting as per instructions from the Central Zoo authority, and the standing committee on Monday approved the ₹3.36 crore. PMC garden department officials are now gearing up to reopen the zoo and are looking at upgrading their ticketing system prior to the reopening.The zoo authorities and the PMC’s garden and IT departments met last month to discuss options to maintain and control crowds at the zoo once it reopens. According to officials, the IT department is planning a completely separate portal for the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Wildlife Research centre, making ticketing and reservation user friendly.  ₹3 crore for setting up a water projectPMC has also approved ₹3 crore for setting up a water project at Uruli Devachi and Phursungi. These villages were merged in PMC in 2017.No water on Thursday The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has announced that there will no water supply on Thursday (October 21), because of maintenance work at all the water treatment plants in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lions-enclosure-at-katraj-zoo-to-get-3-36-crore-trench-101634569111450.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||Amit Shah must tell the nation about situation in Kashmir, demands Sena||Shiv Sena on Monday sought a response from Union home minister Amit Shah over the situation in Kashmir that has witnessed a spate of terror attacks, killing 18 people in the last 11 days. Sena, which had backed the Centre over revoking the special status to Jammu and Kashmir by abrogating Article 370, said that the responsibility of the death of the people in the valley lies with the home ministry. It said talk on cancelling cricket matches between India and Pakistan was an attempt to divert attention Sanjay Raut, chief spokesperson of the Sena, said the current developments in Kashmir are concerning as “terrorism has resurfaced there”. “Recently, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said despite removing Article 370 there was no change in the situation of Kashmir and this is the truth. Today, the terrorists are creating havoc by killing Sikhs, Kashmiri Pandits and Bihari labourers. The responsibility lies with the home ministry... The situation in Kashmir has gone out of hand... We must get to know what is the government doing [over the issue] and therefore, the home minister must tell the nation about the situation in Kashmir,” Raut said.In an apparent response to Union minister Giriraj Singh, who said the India-Pakistan T20 match in Dubai should be reconsidered, Raut said it was a move to divert attention. Without naming PM Narendra Modi, the Sena leader mentioned an unscheduled stop to celebrate the birthday of the then Pakistan prime minister Nawaz Sharif. “I am speaking about the situation in Kashmir, you speak about that and not the India-Pakistan match to distract people. The issue in Jammu and Kashmir will not be resolved by playing or not playing a cricket match. Shiv Sena’s stand has always been that there shouldn’t be any ties with Pakistan — no cricket, no trade or no cultural ties. You only go there and cut cakes. Here people are dying, and you are speaking about a cricket match,” Raut said, referring to Modi’s stopover at Lahore in December 2015 to wish his counterpart on his birthday.He further said merely using threatening language against Pakistan and saying surgical strikes will be conducted will not help. A tough stand must be taken by the prime minister, defence minister and home ministry, he said. “The decision on [relations with Pakistan] are made as per your convenience and political calculations, and innocent people in Kashmir are dying; this will not work.”The Sena leader said it cannot be said that the situation in Kashmir had improved in the two years after the abrogation of the special status. “The news emanating from the valley was stopped as the internet was shut there, there were curbs on the media there, many leaders were not allowed to move around, some of the key leaders were under house arrest. Many incidents have not come out after Article 370 was removed.”Pravin Darekar, leader of opposition in the legislative council, said, “You need not worry about the country’s security. The nations’ home minister Amit Bhai [Shah] is capable of tackling it. Instead of that, I request Raut saheb to look at the issues in Maharashtra, including the safety of women.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amit-shah-must-tell-the-nation-about-situation-in-kashmir-demands-sena-101634569052277.html
18-10-2021||Pune||25-year old arrested for sneaking phone into Pune police recruitment exam||PUNE A 25-year-old man has been arrested and remanded to police custody on Monday, for sneaking a mobile phone into an examination centre while appearing for the Pune police recruitment exam.The arrested man has been identified as Jeevan Fandusingh Gunsingh (25), a resident of Sanjarpurwadi in Vaijapur, Aurangabad, according to police. He was appearing for the recruitment exam at centre number 24, Kataria High School, Tilak Vidyapeeth near Vir Smarat nagar, in Gultekdi.The man was using the phone by hiding it in his palm to ask and get answers from someone who was on the other side of the call, according to police. However, he has not yet revealed the identity of the one who was helping him, according to police.“The phone he was using was very small and could easily be concealed in the palm of a hand. We have not established the name of this person who was helping him from the other side of the phone line, yet. We have him in custody till tomorrow (Tuesday),” said sub- inspector (PSI) Hanumant Bhosale of Swargate police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 188 (disobeying public servant direction), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at Swargate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/25year-old-arrested-for-sneaking-phone-into-pune-police-recruitment-exam-101634568871468.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Three arrested in Pune for illegal sale of muscle enhancing drug||PUNE: Three men were arrested for selling to body builders and gym enthusiasts a drug that enhances body muscles without prescription in the Bibwewadi area of Pune Saturday morning.The three were identified as Paresh Nivrutti Renuse, 33, a resident of Sambhajinagar in the Dhankawadi area of Pune; Pravinsingh Puksingh Bhati, 23, a resident of Dangat Patilnagar in Shivane; and Akshay Sambhaji Vanjale, 26, a resident of Warje Malwadi area of Pune. Senior police inspector Sunil Zaware of Bibwewadi police station said, “Renuse is an MBA graduate, Vanjale is a gym trainer, and Bhati used to have a medical store. The MRP of the prescription drug is ₹268 and they were selling it to body builders for double the price. The three have been remanded to two days’ police custody.”Renuse was found in possession of six bottles on his person and 37 bottles of 10ml each of Mephentermine Sulphate injection IP of Troikaa Pharmaceuticals Ltd., according to the police. Upon investigation, the police arrested Bhati and Vanjale who were found to have 160 more bottles of the drug. The three revealed the name of a fourth accused who is absconding. However, upon searching this fourth accused’s house, the police found eight more bottles of the drug in addition to 4 empty bottles and 15 empty boxes. Collectively, the police found 211 bottles of the drug from the men and are now on the lookout for the fourth person who is on the run.The police are investigating from where the drugs were sourced and whether the men have more of it in their possession. The seized drugs are worth ₹2,06,548 and would have fetched double the price if the trade had gone undetected, the police said. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with the Drugs and Cosmetic Products Act, 1940 was registered at the Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-arrested-in-pune-for-illegal-sale-of-muscle-enhancing-drug-101634568331834.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||BJP’s 15 BMC corporators in touch with us, says Shiv Sena leader||Ahead of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls in February 2022, senior Shiv Sena corporator and civic standing committee chairman Yashwant Jadhav said upto 15 sitting BJP corporators are in touch with them as they are unhappy with the party leadership and the Sena will take a final call on inducting them into the party fold in December. The BJP responded saying none of their corporators would be joining the Sena. Jadhav said, “Some corporators of the BJP in the BMC are fed up with their leadership. Their suggestions or views are not given any value by the leadership. A bunch of these corporators want to join the Sena. We are thinking about the same and will take a decision by December.” The 2017 civic elections saw a close contest between Sena and BJP with the former managing to retain power, even though it failed to win a simple majority in the house of 227. The Sena won 84 seats, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) came a close second with 82 seats. The two parties were running the state together because of which the BJP did not make an attempt to wrest power. In 2018, 7 MNS corporators joined the Sena increasing its tally. Currently, the Sena has 97 corporators, including independents and nominated corporators. The BJP has 83 seats, Congress 29, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) 8, Samajwadi Party (SP) six, AIMIM two and MNS has one seat. The two former allies have now locked horns again to win power in the Mumbai civic body in the civic polls scheduled to be held in February next year. A bitter tussle is on between the two parties ahead of the elections. Jadhav’s remarks made on Monday are coming out of the same tussle. Prabhakar Shinde, BJP corporator and BJP’s Group leader in BMC, said, “The Sena should stop dreaming as they will not be successful in getting our corporators. Not even one BJP corporator will leave the party.” In a statement, BJP’s corporator Bhalchandra Shirsat, who is also the spokesperson, said, “We gave confidence that not a single BJP corporator will even look at the Shiv Sena which has left Hindutva.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjps-15-bmc-corporators-in-touch-with-us-says-shiv-sena-leader-101634568091476.html
18-10-2021||Pune||PMC security guards haven’t been paid salaries for 3 months||PUNE: Nearly 1,500 security guards working with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) have not received their salary for the last three months. Worse still, one of the female security guards working at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch suffered a heart attack on Monday and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is now blaming the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the sorry state of affairs.The real reason the security guards have not been paid is that the security agency was changed midway and neither the old nor the new agency ended up paying them. However, Parvati NCP leader Nitin Kadam said, “One of the female security guards suffered an attack while she was on duty. Her colleagues admitted her to the hospital. The security guards said most of them are worried due to their financial condition.”Recently, NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap, party spokesperson Pradip Deshmukh and party secretary Vinod Pawar met the head of the security department, Madhav Jagtap, and demanded that the security guards be paid their salaries.Pawar said, “We are following-up with PMC officials for the past two weeks. Although these security guards have been working through the pandemic, they are not getting their salaries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-security-guards-haven-t-been-paid-salaries-for-3-months-101634568031451.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Covid: Ahmednagar sees drop in positivity rate, active cases following curbs||PUNE: Following the imposition of curbs in 61 villages of Ahmednagar since October 4, the district has recorded a decline in the positivity rate and the number of active Covid-19 cases. According to the district administration, the overall positivity rate has dropped below 3% from higher than 5% before the imposition of restrictions. So also the number of active cases has come down to 3,181 on October 17 from 5,173 cases on October 3. Rajendra Bhosale, collector of Ahmednagar district, said, “After restrictions have been imposed, the positivity rate and the number of active cases has reduced. We are focusing on containment of infection in the areas where the virus spread is higher and Covid norms are not being followed.”On October 4, the district administration imposed strict restrictions for 10 days in 61 villages to contain the spread of infection in rural parts of Ahmednagar. A majority of villages with higher number of active Covid-19 cases belong to the Sangamner, Shrigonda, Parner and Rahata tehsils of Ahmednagar.The curbs are being continued in 21 villages, Bhosale said. “Now there are restrictions in 21 villages. Apart from these villages, containment zones have been created in eight other villages. If a village has a population of 50,000, it can easily have more than 10 active cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-ahmednagar-sees-drop-in-positivity-rate-active-cases-following-curbs-101634567616987.html
18-10-2021||Other||Agra: Heavy rainfall in Braj region leaves farmers worried||AGRA Heavy rains lashed the Braj region for the second consecutive day on Monday. Routine life was thrown out of gear and temperature fell drastically across the region. Many houses collapsed and extensive damage was caused to crops in the field by heavy rainfall. “An alert was issued about the extensive rain in this part of the state but there was little the farmers could do. Rains are untimely these days and have caused extensive damage to millet crops. Rainwater filled the fields where harvested millet crop was lying,” said farm scientist Dr RS Chauhan. “This is season for cultivation of wheat which will be delayed as fields are water logged and it will take time to dry up. This would further delay the sowing of wheat crop disturbing the cycle. The potato crop sown will have improper germination while the mustard crop sown is finished. Besides this, there is extensive damage to crop of green vegetables due to untimely rain,” added Dr Chauhan.Agra alone received 44 mm rainfall by 8am on Monday and there was additional 50 mm rain on Monday. This 94 mm rain on Sunday and Monday brought maximum temperature as low as 29.9 degrees celsius in Agra which is 4 degrees celsius below the normal. Life was also affected in Etah district which got scanty rain on Sunday till afternoon followed by heavy rain till Monday evening. Water logging was common complaint witnessed in city area. Rain on second consecutive day brought tough times for denizens in Firozabad. Labourers were found managing their way to glass factories as Monday began with extensive rain. Kasganj in Aligarh division too had its share of rains on Monday. Farmers of paddy and mustard were worried because rain water inundated their fields. Mainpuri farmers also had similar complaints. SP rally cancelledDue to heavy rainfall on Monday, Samajwadi Party had to cancelled a rally of the party chief Akhilesh Yadav in Budhana town. Yadav was supposed to address a Kashyap community rally in Budhana, but it had to be cancelled as the venue is submerged in rainwater, the Samajwadi Party’s Muzaffarnagar unit president, Parmod Kumar Tyagi, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-heavy-rainfall-in-braj-region-leaves-farmers-worried-101634567615856.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Focused sampling in Lucknow to help check Covid during festive season||LUCKNOW With the festive season around, the health department has decided to undertake a 12-day focused sampling drive from Tuesday to check the presence of the novel coronavirus in the population. Different working groups will be targeted to know the status of Covid infection in the state capital. On Tuesday, samples will be collected from drivers of tempos, rickshaws, three-wheelers, bus conductors and passengers. Addresses and contact details of all these people will be taken, according to the circular issued to teams who will collect the samples, said officials. Similarly on Wednesday, schools and colleges will be scanned and samples of teachers, staff and students will be taken. For sampling of students below 18 years of age, consent from parents will be a must, according to the focused sampling chart. “On Thursday, the target will be mehandi artists and staff at beauty parlours. However, customers will not be asked to give samples. On Friday, sweet shop and restaurant staff will be asked to give samples, but not customers,” said the circular. “Focused sampling will help identify asymptomatic Covid cases. Many people get infected but do not fall sick. These people can spread infection and such cases can be detected through focused sampling,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. On Saturday, sampling will be undertaken among chemists, nursing home /hospital staff, including non-clinical staff and patients. On Sunday, closed campuses will be targeted including jails, bal sudhar grih, nari niketans and old age homes. Both staff and inmates in jails will be asked for samples. In the earlier round of focused sampling a week ago, 10,000 samples were collected and three persons had tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/focused-sampling-in-lucknow-to-help-check-covid-during-festive-season-101634567431388.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||TMC collects 480 blood samples for serosurvey; more wards in Thane to be tapped||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has managed to collect around 480 representative blood samples from different age and gender groups till now. This was for the serosurvey being conducted in preparation for the probable third wave within its jurisdiction.TMC has to collect 1,400 samples from various economic backgrounds but has till now only collected samples from Vartak Nagar, Lokmanya Nagar-Savarkar Nagar, Kopri and Majiwada-Manpada wards.“We have people coming to the public health centres to participate in the survey but many times, we do not get the age group or criteria that is required as per the representation data. This is the reason that the process becomes more tedious than it seems to be,” said a senior officer from TMC’s microbiology department.Areas like Mumbra, Diva and Kalwa are yet to be approached by the TMC for the survey.Mumbra and Lokmanya-Savarkar Nagar are densely-populated wards and through this survey, it can be highlighted if herd immunity has developed in these areas. Hence, it is crucial to have representative samples from these areas as well, say officers who are a part of the survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tmc-collects-480-blood-samples-for-serosurvey-more-wards-in-thane-to-be-tapped-101634566892091.html
18-10-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh Cong secretary’s son booked for manhandling 2 senior police officers||Chhattisgarh state Congress secretary’s son, along with nine others, were booked for manhandling two senior police officials in Kondagaon district when officers were trying to stop them from creating ruckus during a garba event, officials said on Monday. Police arrested the ten accused, including Siddharth Shrivastav, son of Chhattisgarh Congress Committee Secretary Manish Shrivastav. Videos of Siddharth creating ruckus on October 13 surfaced on Monday, after which the state unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded the secretary’s removal from the Congress party. “The incident took place on October 13. We have booked the accused under section 307 (attempt to murder), 147 (punishment for rioting), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 294 (obscene acts) and relevant sections of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of atrocities) Act,” Superintendent of Police, Kondagaon, Siddharth Tiwari, said. The SP said that all accused are arrested and sent to jail. Police said that Siddharth is a serial offender and in the last seven months, he was booked by Kondagaon police four times. “On October 13, police got information about a brawl in a garba event in the city. A sub-divisional officer of police (SDOP) Nimitesh Singh, along with police personnel, rushed to the spot. When they confronted Siddharth and his friends, they manhandled the police officer. Subsequently, another DSP-level officer, Satish Bharya, reached the spot who was also manhandled,” said the SP. Police said Siddharth, along with his friend, tried to crush policemen and others with a car at the spot. “Subsequently, Kondagaon’s Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP), Rahul Dev, rushed to the spot with a team and nabbed Siddharth. His friends, who were also accused, were arrested on October 14,” the SP said. Congress leader Manish Shrivastava was not unavailable for comment over the issue even after several attempts. Senior BJP leader and leader of opposition in the state assembly, Dharmlal Kaushik, said that the Congress president should take action against Shrivastava. “Kondagaon is the home district of state Congress president Mohan Markam and he is also responsible for the act… He should take serious action against the office-bearer of Congress,” said Kaushik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-cong-secretary-s-son-booked-for-manhandling-2-senior-police-officers-101634566652805.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Rail roko: Stray protests, but no major impact in Uttar Pradesh||Barring stray protests at railway tracks at some places, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s six-hour rail roko agitation over Lakhimpur Kheri violence failed to make a significant impact in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. The farmers protested briefly at some places of the state. There was heavy police deployment in and around railway stations, but trains stopped briefly at a few stations, railway officials said.The farmers’ body had given the call for the nationwide rail roko agitation to demand the dismissal and arrest of Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni to ensure justice in the Lakhimpur Kheri case.Ashish Mishra, son of Ajay Mishra, was arrested in connection with the case on October 9.Peace prevailed in Lakhimpur Kheri, the site of the October 3 violence. The railways had suspended train movement in the region, with the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) also withdrawing its agitation there.Elsewhere, groups of farmers staged sit-ins at railways stations and tracks in Meerut, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Hapur and Bijnor, affecting the plying of over a dozen trains in the region. Trains were halted in Greater Noida’s Dankaur station by the protesters, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said. In Ghaziabad’s Modinagar, they agitated in front of a goods train which had already reached its destination.In Muzaffarnagar, BKU workers halted the Amritsar-Delhi and the Jalandhar Express trains by staging a dharna on rail tracks.The BKU workers also staged a token demonstration at the Raya station in Mathura, officials said, adding that they later vacated the railway tracks.Braving heavy rain, farmers blocked the movement of trains on the Lucknow-Bijnor-Najibabad route at the Maujpur junction near Najibabad, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) youth wing’s former state president Digamber Singh said. “It affected the plying of the Chandigarh Express and other trains,” he said, adding that the six-hour blockade continued till 4pm. Singh also said the farmers’ dharna (sit-in) on railway tracks and platforms in Hapur, Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur disrupted the movement of trains on the Delhi-Saharanpur and Dehradun routes.In Meerut, the protesting farmers squatted on tracks at Kankerlhera, Sakauti and Partapur. Former BKU district president Manoj Tyagi claimed that protest affected the plying of trains on the Delhi-Punjab route. Heavy force, including Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel, were deployed at railways stations and tracks to ensure that protest remained peaceful. Additional director general of police (Meerut zone) Rajeev Sabbharwal said force was deployed at different locations. “No confrontation occurred anywhere and the protest remained peaceful,” he said. The protest caused inconvenience to some passengers who faced a delay in reaching their destinations. In Lakhimpur Kheri, Amandeep Singh Sandhu, BKU (Tikait) district president, said, “In view of the prevailing situation in Kheri, the SKM had cancelled the ‘rail roko’ agitation in the district”.“Also, the untimely rains and heavy winds had hit the paddy crops in the district and farmers are busy managing the crop… the railways have also suspended the movement of trains in Kheri, hence, it (agitation) was of no use there,” he said.Sandhu had circulated his video message to this effect on Sunday evening.Despite SKM leaders withdrawing the rail roko agitation in Lakhimpur Kheri, elaborate security arrangements were put in place at all railway stations and tracks in the district.Apart from police officials, Railway Protection Force, railway police and other security personnel remained on alert.Elsewhere, Shivam Sharma, PRO, North Central Railway (NCR) said farmers stopped the Gomti Express for two to three minutes at the Khurja railway station. The protesters, however, left after being persuaded by the police.In Jhansi, the farmers demonstrated for around 10 minutes at the Dabra station and between Gohad and Malanpur stations. They later left after being asked by the police, he said.Similarly, at two places between Mathura-Palwal of Agra division, the farmers demonstrated at the railway gate and also near the Rundhi station.Sharma said there was no loss of railway property.“In Lucknow, police were deployed in large numbers at Utrathia and Alamnagar railway stations. The security personnel prevented the farmers from entering the stations,” Lucknow commissioner of police D K Thakur said.He said elaborate security arrangements were made outside all railway stations of the state capital, and farmers were stopped before reaching the stations.Kanpur commissioner of police Aseem Arun said there was no impact of the farmers’ agitation in Kanpur as tight security arrangements were maintained as a precautionary measure.Eight people, including four farmers, died in the violence on October 3. The four farmers were allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles.The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver, besides a journalist.Farmers have claimed that Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and Ajay Mishra, who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rail-roko-stray-protests-but-no-major-impact-in-uttar-pradesh-101634565631515.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Rail roko: No impact in Lakhimpur Kheri||The six-hour rail roko called by Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) in protest against the Lakhimpur violence had no impact in Lakhimpur Kheri following the suspension of trains’ movement by the railways for the day.Also, Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders had exempted Lakhimpur Kheri district from the rail roko agitation, resulting in it having no impact here.Bhartiya Kisan Union-Tikait (BKU-Tikait) district president Amandeep Singh Sandhu said, “Owing to the already tense situation in Kheri and also inclement weather hitting the paddy farmers here, SKM leaders had called off the rail roko agitation in Kheri district.”“Also, following the suspension of train movement in Kheri, it was of little use to agitate,” he said.BKU-Tikait is a constituent outfit of SKM. Sandhu had circulated his video message to this effect on Sunday evening.Despite SKM leaders withdrawing the rail roko agitation in Lakhimpur Kheri, elaborate security arrangements were put in place at all railway stations and tracks in the district.Apart from police officials, Railway Protection Force, railway police and other security personnel remained on alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rail-roko-no-impact-in-lakhimpur-kheri-101634565571332.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Rail roko: Farmers stage protest on rail tracks in western Uttar Pradesh||Farmers squatted on rail tracks and staged sit-ins on platforms at several places in western Uttar Pradesh on Monday as part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s rail roko protest over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people, including four farmers, died on October 3. During the rail roko agitation, the protesters demanded the removal of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra ‘Teni’, whose son has been arrested in the Lakhimpur Kheri case. Groups of farmers staged sit-ins at railways stations and tracks in Meerut, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Hapur and Bijnor districts of western Uttar Pradesh, affecting the plying of over a dozen trains in the region. Braving heavy rain, farmers blocked the movement of trains on the Lucknow-Bijnor-Najibabad route at the Maujpur junction near Najibabad, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) youth wing’s former state president Digamber Singh said. “It affected the plying of the Chandigarh Express and other trains,” he said, adding that the six-hour blockade continued till 4pm. Singh also said the farmers’ dharna (sit-in) on railway tracks and platforms in Hapur, Muzaffarnagar and Saharanpur disrupted the movement of trains on the Delhi-Saharanpur and Dehradun routes. Farmers also protested at Khatauli and Mansoorpur stations in Muzaffarnagar district, demanding the removal of the minister for a fair investigation. In Meerut, the protesting farmers changed their strategy and squatted on tracks at Kankerlhera, Sakauti and Partapur, instead of the city and cantonment railway stations. Former BKU district president Manoj Tyagi claimed that protest affected the plying of trains on the Delhi-Punjab route. Heavy force, including Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel, were deployed at railways stations and tracks to ensure that protest remained peaceful. Additional director general of police (Meerut zone) Rajeev Sabbharwal said force was deployed at different locations. “No confrontation occurred anywhere and the protest remained peaceful,” he said. The rail roko agitation caused inconvenience to some passengers who faced a delay in reaching their destinations. Four of the eight people who died in the violence on October 3 were farmers, allegedly knocked down by a vehicle carrying BJP workers. Angry farmers then allegedly lynched some people in the vehicles. The other dead included two BJP workers and their driver, besides a journalist. Farmers have claimed that the minister’s son Ashish Mishra was in one of the vehicles, an allegation denied by him and Ajay Mishra who say they can produce evidence to prove he was at an event at that time. Ashish Mishra was arrested in the case on October 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rail-roko-farmers-stage-protest-on-rail-tracks-in-western-uttar-pradesh-101634565513304.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||Sena MP Sanjay Raut: Don’t just sit on minister’s chair, defend MVA too||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said that Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi ministers must launch a counterattack on allegations and accusations levelled at the government or the ministers by the political opponents in the state. The Sena leader said it is also the responsibility of ministers to respond to allegations and criticism to keep the image of the government intact. The Sena chief spokesperson asked for how long would chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar defend the MVA. He added that it is also the responsibility of those “occupying” ministerial berths. “MVA ministers shouldn’t merely sit on their ministerial chair, they must respond to attacks and taunts. Will only [Sharad] Pawar Saheb or Supriya Sule ji or the chief minister or I respond to attacks? What are you doing? It is the responsibility of all ministers. Whoever has a pie of power will have to speak up to keep the image of the government,” Raut said. He added that once MVA ministers start counterattacks and respond to allegations, the BJP will cease its attack. The MVA has been under attack from the Bharatiya Janata Party leaders for several months now. The leaders and ministers of the three-party MVA government have been facing several allegations for the past year-and-a-half. Two ministers, including Anil Deshmukh and Sanjay Rathod, have resigned over allegations related to corruption and crime against a woman. Bharatiya Janata Party leaders have also alleged money laundering by NCP minister Hasan Mushrif. The BJP has also levelled allegations of seeking money for transfers in jobs against Sena minister Anil Parab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-mp-sanjay-raut-don-t-just-sit-on-minister-s-chair-defend-mva-too-101634565511083.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC restrains state-appointed panel from taking charge of Saibaba Sansthan||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) has restrained the Maharashtra government-appointed new managing committee from taking charge of the affairs of the Shri Saibaba Sansthan in Shirdi and directed the ad-hoc committee appointed by HC in 2019 to continue until further orders. The restraining order was passed last week on two public interest litigations, filed by Uttamrao Shelke and Nikhil Dorle, questioning the composition of the new committee constituted by the state government last month. HC observed that the requisite categories of persons, as required under the Sansthan Act and Rules, were not included in the new committee. The bench observed that once the defects in the new committee were cured, it would consider handing over charge to the new committee, provided it conformed to the Act and Rules. The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice SG Mehare was on October 14 informed by the petitioners’ lawyers that the new committee did not have a proper representation of women, socially and economically backward persons and persons having specialised knowledge and hence, it should not be allowed to take charge of the affairs. As per the Shree Sai Baba Sansthan Trust (Shirdi) Act, 2004, and the Shree Sai Baba Sansthan Trust (Appointment of Members of Management Committee and Forms of Declarations) Rules, 2013, the committee had to have at least one woman member as well as one from the socially and economically weaker section, eight members possessing professional or specialised knowledge and seven members from the general category. The special counsel for the state government submitted that though there were defects, the committee had 12 members that were as per the Rules and hence, they should be allowed to take charge of the affairs of the trust from Tuesday. “We would be failing in our duty if we permit an incomplete/deficiently constituted committee to take charge of the Sansthan when we are aware of the frequent litigation over almost eight to 10 years in relation to the said Sansthan and this court having quashed the appointment of the management committee on at least one occasion and having appointed an ad-hoc management committee under the chairmanship of the learned PDJ (principal district judge) Ahmednagar on two occasions,” said the bench, while rejecting the special counsel’s contention. The court then directed the ad-hoc committee to continue to handle affairs of the Sansthan till the PILs were decided. The bench clarified that it would “consider the handing over of the charge of management of the Sansthan to such (state-appointed) committee, except in the face of any legal impediment,” if the defects are cured. The PILs are posted for further hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-restrains-state-appointed-panel-from-taking-charge-of-saibaba-sansthan-101634565331331.html
18-10-2021||Other||Six held for murder in Nabha village, gang of robbers busted||Patiala Two weeks after a 35-year-old resident of Halotali village in Nabha sub-division was found dead on the link road leading to the village, police have arrested six persons, members of a robbers’ gang, for murder. On October 6, the body of the victim, Sukhchain Dass, was found on the road after he was returning from work. Initially, it appeared that the case would remain unsolved and was a ‘blind murder’. Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) in-charge Shaminder Singh said the accused were arrested after raids based on a tip-off. The accused are Mehnga Singh, 24; Kamalpreet Singh, 24; Ravinder Singh, 22; Jagsir Singh, 26; Angrej Singh, 25, and Manpreet Bawa, 19, of Nabha sub-division.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harcharan Singh Bhullar said three of the accused, Mehnga, Kamalpreet and Ravinder, looted the victim of his Royal Enfield motorcycle and other belongings before fleeing away from the site, before assaulting him. “Later, some passersby took him to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. He had been attacked with sharp-edged weapons and had multiple injuries in his stomach. The accused are involved in multiple cases of robberies and multiple FIRs have been registered against them,” he said.Police have recovered two country-made pistols and two Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycles and other sharp-edged weapons from their possession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-held-for-murder-in-nabha-village-gang-of-robbers-busted-101634565211553.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai : 17 days on, 56-yr-old gets 3 years’ jail term for flashing woman in garden||Concluding the trial in just two days, the Esplanade metropolitan magistrate court recently convicted a 56-year-old city resident for flashing a woman in a south Mumbai garden and sentenced him to three years of imprisonment. The court order came 17 days after the incident took place. Metropolitan magistrate Yashshree Marulkar also imposed fines worth ₹1,000 each on him under the charges of outraging the modesty of a woman and stalking, and ₹500 for sexual harassment. “Sexual violence, apart from being a dehumanising act, is an unlawful intrusion on the right of privacy and sanctity of a female (sic),” said the court, while sentencing the convict. “It is a serious blow to her supreme honour and offends her self-esteem and dignity. It degrades and humiliates the victim. It leaves behind a traumatic experience. The accused not only causes physical injuries but more indelibly leaves a scar on the most cherished possession of a woman i.e. her dignity, honour, reputation and not the least her chastity (sic),” the court added. The incident took place in the evening of September 18 when the woman was attending an online lecture on her laptop in a south Mumbai garden. The accused waited near her and when the woman went to another part of the garden, followed her and flashed her. The woman immediately ran towards the exit gate and took the help of two persons, who nabbed the accused. Tandel was arrested and a charge-sheet was filed against him. On October 4, the charges were framed against him under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Accordingly, the prosecution examined five witnesses on October 4 and 5, including the complainant, and on the second day of the trial itself, the court declared him guilty and sentenced him to three years imprisonment. The accused claimed that as it was dark in the garden, the complainant could not have seen him and therefore, it would not be appropriate to convict him only on the basis of her testimony. The court, however, observed that there was no reason for the complainant to lie, as she did not know the accused and had not even seen him before the incident. The court also relied on the two independent witnesses to corroborate her testimony. “It is now a well-settled law that conviction in sexual offences can be safely recorded solely on the basis of the victim’s testimony, provided her evidence does not suffer from any basic infirmity (sic),” observed the court. Tandel was earlier convicted for similar offences in Cuffe Parade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-17-days-on-56-yr-old-gets-3-years-jail-term-for-flashing-woman-in-garden-101634565151122.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||With largest oxygen backup, Mumbai’s Kanjurmarg Covid jumbo centre ready for 3rd wave||With two medical oxygen tanks of 40 and 13 kilolitres each and seven oxygen generation plants that will use the pressure swing adsorption (PSA) technology to produce 1,500 litres of oxygen per minute, the jumbo Covid-19 centre at Kanjurmarg will have the largest oxygen back among such facilities in Mumbai. Located near Kanjurmarg railway station, the jumbo centre has a capacity of 1,692 beds, including 1,112 oxygenated beds and 200 intensive care unit (ICU) beds. Mumbai civic body will activate the facility only if the need arises. “We have kept the facility ready assuming the worst-case scenario. We will activate the beds in phases as and when the need arises,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The Kanjurmarg centre has been planned to cater to the large areas of eastern suburbs which had only one jumbo facility in Mulund till now. The facility has made special provisions for paediatric beds and a mother’s lounge for children who are feared to be more affected in the third wave. Mumbai’s Covid-19 cases have been steady in the past few weeks, hovering between 400 and 500. Despite the low demand, the civic body has prepared three additional jumbo facilities in anticipation of the third wave. While the Kanjurmarg facility is fully ready, another facility has been kept available in Malad and the third one is coming up at Somaiya Ground in Sion. “We have also finalised the agency that will take care of the manpower including doctors, nurses, ward boys etc. But we will issue the work order only when it is required,” said Kakani. The existing jumbo facilities in the city in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), Goregaon and Dahisar, among others, have liquid medical oxygen tanks of 13 and 11 kilolitres capacity. “The 40 kilolitre tank at Kanjurmarg is the largest in the city,” said Dr Harish Pathak, who heads the jumbo centre. “Seven oxygen generation plants will be up in another two weeks. In case we have to activate the beds in an emergency, we have kept a small civic medical team of doctors and nurses as a backup to cater to the incoming patients,” he said. At the moment, the biggest concern of the civic body is an anticipated post-Diwali spike. As the majority of lockdown restrictions have been lifted, markets and other shopping areas are crowded due to the upcoming festivities. Members of the state’s Covid-19 task force anticipate that the third wave is likely to hit between December and January. Some predict that the number of cases will be fewer than what the city experienced in the second wave. But all this is likely to be true only if a newer, stubborn variant of the Sars-Cov-2 does not arise. Medical experts also point that it’s important to examine the number of reinfections and breakthrough infections to understand how they will contribute in the future spurts. “Our biggest worry is people letting their guards down and not following Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Kakani. “All of us should exercise caution to keep the cases under control,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-largest-oxygen-backup-mumbai-s-kanjurmarg-covid-jumbo-centre-ready-for-3rd-wave-101634563770949.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Heady encounter with an international wine shop||Our nation is a magnificent mosaic of multicultural, multilingual and varied geographical diversities which, according to a popular saying, changes its hues every 5km. Thanks to the Election Commission, civil servants get an opportunity to explore uncharted territories in different states that generally fall outside the clichéd tourist circuits. The recent skirmishes in Meghalaya, the abode of clouds, unplugged the memories of my four-week stay in one of the small subdivisions of West Jaintia Hills district many years ago. The place is endowed with lush meadows, unending streams, waterfalls, and forest tracks. Also, it has a culturally rich society that believes in gender parity, matriarchal structures and a matrilineal society. The place has a distinct cultural aroma of its own. The air reverberates with energy, music, fun and frolic. The capital city is home to more than 300 music bands that excel in churning out both Bollywood and Hollywood numbers with equal ease. Of special interest is the repetitive tik tik sound of the hand-held cutters for cracking open the beetle nut. The fermented fragrance of these nuts creates a heady concoction of sorts. In the countryside, I came across beautifully decorated wooden churches constructed by missionaries almost a century ago. After the Sunday prayers, the day was open to celebrations with loud music blaring from the car stereos and people enjoying sumptuous meals accompanied with the locally brewed drinks. The markets were closed, and the convoy of cars came to a grinding halt. The lively music gelled well with the salubrious climes of the hills and forests to create a picture postcard like site. While travelling in the area, a visit to a small border outpost in the evening still remains vividly etched in memory. The international border was often misused for smuggling cattle and indulging in trade of coal. Despite our guards on vigil, this trade was an easy source of money for these nefarious elements. Travelling all day had made us thirsty after having consumed all the water bottles in our possession. The elixir of life is what we yearned for. After walking a considerable distance, we spotted a small shop on the Indian side in the middle of an absolutely uninhabited place. The signboard read: International Wine Shop. To our surprise, a middle-aged lady greeted us warmly and politely offered us beer bottles instead of water. She seemed to have run out of water bottles to our dismay. The temptation was difficult to resist but call of duty prevented us from indulging in the tempting offer of barley water. Seeing our hapless plight, she muttered something in the local language and yelled at the top of her voice, at which a boy came running across the border with two bottles of packaged cold drinking water manufactured in Bangladesh, a classic case of Indo-Bangla ties! On our query regarding her source of revenue in that place with no visible habitation in the vicinity, she simply smiled and told us that the “drink of the Gods has devotees all around the world”. Without further ado and having satiated our appetite for water, we left for the next village pondering on the philosophy of international brotherhood and cooperation exhibited in totality by this innocuous international wine shop. rarabhandari@gmail.com The writer is a Punjab-cadre IAS officer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heady-encounter-with-an-international-wine-shop-101634563591014.html
18-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka schools to reopen for classes 1-5 from October 25. Check conditions||Karnataka government on Monday announced the reopening of schools in the state for classes 1 to 5 from October 25 amid a sustained decline in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. After considering the recommendation from the Covid-19 technical advisory committee, the government said the schools will be allowed to reopen physical classes while strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and standard operating procedures.According to the order, parental consent will be mandatory for attending physical classes. The department of primary and secondary education has mandated screening for Covid-19 symptoms on entry. The classes will be held with 50% of the seating capacity of the classroom.  Schools have to ensure the provision of hand sanitisers and physical distancing of one-meter minimum as practically feasible.Teachers and staff who have been vaccinated with two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine will be allowed in classes 1 to 5. Teachers over 50 years of age have to use face shields."Class from 1st to 5th standards permitted to reopen from October 25th 2021, strictly adhering to Covid-19 Appropriate Behaviour and SOPs issued by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education," the government said in its order.The government also eased other restrictions in the state, including allowing the public to use swimming pools that were earlier limited to sportspersons. It has permitted swimming pools to operate at 50% capacity of each batch, with a display of the number allowable at the entrance. Only those who have received the two doses of Covid-19 vaccines and are asymptomatic will be allowed to enter the pool.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-1-5-from-october-25-check-conditions-101634558526371.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends timing of restaurants; amusement parks to reopen from Oct 22||The Maharashtra government on Monday decided to extend the time till which restaurants and shops can stay open and announced to reopen amusement parks across the state. The restrictions were in place to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. At present, restaurants are allowed to operate between 7am and 10pm with 50% of their seating capacity.The decision followed a meeting between Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and the Covid-19 task force earlier in the day.A statement from the chief minister's office said the state government decided to reopen amusement parks across the state from October 22. However, water rides in amusement parks will remain suspended, for now.The issue of vaccination of children against Covid-19 was also discussed in the meeting, during which Uddhav Thackeray instructed the state health department to be in touch with the Centre to keep the stock of the vaccination for children ready, officials in the chief minister's office familiar with the development said.ALSO READ | NCP pushes for extending timings of shops, restaurants in MaharashtraA delegation of members of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India, the umbrella body of premium restaurants and star-rated hotels, urged the Maharashtra government to revert the time, till which restaurants and bars can stay open, to their original deadline of 1.30am, citing economic loss. The delegates assured the government of vaccinating the staff at such eateries. The Maharashtra chief minister also asked the management of theatres and movie halls, which are scheduled to reopen from October 22, too, to conduct fire and structural safety checks before welcoming patrons, according to Hindustan Times' sister publication LiveMint.Last month Uddhav Thackeray permitted the movie halls and theatres in the state to reopen from October 22 provided that they follow protocols necessitated to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-timing-of-restaurants-amusement-parks-to-reopen-from-oct-22-101634560433058.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s first restaurant on wheels opens at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus||Mumbai’s first restaurant on wheels will be opened for visitors coming to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) from Monday evening, officials said. The restaurant is located at the P’D Mello entrance of the terminus.The restaurant has been made by a retrofitted discarded rail coach and can accommodate 40 people. It has 10 tables and its interiors have been painted with a suburban railway theme and images of local trains and the city’s suburban railway network.The cuisine in the restaurant will include both vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes but will be limited due to the less availability of kitchen space.The coach will be placed alongside the heritage gully at the entrance of the terminus. The gully has rail artefacts including narrow gauge locomotives, country-first locomotives, and a printing press. Further, the railways plan to have more such restaurants at other locations in the city including Lokmanya Tilak Terminus(LTT), Kalyan and Borivali “We will look at the success of the restaurant and provide more coaches for restaurants in the future,” said a senior Central Railway official. The railways is expected to earn nearly ₹42 lakh from the restaurant by providing it to a contractor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-first-restaurant-on-wheels-opens-at-chhatrapati-shivaji-maharaj-terminus-101634562270962.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Cultural, entertainment progs to mark Diwali fair in Lucknow from Oct 28||LUCKNOW: The district administration will organise a Diwali fair at the Jhulelal Park from October 28 to November 5. The event, on the lines of Lucknow Mahotsav, is set to be a fun-filled affair with a series of cultural and entertainment programmes. The fair would showcase indigenous art and craft work from other districts also. This would be in addition to the district administration’s plan to invite renowned cultural artistes to perform during entertainment programmes, said officials. “Preparations are on for the Diwali fair starting from October 28. It will be a grand affair,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate. The other attractions of the Diwali fair would be talent shows, painting competitions, magic shows, slogan competition, musical band show, musical night, mushaira and others. The venue would have a grand multi cuisine food court. “We are trying to tie up with various eateries, famous brands and restaurants in order to set up outlets at the food court that is going to be another major attraction at the fair,” added the DM. A dedicated section highlighting several government schemes and programmes would also be a part of the fair. Besides, traditional activities like kite flying, vintage car rally, theatre fest, youth fest and other functions would be organised. Sufi night, Bhojpuri night, Punjabi night, ghazal night, comedy night, Bollywood night and theatre night will be among other attractions at the Diwali fair. However, the administration is yet to prepare the list of artistes who would be performing here. …but no buzz about Lucknow Mahotsav The district administration is yet to take a call on the city’s annual 10-day extravaganza — the Lucknow Mahotsav, which is suspended for the last two years. If the administration calls it off, it would be the third consecutive year when the iconic fest would be shelved. “The traditional date for the Mahotsav is November 25. However, its preparations begin much earlier. This time there is no buzz while no meeting on Mahotsav has taken place so far. I think the event is not on the priority list, as all are occupied in handling pandemic situation, which tops our priority list,” said a senior administrative official. Some officials, however, said that the fest may be postponed to January or February. In November 2019, the administration had announced that the fest would be organised from January 17, 2020 to 23, 2020 at Ramabai Ambedkar Maidan. But in January, Mahotsav Samiti issued a three line statement saying—“Due to unavoidable reasons, the proposed Mahotsav 2019—2020, scheduled to be held from January 17 to 23, 2020 has been postponed till further orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cultural-entertainment-progs-to-mark-diwali-fair-in-lucknow-from-oct-28-101634561310801.html
18-10-2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Woman thrashes husband's alleged girlfriend in gym, video goes viral, cases filed||Cross complaints were registered with Bhopal police in Madhya Pradesh after a woman hit another woman in a gym suspecting that the latter was having an affair with her husband, the video of the incident going viral on social media, an official said on Monday. The incident took place on October 15 in the capital's Koh-e-Fiza area and the cases were filed on Sunday after the video went viral, he added. Koh-e-Fiza police station in charge Anil Bajpai on Monday said a 30-year-old woman, along with her sister, reached the gym where her husband was exercising in the presence of his alleged girlfriend and others. In the 2.15 minute video, the woman in burkha can be seen grappling with her husband first and then assaulting another woman, in gym clothes and sports shoes, standing nearby."The woman suspected that her husband was having a relationship with this woman in the gym. She started hitting the latter with shoes while others, including the man, tried to stop her. The entire ruckus went on for 10 minutes. On Sunday, the woman and her husband lodged complaints against each other," he said. The man, a resident of Noormahal Road here, has denied his wife's allegations and has claimed he does not even know the woman who is being labelled his alleged girlfriend. Cases were registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 294 (obscene act) and 506 (criminal intimidation), Bajpai said, adding that the woman had, earlier, filed a harassment and dowry case against her husband in Shahjahanabad police station here. The woman has been living with her parents since then, and notices are being served on the couple for interrogation, Bajpai added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bhopal-woman-thrashes-husband-s-alleged-girlfriend-in-gym-video-goes-viral-cases-filed-101634559555288.html
18-10-2021||Kolkata||BJP youth wing leader killed in north Bengal; acquaintance held||The secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) local youth wing unit at Itahar in North Dinajpur district of north Bengal died on Sunday night shortly after he was shot near his home, police said. Mithun Ghosh, 32, died while he was being rushed to Raiganj Medical College and Hospital. While the state BJP leadership alleged that Ghosh was killed by criminals backed by the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the district police arrested Santosh Mahato, an acquaintance of Ghosh. The police are on the lookout for Sukumar Ghosh, another acquaintance of the victim. Quoting Ajit Ghosh, a cousin of the deceased, Mohammed Sana Akhtar, superintendent of police, North Dinajpur district said, “Before his death, Mithun talked to his cousin and mentioned Sukumar Ghosh and Santosh Mahato.” “Investigation has revealed that on Sunday night Mithun went out to have dinner with the two men at a hotel. After returning home around 10 pm, he took out two firearms from his room to show those to Ghosh and Mahato who were waiting outside the house. Ghosh accidentally fired a weapon and the bullet hit Mithun. Only one round was fired. Mahato was arrested on Monday morning while Ghosh is still at large. This incident is not related to politics in any way,” said Akhtar. While he was being taken to court, Mahato told the media that he was present when Ghosh was shot. “Sukumar Ghosh fired the gun,” he told reporters. Suvendu Adhikari, leader of the opposition in the state assembly, alleged that Mithun Ghosh was killed by criminals backed by the TMC. The state BJP declared an eight-hour bandh in North Dinajpur district on Tuesday. The victim’s sister, Pompi Mitra, also accused the ruling party.“Local TMC leaders had been threatening my brother for a long time. They wanted him to leave the BJP,” she said. Kanchana Ghosh, the victim’s mother, said, “My son’s life was in danger. He had many enemies. TMC workers had been threatening him.” Pradip Sarkar, a senior BJP district leader, said, “This was not the first attempt on Mithun’s life. He was shot in the leg before the assembly polls. He was a dedicated leader.” The superintendent of police however said the investigation did not reveal any political angle. “There is no political overtone whatsoever,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-youth-wing-leader-killed-in-north-bengal-acquaintance-held-101634558431371.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dera chief gets life term in Ranjit Singh murder case||A special CBI court in Panchkula on Monday awarded life sentence to Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim and four others, who were convicted in the murder of former dera manager Ranjit Singh in 2002. The four others convicted in the case are Jasbir Singh, a follower; Krishan Lal, a dera manager; Sabdil, gunman of the dera head; and Avtar Singh, a dera functionary. “All five convicts, including Ram Rahim, have been awarded life sentence,” CBI special public prosecutor HPS Verma said. CBI sought death penalty; Ram Rahim pleaded for mercy Ranjit Singh, a former follower of Ram Rahim, was shot dead by four assailants on July 10, 2002, at his native Khanpur Kolian village in Kurukshetra. “We are satisfied (with the punishment). It has been a long battle for my family. We have lived in fear all these years but have fought to get justice,” Jagseer Singh, the son of Ranjit Singh, said after Monday’s verdict. The CBI had sought death sentence for Ram Rahim, who in turn pleaded for mercy. The special CBI court convicted the dera head and four others on October 8.Murdered for revealing sexual abuse at dera According to the CBI, Ranjit Singh was murdered as Ram Rahim suspected that he was behind the circulation of an anonymous letter that revealed the sexual exploitation of woman followers at the dera. In June 2002, Ranjit Singh was summoned to the dera and threatened with dire consequences, but he refused to seek pardon, saying he had done nothing wrong. The dera head is serving a 20-year jail term for raping two followers and has been sentenced to life for the murder of a journalist in 2002. Ram Rahim appeared through video-conferencing from Sunaria jail of Rohtak, while the four others were present in the court at the time of the sentencing. The hearing was conducted amid tight security at the Panchkula district court complex. Prohibitory orders were in place against the assembly of five and more people in Panchkula district. Three major cases against dera chief There were mainly three cases against the Sirsa-based dera chief instituted in 2002-03. All were investigated by the CBI. The dera chief already stands convicted in two cases, one related to sexual exploitation of women disciples and the second of the murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati. The third case was of Ranjit Singh’s murder. The first conviction was in a sexual exploitation case in August 2017, which had resulted in widespread violence in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Thirty-six people were killed in Panchkula alone in the violence reported after his conviction on conviction on August 25, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-chief-gets-life-term-in-ranjit-singh-murder-case-101634558310598.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Noida: One held, over 8 kg ganja recovered||Noida Police on Monday arrested one person and allegedly recovered over 8 kilograms of ganja and a motorcycle from his possession.As per Noida Police Commissioner's Twitter handle, the accused was arrested from Ace City society in Noida and was then taken into custody after being produced in court."Ganja smuggler accused arrested by police station Bisrakh, 8 kg 100 grams of ganja and a motorcycle recovered from the possession," the Police Commissioner tweeted in Hindi.During interrogation, the accused said that he supplied ganja in the area, the police claimed.Search for other associates of the arrested accused is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-one-held-over-8-kg-ganja-recovered-101634557702070.html
18-10-2021||Ranchi||61 Jharkhand workers return home after beign assaulted in Himachal Pradesh, more expected to follow||The Jharkhand government on Monday said it has facilitated the return of 61 labourers from Himachal Pradesh, where they were allegedly assaulted by locals recently, and more are on their way back. A group of 150 labourers from Khunti and adjoining areas of Jharkhand had gone to Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh for work at a hydro electric power project but some of them complained that attacks by residents have left them injured, an official statement here said. “The return of labourers from Kinnaur district in Himachal Pradesh is underway. So far, 61 workers have returned to the state. They hail from Khunti, Torpa, Bandgaon areas... After assaults on them, they had appealed to the state government to facilitate their return.”“As soon as Chief Minister Hemant Soren came to know about it, he directed officials to faciliate their return,” the statement maintained. Pending salaries of returnees have been deposited in their bank accounts following the intervention of the state labour department, it said. Last week, the state government had said that an FIR has been registered in Himachal Pradesh in connection with the assault on Jharkhand workers. A senior official had said that some issues had cropped up between the workers of Jharkhand and those of Himachal Pradesh, following which the migrants wanted to return home. On the instruction of the CM, officials of the state migrant control room, under the labour department, interacted with the owner of the company that employed the workers at Lumber, the statement said. Train tickets were subsequently arranged for the labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/61-jharkhand-workers-return-home-after-beign-assaulted-in-himachal-pradesh-more-expected-to-follow-101634557557684.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police inspector held after SUV mows down young woman in Jalandhar||A Punjab Police inspector was arrested after his speeding SUV ran over two women on the Jalandhar-Phagwara national highway in Jalandhar on Monday morning. While one woman, Navjot Kaur, a resident of Dhanowali village in Jalandhar, died on the spot, her friend, Mamta, was seriously injured in the accident. Also read: Rail Roko LIVE: 50 trains and 130 locations affected, says Northern RailwayNavjot worked in a car showroom and was crossing the highway when the accident occurred. The accident was captured on CCTV cameras and the video was shared on social media, triggering outrage. The video shows the two women crossing the road when the speeding Maruti Brezza rams into them even though they stepped back on the road divider. Angry residents of Dhanowali village blocked the national highway, resulting in a long traffic jam till Phagwara. Senior police officers rushed to the spot to bring the situation under control. Deputy commissioner of police Gurmeet Singh said that they the driver, inspector Amritpal Singh, was taken into custody after the accident. “We will proceed accordingly. Amritpal was posted at the Punjab Armed Police headquarters located on the outskirts of Jalandhar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-inspector-held-after-suv-mows-down-young-woman-in-jalandhar-101634557170623.html
18-10-2021||Kolkata||These districts in Bengal may receive heavy rain tomorrow, day after: IMD||Several districts in West Bengal will continue to receive heavy rain on Tuesday and Wednesday, as showers on Monday affected normal life in Kolkata and several other places, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.The IMD, which has issued an orange warning for more heavy spells, said the inclement weather was caused by a low-pressure system over north Telangana and strong southeasterly wind from the Bay of Bengal.Kolkata, Howrah and Hooghly districts are very likely to receive torrential rain on Tuesday and the coastal districts of Purba Medinipur and South 24 Parganas will receive very heavy rainfall till Wednesday morning, the weatherman said. It also said that the districts in north Bengal are likely to receive heavy rain from Tuesday owing to the weather system. It added that the sub-Himalayan districts of Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Jalpaiguri, Coochbehar and Alipurduar are very likely to receive heavy rain.Also read | Bearing brunt of rain, farmers in coastal Bengal stare at uncertain futureThe Met department warned of a rise in the water level in rivers, waterlogging in low-lying areas and landslides in the hill districts of Darjeeling and Kalimpong owing to the downpour. Standing crops in the field, with paddy being almost ready for harvest in several districts of the rice-growing state, may also suffer damage, it said. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till Tuesday.The MeT department said that Digha, the seaside resort town, received the heaviest rain in 24 hours till 8.30am on Monday recording 117mm rainfall and the river port town of Canning received 108 mm rainfall. It said that Kolkata received 22mm rainfall, while Dum Dum in the northern outskirts of the city recorded 53mm rainfall during the same period.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/these-districts-in-bengal-may-receive-heavy-rain-tomorrow-day-after-imd-101634556283419.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet opposes Centre’s decision to extend BSF’s jurisdiction||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday announced that the state cabinet has resolved to oppose the Centre’s move to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) to 50km along the border in the state. Also read: 50 trains across 130 locations affected amid farmers’ ‘rail roko’ agitationAddressing mediapersons in Chandigarh after chairing the meeting of council of ministers, Channi said, “Our government will not accept the Centre’s decision to allow BSF’s jurisdiction to be extended from the existing 15km as it is against the spirit of federalism.” Last week, the Union government amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a 50km stretch, up from the existing 15km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. Says special assembly session can be called Opposing the Centre’s move, the Punjab cabinet said that law and order is a state subject, and the police force is capable of dealing with any situation. “Punjab Police is competent to handle the law-and-order situation across the state. It has contained militancy and since communal harmony has prevailed here. In case the issue is not resolved, a special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha will be summoned to reject the Centre’s order,” he said. Channi said such decisions should not be taken without consulting the state government. “A special cabinet meeting will be called on this issue. If the need arises, an all-party meeting will be called. We will take other (political) parties along (over this issue),” he said. Accuses SAD chief of stoking sentiments Criticising Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal for stoking sentiments by saying that central forces would now man religious places in Amritsar after extension in the BSF’s jurisdiction, Channi asked him not to attempt to push Punjab into the dark days of militancy by making such comments. He held the SAD responsible for misleading the state’s youngsters to take up the path of militancy in the past. “Anyone who rakes up such sensitive issues for vested interests is enemy of state,” Channi added. On Sunday, the SAD had targeted the Punjab government, saying the chief minister should answer “why he had acquiesced” to the Centre’s move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-opposes-centre-s-decision-to-extend-bsf-s-jurisdiction-101634555730271.html
18-10-2021||Dehradun||Over 6k pilgrims in Kedarnath, Badrinath asked to stay in safe places amid heavy rains||At least 6,500 pilgrims including, 4,000 in Kedarnath and 2,500 in Badrinath temple premises, have been asked not to take the return journey on Monday amid heavy rains across the state, said officials of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board on Monday. The officials said that the pilgrims have been asked to stay in the lodging facilities available in the temple premises and wait till Tuesday to return. “As per our information, there are about 4,000 pilgrims in Kedarnath temple premises and 2,500 in Badrinath premises. We have asked all of them to stay in the lodging facilities there till Monday night and take the return journey after the weather clears on Tuesday,” said Ravinath Raman, chairman Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board. He said that the appeal has been made amid a red alert issued by the Dehradun centre of India Meteorological Department for heavy to extremely heavy rainfall on Monday in the state. “The Char Dham Yatra has not been halted but an appeal has been made to the people to not go on the pilgrimage today and tomorrow. They have been asked to stay put where they are due to the threats of rockfalls and landslides on the highway amid heavy rains,” said Raman. To prevent any untoward incident due to heavy rains, the administration has stopped people in Haridwar and Rishikesh from going ahead with the Char Dham Yatra. In Rishikesh, the running of Char Dham Yatra vehicles has been stopped from the bus stand with police putting barricades to stop any traffic moving up the hills towards the four shrines. In Haridwar too, the pilgrims have been asked to stay in safe places on Monday and Tuesday. Meanwhile, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Monday visited the state control room of the disaster management department in Dehradun where he reviewed the preparations being made to handle any emergency situation. “During his visit, he spoke to the district magistrates of Pauri Garhwal and Rudraprayag districts during which he was apprised that three people died while two were injured in Pauri Garhwal’s Lansdowne town after the ceiling of their house collapsed due to heavy rains. The Rudraprayag DM informed him about the situation of Char Dham Yatra in Kedarnath shrine,” said an official from the CM office. He added that “During the meeting, the CM directed all the district magistrates to provide an hourly report on the rain situation and clear any blocked roads as soon as possible while keeping the response time to any emergency situation to a minimum.” The CM also urged the Char Dham pilgrims to exercise “caution.” Due to heavy rains in the state, the government earlier ordered all the schools to remain closed on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/over-6k-pilgrims-in-kedarnath-badrinath-asked-to-stay-in-safe-places-amid-heavy-rains-101634555070598.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Countdown to PMC polls: Vadgaonsheri’s dynamic growth offset by nagging civic problems||PUNE Till a few years ago, Vadgaonsheri was a parched locale where residential societies and house in general struggled to access water, potable or otherwise. The state government, along with the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) initiated the Bhama Askhed project that is now meeting the water needs of areas along Ahmednagar road, where Vadgaonsheri is located.While residents are happy a long-pending problem has been resolved, another issue has cropped up.Heavy rainfall in the city has exposed the PMC’s shoddy road work. During a recent 78-mm of rainfall in a four hour spell, several stretches of road here were flooded, disrupting traffic and damaging vehicles.The areas that suffered the most are Dhanori, Yerawada and Kalyaninagar. So grave is the problem that even deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar who arrived in Pune at the airport on that day, was stuck in traffic for hours. Many of these areas do not have a storm-water drainage system despite housing a few major IT companies. Amit Wani, an employee with a private firm, said, “Our Shubham Society has 200 flats. For the last three years, water has been entering our society. The compound wall and vehicles get damaged. The parking lot is often submerged. Society members have seen snakes in the water.” Elected members on their part blamed the administration for the water logging though PMC officials said elected members too are responsible. Shailaja Patil, a resident of Ujwal housing society said, “After heavy rains DPs got submerged in water. We are all facing the problem of water logging.” After state government merged 23 villages under the PMC limits recently, the civic limits have extended further on the city’s eastern front, as areas like Wagholi, an entry-exit point for Pune, have also been merged into PMC limits. On one hand the area boasts being an IT hub with offices located in areas like Vimannagar and Kharadi, on the other there are no public toilets in these areas. A lack of public gardens makes the area concretisation look stark, making a walk along the road in summer difficult. “I shifted to Kharadi from the western part of the city which has a thick cover of greenery. Kharadi stretch only has tall buildings without any greenery, leave alone public gardens,” said Shreeram Ratnaparakhi, a 40-year-old IT engineer. Given that the Lohegaon airport falls in the area, the Indian Air Force has height restrictions on buildings in the area. Avinash Thube, a science teacher living in Vimannagar said, “Water scarcity has been resolved, but there are many issues like repeated road digging, traffic snarls, encroachments on footpaths. Many stalls are using illegal water connections.”The area, despite several problems, has developed rapidly. Despite water scarcity a few years ago, this area has large housing projects.Vadgaon Sheri, which is spread across two ward offices, Ahmednagar road ward office and the Yerwada/Kalas/Dhanori ward office under the PMC, has corporators from the NCP, BJP, and Shiv Sena in the PMC.Under various wards of PMC in Vadgaonsheri, a total of 14 elected members are from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), six are from the NCP, one member is from Shiv Sena and one is from the AIMIM.The Nagar Road Citizens Forum has issued a legal notice over the lack of basic services, and forum convenor Qaneez Sukhrani has said property tax will not be paid if residents do not get basic services. Kalyaninagar residents too are unhappy with the encroachments on roads and footpaths. The BRTS project in the area is currently at a standstill as metro work is going on. Sukhrani said, “Condition of roads deteriorate rapidly. Degeneration leads to potholes, cracks, fissures due to poor quality material used by contractor. Trenches are filled up hurriedly with mud, but the road is not levelled evenly.”Specifically on footpaths, Sukhrani added, “Most stretches do not have footpaths even though the road design includes footpaths. If there are footpaths, it is broken, not repaired, or not according to IRC norms. Where there are footpaths, encroachments and hawkers grab the place leaving pedestrians to risk their lives. PMC does not re-locate the hawkers with permits and evicts those who are illegal.”Then there is the garbage issue on which Sukhrani says: “PMC staff has no control over residential and commercial establishments against throwing mixed garbage in public spaces. PMC does not clear or remove broken branches, branches cut by various agencies, fallen leaves. These are left to rot in public spaces, especially behind transformers, junction and fuse boxes, around trees guards. PMC does not remove unwanted and dead cables hanging from trees and electricity poles.” Tit for tat In the last five years we did lots of work in these areas. Whatever promises were made by us have been executed. The area was facing a water scarcity and we completed the long-pending Bhama Askhed water project. The metro work is moving speedily and citizens are appreciating the work. The roads around Lohegaon airport got developed. We approved two flyovers. New gardens have been inaugurated. - Jagdish Mulik, BJP city unit president Despite having a clear majority, BJP failed to do justice to the area. They have 14 corporators, but they did not think about storm water drainage. BJP is trying to take credit for the Bhama Askhed dam, but with the help of Ajit Pawar we cleared all the hurdles and completed the project which was started in our tenure. Due to illegal constructions, nullahs have been diverted. Citizens should check who diverted these nallahs. -Sunil Tingre, NCP MLA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/countdown-to-pmc-polls-vadgaonsheri-s-dynamic-growth-offset-by-nagging-civic-problems-101634554171090.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: A tale of exam with unending woes||PUNE A crucial exam to fill up 6,200 posts for which over eight lakh job aspirants have applied. The exam gets cancelled at the eleventh hour in the first attempt – and when it is rescheduled, aspirants face issues that threaten to bar them from attending it.This is a tale of an exam to fill up vacant positions in Maharashtra’s public health department that will help the government prepare for a potential surge in Covid-19 cases anticipated by experts after Diwali. It also raises doubt whether the government should be outsourcing a crucial exercise such as an exam to a private agency?The posts to be filled are under Class C and D categories and pertain to staff nurses, auxiliary nursing midwives, pharmacists, laboratory technicians, X-Ray technicians, laboratory assistants and others such as ward boys and supporting staff.For years, the state public health department has been facing an issue of a shortage of staff. When the issue has taken a centre stage during the Covid-19 pandemic, state health minister Rajesh Tope assured of filing up all posts at the earliest to tackle the situation emerging due to deadly virus that has so far claimed at least 1.40 lakh lives with 65.89 lakh suffering from it.Instead of winning praise to initiate massive exercises to fill up a large number of posts, the government has come under fire from aspirants for the mess it has created. But the lessons seem to have not been learnt.For the second time within three weeks, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has faced an embarrassing situation as several aspirants have now complained about the allocation of multiple centres (in different cities) for the same paper on the same day for the Maharashtra public health department exam scheduled on October 24 and 31.The government has outsourced the exam process to Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL), which was previously too blamed for the fiasco as the government had to cancel the exam the first time at the eleventh hour owing to lack of preparations during the last week of September 2021.Within government, there’s a blame game and Tope is already pointing fingers at the IT department, which comes under none other than Thackeray with Satej Patil being a junior minister. Patil is so far silent while Thackeray has sought to examine credentials of Uttar Pradesh-based firm, which many say does not have the expertise to hold such exercise. Tope has earlier clarified that the health department has a limited role in setting up question papers. The rest of the preparations that include exam centres, hall tickets, seating arrangement, exam supervisor, their training among others was with the outsourced firm with support from the information technology (IT) department.When governments outsource work related to conducting exams to private agencies, the aim is to hold such exercise smoothly, maintain integrity, and ensure fair evaluation without any interference.In this case, neither of the three objectives are being achieved. To hold exams at this level has two parts – first is to fairness at the highest level and second is a logistical part. According to Nyasa executives, it has ‘large’ experience and ‘impeccable record’ of holding exams though it has not reflected in its initial conduct.Last month the firm informed the government at the last moment that they won’t be able to complete the preparations and applicants will have to face difficulties during examinations, those in the establishment had no option but to postpone exams for a few days as there were many discrepancies in the seating arrangement, training of invigilators among others.NCPL, as the government has claimed after facing ire, is part of a list of empanelled firms prepared by the state IT department. As per the procedure, the departments will have to select the firms only from the empanelled list of firms for holding recruitment examinations.Despite the embarrassment, the government continued the same agency to hold the exam.The least the government can do is remove the firm from its list and investigate the matter followed by action as promised by Tope earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-a-tale-of-exam-with-unending-woes-101634553870037.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bidding adieu to tradition of holding farewell parties||Like our birthday, our retirement day is fixed, too. The day we join service, we are made to remember the year of our retirement. Often, while filling forms, applying for loans, for passports or for permission to travel abroad, we have to fill the date of our retirement and it becomes just a routine. The feeling of retirement sinks in only on the day one actually retires, the day our professional colleagues gather around over a cup of tea to give us a send-off. During the course of my career, I have been a part of these farewells for 35 years. I remember, I was just 26, when I first got an opportunity to be a part of a retirement party. Those were the days when retirement parties stretched long as it was a part of the tradition of our college. With the principal seated on a higher platform along with the staff secretary, the vice-principal and the retiree and his/her family members and a huge gathering of almost 300 staff members, listening to one speaker after the other, some friends, some colleagues from the department and some speakers who volunteered to the staff secretary to be included in the list. We, the fledgling newcomers not fully acclimatised to the traditions and not attached with the retiree, passed time with much difficulty. At the back of the mind were the small kids we had left at home and a worry for their welfare. Hence, in spite of our physical presence, we were mentally absent and just waiting for the speeches to end and rush for a delayed lunch. That was when I was in my late twenties. Gradually with time, the professional life in college and the people started getting the better of me. I started listening earnestly and attentively to what was said for the retiree and sometimes got emotionally charged when the retiree unfolded his life’s journey. And then as I became senior, my involvement in the parties was looked up to, sometimes I was even asked to say a few words for the retiree as the list of speakers started declining and my oratory skills started getting recognised. In retrospect when I think of those functions now, there is a clear-cut graph of these parties becoming less emotional and more formal. A new protocol was devised for the farewell functions and not more than two or three speakers were sanctioned to say “a few words” for the retiree. Gradually, it became an established norm and those who were to speak were given an instruction to watch the time limit does not exceed 10 minutes. The natural flow was regimented, and the retirement parties became less spontaneous. Then a time came when it didn’t even remain a formality. A retiree’s popularity was measured by the number of staff members who attended the party. The show of courtesy ended and people who had any grudge against the retiree, showed it by boycotting the party. And with this, the charm of the retirement party was lost, and many retirees for the fear of a showdown refused to take the party, fearing absenteeism, in front of his/her family. All traditions debunked, a post-modern era set in when the farewell party, for the host and for the guest lost its sheen because of new ideologies and clash of viewpoints. The way grand narratives are questioned, and traditions subverted, the college became a political arena, the microcosm of what is happening worldwide. Liberal humanism gave way to the rise of separatist tendencies, an uneasy coexistence of several ‘political parties’. And then the Covid-19 pandemic ended it all. Human existence locked down in virtual medium bid adieu digitally. When institutions reopened, goodbyes were conducted with a handful of mandatory officials with masked faces stationed at a two-metre distance on the pretext of safety protocol. It was an end of farewells as we knew them. The writer retired as principal of Mohindra College, Patiala. She can be reached at sangeetahandadr@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bidding-adieu-to-tradition-of-holding-farewell-parties-101634553569998.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Extension of BSF’s jurisdiction: Punjab CM warns SAD chief Badal to not ‘misuse sensitive issue for political ambitions’||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday responded to criticism from Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal over the Centre’s decision to extend the Border Security Force’s jurisdiction in border states and warned the SAD chief not to politicise the issue.In a series of tweets, Channi condemned the “authoritarian decision” by the Centre and called it “anti-democratic and anti-federal.” He also said that the people and the political parties of the state should be united and work together on the issue and said a special session of the state assembly would be convened, if necessary.I strongly oppose & condemn the GoI's authoritarian decision to illogically expand the @BSF_India's jurisdiction to 50 km inside the Punjab territory. People of Punjab are greatly offended by this unilateral action. This is an anti-democratic & anti-federal decision by Modi Govt.“I strongly oppose & condemn the GoI's authoritarian decision to illogically expand the @BSF_India's jurisdiction to 50 km inside the Punjab territory. People of Punjab are greatly offended by this unilateral action. This is an anti-democratic & anti-federal decision by Modi Govt,” Channi tweeted.The CM’s reaction came after Badal had criticised him regarding the issue and held him responsible for the Centre’s decision. Badal had pointed to the meeting earlier between Channi and Union home minister Amit Shah and alleged that the CM had given his nod to the move during the meeting.Further, the CM also assured that a special session of the state assembly would be convened if it becomes necessary. “All Punjabis must be united in this fight for upholding Punjab's constitutional dignity and federal autonomy. If necessary, we shall convene a special session of Vidhan Sabha to address this matter,” Channi tweeted. On Sunday, Badal had asked for an all-party “at the earliest” to discuss the issue.Also read | Sharad Pawar to meet Amit Shah to discuss extension of BSF's jurisdictionChanni also urged all political parties in the state to work together regarding the issue and in a stern warning to the SAD chief, the CM also asked him “not to misuse this sensitive issue for vested political ambitions.”In this fight, I urge all political parties in Punjab to work together. I warn @officeofssbadal not to misuse this sensitive issue for vested political ambitions.Earlier on October 5, Channi met with Shah and urged him to seal the international border citing concerns about illegal trafficking of drugs and weapons from across the border. It was this meeting which Badal had pointed to and criticised the CM over the Centre’s decision. The SAD chief also criticised the Centre for the move which he described was an “outright attack on the federal structure” and said it had to be dealt with above the partisan lines.The Union government has allowed the BSF a wider jurisdiction inside border states to search, seize and arrest within a larger 50kms stretch from the international border. Previously the limit was set at 15km, several news agencies reported. Along with Punjab, West Bengal, another border state, has also been vocal about its criticism to the move, while Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma has welcomed it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/extension-of-bsf-s-jurisdiction-punjab-cm-warns-sad-chief-badal-to-not-misuse-sensitive-issue-for-political-ambitions-101634551505926.html
18-10-2021||Patna||'No jobs in Bihar': Tejashwi Yadav slams Nitish Kumar after 2 from state killed by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir||Tejashwi Yadav, the leader of opposition in Bihar assembly, on Monday, slammed the state government for the killing of two Bihari labourers in Jammu and Kashmir terror attack, saying Chief Minister Nitish Kumar failed to provide jobs in the state, resulting in people migrating to other places for employment.Also Read | Bihar leaders condemn civilian killings in J-K, demand strong action from Centre"No employment and job opportunities in Bihar, and if you move out of the state, get killed," Yadav tweeted, adding that the state government of Janata Dal (United) and Bharatiya Janata Party combine has done a mere formality by announcing compensation for the kin of those killed. डबल इंजन सरकार की डबल मार“बिहार में नौकरी-रोजगार देंगे नहींबाहर जाओगे तो मार दिए जाओगे”मुख्यमंत्री श्री नीतीश कुमार जी एक बिहारी की जान की क़ीमत 2 लाख रुपए लगा कर बिना कोई संवेदना प्रकट किए फिर सुषुप्त अवस्था में चले जाएँगे। pic.twitter.com/hP0rrgPewc"Chief Minister Shri Nitish Kumar ji, after adjudging the worth of a Bihari's life at ₹2 lakh, will be unconcerned without expressing any condolences," the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader added.
18-10-2021||Delhi||No disturbances, train cancellations in Delhi, say police on farmers’ ‘rail roko’ protests||Amid the ongoing ‘rail roko’ protests by farmers protesting against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, the railway police in Delhi on Monday said that there were no disturbances or train cancellations at the national capital due to the agitation. The police also said they were patrolling all railway stations and tracks, even as farmers occupied the tracks in neighbouring Haryana and Punjab.“The Government Railway Police (GRP) is patrolling all railway stations and tracks. Till now, there are no reports of a disturbance at any railway tracks or cancellation of trains. We are working in close coordination with the GRP of neighbouring states,” news agency ANI quoted deputy commissioner of police (railways) Harendra Kumar Singh as saying.Singh’s remarks came even as around 50 trains and 130 locations were impacted by the protesting farmers in Punjab and Haryana, ANI reported citing the Northern Railway’s spokesperson.Also read | 50 trains across 130 locations affected amid farmers’ ‘rail roko' agitationMeanwhile, in Uttar Pradesh, the police said that no trains were stopped and they were holding talks with the protesting farmers. Also, a heavy deployment of security personnel has been done as a precautionary measure. “As a precautionary measure, we have deployed around 160 PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) companies, nine paramilitary companies. Officers have been sent to important and sensitive districts,” ANI quoted Prashant Kumar, Lucknow additional director general of police, law and order as saying.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers’ unions spearheading the farmers’ protests against the three farms laws, called for the agitation to block trains across the country. The six-hour ‘rail roko’ between 10am and 4pm on Monday was called to protest the violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, Uttar Pradesh, where eight people, including four farmers, were killed earlier this month. Several videos emerged of the incident which showed a vehicle ramming into a group of protesting farmers killing four of them. The ensuing violence in the place also saw the death of two more BJP workers, a journalist and the vehicle’s driver.Click here for LIVE updates on the Rail Roko protestsWhile farmers have alleged that Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra ‘Teni’, was present in one of the vehicles that ran over the farmers in Lakhimpur, the minister and his son have denied the claim. Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the case.Farmer bodies have called for the resignation of Ajay Mishra, a demand which has also been supported by several opposition political parties in the country. Earlier, the SKM warned that the protests would intensify if the minister was not removed from his position by October 11, a deadline that ended a week ago. However, the minister continues to remain in his position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-disturbances-train-cancellations-in-delhi-say-police-on-farmers-rail-roko-protests-101634547798418.html
18-10-2021||Mumbai||3 dead in road crash on Mumbai-Pune Expressway||Three persons died in a road accident that caused a seven-vehicle-pile-up on Mumbai-Pune Expressway at Khopoli in Raigad district on Monday morning.According to the police, a truck loaded with poultry, heading towards Mumbai from Pune, lost control and rammed into two other vehicles moving in the same direction near the Borghat area at Khopoli around 6 am. “A car, which was moving behind the poultry truck, crashed into it and the car was in turn hit by a trailer. The car got stuck between the poultry truck and the trailer and it was totally smashed. Due to the impact of the accident, these vehicles later rammed into two others that were also headed towards Mumbai from Pune. Two trucks, two cars, one trailer and two buses were thus stuck in a pile-up,” said a police officer from the state highway traffic.Also Read: Maharashtra may lift more restrictions if Covid-19 stays contained after DiwaliTwo persons travelling in the car and the driver of the poultry truck succumbed to their injuries not long after the accident. However, a few other passengers caught in the pile-up escaped with minor injuries.The accident resulted in a traffic jam. which eased after the vehicles were removed from the road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-dead-in-road-crash-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-101634545529547.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||SP workers hold protest against rising prices of cooking gas outside UP Assembly||Samajwadi Party workers on Monday staged a protest against rising prices of cooking gas outside the Uttar Pradesh Assembly building here.Carrying cut-outs of LPG cylinders and black balloons, Samajwadi Party MLAs, MLCs and other leaders took to the streets and raised anti-government slogans.The protest was held ahead of the one-day special session of the state assembly.In a tweet, party president, Akhilesh Yadav posted a picture of his party's protest, and stated “Cylinder worth Rs. 1000 is proving to be costly to the public, it will prove to be costly for the BJP in the 2022 election. End of BJP.”The Congress, SP and various other opposition parties have been criticising the Central government over the issue of rising prices of fuel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sp-workers-hold-protest-against-rising-prices-of-cooking-gas-outside-up-assembly-101634543521407.html
18-10-2021||Kolkata||Heavy rain in south Bengal likely to continue over next 48 hrs||Kolkata and other districts of south Bengal are receiving heavy rains on Monday, triggered by a low pressure area, and the India Meteorological Department has issued an orange warning for more heavy spells. Warning of heavy rain has also been issued for districts of north Bengal for Tuesday and Wednesday. The wet spell is expected to continue till Wednesday. This comes in less than three weeks after West Bengal was hit by a flood due to extremely heavy rains in September-end and the subsequent release of huge amount of water by the Damodar Valley Corporation from dams in Jharkhand. In July-end, the state had been hit by another flood. “We have already faced two floods this monsoon season. The second one had hit in September last week just before the puja season. In some areas, the water is yet to recede completely. Now, we are faced with another wet spell. We are keeping a close watch,” said a senior official of the state’s disaster management department.Till around 8:30 am on Monday, the IMD’s station in Kolkata recorded around 22.5mm rain in the last 24 hours. While Dum Dum in the northern fringes of the city received around 53.6mm rain during the same time, Salt Lake in the eastern fringes received 42.2mm rain. Also Read: Violence in Bangladesh part of ethnic cleansing, alleges BJP; demands CAA, NRC in BengalThe coastal areas such as Digha in East Midnapore and Canning in South 24 Parganas received more than 100mm rain since Sunday morning. “There are chances of heavy to very heavy rainfall in Kolkata, North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah and East Midnapore on Monday. An orange warning (the second highest category of warning) has been issued. It is likely to continue till October 20 with decreasing intensity,” said an IMD official. For the districts of north Bengal, including the hills of Darjeeling and Kalimpong, an orange alert has been sounded for Tuesday and Wednesday. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea till Tuesday as sea may become rough due to squally winds. Thunderstorm with lightning along with gusty winds, speeding up to 50 km per hour, may hit the costal districts in south Bengal, the weather department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/heavy-rain-in-south-bengal-likely-to-continue-over-next-48-hrs-101634542168959.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Stranded tourist dies at Sarchu, snow brings down mercury in Himachal||A tourist died of hypoxemia at Sarchu, while eight people, including seven tourists, stranded at Kunzum Pass were rescued after their vehicles were stuck in heavy snowfall in Lahaul-Spiti district on Sunday night. Police identified the tourist who died as 67-year-old Sanjeev Kumar Sinha of Bhagalpur in Bihar. They said that he was brought dead at the army hospital in Sarchu. Hypoxemia or low level of oxygen in the blood was cited as the cause of death.Also read: ‘Rail Roko’: Farmers block railway tracks in Punjab; Haryana deploys RAFLocal residents were the first to reach the spot and rescued the tourists, the police said. “We gathered a team of about a dozen people and started the rescue at night. The stranded tourists have been brought to Losar and are safe now,” Tsering Choephel, a resident of Losar, said on Monday. The higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh got the first spell of heavy snowfall of the season on Sunday, while the lower hills received light to moderate rainfall. Besides Kunzum Pass, places that received heavy snowfall in the state are Baralacha La, Manali, Lahaul and Spiti and Chamba. Police urge tourists to avoid travelling In an advisory, the police urged tourists to avoid travelling to Rohtang Pass and Leh on Monday in view of the inclement weather. “Manali-Leh and Manali-Kaza highways have been closed for traffic due to fresh snowfall at Baralacha Pass and Kunzum Pass. No vehicles are allowed towards Leh from Darcha and towards Kaza. Tourists should avoid travelling on these routes,” said Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police Manav Verma said. However, he said, traffic movement through Atal Tunnel at Rohtang Pass is smooth. Bus service on the Chamba to Killar route via Sach Pass has also been stopped due to snowfall. Orange alert sounded, more rain forecast Snow and rain have brought down the temperature in the state. Keylong, the administrative headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti, was the coldest place in the state with a minimum temperature of 3 degrees Celsius followed by Kalpa at 4.9 degrees Celsius. Kufri recorded a low of 9.6 degrees, Manali 10.4 degrees and Dalhousie 10.5 degrees. The meteorological department has forecast heavy snowfall and rainfall on Monday and issued an orange alert. “An active wet spell of moderate to heavy rainfall in the mid-hills and plains and heavy snowfall in the higher reaches is likely to occur during on Monday that may disrupt traffic and other services. Tourists and the public are advised to take safety measures and avoid travelling,” said Shimla-based meteorological centre director Surender Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stranded-tourist-dies-at-sarchu-snow-brings-down-mercury-in-himachal-101634539828930.html
18-10-2021||Ranchi||Parts of Jharkhand get fresh spell of rain||Several parts of Jharkhand including the state capital of Ranchi have started receiving rainfall since Sunday night, even as the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a 72-hour long yellow alert for the state starting Monday.Abhishek Anand, head of IMD, Ranchi, said the prevailing low pressure system over Telangana is causing moisture incursion in the state and light to moderate rainfall is expected in several parts of the state till Wednesday, accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning. “On Monday and Tuesday, the northern and central parts of the state would receive light to moderate rainfall with lightning and thunderstorm. One or two places in these areas could also receive heavy rainfall. Rainfall activity would continue till Wednesday and the weather is likely to clear from Thursday,” said Anand. Also Read: Jharkhand’s first woman idol maker continues her late husband’s businessAnand said the current spell of rain was due to the moisture incursion in the state due to the south-easterly winds entering Jharkhand because of the prevailing low pressure system. The IMD forecast has also predicted a dip in the daily temperature due to the rainfall and overcast sky. Overall, Jharkhand has received good rainfall this monsoon with only a negligible departure of one percent below normal, the weather authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/parts-of-jharkhand-get-fresh-spell-of-rain-101634539111935.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Soon, you won’t need your Metro card. DMRC is introducing this new facility||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) will soon introduce an upgraded contactless ticketing system under a new system called near-field communication (NFC), which can make smartphones act as Metro smart cards, according to reports. This will enable passengers to pay for their journeys through their debit and credit cards, near-field communication, QR code-based ticketing mobile phones and paper QR tickets apart from the smart cards. This facility is currently available only on the Airport Express Line in the Capital.The DMRC will soon install automatic fare machines (AFC) system at 44 Metro stations in Delhi during the fourth phase. Apart from this, the AFC gates installed at the existing station will also be updated.Also read | Free Wi-Fi on all stations on Delhi Metro Yellow LineCommuters will have to bring their phone close to the automatic fare collection (AFC) gate to gain entry. The device will establish radio communication with the AFC gate when touched or in close proximity to the phone.The DMRC has said that the new system will encourage more digitisation of services apart from cashless and human error-free transactions. At present, this facility is available in some metropolitan cities like Kochi and Nagpur. However, commuters are able to use only debit or credit cards of particular banks to pay for their Metro fares. DMRC's system will accept transactions from all banks through RuPay portal. The new system will also help in creating more 'fare zones' in the Metro network.Also read | 'By 2047, at least 100 cities to have their own Metro networks'You will soon be able pay for your Metro fare through:1. Smart card2. National Common Mobility Card3. Mobile-based NFC4. Mobile QR code5. Paper QR ticketAccording to reports, penalty deduction will also be possible through smart cards under this new system. At present, a passenger needs to pay the penalty at the time of exit and has to go to the customer service window.Also read | Metro, traffic to run on same flyover on Pink Line linkThey added that DMRC will also integrate Point of Sale (POS) terminals with ticketing machines in the customer service at Phase-I and II stations. Under this, the smart cards can also be recharged from POS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/soon-you-won-t-need-your-metro-card-dmrc-is-introducing-this-new-facility-101634537753450.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Heavy rain, waterlogging hit traffic movement in Delhi||Several areas in Delhi and its adjoining parts witnessed waterlogging due to heavy rainfall, leading to slow movement of traffic and road blockages early on Monday. Many users took it to social media to complain about the slow traffic movement.The Delhi Traffic Police in its latest advisory said that the MB road in Delhi has been closed due to the waterlogging at Pulprahladpur underpass and suggested alternate routes for commuters.“Traffic advisory - Due to water logging at Pulprahladpur underpass MB road is closed. Road users may take alternate routes going towards Mehrauli Mathura road underpass Sarita vihar flyover Or Modi mill flyover and vice versa towards Badarpur,” the traffic police said in a tweet. The authorities were also responding to the complaints from many users in Twitter over slow moving traffic on roads, especially those around Delhi’s entry points.Also read | Cloudy sky with light rain predicted in Delhi, air quality improves"@dtptraffic chaotic situation at Ghazipur poultry market," said one user while another user tweeted " heavy traffic jam at kapashera border no traffic police to manage traffic."Thanks, area traffic staff has already been informedThanks, area traffic staff has been informedThe Gurugram traffic police also issued a traffic alert warning of traffic congestion on the national highway 48 near Kapriwas. “Traffic congestion has been reported on NH-48 near Kapriwas. @TrafficGGM is on the spot to facilitate the traffic. Inconvenience caused is highly regretted,” the police said in a tweet.Meanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light intensity rains over the national capital and nearby areas for the next two hours. “Light intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of entire Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Baraut, Agra, Mathura, Hathras, Sonipat, Gannaur, Gohana, Sohana, Jhunjunu, Pilani during next 2 hours,” the IMD said in a tweet earlier on Monday. The weather bureau has also said that thunderstorm with moderate intensity rainfall could be expected in some places in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.Waterlogging was reported on the day at major locations in the national capital such as the Gazipur fruit and vegetable wholesale market following the heavy showers overnight, news agencies reported. Also, the overnight rainfall had caused waterlogging at the official premises of the chief medical officer of Gautam Budh Nagar at Sector 39, news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heavy-rain-waterlogging-hit-traffic-movement-in-delhi-101634532967184.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Cloudy sky with light rain predicted in Delhi, air quality improves||Delhi is likely to see a generally cloudy sky with light rain and thundershowers on Monday according to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature in the city on Monday is likely to be at 20 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 29 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 23.5 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, while the maximum temperature was 30.4 degrees Celsius -- two degrees below normal.Sunday’s rainfall has led to improvement in Delhi’s air quality, which was in the “satisfactory” category on Monday morning with 94 AQI or air quality index at 7am, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI in the national capital was 298, at the higher-end of the “poor” category. The prominent pollutant was PM2.5-- particles that have diameter less than 2.5 micrometres. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Also Read: Delhi govt’s ‘Red Light on, Gaadi off’ campaign to begin from todayOn Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the very poor category with PM2.5 as the lead pollutant. Lower wind speed and low mixing layer height were inhibiting dispersion along with moderate stubble intrusion. However, now that wind direction is mainly from the eastern side and moderate rain is expected, AQI will improve significantly and touch moderate category for tomorrow and then again degrade to poor category for the next 2 days. The SAFAR effective fire count was observed as 815 but as winds were not favourable and rain was expected, the stubble contribution today was likely to be just 2%, which is down from 14% yesterday.”According to Safar, the local wind speed will be the factor determining the city’s air quality. The local wind speed and ventilation is in moderate category while there is no external dust intrusion in Delhi’s air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-see-cloudy-sky-with-light-rain-air-quality-improves-101634531788722.html
18-10-2021||Dehradun||Ahead of assembly polls, U'khand Cong MLA claims 6 leaders to rejoin party||Uttarakhand Congress MLA Govind Singh Kunjwal has claimed that several leaders, who left the Congress earlier, are now willing to come back to the party and said that six MLAs are in the party's contact.Speaking to the media persons in an event on Sunday at Uttarakhand's Almora, Kunjwal said, "Many people are willing to be part of Congress and many people will come back in the party. Central leadership will take a decision on it.""As many as six MLAs are in the party's contact," he added.This comes ahead of the Uttarakhand assembly polls scheduled next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ahead-of-assembly-polls-u-khand-cong-mla-claims-6-leaders-to-rejoin-party-101634527655079.html
18-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Very heavy rain expected, says IMD; issues red alert||The Dehradun centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday issued a red alert for Uttarakhand on Monday (October 18) with a forecast of heavy to very heavy rainfall. An orange alert is already in place from October 17-19."India Meteorological Department wrote to the state government to remain alert and make necessary arrangements," the chief minister's office (CMO) said in a statement.The CMO statement added that chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami instructed that police personnel and the state disaster response force (SDRF) should be kept on high alert at sensitive places.For Monday, the IMD also predicted extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places in Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Rudraprayag, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Almora, Nainital, Champawat, Dehradun, Tehri and Pauri Garhwal districts, Hindustan Times earlier reported.The administrations of Uttarkashi, Chamoli and Rudraprayag have been told to be extra careful as the Char Dham Yatra is underway in these districtsChief minister Dhami also said on Sunday that special care should be taken on the Char Dham Yatra route and appealed that the pilgrimage should be stopped for the next 2-3 days. “I appeal to the pilgrims not to take the pilgrimage in the next two days as the route is expected to witness extremely heavy rain, especially in the hilly areas,” he said. The police, meanwhile, urged the pilgrims to stay put where they are at present.Meanwhile, a majority of the educational institutions in Uttarakhand, including schools, colleges and Anganwadi centres will remain closed on Monday, according to news agency PTI. A complete ban has been imposed on trekking, mountaineering, and camping activities in high altitude areas of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-very-heavy-rain-expected-says-imd-issues-red-alert-101634519073647.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt’s ‘Red Light on, Gaadi off’ campaign to begin from today||The Delhi government will from Monday begin its ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign in a bid to reduce pollution in the national capital. The campaign, which tells commuters to switch off the engines of their vehicles as soon as they stop at a red light, was first introduced by the government last year. This year, the first phase of the campaign will run for a month till November 18.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai had said last week that the campaign will take place in two shifts - from 8am-2pm and then 2pm-8pm.According to Delhi government's plan, the campaign will be carried out at 100 traffic intersections spread across 13 police districts. The government also plans to deploy 2,500 civil defence volunteers for its effective implementation. These volunteers will work as ‘Paryavaran Marshals’ and will distribute pamphlets having details about chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s appeal to make the campaign a success.While announcing the date for this year’s 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign, Kejriwal on October 12 urged commuters not to take their vehicles once a week and rather travel on the metro, bus or share vehicles with others.Pointing out that the campaign was very successful last year, Kejriwal appealed to teachers, lawyers, office workers and trade union people in Delhi for their cooperation.Citing research from Petroleum Conservation Research Association (PCRA), he said that switching vehicles off at red light can reduce pollution by 13% cent and ₹2500 crores can be saved per annum.The Delhi CM also appealed to the residents to download the Green Delhi app and complain against the industry or vehicle that is causing pollution. The app was launched last year to fight air pollution. “If you see pollution anywhere in Delhi -a truck causing air pollution, any industry that is causing pollution, waste being burnt- you can complain through the app. Our team will reach the spot and stop the source of pollution,” Kejriwal said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-s-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-to-begin-from-today-101634517906573.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 50 challaned for not affixing high security number plates||A day after issuing a warning, the Ludhiana traffic police challaned 50 residents for not installing high-security number plates on their vehicles, on Saturday.The team barricaded the Canal Road and stopped all vehicles without high-security number plates. During the drive, police also checked for vehicles with modifications.The transport department had made it mandatory to install high-security number plates and provided residents ample opportunities to do so.In August this year, Punjab state transport commissioner Amarpal Singh had ordered that vehicles without high-security number plates should be challaned in Punjab. The violators will have to face a penalty of ₹2,000 to ₹3,000.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, city and traffic) Deepak Pareek said police will also keep tabs on autos without high-security number plates, and write to the transport department to cancel their licenses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-50-challaned-for-not-affixing-high-security-number-plates-101634506525496.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjit Singh murder: Dera chief’s sentencing today, Section 144 imposed in Panchkula||Ahead of the pronouncement of quantum of punishment for Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim at a CBI court in Panchkula on Monday, prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC have been imposed in the districtIn an order issued on Sunday, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa banned the gathering of five or more persons, and possession of any weapon, including arms and sharp-edged objects (except sheathed kirpans used as genuine religious symbols).A special CBI court on October 8 had convicted the dera head and four others of murdering his former manager Ranjit Singh in 2002.On October 12, when the case was first listed for pronouncement of quantum of sentence, the authorities had imposed similar prohibitory orders in view of the August 2017 violence, where 36 people were killed in Panchkula following the dera chief’s conviction in rape cases.“There is a likelihood of causing tension, annoyance, obstruction or injury to persons, danger to human life and property, disturbance of public peace and tranquillity in the district,” read the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ranjit-singh-murder-dera-chief-s-sentencing-today-section-144-imposed-in-panchkula-101634506466261.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Gross building violations at Victoria Heights: Mohali ADC||Probing into the building violations at Victoria Heights in Peer Muchalla, Zirakpur, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Pooja Sayal has found several irregularities.On October 7, Hindustan Times had highlighted that the residential project’s three 14-storey towers have come up without adequate setback space between them for movement of fire tenders in case of emergency.Following this, ADC Sayal had visited the project site and sought a report from the executive officer (EO) of the Zirakpur municipal council.“There are several building violations at the site. The MC EO’s report also substantiates this. I have also sought the original layout plan to determine whether there are more anomalies,” said Sayal.Besides not leaving setback space, the builder, Fortune Multitech Private Limited, has constructed 15 shops at the place earmarked for a park and parking area. The shops have come up without the consent of allottees or a change of land use permission from the competent authority. The builder has also increased the number of flats from 396 to 476, without any approval under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act. The society’s residents’ welfare association (RWA), comprising allottees who are awaiting possession, have already approached the Punjab and Haryana high court in this regard.“Between 2011 and 2018, the developer got the layout plans changed thrice. However, the allottees were never kept in loop,” said an MC official, not wishing to be named.Harish Gupta, president of the Zirakpur Builders Associations, said, “We will be holding a meeting of all builders in Zirakpur and advise them to follow the building norms.”Notably, in August, the Supreme Court had ordered demolition of the realty firm’s twin 40-storey Supertech towers in Noida for violating building norms. In its order, the top court had said that it was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida Authority and the developer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gross-building-violations-at-victoria-heights-mohali-adc-101634506465098.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man beaten to death in Ambala, five arrested||Police have arrested five men and are hunting for six others for beating to death a resident of Dhurala village in Ambala’s Saha on Saturday night.Those arrested have been identified as Dharmpal, Jasbir, Sudesh, Sukhbir and Ashok, all residents of Sambhalkha village. They will be produced before a court on Monday, a police PRO said. In his complaint, Harjot Singh, a resident of Saha, said he, Mandeep and Satbir were following Dinesh’s combine machine after harvesting paddy, when the machine hit some power cables. This snapped the electricity supply to the houses of Dharmpal and Mamraj. “Dharmpal and his family members stepped out and started fighting with Dinesh’s driver. We all tried to pacify them, but not to avail,” he said. “Instead, Dharmpal and his aides attacked Mandeep with iron rods and sticks. Police took Mandeep to the civil hospital in Ambala Cantonment, but he died there,” Harjot said.Police said on Harjot’s complaint, an FIR was lodged against 11 people, including Dharmpal, Jasbir, Sudesh, Sukhbir, Ashok, Manish, Karampal, Mamraj, Ramprakash, Rajender and Jagpal, and some unidentified men under Sections 148, 149, 323 and 302 of the Indian Penal Code at the Saha police station on Sunday. “Five accused have been arrested and police raids are underway to nab the rest,” said station in-charge sub-inspector Gurmail Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-beaten-to-death-in-ambala-five-arrested-101634506417576.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mystery shrouds 30-year-old man’s death||A 30-year-old man was found dead under mysterious circumstances in the forest area near Maloya police station on Sunday morning. Police said the deceased was identified as Sunil, a resident of Maloya, who was unemployed. A passer-by informed the police after finding him dead with blood near the mouth. The body was shifted to the mortuary of Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, for autopsy. Ruling out foul play, police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and will take further action based on the autopsy report. The deceased is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhmystery-shrouds-30-year-old-man-s-death-101634506416245.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Bhagwanpuria’s aide arrested from Mohali’s Sector 91||The special team of the organised crime control unit (OCCU) of Punjab Police on Sunday arrested gangster Jagroshan Singh, alias Roshan Hundal, a close aide of gangsters Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and Lawrence Bishnoi.The team also recovered a revolver and 15 cartridges from Jagroshan, who was arrested from Sector 91, Mohali. He is a native of Chattivind village in Amritsar. “Around 10 criminal cases of dacoity, murder and Arms Act are registered against the accused in various police stations of Punjab. We received secret information that a gangster was roaming around in Mohali’s Sector 91 to execute some crime. A trap was laid and the accused was nabbed. His arrest is expected to lead to revelations in many murder cases in Punjab,” said Gurmeet Singh Chauhan, AIG, OCCU.Police sources said Jagroshan was also involved in the murder of gangster Rana Kandowali at a private hospital in Amritsar on August 3 this year, and used to execute robberies for gangsters Bhagwanpuria and Bishnoi.He was produced before a local court and sent to three-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-bhagwanpuria-s-aide-arrested-from-mohali-s-sector-91-101634506414980.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Jatinder Singh sets up Oman’s win over PNG in T20 World Cup||He might be playing for the Oman cricket team, but it’s difficult to keep the Punjabi spirit out of Jatinder Singh. Playing in his second T20 World Cup, Singh, born in Ludhiana, scored the highest 73 runs (42 balls) in an aggressive style to set up Oman’s 10-wicket win over Papua New Guinea (PNG) in round one of the Group B match during the ongoing ICC Men’s T20 World Cup at Al Amerat Cricket Ground, Oman.As soon as he reached his 50, he celebrated in Shikhar Dhawan’s thigh-five style. Considered the best batsman of the Oman team, Singh also idolises Indian cricketer Dhawan.“I am a huge fan of Shikhar paaji. I love celebrating like that on the ground. It brings out the Punjabi in me. Also, it was amazing to go out there and hit those shots for the team,” said Singh, who migrated with his mother and three siblings to Muscat in 2003 to join his father, Gurmail Singh.“My family belongs to the Ramgarhia community and has been involved in carpentry for generations. I am the first and only sportsperson in our entire clan. I feel so proud and privileged. Cricket is my passion and I want to do well for Oman in the ongoing T20 World Cup as we are the co-hosts also,” said Singh, who hit 62-ball 107 runs against Nepal last month. It was the second-fastest ODI ton by an associate batsman, Ireland’s Kevin O’Brian being the fastest.Singh’s was also the highest T20 individual score by any cricketer from Oman. He works with Khimji Ram Das company and looks after the corporate affairs apart from playing for Oman. His father works in the Oman police department’s carpentry section as a foreman and will retire in December. Praising 32-year-old Singh’s knock, Oman captain Zeeshan Maqsood said after the match, “Jatinder is a very important player of our team. He is the backbone of the team. The way he scored 73 runs against PNG shows his confidence and skills. He is going to play a crucial role in the upcoming games too. We take on Bangladesh in the next match. They are a test-playing nation. We want to give our best and record a win.” Hosts Oman chased the 130-run target set by the PNG in just 13.2 overs, courtesy Singh’s 42-ball-knock and his opening partner Aqib Ilyas’s 50 not-out off 43 balls. Singh hit seven fours and four sixes. The partnership between Ilyas and Singh is the highest partnership in the T20 World Cup for an Associate Nation.Oman will now play Bangladesh in their next Group B match on Tuesday.“Cricket has grown by leaps and bounds in Oman. We have better facilities and an experienced coach like Sri Lankan great Duleep Mendis. Our preparations are good for the T20 World Cup. We will put up a competitive show against Bangladesh and are hoping for a win,” concluded Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-jatinder-singh-sets-up-oman-s-win-over-png-in-t20-world-cup-101634506413777.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two days after Dussehra, Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid count climbs to 13||Tricity’s daily Covid-19 infections jumped from just two on Saturday to 13 on Sunday, the highest in the past 18 days.The spike comes two days after huge crowds gathered at Dussehra celebrations across the tricity without adherence to safety protocols. Over the past 18 days, the tricity had reported cases in double digits only twice, 10 on both October 2 and 14.The latest infections include seven from Mohali, where no case was reported the day before. Both Chandigarh and Panchkula logged three cases each, up from two and zero, respectively, on Saturday.Those found infected in Chandigarh are residents of Sectors 21 and 50, and Mauli Jagran. Mohali’s cases came from Dhakoli, Mohali city and Boothgarh. There was no virus-related death for the 12th consecutive day.However, tricity’s active cases increased from 60 to 66 in the past 24 hours. At 33, most positive patients are in Mohali, followed by 25 in Chandigarh and eight in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-days-after-dussehra-chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-count-climbs-to-13-101634506412717.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Polling for PU senate finally concludes after a year’s delay||With the second phase of polling for the registered graduate constituency completing on Sunday, voting for the Panjab University (PU) senate elections finally ended after a year’s delay.On Sunday, polling was held at 61 booths for the registered graduate constituency, which has over 40 candidates in fray. According to the information shared by the varsity, 10,508 of the total 73,804 voters turned up, a polling percentage of 14.24%.“The voting at the booths went smoothly,” university authorities said. In the first phase, polling was held at 211 booths with a 14.66% voter turnout. The counting of votes for the registered graduate constituency will begin on Monday at the gymnasium hall of the university, after which result will be declared.Polling for seven of the total eight constituencies is already over and 32 of the 47 candidates have been elected. The remaining 15 will be from the registered graduate constituency.The elections, which began on August 3, were first scheduled in August last year, but were postponed by vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The move and further delays even courted controversy with seven former senators moving the Punjab and Haryana high court on December 22, seeking directions to PU to hold the polls. After the high court in April this year pulled up the V-C for the delay, the polls were scheduled from April 26, but had to be postponed again in view of the pandemic’s second wave.Former senator DPS Randhawa, who is contesting from graduate constituency, said, “This is a win for the democracy, and we congratulate all voters and alumnus who have showed faith in this governing system.”The senate, which is the varsity’s apex governing body, comprises 91 members, 47 of whom are elected from eight constituencies. The remaining are either nominated or ex-officio members. The four-year term of the previous senate had ended on October 31, 2020. Since then, PU has been functioning without a senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/polling-for-pu-senate-finally-concludes-after-a-year-s-delay-101634506411105.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three Panchkula youths killed as car hits parked truck in Rajpura||Out to celebrate a birthday, three youths from Panchkula were killed after their Hyundai i20 rammed into a stationary truck near Alampur village on the Rajpura-Chandigarh road in the wee hours of Sunday.Two of the deceased – Akarshit Goyal, 22, and Yash Mittal, 22 – were students of Chitkara University, Rajpura, while Ishaan Kalra, 21, studied in Canada.Their friend, Punarpal Singh, 21, who is from Chandigarh, was also in the car. He is fighting for life at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.All four had reportedly left Panchkula around 10pm on Saturday to celebrate a friend’s birthday on the university campus.“The accident took place around 4am when the Hyundai i20 drove into a parked truck. It appears the car was at a high speed as it was completely mangled due to the impact of the collision. All three youths died on the spot,” said investigating officer Avtar Singh from Rajpura police station.The truck driver managed to flee with his vehicle soon after the mishap.Police handed over the bodies to their families after post-mortem examination on Sunday.The unidentified truck driver has been booked under Sections 304-A (causing death due to negligence), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Two of the deceased were pursuing engineering, pharmacyAkarshit, who lived in Sector 9, Panchkula, was pursuing engineering from Chitkara University. He lived with his mother and two sisters, while his father had died in 2006. Yash also hailed from Sector 9 and was studying BPharma at the university. His father owns a pharmacy business which he hoped to join one day. He had told his parents and a younger brother about the birthday party before leaving around 9.30pm on Saturday.One of Akarshit’s friends shared Ishaan studied in Canada and was visiting home currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-panchkula-youths-killed-as-car-hits-parked-truck-in-rajpura-101634506409774.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ailing Mohali workers suffer amid poor state of ESI hospital||Catering to over 4,00,000 insured workers of Mohali, the Employees’ State Insurance (ESI) Hospital in Phase 7, Industrial Area, continues to remain in a shambles.Though the corporation is also running two dispensaries in Phase 7, Industrial Area, and Phase 2, these are also ill-equipped, leaving ailing workers in the lurch.The 4,00,000-strong workforce in Mohali is contributing ₹10 crore as insurance, including employer’s share, each month, but the ESI Corporation has failed to keep its end of the commitment to provide seamless healthcare facilities to insured persons and their families. A visit to the Phase 7 hospital, which is housed in a run-down building, revealed patients being asked to visit government hospitals in Chandigarh even for minor injuries, even though ESI has no tie-up with them for cashless treatment.Doctors don’t have adequate equipment to conduct even minor procedures and most of the medicines prescribed are also not stocked, forcing workers to pay for them outside.“There is no facility for laboratory tests or ultrasound either. Also, the centres operate only from 8am to 2pm,” said Jasbir Singh, chairman, Labour Laws Committee, Mohali Industries Association.He said as per the norms, the insured workers should be referred only to empanelled hospitals under the ESI scheme for cashless treatment, but doctors were sending workers to the Phase-6 civil hospital in Mohali; and GMCH, Sector 32, GMSH, Sector 16, or PGIMER in Chandigarh. The workers have no option but to spend money from their pockets and have to wait for months to get reimbursement.No driver for rickety ambulanceThe only driver for the ambulance retired over five years ago, but the authorities never filled the position since. As such, in case of emergency, patients struggle to make their own arrangements after being referred to other hospitals. The ambulance itself is also in a poor condition, with worn out tyres and damaged battery.On October 15, member of Parliament Manish Tewari had written a letter to Bhupender Yadav, Union minister, ministry of labour and employment, to highlight the abysmal conditions at the ESI health facilities.When contacted, Dr GB Singh, director, health services (ESI), admitted that there were shortcomings. “I have taken charge last week only. I will be visiting the hospital in Mohali and file a proposal to improve the conditions as per requirement,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ailing-mohali-workers-suffer-amid-poor-state-of-esi-hospital-101634506407936.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||52-year-old man killed in Lalru hit-and-run||A speeding car claimed the life of a 52-year-old man near Lalru flyover on Saturday night.Police said the deceased, Paramjeet Singh, a resident of Rajindra Enclave, Dera Bassi, was returning from Ambala with his son. “As they reached near the flyover at Lalru, a speeding car hit their motorcycle and ran over Paramjeet’s head. He was rushed to the Dera Bassi civil hospital, but declared brought dead. The car driver fled from the scene,” said investigating officer Sukhjinder Singh.The accused driver has been booked under Sections 304-A (causing death due to negligence), 279 (rash driving) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code on the statement of the victim’s son Arshdeep Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/52yearold-man-killed-in-lalru-hitandrun-101634506406551.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mercury drops by 8 degrees after 1.3mm rain||The cool winds and 1.3mm rain on Sunday caused the mercury to drop by eight degrees in Chandigarh.The maximum temperature went down from 36.4°C on Saturday to 28.4°C on Sunday, 4.1 notches below normal.This was the lowest day temperature since September 23 when it was 25°C. However, the cloudy skies caused the night temperature to rise to 21.8°C. “A low-pressure area crossing from Bay of Bengal is responsible for this rain,” said an official at India Meteorological Department (IMD). According to IMD, chances of rain will continue on Monday, while clear weather can be expected from Tuesday, when the maximum temperature will start to rise again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhmercury-drops-by-8-degrees-after-1-3mm-rain-101634506405466.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Missing 10-yr-old boy reunited with family||Under operation reunion, the Koomkalan police reunited a 10-year-old boy with his family after he had wandered off to Lakhowal village.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Baldev Singh said he was patrolling near Lakhowal on Saturday when residents informed him about a boy who seemed to have lost his way. “The boy told us his name but was unable to give his address. He was hungry and distressed. We comforted him, gave him food and then sent his picture to nearby police stations,” said the ASI.“After some time, we received a response from the Shimlapuri police station, who informed us that the boy had gone missing from their area,” said the ASI, adding that he was then handed over to his parents after verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-missing-10-yr-old-boy-reunited-with-family-101634506225328.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Youth vandalises woman’s car after she objects to ‘inappropriate touch’||A youth allegedly vandalised a 26-year-old woman’s car with an axe in Khanna after she objected to inappropriate touch by him. The accused has been identified as Simrajot Singh Gill of Rahon village of Khanna.The complainant, a 26-year-old from Sirhind, said she takes IELTS coaching from an institute in Guru Teg Bahadur Market, Khanna.On Saturday when she came out of the institute after classes, the accused allegedly started following her. He allegedly pulled her dupatta, grabbed her hand and asked for her mobile number and Facebook account. She immediately raised the alarm following which passersby came to her rescue. The accused, however, managed to flee.Perturbed by the incident, she called her husband and asked him to pick her up.When she was going home with her husband, the accused emerged again and vandalised the windshield of their car with an axe and fled.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Charanjit Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 354 (assaults or uses criminal force to any woman) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-youth-vandalises-woman-s-car-after-she-objects-to-inappropriate-touch-101634505925054.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Special police teams formed to check illegal storage of firecrackers||Police have formed special teams to checks illegal storage of firecrackers in the city, to avoid any untoward incident during the festive season. This even as the sale of firecrackers is yet to start in the city. Police have invited applications for 37 temporary shops to sell crackers, at six locations in the city.The team was formed after Anurag Verma, principal secretary, home affairs and justice, Punjab, wrote to all commissioners of police and senior superintendents of police to conduct checks on unauthorised storage of firecrackers.Additional director general of police (ADGP, law and order) also issued directions to the teams to check all authorised godowns for any sort of irregularity.The SHOs have also been asked to keep regular checks in their respective areas and adopt a zero-tolerance policy against illegal storage and sale of firecrackers.The officials have also quoted two mishaps caused by firecrackers, including the Batala firecrackers factory tragedy of September 2019 where 23 people died and the Amritsar factory explosion of August 2020.Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said police will allot 37 shops at six locations, including 13 shops at grain market in Salem Tabri, five shops in Model Town Extension, four shops in Dugri Phase 2, nine shops at GLADA ground on Chandigarh road, three shops at Chara Mandi, Haibowal at Humbran road and three shops in a ground near Lodhi Club road.The traders can start selling firecrackers from October 29 to November 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-special-police-teams-formed-to-check-illegal-storage-of-firecrackers-101634505324942.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Nine booked for assaulting teen over old rivalry with his relative||Nine persons have been booked for attempting to murder a 15-year-old boy over an old rivalry with his distant relative. The accused, including women, allegedly barged into his house in Ghora Colony and assaulted him with sharp-edged weapons. The teen has been hospitalised and his condition is stated to be critical. The accused have been identified as Lakhan, Makhan, Shekhar, Peeto, Jyoti and Pooja of Janakpuri, Deepu and Kavita of Vishwakarma Colony and Laljit of Ghora Colony.The incident allegedly took place on October 14 when the victim, Golu, was sleeping at his house. He heard a knock on his door and when he opened it, the accused barged in and assaulted him with sharp-edged weapons. They later fled, leaving him in a pool of blood. Some neighbours informed his elder brother, Sunny, who rushed him to the hospital. Golu alleged that the accused had a rivalry with his distant relative Sikandar. He said that the accused had seen him with Sikandar several times, which is why they targeted him.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Balvir Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Moti Nagar police station. A hunt is on for the accused, the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-nine-booked-for-assaulting-teen-over-old-rivalry-with-his-relative-101634505084794.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Golf tournament in Chandigarh: Colonel KS Kondal emerges winner||Colonel KS Kondal emerged winner in the Second Raavian Golf Cup organised by Alumni Association of Post Graduate Government College, Sector 11, at the Forest Hills Golf and Country Club on Sunday. Major RS Virk (retired) ended up as runner-up while Rajiv Malhotra hit maximum birdies. Major General JS Sandhu earned maximum pars. The tournament was played on 12 holes on the stable ford format with 2/3rd handicap. As many as 40 golfers took part. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSPU students present cultural performancesThe NSS unit of Panjab University (PU) in collaboration with the centre for medical physics and UIAMS organised a two-day event to celebrate the essence of “Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat”. The event was marked by an array of cultural performances on various aspect of Indian heritage, culture and art. Free dental camp organised The department of public health dentistry organised a free dental check-up and awareness camp on Sunday at Sri Sukhmani Dental College and Hospital, Dera Bassi. A team of doctors and interns examined more than 100 patients, including senior citizens, women and children. The local residents were also informed about proper brushing techniques and various ailments which effects oral health. Portal launched for banking aspirantsAspiring Bankers, a portal conceptualised by Institute of Professional Banking (IPB) and dedicated to banking aspirants, was unveiled by motivational speaker and former IAS officer Vivek Atray at the Confederation of Indian industry (CII) Northern Region headquarters in Sector 31 on Sunday. “With nearly 1.25 lakh bank branches, the banking sector is considered as the backbone of the Indian economy. This sector has witnessed a paradigm shift in the use of technology and it has brought a revolution in the banking industry. Hence, this portal proves vital not only for banking students, but the industry at large,” said Atray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/golf-tournament-in-chandigarh-colonel-ks-kondal-emerges-winner-101634503536401.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue outbreak in Chandigarh: Hospitals face challenge of high platelets’ demand||Demand for blood platelets has shot up at government hospitals in Chandigarh amid the rapid spread of dengue across the tricity. To meet the rising demand, the hospital authorities are requesting residents to donate blood and platelets.Dr Sudhir Garg, medical superintendent at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, said, “With dengue cases rising, more and more patients suffering from fever are getting admitted to the hospital everyday. The severe dengue patients require platelets and on average, 40 bags of platelets are being used everyday. Besides, 25 units of single-donor platelets, also known as apheresis platelets, are required per day.”He added, “Since the shelf life of platelets is limited, fresh donations are usually preferred. Mostly, the hospital tries to provide platelets from the blood bank, but attendants of patients also donate them.”Dr Suman Singh, director of health services, UT, said, “Transfusion of platelets depends on the severity of the case. At Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, around seven to 10 transfusions are done every two days.” She added that the health department had enough platelet kits and fresh orders had already been placed, but the demand was rising by the day due to spike in dengue cases in Punjab and neighbouring states.“At PGIMER too, the demand has increased, but high number of blood donors are helping meet the platelets’ requirement. We are also organising more blood donation camps,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).However, even though hospitals authorities claim that they have adequate stock, patients across the tricity have been reaching out to social media seeking help. Many emergency messages with requests of donations at PGIMER, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 have been circulating on the web. Meanwhile, UT health secretary Yashpal Garg on Sunday requested authorities of adjoining states not to send non-critical patients to Chandigarh hospitals.At GMCH-32, there are 126 patients of acute fever with thrombocytopemia and 38 of dengue, of which only 25 and eight patients respectively are from Chandigarh.Similarly, in GMSH-16, out of 90 admissions in the past two days, only 18 patients are from the UT.Garg also wrote to the Chandigarh education director requesting that 100 volunteers of the National Service Scheme (NSS) be deputed to assist the health department with malaria/dengue-related activities from Monday. He requested that the volunteers should only be college students above the age of 18 and be fully vaccinated against Covid-19.193 down with dengue in tricityAs many as 193 fresh cases of dengue infection surfaced in the tricity on Sunday, with Mohali continuing to be the worst-hit city with 143 cases. Also, 29 infections were reported from Chandigarh and 21 from Panchkula.  In 2021, 1,554 infections have been reported from Mohali, 394 from Chandigarh and 318 from Panchkula. As many as 12 people have succumbed to the disease in Mohali, but no fatalities have been reported from Chandigarh and Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-outbreak-in-chandigarh-hospitals-face-challenge-of-high-platelets-demand-101634503227088.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Newlywed couple found murdered at Fazilka village||A newlywed couple was found murdered at their native village Sappanwali near Abohar town in Fazilka district on Sunday after they were allegedly abducted by the bride’s family for marrying in a different caste against their wishes. The victims were identified as Rohtash Singh (25) and Suman Devi (23). Rohtash had deep wounds on the neck whereas Suman’s body had head injuries, police officials said. The two were allegedly abducted by a group of 15-16 persons around noon from Moga district’s Raunta village where they had taken shelter at Rohtash’s brother-in-law Sukhdev Singh.Nihal Singhawala police station (Moga) in-charge Nirmaljit Singh said Sukhdev filed a complaint of abduction of the couple. “Few hours later, we learnt that the couple was killed and their bodies were found on the street at Sappanwali. A murder case was registered against Suman’s uncles Atma Ram, Mahinder Ram and others. Efforts are on to nab the accused,” said the station house officer (SHO).The angry family members of Rohtash and their relatives did not allow the police to take the bodies to the mortuary for nearly five hours.Rohtash’s elder brother Vikram Singh said the couple solemnised a court marriage on October 1 in Chandigarh and were living at different places apprehending threat to their lives. “Suman’s family members were against the marriage and they had been threatening the couple as well as us. We want the police to arrest the culprits,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/newlywed-couple-found-murdered-at-fazilka-village-101634503105275.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man dies in Karnal police custody, judicial probe ordered||Family members of a 32-year-old theft suspect staged a protest outside the mortuary of Kalpana Chawla Medical College after the later died in the Karnal police custody. The protesters dispersed only after a judicial probe was ordered and police promised a fair investigation. Police said Mintu of Garhpur Khalsa village of Karnal district was arrested on Saturday as he had fled their custody recently after being held in a theft case. In the night, police said, Mintu developed chest pain and his condition deteriorated. Police took him to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead.Karnal DSP Jagdeep Singh, who reached to pacify the protesters, said the postmortem was conducted by a board of doctors. He said appropriate action will be taken on the basis of the postmortem report..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-dies-in-karnal-police-custody-judicial-probe-ordered-101634502865531.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu lynching a result of failure of rule of law, says Akal Takht jathedar||Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday termed the lynching at the Singhu border a result of the failure of rule of law and demanded a thorough investigation into the incident “so that the right side of the Sikh community could be presented to the world”.In a press release, he asked the government and the police not to take it as a matter of law and order in view of the religious sensitivity and emotional seriousness of the matter. He also exhorted the media to refrain from tarnishing the image of Sikhs by showing incomplete aspects of the incident.“There have been more than 400 incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib in Punjab in the last 5-6 years. Not a single culprit was given an exemplary punishment as to heal the wounds of the Sikhs. For the Sikhs, nothing is above Guru Granth Sahib. As the investigation agencies have been unable to expose the conspiracy by calling the culprits mentally ill, it has hurt the Sikhs’ trust in the law,” he said.Citing the preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights drafted by the United Nations, the jathedar said that “any person goes on a violent path only if the rule of law fails to protect his human rights”. “The failure to bring justice to the Sikhs in incidents of disrespect to Guru Granth Sahib paved the way for the Singhu incident,” he claimed. An independent agency, he added, should probe all aspects of the incident so that the truth is revealed. Clumsy attempts were being made to provoke the sentiments of the Sikhs by desecrated their holy book, he said. “These incidents can be a trick to fuel communal and inter-caste tension in Punjab. The Haryana and Punjab police should investigate the incident impartially but should not harass any innocent Sikh,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singhu-lynching-a-result-of-failure-of-rule-of-law-says-akal-takht-jathedar-101634502864271.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting teachers climb atop water tank in Mohali||Five teachers of the Unemployed Physical Training Instructors (PTI) Teachers’ Union climbed atop a water tank near Sohana and started a hunger strike on Sunday over non-fulfilment of their long-pending demand for government jobs. President of the union, Gurlabh Singh alias Bhola, said that many of the protesters are in their mid 30s, with some even postponing their marriages in the hope of a government job.The coordination committee said the five members have threatened to commit suicide one by one if their demands are not met. Taking the Mohali administration and police aback, the teachers said that they will sit on hunger strike to death if their demands are not met.  Gurlabh Singh alias Bhola said, “When Pargat Singh was an MLA, he had promised to get our jobs regularised if he becomes a minister. But, it is sorry state of affairs that an honest politician like Pargat Singh also goes back on his word after being sworn into the Punjab cabinet. We have also presented a memorandum in this regard.” Meanwhile, the Mohali administration has issued orders for allowing peaceful protests at four designated places in the district. District magistrate Isha Kalia said that protests can be held at Dusshera Ground in Phase 8, Mohali; panchayati land at Chappar village in Chiri Kalan, Mohali; football ground in Darpan city, Kharar, and at vacant land near Focal Point, Mubarakpur Road, Dera Bassi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-teachers-climb-atop-water-tank-in-mohali-101634502624914.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Casteist remarks: Yuvraj joins police probe in Hisar, released on bail||Cricketer Yuvraj Singh joined the police investigation in Hisar on Sunday where he was arrested and then released on interim bail in connection with a case of making objectionable remarks while referring to another player during an online live event. Hansi superintendent of police Nitika Gahlout said Yuvraj joined the investigation before the investigation officer DSP Vinod Shankar at Hisar as directed by the high court. “He was released on interim bail after the arrest. We have already recovered the phone of the cricketer,” she added. A Hansi-based Rajat Kalsan had lodged an FIR against Yuvraj at Hansi police station alleging that the cricketer had made casteist remarks against another cricketer. Yuvraj was booked under Sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc, and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony), 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the IPC and Section 3 (1) (u) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention and Atrocities) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/casteist-remarks-yuvraj-joins-police-probe-in-hisar-released-on-bail-101634502444262.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar launches Har-Hith retail stores||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday inaugurated 71 Har-Hith Stores, a chain of retail outlets, across the state, from Gurugram. He said the state government now aims to open 5,000 more such stores in the state. About 550 products of 60 domestic companies have been made available at the stores. The chief minister said the state government has set a target of providing employment at least to a member of every family of the state by 2025 and to achieve this goal, no stone will be left unturned for creating new dimensions of self-employment. “On the one hand youth are getting employment opportunities from these stores, on the other, people will get pure, certified and quality goods at affordable rates near their homes,” Khattar said. The chief minister said such a store will be opened in rural and urban segments having a population above 3,000 and 10,000, respectively. People will get direct and indirect benefits from these stores. Apart from MSMEs, small industrial units and cooperative sector units, quality products prepared by the women’s self help groups will be made available at the stores at a price lower than that in the market, he said. The chief minister added that all the goods will be sold through computerised system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-launches-har-hith-retail-stores-101634502205544.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Our government racing against time to address issues Punjab is facing: CM Charanjit Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi said on Sunday that his government was in a race against time to address the issues the state was facing.“Time is running out, so I have picked up speed to complete unfinished works. Whatever time is left (to assembly elections), I will neither rest myself nor let the bureaucracy relax,” he said while addressing party workers at the residence of former minister Sunder Sham Arora in Hoshiarpur.Claiming that the Congress government was committed to holistic development of the state, the CM said that judicious utilisation of time would be made to achieve this goal.He announced a grant of ₹10 crore to the Hoshiarpur constituency and assured that the proposed medical college will take shape within a year. All the necessary directions have already been issued to expedite the process for floating of tenders so that the construction starts at the earliest, he added. He said that funds to the tune of ₹5 crore would be sent shortly for the proposed state-of-the-art biodiversity and sports park in the district.The chief minister said that every week, the cabinet would take an important decision for the welfare of the people. He said that the government had given major relief to around 52 lakh consumers of up to 2KW electricity connections by waiving their arrears.“Our priority is to provide assured and reasonable civic amenities to the public. Several issues related to the expansion of cities need to be urgently addressed. We will make a master plan to rationalise urban development,” he said.On the occasion, Channi honoured representatives of various social organisations who helped the needy during the pandemic. He also handed over kits containing daily need items to the children who had lost one or both parents due to Covid-19.Accompanied by forest minister Sangat Singh Gilzian, Channi also visited Chabbewal MLA Raj Kumar, Sham Churasi MLA Pawan Adia and Dasuya legislator Arun Dogra at their residences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/our-government-racing-against-time-to-address-issues-punjab-is-facing-cm-charanjit-channi-101634502204296.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Class 11 admissions in Chandigarh: 975 seats allotted after third counselling||As many as 975 students have been allotted seats in Class 11 at government schools in the city following the third round of counselling. Of these, 495 students have applied for the science stream (medical and non-medical), 313 for commerce and 165 for vocational courses. The list for humanities hasn’t been released yet and will be out on October 19. Students will have to get in touch with the respective schools where they have been allotted seats, submit their documents and pay the fees.Meanwhile, schools will reopen for all classes in the city from Monday. The district education officer (DEO) has written to all schools asking them to ensure that all teaching and non-teaching staff is vaccinated. Attending physical classes is not mandatory and students can also continue with online classes. Those coming to school will have to get a consent form signed by their parents and must follow all Covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/class-11-admissions-in-chandigarh-975-seats-allotted-after-third-counselling-101634502147779.html
18-10-2021||Other||Woman BJP councillor, other party leaders join Congress||Senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Sunday joined the Indian National Congress Party in the presence of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu.District president of the Mahila Morcha of the BJP and ward number 77 councillor Maninder Kaur Ghuman, her husband Davinder Singh Ghuman, who is vice-president of the Kisan Morcha, BJP, and their supporters left the BJP and joined the Congress.Maninder Kaur Ghuman was the only non-Congress councillor who had won out of 17 wards in the Ludhiana (west) constituency. Now all 17 wards of the constituency have Congress councillors.Kaur claimed that for the last many months, the BJP leaders had been cut off from their workers and the party has lost the vision.They alleged that the way BJP had handled the farmers’ issue, their leaders can’t even face the common man.Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, Ashwani Sharma, DCC, Ludhiana (urban) president, Shyam Sunder Malhotra, senior deputy mayor, Ludhiana, councillors Mamta Ashu, Narinder Sharma, Sunny Bhalla, Maharaj Singh Raji, senior Congress leaders Sunil Kapoor and Munish Shah were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-bjp-councillor-other-party-leaders-join-congress-101634501965492.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||OP Chautala hits Ellenabad campaign trail for son Abhay||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) patriarch and former Haryana chief minister OP Chautala launched campaign for the October 30 Ellenabad bypoll in favour of his younger son Abhay Singh Chautala, who had quit the seat in favour of farmers’ protest against three farm laws on January 27 this year. Chautala Sr had also won the seat in 2009, but he vacated it as he had also won from Uchana Kalan . In the 2010 bypoll, his younger son Abhay won from here. Abhay represented Ellenabad twice in 2014 and 2019 assembly polls. INLD had never lost from here since 1996. Travelling in a modified vehicle given shape of a chariot, Chautala visited 12 villages and slammed the BJP-JJP coalition government while interacting with the voters. He said amid the mustard cultivation season, farmers are being made to wait for hours for di-ammonium phosphate (DAP). “Due to anti-farmer policies of this government, farmers are forced to sell their paddy and bajra crops at price lower than the minimum support price (MSP). Abhay had resigned from this seat in protest against the three farm laws. Our family has a special affection for the voters of Ellenabad. Once our candidate wins from here, many leaders of the coalition government will switch sides,” he added. Bypoll crucial for INLD, Chautala The October 30 bypoll is very crucial for the INLD and OP Chautala himself. A win from here will boost the morale of INLD workers. After a vertical split in the INLD following a feud in the Chautala family, the INLD had won only the Ellenabad seat in 2019 polls and its breakaway faction Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) won 10. JJP leader Dushyant Chautala is now the deputy chief minister. Retired political science professor from Bhiwani government college, Anant Ram, said the Ellenabad bypoll means the most for the INLD. “Abhay’s win will underline his and his father OP Chautala’s grip especially in Sirsa district. If he loses, the message is clear that even his father’s presence makes no difference. This bypoll will decide the future of the INLD and Abhay,” he added. Three generations of Chautala clan toiling To ensure Abhay’s fourth consecutive win from Ellenabad, three generations of his family are making efforts to turn the tide in his favour. Abhay’s younger son Arjun Chautala has been visiting the villages where his father is scheduled to address the meetings the next day. His elder son Karan Chautala is accompanying his grandfather OP Chautala. Sunaina Chautala, wife of Abhay’s cousin Ravi Chautala, is taking care of the women folk in villages. Abhay Chautala said both Congress and BJP nominees want to win this by-election using money power but the Ellenabad voters have self respect and reject them outrightly. “After seeing the canvassing, I can say that I am going to win this by-poll by breaking my own victory margin of more than 85,000 votes. This election is a referendum on three farm laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/op-chautala-hits-ellenabad-campaign-trail-for-son-abhay-101634501964086.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar: RPF sub-inspector arrested for conspiring to murder pregnant wife||The Yamunanagar police have arrested a sub-inspector of the Railway Police Force (RPF) for allegedly conspiring to murder his pregnant wife, who was killed last month after being run over by a car in the Prithvi Nagar area, superintendent of police Kamaldeep Goyal said on Sunday. The accused, Afsar Ali of Moradabad, has been booked for conspiring to murder his wife, Nazma of Bareilly, who was five months pregnant at the time, police said.The SP said she was run over by a car when the couple was out for a walk on September 24. She succumbed to her injuries at a hospital on the same day. “The couple got married in 2019 and soon started fighting over domestic issues. Nazma’s family had complained to the police and a compromise was reached. However, even after she got pregnant, the domestic violence continued. Meanwhile, Afsar planned her murder with a cousin and his friends. The case was transferred to CIA-1 and they found that it wasn’t an accident, but a murder,” Goyal said in a statement.Crime branch in-charge Rakesh Kumar said the suspect was arrested on Friday and presented before a court the next day that sent him to five-day remand.“An accident case was lodged at Farakpur police station, but now, relevant sections will be added to the FIR. The rest of the accused are yet to be arrested,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yamunanagar-rpf-sub-inspector-arrested-for-conspiring-to-murder-pregnant-wife-101634501843953.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU teachers’ body polls: Field for president’s post down to two||The incumbent, Mritunjay Kumar,will contest against Manu Sharma of University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET) for the post of president in the upcoming Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) elections scheduled for October 28.The final list of candidates was released on Sunday by returning officer Vijay Nagpal following withdrawal of candidature.Also, Ikreet Singh Bal (dental college) will battle it out against Supinder Kaur (laws) for the post of vice-president. Amarjit Singh Naura (biochemistry) and Kashmir Singh (biotechnology) are contesting for the post of secretary. For joint secretary, Sarvnarinder Kaur (biophysics) will battle it out against Shivani Sharma (philosophy) and Nitin Arora (economics) will contest against Sucha Singh (USOL) for the post of treasurer.A total of eight candidates are in fray for four seats in executive Group-I and eight candidates are in fray for executive Group-II (four seats). For executive Group-III (four seats), eight candidates are in fray.The Mritunjay – Naura team issued a statement on Sunday stating that in the tough times of Covid, when every possible effort was made to stifle the voice of teachers, the PUTA leadership carried forward the flame of activism with unflinching resolve. “We want to assure the community that we shall safeguard the interests of the teachers without succumbing to the lures or threats of the present feudalistic dispensation,” they stated.The Mritunjay-Naura group had managed a clean sweep against the rival Khalid group in last year’s PUTA election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/puteachers-body-polls-field-for-president-s-post-down-to-two-101634501424130.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Teenager among five killed in two Karnal road mishaps||Five people were killed and as many sustained injuries in two road accidents in Karnal on Saturday night and Sunday. Four people were killed and two suffered injuries when a stationary combine harvester was hit by truck near Sirsi village on the Karnal-Kaithal road around 9.15pm on Saturday. Police identified the deceased as Salinder, 30, of Sirsi village; combine harvester driver Charan Singh, 30, from Patiala and Sachin Singh, 18, of Gohra Kheri of Kaithal district. Truck driver Sunil Kumar of Nauch village of Kaithal also succumbed to his injuries on Sunday. His assistant Ravi Kumar of Uttar Pradesh sustained injuries. Karnal Sadar police in-charge Tarsem Singh said a case has been registered against the truck driver under sections 279 and 304-A of the Indian Penal Code and the bodies have been handed over to the family members after the postmortem examination. In another mishap, a teenager, Sahil Kumar, 16, of Palheri village of Panipat district was killed and his mother and uncle sustained injuries when the bike they were riding on was hit by a tractor-trailer near Barsat village in Karnal district on Sunday morning. A case has been registered against the tractor driver and investigation is going on, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teenager-among-five-killed-in-two-karnal-road-mishaps-101634501003934.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Migrants who left Delhi in second Covid-19 wave returning||Transactions recorded under the ‘one nation one ration card’ (ONORC) scheme — notified in July — have been going up consistently every month, indicating that migrant workers, who left the capital in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 earlier this year, are returning, said senior Delhi government officials.Goods and services tax (GST) and value-added tax (VAT) collections are also up since July, suggesting that economic activities have gone up with a phased scaling down of lockdown restrictions.“Other than schools, prohibition on large gatherings, and maximum cap on guests in certain industries such as restaurants, bars, banquet halls, etc, are over. More migrant workers are now returning to the city each month,” said a senior official in the Delhi government on condition of anonymity.The ONORC scheme allows people to avail of subsidised food grains under the National Food Security Act from fair price shops in towns they live irrespective of where their ration cards are registered. Government records show that when the scheme was rolled out in July, there were 29,569 transactions at the 2,000-odd fair price shops in the city. This went up to 38,173 in August and 85,327 in September. This month, transactions have already crossed 46,000. Officials in the government’s food and civil supplies department said, over the next one week, it may exceed the 100,000-mark for the first time.The number of ration cardholders from other states who reside in Delhi is estimated by the government as 200,000, which translates to around 1 million beneficiaries (assuming each cardholder feeds four other mouths).These are over and above the 1.78 million ration cardholders and 7.2 million beneficiaries registered in the national capital.Going by Census 2011 data, around 40% of the 7.2 million are also believed to be migrants from other states who have settled in Delhi over time and got ration cards registered here.“Trade, commerce and industrial activities have picked up and it reflects in the GST and VAT collections in the first two quarters. That usually leads to higher labour demand,” said the first senior official cited above.Government records showed that GST collections in Delhi witnessed a decrease from ₹2,325.64 crore recorded in April to ₹991.05 crore in May and further down to ₹968.4 crore in June. But they went up to ₹1,584.75 crore in July, further up to ₹1,713.96 crore in August and ₹1,976.82 crore in September.VAT collections, too, reflect a similar trend. They went down from ₹417.01 crore in April to ₹358.17 crore in May and further down to ₹207.35 crore in June. But they started to go up after that— ₹440.03 crore in July, ₹557.7 crore in August and ₹565.92 crore in September, records showed.“We learnt that the government was scaling down restrictions and economic activities. But we did not have the confidence to return till September. Now it seems safe. I have a job in a factory. Thanks to the ration card scheme, we can avail subsidised food grain in Delhi,” said Rajesh Prajapati, a migrant from Bihar.Rakesh Kumar, a migrant from eastern Uttar Pradesh said, “Big cities like Delhi lack safety nets for poor people like us. The ration scheme comes as a major relief because our jobs are not very secure.”While the government had started with a phased relaxation process of the lockdown since June, HT had then published a series of articles on how migrant workers chose to stay put for a while for reasons ranging from Covid-19 cases in their own families, medical costs draining savings, lack of security net and job assurance in the city, and fears of a potential third wave of the pandemic.“These concerns have clearly reduced now. By Diwali, industries are expected to operate at 90% capacity and above. Labour demand is increasing. So, a lot of migrant workers are coming back to the city,” said Neeraj Sehgal, general secretary of the welfare body at Delhi’s most prominent industrial area in Mayapuri.Government reports said that more than 807,000 migrant workers left Delhi in buses they boarded from the interstate bus terminals in the first four weeks of the complete lockdown starting April 19 this year, that came after a record surge in Covid-19 infections.The actual number is likely to be higher because the city government did not maintain records of migrant workers who left the city in trains and other means in the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/transactions-under-one-ration-card-scheme-up-signals-return-of-migrants-101634500179573.html
18-10-2021||Other||Shobha yatra throws city traffic out of gear; commuters a harried lot||A shobha yatra taken out in the old city area to celebrate Valmiki Jayanti left thousands of commuters stranded on Sunday. The area around the Old Sabzi Mandi was the worst hit.Serpentine queues of vehicles were seen on roads leading to prominent spots in the city. A large number of cops were deployed to regulate traffic. Besides, police were deployed on the elevated road near the Clock Tower to provide a bird’s-eye view to the cops deployed on the ground for the shobha yatra.However, Covid protocols were simply ignored during the occasion. The traffic police, which remains proactive in challaning commuters for not wearing masks, preferred to look the other way.The roads leading to Clock Tower, Domoria Bridge, Mata Rani Chowk, Field Gunj and near the Chand Cinema witnessed massive traffic jams.The lack of coordination between the police and ‘nagar kirtan’ organisers also contributed to the traffic jam. Commuters were caught unawares as the police gave no prior information about the yatra.“It has been more than 30 minutes and I could hardly reach the Jagraon bridge in my car,” said a commuter.Caught in the traffic, some opted to park their vehicles at the railway station and walk to their destinations.Women were the worst-hit as besides being caught in the gridlock, they were harassed and were pushed and showed.The chaos also led to pollution and unnecessary loss of fuel as vehicles remained stranded or moved at a snail’s pace. Those who had to deal the most with pollution were two-wheeler riders and pedestrians.Gurpreet Kaur, while trying to calm down her five-year-old son who had suffered a bout of cough due to pollution, said: “My son is suffering from bronchitis, and I was taking him to the doctor. But we are now stuck in a traffic jam. I don’t know where to go.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shobha-yatra-throws-city-traffic-out-of-gear-commuters-a-harried-lot-101634500050217.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 arrested for killing sanitation worker in Ludhiana||The police claimed to have solved the murder case of sanitation worker, Deepak Kumar, 26, of Guru Nanak Nagar, Mundian, within 24 hours with the arrest of three accused. According to the police, the accused had bludgeoned Deepak to death with a stick following a petty issue of asking for a passage to cross. The accused have been identified as Deepak Sharma, 25, of Uttar Pradesh, who is living at Prem Nagar in Giaspura, Munish Kumar, 23, of A-one Colony of Bhattian Kalan and Ashish Pandey, 22, of Rasila Nagar, Jamalpur. The police produced the accused before the court on Sunday which remanded them to one-day police custody for questioning. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, rural) Sachin Gupta said the victim with his friend Badal and maternal uncle Sonu were returning home on their motorcycle after attending a birthday party on Friday. As they reached near Decent School, Bhamian, they found the accused, who were in an inebriated condition, had blocked the passage by parking their motorcycle. The JCP said that Deepak had asked the accused to give them a passage to cross. The accused started abusing them. After Deepak objected to it and challenged them, the accused gave them a chase and intercepted them near the school. The JCP added that the accused took a stick and hit Deepak on his head. Badal and Sonu fled the spot to call their friends. When they came back, they found Deepak lying injured and rushed him to a hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. The police lodged a murder case against the accused and initiated an investigation on Saturday. Inspector Kulwant Singh Malhi, SHO, Jamalpur police station, said the accused were captured in the CCTVs installed in the area. Police identified them and nabbed them within 24 hours. He added that the weapon used in the crime was yet to be recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-arrested-for-killing-sanitation-worker-in-ludhiana-101634500047306.html
18-10-2021||Other||Finally, messes to reopen at sports stadiums in Ludhiana||With sports activities being resumed in the state, the local district sports officer (DSO) has finally ordered to reopen messes at sports stadiums and academies in Ludhiana which were closed since the Covid-induced lockdown was imposed in March last year.The move is a major relief for players below the poverty line. With the closure of these messes, these players were largely struggling to fulfil their basic dietary requirements.Ravinder Singh, district sports officer, Ludhiana, said only those players who were also getting an education along with their sports would get the diet funded by the state governmentHe had sought a list of such players from sports centres and local academies who were eligible to get money for their diet each day.There are two categories of players -- day scholars and residential players.Day scholars, who return home after playing their sport, will get ₹100 each day for the diet. However, residential players, who avail hostel facilities, will get ₹200 for their diet per day.“It is essential for the players to study as well. They need to strike a perfect balance between sports and education as that will groom them well and help them to lead a successful life. According to the government’s policy, only those players who are in schools or pursuing higher education are eligible to get funds for the diet from the government. We have asked for the lists of such players and, accordingly, will seek funds for them from the director, sports, Punjab,” Singh said.He added that messes were likely to reopen this week.Meanwhile, players are excited to get funds for their basic diet again.Rohit Kumar, 16, son of a labourer from Kotkapura in Faridkot, who is also a national NBA player in the junior category and trains at the District Basketball Academy here, said, “It got really difficult for my father to manage the budget for my sports and education. I couldn’t get a non-vegetarian diet which is really essential for the overall development of a player. It’s a big relief for many players like me who were waiting to get these funds again. Now I will at least have eggs and non-vegetarian food daily which will help me to match the international standards”.He added that so far, his coaches from the academy were helping him to get the basic diet at least.Sports centres in the state, which had been shut down to contain the pandemic, were allowed to reopen from October 11.With this, hostels of sports centres in the district will also open for the players.Another senior official said a few parents were still hesitant in sending their child back to the hostels of these sports centres fearing Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/finally-messes-to-reopen-at-sports-stadiums-in-ludhiana-101634500046061.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s air quality dips as farmers set stubble on fire||With the onset of the paddy harvesting season, the air quality index (AQI) is also beginning to deteriorate. The AQI that was between 50 and 70 in September has suddenly begun to worsen. As the district has witnessed nearly 200 stubble-burning cases so far, the air quality deteriorated to 205 on October 12 and later on, the AQI remained over 100, with particulate matter 2.5 being a prominent pollutant. The agriculture department claims that the number of stubble-burning cases is less as compared to last year, but the projection of pollution level shows otherwise. According to Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head, department of climate change and agricultural meteorology, currently, the airspeed is less than 2 km per hour. In such a situation, the suspended particulate matter in the air gets locked at and leads to an increase in the pollution level. She said as the rain was expected in a few days, the mercury was expected to dip. “Under such weather when the cold conditions set in and moisture levels are high, vehicular, industrial and smoke caused by stubble burning are going to increase the pollution level,” said Dr Kaur. Chief agriculture officer of the district Narinder Singh Benipal said in order to encourage stubble management, farmers were being given machinery free of cost. He said after the use, these machines could be returned to cooperative societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-air-quality-dips-as-farmers-set-stubble-on-fire-101634500044251.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Cops find ‘safe, profitable’ way to store seized cash||In order to ensure that cash seized from different crime spots remains safe from termites, rats and potential theft from the maalkhana (store room where case property is kept) at police stations, the Delhi Police are considering to put the money in a fixed deposit account, officers aware of the matter said.The officials said that a circular with directions detailing the measures to the city’s police stations and other investigation units such as the special cell and the crime branch for putting seized money into fixed deposit accounts in nationalised banks is likely to be issued this week.Apart from cash, jewellery may also be deposited in the banks, a senior police officer privy to the development said.The proposed move follows the order of a local court that accepted the application by an investigating officer (IO) and station house officer (SHO) of the Palam Village police station, and allowed them to transfer ₹96,340 in cash from the maalkhana to a fixed deposit account to be opened in the name of the police station. The money was seized during a raid on a gambling racket.In its order, the court appreciated the suggestion, and said, “…considering that substantial interest can be accrued on the monies if deposited in FDRs during the pendency of the case, and even until the District Nazir takes up the case property for disposal. The said monies would stand its worth if circulated in the economy rather than being sealed and kept in maalkhana. And further, the interest accrued can be used to enrich government treasury or reward the informer as the provision of Act (Delhi Police Gambling Act, 1955) suggests.”Buoyed by the court’s appreciation, the police station has now decided to approach the concerned courts, seeking permission for putting in bank around ₹8 lakh that were seized in nearly 40 different cases, mostly of gambling, and have been kept in the police station’s maalkhana for the past several years.“Once the circular is issued, officers of the other police stations may also approach the courts for saving the seized currency notes into fixed deposit, and the receipts can be produced during the court proceedings instead of the cash. Transporting cash between courts and police stations is also risky,” the officer added.Although data regarding the exact amount in cash and jewellery items kept in the maalkhanas at 210 police stations and other investigation unit across the city was not readily available with the city police, senior officers said that it could be in crores. Keeping such case property secure and intact for the perusal of the courts is the responsibility of the maalkhana in-charge.“There have been instances where seized cash property, including cash and documents, were misappropriated or were nibbled away by rats or termites in the maalkhanas. Being the custodian of the case property, the some maalkhana in-charge have even faced departmental action for such misappropriation. Keeping such money in a fixed deposit account would help address these problems,” said a second police officer, who asked not be named.In April-May 2008, smuggled gold biscuits worth lakhs of rupees that were seized and kept in the maalkhana at the Karol Bagh police station went missing, prompting the then police chief YS Dadwal issue an order, directing all police stations to divide the space in the maalkhana for miscellaneous property and costly items.“A similar misappropriation of seized cash property was reported from a police station in outer Delhi and brought to the notice of the top brass, That’s also a reason that the decision to deposit the seized cash as fixed deposit in banks is being taken,” said a second police officer, requesting anonymity.According to the rules, the seized money is transferred to the government’s treasury after the disposal of the case by the court concerned, and the arrested persons are convicted by the court.In case the alleged accused are acquitted and they claim the money, the amount is returned to them following the court’s directions.Since the disposal of the cases takes time, the seized currency notes are kept in the maalkhanas of the police stations until the court issues order for their disposal through the district Nazirs, the officer added.Nazir refers to a court official who is in-charge of the treasury, stamps and processes the goods, evidences and vehicles collected from the police investigators. Nazirs also issues summons on court orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cops-find-safe-profitable-way-to-store-seized-cash-101634499789356.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The baingi walla||It’s so quaint, so different from the rest of the street blab. This tinkling of Vijay’s ghanti, his bell. In fact, his entire establishment is sublimely quaint, like an echo emanating belatedly from a vanished sound.Vijay’s brass bell is heralding his arrival to whoever cares to notice as he makes his way through the bazar. He’s shouldering a heap of sohan papdi. The mithais are gently bobbing on a paraat (platter) that is dangling by a rope tied to a wooden staff perched on Vijay’s shoulder. This is balanced on the other side by a hefty metal box attached to a similar rope. The whole contraption resembles ‘insaaf ka taraju,’ the scale of justice. Vijay says he made it himself. “I don’t know the sheheri (city) name for it but I call this baingi.”Watching Vijay walk with his baingi is evocative of a celebrated sequence in Satyajit Ray’s film Pather Panchali in which a similar mithai seller ambles along with his yoked sweets, greedily followed by two children and a dog. But that was a black-and-white village in Bengal. This is a 21st century lane in the Milleneum City of Gurugram. Vijay has been selling sohan papdi in the area for more than 15 years. His extremely expressive face is frequently flashing a smile so infectious that each one of the lane’s vegetable sellers is flashing an equally glowing smile back at him.Vijay’s so-called baingi is more than a decade old but has become so rare these days that it might as well be handed over to the National Museum. The sweet seller laughs, agreeing that “even I don’t see anyone else using it.” A UP native, he recalls his childhood in the village in Aligarh where itinerant hawkers such as snake charmers and honey sellers routinely appeared “carrying this kind of thing.” Explaining that the baingi isn’t cumbersome to manage, Vijay says that he stops whenever he gets tired, and frees himself briefly from its weight. “It was this kind of palki in which Shravan Kumar carried his blind parents for the pilgrimage,” he says, referring to an anecdote in the Ramayan.The mithai seller continues to walk ahead, ringing his bell. And yes, the sohan papdi is delicious, which is sourced from a mithai shop. You may spot Vijay around the subzi mandi in Sadar Bazar. Sightings of baingi carriers (with slightly varying kinds of self-made baingis) have also been recorded in Old Delhi, such as the market lane that goes past Jama Masjid’ gate no. 2, as well as the alley running behind Jagat Cinema (see photo). Happy hunting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-baingi-walla-101634499216681.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Man who faked abduction held for ₹10 crore fraud after five years||Five years after his family reported his abduction, a 48-year-old businessman, wanted by the economic offences wing (EOW) in a ₹10-crore cheating and forgery case, was arrested last week from Indirapuram, near Ghaziabad -- less than 10km from east Delhi’s Krishna Nagar police station, where the kidnapping case was registered in 2016, police said.The accused, Manoj Jain, his two sons and his wife, who was a co-accused in the case, were living with him in the ground floor house at Indirapuram since 2018, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram. The DCP added that a reward of ₹25,000 was recently announced on the arrest of Jain.“Between his arrest and shifting base from Krishna Nagar to Indirapuram, Jain became a prominent private financer for shopkeepers in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram, Vaishali and Vasundhara. Some people in his new neighbourhood knew him as Amit, and for many others he was still Manoj Jain. He bought the new house in 2018 in his son’s name for around ₹50 lakh,” said DCP Sathiyasundaram.The DCP said Jain and his brother, Manish, ran paper trading and garments businesses from their offices in Chawri Bazar in old Delhi and Gandhi Nagar in east Delhi.Sanjay Kaul, who was a family friend of the Jains, started investing in their business when the Jain brothers convinced him that they will pay him high returns. Kaul, who was running losses in his business, invested nearly ₹10 crore, investigators said.However, after paying handsome returns initially, the Jains stopped paying, and then refused to return Kaul’s investment. Kaul filed a police complaint in 2015 and named Manoj and Manish Jain, their wives and mother, said an officer from the anti-auto theft squad (AATS) that arrested Jain last week. He added that during initial probe, the police found that there were at least four more who alleged cheating by the Jain brothers.“When the Jains found that a case would be registered, and they may be arrested, they cooked up an abduction story. In January 2016, Manish filed a missing person’s complaint regarding his brother Manoj at the Krishna Nagar police station,” said the officer, adding that Manish apprehended that his brother has been abducted.In his complaint to the police, Manish said his brother (Manoj) went to pay ₹15 lakh to a client but he neither reached office nor returned home. Among other suspects, the police also questioned those who were allegedly cheated by the Jain brothers. But over the years, the police could not find any clue.In March 2017, a cheating and forgery case was registered against the Jains on the orders of a local court, and the investigation was transferred to the EOW. However, by that time all accused named in the complaint by Kaul had gone untraceable. After a while, wives of the Jain brothers and their mother got interim bail from the court. However, the Jain brothers remained absconding, the officer added.“Jain has confessed that his fake abduction was part of the family’s plan to avoid returning the money to the investors and evade legal action. Before shifting to Indirapuram, he lived in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. We are looking for his brother Manish who will be booked for filing a fake kidnapping case, besides his involvement in cheating investors,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-who-faked-abduction-held-for-10-crore-fraud-after-five-years-101634499063037.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s civic bodies advance budget process by a month||With an eye on the civic body elections slated to be held in Delhi early next year, the annual budget process for municipal corporations has been advanced by one month, said senior officials.A senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) official said communications have been sent to all departments to submit their sector-wise budgetary requirements and achievements over the past year.The official said that the commissioner’s budget is likely to be held in November.“The commissioner’s budget is followed by proposals being amended or cleared by the standing committee and is finally approved the house of councillors. The whole process is likely be wrapped up by January,” said the official.The responses from each department will be compiled by the directorate of press and information.“The elections are likely to be held in March-April 2022, so we will have to keep a window before which the model code of conduct comes into force. The model code of conduct can be enforced in end-January or February,” an official associated with the budgeting process in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation said.Rakesh Gupta, spokesperson of the East Delhi civic body said they have asked departments to file their inputs for the budget speech by October 25.“We need to be prepared to complete the budget early from our end. Each department has been given two weeks’ time to file their requirements. Usually, the commissioner’s budget speech is held in early-December so that the deliberative wing can complete the process by February,” he added.The civic bodies have been facing severe financial crises, with several employees striking over the non-payment of salaries over the past year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-civic-bodies-advance-budget-process-by-a-month-101634498577451.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Kejriwal lays foundation for 1.4k bed Shalimar Bagh hospital||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday laid the foundation stone for the construction of a 1,430-bed hospital in northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, and said that work on construction of six more government hospitals will begin in the next six months, highlighting the importance of scaling up health care infrastructure in the light of any possible future waves of Covid-19.“The Delhi government is revolutionising health care services in the state as a part of its resolve to give better facilities to the common man. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, in the same prospect today, laid the foundation stone of a new hospital with a capacity of 1,430 beds at Shalimar Bagh. Being constructed at a cost of ₹275 crores, this hospital will be ready in six months,” the Delhi government said in a statement.“Earlier it used to cost ₹1 crore to build a normal hospital bed, but our government is spending only ₹20 lakh to create an intensive care unit bed. Seven new such hospitals (including the one in Shalimar Bagh) are to be built in different areas of Delhi by the health department of Delhi government in six months,” Kejriwal said, according to the statement.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain and Aam Aadmi Party MLA from Shalimar Bagh Vandana Kumari also attended the event.“A new government hospital with 1,430 beds is being built in Shalimar Bagh. In the time of Covid, the whole world has understood the need for medical facilities. I would like to congratulate the people of Delhi on the fact that their government has been working constantly to strengthen the medical facilities of the city since day one,” the chief minister said.‘Bolstering health care infra to tackle Covid-19’He said that as a responsible government they are taking all steps needed to face any possible “third wave” of the coronavirus pandemic.“If there is a third wave of Covid-19 at any point, then as a responsible government, we are taking all important steps needed. Just in the month of April, when the second wave of Covid-19 came, the hospitals had the biggest shortage of oxygen and ICU beds. In this view, the Delhi government has taken a big step. The Delhi government is going to build seven new hospitals in different areas of Delhi, which will have a total capacity of 6,800 beds, and all these seven hospitals will be ready within six months. I think it will probably be a world record that within six months seven hospitals with a capacity of 6,800 beds will be ready.”The chief minister also said that the government will develop and implement an international standard system for medical care and facilities, and mentioned his government’s plan to implement the Health Information Management System (HIMS).“Within the next one-and-a-half year, every citizen of Delhi will have their own health card. Whether poor or rich, all the data of their health will be on the computer. The person will not have to carry any slip. They can go to any hospital, all the old X-ray reports from his childhood till date, and all the data will be on the computer. You will not need to go anywhere, you will go straight to the doctor and the doctor will be waiting for you. Whoever has a health card in his hand, his entire treatment will be free,” Kejriwal said.Health minister Jain tweeted, “Delhi government is going to build another state-of-the-art hospital for the people of Delhi. Its foundation was laid by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in Shalimar Bagh today. The construction work of this hospital with a capacity of 1,430 beds will be completed in the next 6 months.”During the event, a ‘havan’ was also performed and Kejriwal along with Jain participated in the ritual according to traditions and unveiled a commemorative stone plaque.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-kejriwal-lays-foundation-for-1-4k-bed-shalimar-bagh-hospital-101634498131618.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttarakhand CM Dhami meets Mahant Nritya Gopal Das||Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Sunday met chairman, Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, at Mani Ram Das Chhavni Peeth in Ayodhya. Dhami also laid foundation stone of an ashram which is being constructed by the Delhi Seva Dham. During his meeting with Nritya Gopal Das, Dhami inquired about his health. They also discussed the ongoing construction work of Ram Mandir. Other saints of Ayodhya also met Dhami at Mani Ram Das Chhavni Peeth. He left for Uttarakhand by a state plane from Ayodhya in the afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttarakhand-cm-dhami-meets-mahant-nritya-gopal-das-101634498003668.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: 10 new cases, no death in past 24 hours in Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh reported zero death and 10 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, according to the data shared by the state health department on Sunday.During the last 24 hours, 1,41,543 samples were tested in the state and the positivity rate for the day stands at 0.007%. Over 8.96 crore samples have been tested so far in the state. Currently, there are 119 active Covid cases in the state, the data shared.The data revealed a total of 22,898 deaths and 17,10,028 Covid cases have been reported till now. Besides, with 19 fresh recoveries, the total recoveries reached 16,87,011 and the recovery rate currently stands at 98.8%.As per the data, 42 districts in the state do not have any active Covid cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-10-new-cases-no-death-in-past-24-hours-in-uttar-pradesh-101634497943783.html
18-10-2021||Other||Uttarakhand forest deptt starts using DNA testing to deal with challenge of identifying ‘man-eater’ leopards||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand forest department has started DNA testing of faecal matter of leopards, caught after people get killed in their attacks, to ascertain whether the big cat is ‘problematic’ or ‘man-eater’. In the last two months, the department has sent faecal matter of two leopards, caged in Kumaon, for testing to the Wildlife Institute of India (WII). On September 23, in an attempt to avoid man-animal conflict, night curfew was clamped in half a dozen villages in Pithoragarh district after an eight-year-old girl was dragged and killed by a leopard in Bajeti village adjoining the district headquarters. After the incident, a cage was set up and a leopard was caught. The test of its faecal matter revealed that it hadn’t consumed human flesh. Later it was released back into forests. In the case of a leopard caught in Nainital on October 9 after a two-year child was killed in a leopard attack a day earlier, the forest officials have sent its faecal matter for DNA testing to check whether it had killed the child. On Saturday, another leopard has been caught from the same area. Uttarakhand chief wildlife warden JS Suhag said that this is for the first time the department has started DNA testing the caged leopards in a major way to ascertain whether they had killed the children. “The testing of stools for human remains, such as hair and bones, helps in establishing whether the leopard has killed a human and eaten flesh or any other body part,” he said, adding that it is also for the first time that nine leopards have been radio-collared in the state. Challenge of checking man-leopard conflict Over 400 people have been killed in leopard attacks since the state was formed in 2000. Human deaths in leopard attacks account for nearly half of the total deaths due to wild animals in the state, reveals data of the state forest department. Wildlife experts say there are many factors due to which it has been difficult to check man-leopard conflict in the state, be it the hilly terrain which provides ample space to leopards to hide to human settlements scattered in hills overlapping with the leopard territories. Difficulties in identifying man-eater leopard Whenever people get killed in leopard attacks, under the pressure of angry villagers, the forest department gives permission for eliminating the problematic leopard and a hunter is roped in to shoot it down. But it is never clear whether the hunters have shot down the actual problematic leopard or another leopard using the same territory. To ensure that a leopard is a man-eater and the same one is hunted, there are options like DNA analysis of its faecal matter that contains traces of human remains, comparison of pugmarks, using camera traps in the area and physically following the leopard trail for a significant period. But the biggest challenge is time. Between angry villagers and the man-eater leopard roaming near humans, the forest department is often under tremendous pressure to act swiftly. Experts say it is easier to track a tiger than a leopard, as leopard moves in vast hilly terrains while tigers generally live in grassy forests. A leopard is very secretive animal and moves around generally in dark, like most felines. So, when a leopard is hunted, it is difficult to know the exact leopard. Also, the territory of a leopard, depending on the food availability, can vary from 10-15 sq km to 35-40 sq km. And they also target pigs, small cattle and dogs found near human settlements. A former senior officer in the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), wishing not to be named, said there are many challenges in identifying a leopard which has attacked or killed a human. “Mostly leopards attack humans accidentally when they come in contact with them. Many times, they attack but they don’t eat their victims. But it is still a good practice to use all available techniques to identify the individual leopard which has killed a human,” he said. ‘DNA testing will help save innocent leopards’ SK Gupta, nodal officer of animal forensics at Wildlife Institute of India (WII), said it is a good thing that the forest department is going for DNA testing of faecal matter of leopards which come into conflict with the humans. “This will also check the killing of innocent leopards under pressure by the locals. Leopards are also territorial and there may be more than one leopard occupying a territory, which may be overlapping with the areas where people live. This is good for the conservation of the leopards,” said Gupta who has been working on the technique of finding human DNA in the faecal matter of carnivores to ascertain whether they have eaten humans.Hunter Lakhpat Singh’s strategyHunter Lakhpat Singh, who has killed 55 man-eater leopards so far, said it is not easy to identify and kill a man-eater leopard, especially when it is moving in the hilly areas. “But there is a pattern in the activities of a man-eater leopard, which helps us to track it down. There is change in its behaviour. It is comparatively not afraid of humans. If it is afraid, it can’t attack humans. Also, mostly man-eater leopards attack between 6 and 8 pm,” Singh said. “When the young children in the villages are out playing, leopards take advantage of fading light. If a leopard is moving after 8 pm, it is generally not a man-eater. Of the 55 man-eater leopards I have shot, most of them happened between 6 and 8 pm. Only in five cases I have shot a man-eater after 8 pm and two during daytime.” On the strategy of killing a man-eater leopard, he said many of them often return to areas where they hunted earlier. He said when he is out to take down a man-eater leopard, he moves with a team of 2 more persons with a rifle and powerful searchlights. “While hunting the man-eater, we use powerful searchlights in the forest areas and it reflects the leopard’s eyes in the darkness which helps us in spotting it. With the searchlights on, the leopard stops in its tracks for some moments which gives us the window to take aim and shoot it down.” Leopard population in state The exact number of leopards in the hill state at present is not clear. But as per the records of the forest department, the last state-wide leopard estimation exercise was conducted in 2008, when the state reported 2,335 leopards. Also, according to The Status of Leopards in India report released in December last year, Uttarakhand reported the maximum number of leopards (839) in tiger habitations among Shivalik hills and Gangetic plains landscape, followed by 316 in Uttar Pradesh and 98 in Bihar. The report had pointed out that “there is an increasing need for corridor connectivity, and improvement of habitat, to reduce interface with humans and thereby reducing the chance of conflict.” Uttarakhand forest deptt’s fresh instructions for checking and dealing with man-leopard conflict In July this year, Uttarakhand Forest department released instructions for checking and dealing with the man-leopard conflict in the Himalayan state. The directions issued stated that quick response teams be deployed in such areas by the officials concerned where leopard movement is spotted and leopard attacks are being reported. After the leopard attacks , the officials concerned should try to understand the circumstances under which the leopards are attacking and come up with measures to check that such incidents don’t occur in the area in future. The officers concerned have also been directed to talk to people in the affected areas and guide them how to save themselves from leopard attacks. In December 2016, the Uttarakhand high court ordered a complete ban on the killing tigers, leopards and panthers that were declared “man-eaters/rogues,” directing the authorities that “the wild animal that pose threat to human life should be captured alive and released in nearby forests or can be kept in zoo temporarily and thereafter be released in its own habitat.” However, the state government moved the Supreme Court and got a stay on the HC order last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhand-forest-deptt-starts-using-dna-testing-to-deal-with-challenge-of-identifying-man-eater-leopards-101634497645441.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Five-day RSS “Abhyas Varg” begins in Ayodhya today||Karsevakpuram in Ayodhya has been turned into a fortress for the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh’s (RSS) five-day Akhil Bharatiya Sharirik Abhyas Varg starting there on Monday. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will reach Ayodhya on Tuesday and will remain there for three days.The all-important event, held every fifth year in which RSS volunteers are apprised and trained on how to propagate nationalism, Indian culture and promote Swadeshi along with other such issues among masses, is being organised outside Nagpur after a long time when assembly polls are proposed in Uttar Pradesh early next year. RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale, senior functionary Bhaiyyaji Joshi and other office bearers from 45 provincial units are attending the meeting. Most of them have already reached Ayodhya and are staying at Karsevakpuram. Around 500 RSS volunteers from across the country are attending the event. “RSS wants to give a message to its cadre that how important Uttar Pradesh is for it. Assembly elections are due in Uttar Pradesh early next year which is an important state. Construction of Ram Mandir is also going on which is big morale booster for the RSS,” said a senior RSS functionary. “Uttar Pradesh assembly polls will also be discussed at the five-day meeting,” he added. According to sources, RSS is likely to organise its centenary year celebrations in Ayodhya in 2025. RSS came into existence in Nagpur on Dussehra day in 1925. Ram Mandir construction committee meeting today A two-day Ram Mandir construction committee meeting will start on Monday in Ayodhya at a time when RSS chief Mohan Baghwat will also be there for the Akhil Bharatiya Sharirik Abhyas Varg.Nripendra Misra, the chairman of the committee, will reach Ayodhya on Monday to preside over the meeting. According to members of the Trust, RSS chief is also likely to hold informal discussion with Misra on the ongoing Ram Mandir construction. Champat Rai, general secretary, Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, will apprise RSS chief about other development projects proposed in Ayodhya. The Trust has set a December 2023 deadline for the opening of the sanctum-sanctorum of Ram Mandir for devotees before next Lok Sabha polls due in May 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fiveday-rss-abhyas-varg-begins-in-ayodhya-today-101634497523470.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Heavy rain across Uttar Pradesh; more likely, says weatherman||Lucknow: Several districts across Uttar Pradesh, including Lucknow, recorded heavy flash rain accompanied by strong winds on Sunday afternoon. The adverse weather was caused by western disturbances and cyclonic circulations, officials of the meteorological department said. Similar weather conditions would prevail across Uttar Pradesh on Monday, leading to more rain, the Indian Metrological Department (IMD) warned on Sunday. In Lucknow, heavy rain started after 3:30 pm and continued for two hours. The rain was accompanied by strong winds exceeding 40 kmph. Consequently, trees were uprooted and electricity supply disrupted in several areas. Low-lying area of the city also reported water -logging that led to traffic congestion. “The state recorded an average of 4mm rainfall on Sunday due to low pressure zone caused by western disturbance and lower cyclonic circulations,” said state MeT director JP Gupta. “Similar weather conditions will prevail across Uttar Pradesh till Monday evening,” he added. Very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall is likely over west Uttar Pradesh in Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur, Badaun, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly and Sambhal on Monday. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places in Lakhimpur Kheri, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Mainpuri, Bijnor, Amroha, Hardoi, Aligarh, Mathura, Agra, Etawah and Auraiya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/heavy-rain-across-uttar-pradesh-more-likely-says-weatherman-101634497405559.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||₹25 lakh cash stolen from Agra police station||Agra Cash worth ₹25 lakh was stolen from the ‘maalkhana’ (goods house) of Jagdishpura police station here on Sunday. Taking a serious note of the security lapse, additional director general (ADG) Agra Zone Rajeev Krishna suspended six policemen, including the station house officer and a sub inspector. “It was a serious lapse, so strong action is being taken and those guilty will be brought to book at the earliest,” said the ADG. “Cash of about ₹25 lakh and 4 kilogrammes of gold were recovered in a criminal case recently worked out. This material and cash was kept in the ‘maalkhana’ of Jagdishpura police station. On Sunday morning, it was found that the cash was missing. There were apprehensions that weapons were also taken away but it was found that they were safe,” he said. “It appears that someone broke into the ‘maalkhana’ last night and took away cash. A case has been registered against unidentified people at Jagdishpura police station and SSP Agra has been asked for a detailed probe. Teams have been constituted to nab the culprit,” he said. “It is a case of negligence and station house officer (SHO) AK Tiwari, sub inspector on night duty Ram Niwas , head clerk and three constables on night duty have been suspended,” the ADG said. Superintendent of police (SP) Vikas Kumar reached the police station and informed that inventory of goods present in ‘maalkhana’ of Jagdishpura police station was being prepared. “There was apprehension of arms missing too but it was ruled out after inspection,” stated Kumar. “CCTV footage is being scrutinized and forensic experts have been asked to provide clues,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rs-25-lakh-cash-stolen-from-agra-police-station-101634496743694.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Despite spell of rain, pollution in Delhi gets worse||Despite moderate spells rain of in parts of the city, Delhi’s pollutions level got worse, falling perilously close to the ‘very poor’ zone, with the average air quality index (AQI) reading hitting 298, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), even as officials said they expect the air to get better from Monday. The weather office, meanwhile, said showers are likely to continue on Monday as well.The air quality deteriorated after Saturday, when the AQI was 284, also in the ‘poor’ zone. At 6pm on Sunday, the pollution recordings in at least 11 localities were in the ‘very poor’ zone. These included Alipur, Shadipur, DTU, Punjabi Bagh, Nehru Nagar, Sonia Vihar, Narela, Bawana, Anand Vihar and Najafgarh, according to CPCB data.Pollution levels in Delhi were last worse on June 9 this year, when the AQI hit 305.An AQI reading between 201 and 300 is categorised as ‘poor’, and one between 301 and 400 is categorised as ‘very poor’.IMD data shows that between Saturday evening and Sunday evening, the Safdarjung weather station in New Delhi received 20.2mm rainfall, while the Palam observatory received 1.8mm rain. The forecast said moderate showers are likely to continue in Delhi on Monday as well. Scientists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that spike in bad air was a reflection of the accumulated pollution over the last two days, and that the impact of Sunday’s rain will be visible in an improved AQI on Monday. “The AQI of the day is a 24-hour average. Delhi started receiving rains and easterly winds from Sunday morning and the improvement in pollution levels will be seen in Monday’s average AQI,” said a senior IMD scientist, adding that this will be aided by rainfall, which is expected to continue in parts of Delhi and the National Capital Region on Monday.This improvement, however, will be brief, officials warned. Pollution levels in the city will start rising again, once the western disturbance passes over Delhi and winds start blowing from the northwest — bringing in smoke from paddy residue burning — from October 19. A senior Union environment ministry official said the Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR and adjoining areas will announce measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) once the air quality starts deteriorating again. “We are monitoring the situation closely. The CAQM sub-committee will announce measures depending on the situation,” said the official.The Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), also said that the contribution of stubble fires in the Capital’s air was down to 2% from 14% on Saturday because of easterly winds on Sunday. On Sunday, 815 stubble fires were reported from parts of Punjab and Haryana, Safar said. “Low wind speed and low mixing layer height were inhibiting dispersion along with moderate stubble intrusion. However, now that the wind direction is mainly from the eastern side and moderate rainfall is also expected to continue, AQI will improve significantly from tomorrow (Monday) and then degrade again for the next two days,” Safar air quality analysis read. Data from the past five years indicates that there was a marginal improvement in air quality in 2019, 2020 and 2021 compared to 2016, 2017 and 2018. The number of poor, severe and very severe days was 168 in 2016; 138 in 2017; 129 in 2018; 114 in 2019; 65 in 2020 and 99 in 2021, the report said. The air quality in Delhi has declined this year compared to 2020, possibly due to the resumption of most economic activities, after the Covid-19 lockdown last year.Between January 1 and October 15 this year there were 189 days in satisfactory (51–100) and moderate (101–200) category and 99 in poor (201–300) very poor (301–400) and severe (>401) category compared to 224 in good, satisfactory and moderate category in 2020 and only 65 in poor, severe and very severe categories according to CPCB data. (With inputs from Jayashree Nandi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/despite-spell-of-rain-pollution-in-delhi-gets-worse-101634496564393.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Farm fires: Delhi CM Kejriwal blames neighbouring states for rise in pollution||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday hit out at Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, blaming them for the rise in pollution in the national capital and appealed to them to help farmers dispose of their stubble.Inaugurating a hospital in northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, Kejriwal said the Delhi government controlled the air pollution and attributed the drop in the city’s air quality index (AQI) to stubble burning in the neighbouring states.“Delhi’s own pollution, including vehicles and industries is within the safe limit. I have been tweeting pollution data in Delhi for the past month. Pollution has started increasing from the last three or four days, and it is the pollution due to stubble, which is being burnt in the surrounding states,” said Kejriwal.He also urged these states to adopt the Pusa bio-decomposer, a proprietary microbial solution developed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) to turn crop stubble into manure.“We made a solution. If you sprinkle it on the stubble, there is no need to burn it thereafter,” said Kejriwal.A total of 4,092 burning events were detected between September 15 and October 16 — 2,375 in Punjab, 1,026 in Haryana, 581 in UP, none in Delhi, 27 in Rajasthan and 83 in Madhya Pradesh, according to IARI.State environment minister Gopal Rai on Sunday also blamed the Capital’s rising pollution levels on “unchecked stubble burning” in these neighbouring states. Rai on Sunday said that incidents of stubble burning have increased rapidly in parts of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana over the last three days, which has thrown Delhi’s air pollution into dangerous levels. “According to Nasa (National Aeronautics and Space Administration), the number of stubble fires on October 13 was low, due to which the air quality index was 171 on that day. As incidents of stubble burning increased in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the pollution level in Delhi also starts increasing in the same proportion,” Rai said. He added, “In north India, crop harvest has been delayed due to the late withdrawal of monsoon from the region. Now stubble burning has started at a rapid pace. Delhi government makes has made all preparations and is also spraying the bio-decomposer in the fields of the farmers for free, but other states have not made any such preparations.” Rai also said that the central government granted around ₹250 crore to Punjab for the management of stubble, with which bio-decomposer can be sprayed free of cost in at least five million acres in the state. “We started the war room and started monitoring pollution levels 24-hours a day and saw that when stubble burning increases inside Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the pollution level of Delhi also increases in the same proportion. This year also we are seeing that the level of AQI on October 13 was 171. According to NASA pictures, the number of stubble burning incidents that day was low. But in the last three days, incidents of stubble burning have increased with great speed in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and with the speed with which the incidents of stubble burning have increased, with the same speed, the AQI reached 284 yesterday (Saturday),” he said. The minister said that the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) had released a report last week, which claimed that the stubble burning is lesser this year compared to last year, but the case was that it is only delayed and is catching up fast. “In Delhi, we are taking all steps to ensure that local pollution sources are kept under check. We will not hesitate in taking the strictest action in penalising violators,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farm-fires-delhi-cm-kejriwal-blames-neighbouring-states-for-rise-in-pollution-101634496563336.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Transactions under one ration card scheme up, says Delhi govt||Transactions recorded under the ‘one nation one ration card’ (ONORC) scheme — notified in July — have been going up consistently every month, indicating that migrant workers, who left the capital in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 earlier this year, are returning, said senior Delhi government officials. Goods and services tax (GST) and value-added tax (VAT) collections are also up since July, suggesting that economic activities have gone up with a phased scaling down of lockdown restrictions.“Other than schools, prohibition on large gatherings, and maximum cap on guests in certain industries such as restaurants, bars, banquet halls, etc, are over. More migrant workers are now returning to the city each month,” said a senior official in the Delhi government on condition of anonymity.The ONORC scheme allows people to avail of subsidised food grains under the National Food Security Act from fair price shops in towns they live irrespective of where their ration cards are registered. Government records show that when the scheme was rolled out in July, there were 29,569 transactions at the 2,000-odd fair price shops in the city. This went up to 38,173 in August and 85,327 in September. This month, transactions have already crossed 46,000. Officials in the government’s food and civil supplies department said, over the next one week, it may exceed the 100,000-mark for the first time.The number of ration cardholders from other states who reside in Delhi is estimated by the government as 200,000, which translates to around 1 million beneficiaries (assuming each cardholder feeds four other mouths). These are over and above 1.78 million ration cardholders and 7.2 million beneficiaries registered in Delhi. Going by Census 2011 data, around 40% of the 7.2 million are also believed to be migrants from other states who have settled in Delhi over time and got ration cards registered here.“Trade, commerce and industrial activities have picked up and it reflects in the GST and VAT collections in the first two quarters. That usually leads to higher labour demand,” said the first senior official cited above.Government records showed that GST collections in Delhi witnessed a decrease from ₹2,325.64 crore recorded in April to ₹991.05 crore in May and further down to ₹968.4 crore in June. But they went up to ₹1,584.75 crore in July, further up to ₹1,713.96 crore in August and ₹1,976.82 crore in September. VAT collections, too, reflect a similar trend. They went down from ₹417.01 crore in April to ₹358.17 crore in May and further down to 207.35 crore in June. But they started to go up after that— ₹440.03 crore in July, ₹557.7 crore in August and ₹565.92 crore in September, records showed. “We learnt that the government was scaling down restrictions and economic activities. But we did not have the confidence to return till September. Now it seems safe. I have a job in a factory. Thanks to the ration card scheme, we can avail subsidised food grain in Delhi,” said Rajesh Prajapati, a migrant from Bihar.Rakesh Kumar, a migrant from eastern Uttar Pradesh said, “Big cities like Delhi lack safety nets for poor people like us. The ration scheme comes as a major relief because our jobs are not very secure.”While the government had started with a phased relaxation process of the lockdown since June, HT had then published a series of articles on how migrant workers chose to stay put for a while for reasons ranging from Covid-19 cases in their own families, medical costs draining savings, lack of security net and job assurance in the city, and fears of a potential third wave of the pandemic.“These concerns have clearly reduced now. By Diwali, industries are expected to operate at 90% capacity and above. Labour demand is increasing. So, a lot of migrant workers are coming back to the city,” said Neeraj Sehgal, general secretary of the welfare body at Delhi’s most prominent industrial area in Mayapuri.Government reports said that more than 807,000 migrant workers left Delhi in buses they boarded from the interstate bus terminals in the first four weeks of the full lockdown starting April 19 this year. The actual number is likely to be higher because the city government did not maintain records of migrant workers who left the city in trains and other means in the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/transactions-under-one-ration-card-scheme-up-says-delhi-govt-101634496323564.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||College principal, teacher held for leaking question paper||PRAYAGRAJ: Prayagraj unit of Special Task Force arrested the principal and assistant teacher of a government aided intermediate college for allegedly leaking question paper of teacher recruitment examination for the principal’s daughter who is also an aspirant. The examination was held at Bharat Scout and Guide College where the solved answer sheet was provided to the principal’s daughter through a solver. Four people, including the principal’s daughter and son were at large, police said. Circle officer, STF, DSP Navendu Kumar said the STF team under inspector Atul Singh received a tip--off about question paper leak of teacher recruitment examination. The STF team accompanied by magistrate raided KN Katju Intermediate College and arrested its principal Ram Nayan Dwivedi and assistant teacher Ashok Tiwari . Photograph of the leaked question paper was found in their mobile phones. Assistant teacher Ashok Tiwari informed the STF team that college principal Ram Nayan Dwivedi’s daughter Akansha Dwivedi was appearing for teacher recruitment examination at Bharat Scout and Guide college. At the behest of Ram Nayan Dwivedi, Ashok Tiwari opened the sealed bundle and took a photograph of the question paper which he sent to Ram Nayan’s son Anugrah aka Chhotu and vice principal Akash Khare through Whats App. The duo was to provide the solved answers to Akansha in the examination room through a solver but the conspiracy was unearthed. An FIR has been lodged against Ram Nayan Dwivedi, Ashok Tiwari, vice principal Akash Khare, Ram Nayan’s son Anugrah and daughter Akansha along with the solver Virendra at Kydganj police station under fraud, IT Act and Examination Act. Ram Nayan and Ashok Tiwari have been arrested while the others are at large. Ram Nayan hails from Raniganj area of Pratapgarh and presently lives in Dhumanganj. DSP Navendu Kumar further informed that the accused deleted the chat history of Whats App in a bid to hide evidence. However, the photograph was found in the gallery of their mobile phone. STF officials saved 36 screen shots as evidence against the accused. The mobile phones of Ram Nayan and Ashok Tiwari have been seized and will be sent to FSL for examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/college-principal-teacher-held-for-leaking-question-paper-101634496204593.html
18-10-2021||Lucknow||Not riots in UP in last 4.5 years: CM Yogi||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said riots had become a thing of the past in the state and cited a “riot-free” UP over the past 4.5 years of his rule to back his claim. “These riots affected the celebrations of the majority community whose members were embroiled in fake cases. Rioters are now aware if they are found involved, their seven generations would have to repay the damages caused due to their act,” Yogi said to applause at the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Other Backward Castes (OBC) meet, featuring members of Prajapati (sculptors) community in Lucknow on Sunday. The CM’s statement came even as the opposition targeted the ruling party over what it termed “increased lawlessness” in the state and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav stating that UP required a “yogya” and not Yogi as mukhymantri (a capable chief minister and not a saint as CM).” However, in an apparent dig at the previous Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) governments that had ruled the state before him, Yogi said while his government had a zero tolerance policy towards rioters, previous governments patronised them. “There is an economic side to the riots and there is a religious side too. Previously, our festivals were usually marred due to riots which obviously hit economic activity,” he added. “Just about the time our festivals were to be held, state used to be under riot-induced-curfew. These riots and subsequent curfews also impacted our celebrations, our festivals. That’s because the governments of those time patronised rioters in every which way possible,” the CM said. Amid Yogi-Yogi chants, he said, “Now riots aren’t possible in UP. You would have seen how festivals have been celebrated with traditional fervour and gaiety unlike in the past when riots affected our idol makers and rioters damaged the profits by damaging earthen lamps.” Even as the opposition hit back with SP and BSP spokespersons Anurag Bhadauria and MH Khan respectively claiming that Yogi’s reference to riots and rioters were diversionary tactics, the chief minister continued aggressively attacking them. “Before the Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave the slogan ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’ (cooperation of all, development of all) in 2014, the opposition too had a slogan. It was: ‘sabka saath, apne aur parivaar ka vikas’ (cooperation of all, development of self and one’s family). That’s why the state continues to be backward,” the CM said. Yogi cited installations of statues of Goddess Durga during the recent Durga Puja, Dussehra celebrations at an estimated 41,000 places across the state and the peaceful immersion of idols as proof of his government having helped in ushering in celebrations by ending the “riot-culture”. “Statues of goddess were officially installed at 41,000 places. In fact, the number could be much higher. Moreover, there was no controversy during immersion. Of the 41,000 installations, 32,000 idol immersions had taken place and the rest were scheduled during the week. All this helps,” Yogi said. ‘Covid gave in before people enthusiasm’ Appreciating the festive spirit in which the Navratri festival was celebrated, the CM said Covid-19 failed in front of people’s enthusiasm. “The entire world saw how in front of your enthusiasm, Covid-19 which had devastated the world also failed,” he said. He also cited how his interactions with the people as well as those with party leaders like UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev had revealed that smiles of the common man had returned over the past 4.5 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/not-riots-in-up-in-last-4-5-years-cm-yogi-101634496023888.html
18-10-2021||Pune||Centre ignoring the people of the state: Sharad Pawar||PUNE Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said that protection of interests of the state lies with the state government which the BJP was ignoring. “The job of the central government is to assist the state governments. Till date, the state government is yet to get GST revenues of Rs30,000 crore from the central government. On one side, the union government wants to bring the state government in financial difficulties and on the other side it wants to bring down the government,” he said while addressing a gathering of NCP workers at a meeting in Rahtani, Pimpri- Chinchwad.“Today, the BJP is ruling the country but it won’t remain in power for long. The state government is being hounded by central agencies like the enforcement directorate (ED), Central bureau of investigation (CBI), Income tax (IT) and Narcotics Control of Bureau (NCB), but the state government will not bend before the centre.”“Today, as workers are being sacked from jobs there are no jobs in the market. Former finance minister P Chidambaram in an article said that if the government reduces 25 per cent cess on petrol-diesel it will reduce the burden on the population, but the government is not ready to reduce the fuel prices,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-ignoring-the-people-of-the-state-sharad-pawar-101634495963520.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Price of tender coconuts increases this dengue season in Gautam Budh Nagar||The rise in dengue cases in Gautam Budh Nagar has led to an increase in demand and price of tender coconuts. The price of the fruit has gone up by ₹15 to ₹20 in the last one month. According to sellers, a piece of tender coconut that was being sold at ₹50-55 till third week of September is now available for ₹65-70 in the district.Dinkar Pandey, who sells tender coconuts near Sector 62’s D-Park, said that the demand for the fruit has increased in the past few weeks. “There has been a surge in sales at my stall. I have been selling at least 60 coconuts a day for the past two-three weeks as against about 40 coconuts earlier. With demand increasing, prices have also increased,” said Pandey, who was selling a tender coconut for ₹65. Some vendors from the Sector 21-22 crossing have shifted to areas near the district hospital and the Child PGI Hospital. “Business is better near hospitals these days as dengue cases are rising. Most of the customers here buy five-six tender coconuts at a time,” said Prakash Yadav, a coconut seller near Child PGI Hospital who was selling tender coconut water for ₹70. According to traders at the wholesale fruit and vegetable market in Noida’s Phase 2, there has been a rise in demand for tender coconuts in the past three weeks. “Tender coconuts were being sold for ₹40-45 apiece till September. However, the prices have now increased to ₹60-65,” said Imrana Ahmed, general secretary, Noida Fal-Sabji Mandi Association. Ahmed also said that the rise in diesel prices has also added to the increase in the fruit’s rates. “One month ago, the transportation cost of a fruit truck from Azadpur mandi to Noida mandi was ₹1,000, which has now increased to ₹1,200. This has also led to a slight increase in the prices of some fruits,” she said. Meanwhile, with 17 new dengue cases reported in the district on Sunday, the tally of such cases has reached 210, according to data from the district health department. “The cumulative cases of dengue in the district stand at 210, with 28 active cases being treated at various hospitals,” said Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. Medical experts say coconut water is beneficial for dengue patients as it helps keep the body hydrated. “When a patient is diagnosed with dengue, there are chances of their blood thickening and in children, there is a risk of blood clotting if fluid intake is less. Hence, doctors recommend consuming large quantities of fluids, and coconut water plays a significant role as it is filled with antioxidants and micronutrients,” said Dr DK Gupta, chairman, Felix Hospital, Noida Sector 137. Ayurvedic doctors also recommend coconut water for dengue patients. “On the onset of dengue fever or viral fever, coconut water is recommended for patients as it contains high amounts of electrolytes to keep the patient nourished and hydrated,” said Dr Partap Chauhan, director, Jiva Ayurveda.However, Dr NK Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association (Noida chapter), said that there is no scientific proof that coconut water specifically helps in recovery of a dengue patient. “High intake of fluids is recommended which can include various other drinks, like fruit juices, buttermilk, and lemon water,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/price-of-tender-coconuts-increases-this-dengue-season-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101634495905303.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Police bust online investment racket on social media site||New Delhi: The cyber cell unit (CyPAD) of Delhi Police on Sunday said they have busted an online investment fraud named “Profit_Mania”, and arrested a 44-year-old man for allegedly running the racket on a social media site along with his wife and a minor boy, who has also been apprehended in the case. The woman was bound down in the case, meaning she was apprehended by police file but released with directions to remain present whenever called for investigation, CyPAD officers said.The police said videos of some social media celebrities/influencers promoting the investment scheme were also uploaded on the social media account of the phoney scheme by the racketeers to increase the reach, and to attract investors. The police have identified the social media influencers, who may be asked to explain under what circumstances they agreed to make the promotional videos in favour of the fraudulent investment module, the CyPAD officials associated with the case said.“We have also seized over ₹12 lakh that was credited into the account of the fraudsters as investments by various people in the last some months. The racket was running for the past two years. We assume that the numbers of investors may be in hundreds. So far, we have identified and approached four investors. More victims of the fraud are being identified,” said deputy commissioner of police (CyPAD) KPS Malhotra.Officials said that the apprehended boy, aged around 17 years, was the mastermind and the “technical brain” behind the entire racket that was operating through a social media platform, and claimed to be dealing in binary trading.“The cheats induced people by offering to double their invested money within a week. They shared UPI IDs or QR codes to the investors for making the investments. However, once the money was transferred to the racketeers’ account, they stopped responding to the investor’s calls or messages,” said an investigator.DCP Malhotra said that one of the investors, who was duped of ₹40,000 in January this year, filed a complaint in July and on that basis a cheating case was registered. The complainant alleged that he was surfing on the social media account, when he came across a page titled “Profit_Mania”. The page had screenshots of people conducting binary trading with the company and earning profits.A binary option is an option that either pays a fixed monetary amount or nothing at all.“The complaint chatted with the account holder, who introduced himself as Deepak Sahu and induced him to invest in the scheme that will increase his investment by three times in no time. He was tricked into scanning a QR code for making the investment. Thereafter, the account holder stopped responding to his messages,” added Malhotra.During the probe, he said, details of the beneficiary of the bank account in which the money was transferred were collected and the suspect was identified as Devendra Choudhary, a resident of Baran in Rajasthan. Over ₹12 lakh was found credited by various people to the account that was opened in the name of a 17-year-old boy, who later turned out to be the racket’s mastermind. Chaudhary’s wife was also a part of it.“We arrested Chaudhary while the juvenile was apprehended,” said the DCP, advising the general public not to fall prey to any online investment schemes blindfolded even if they were endorsed by social media influencers.The DCP has also advised social media influencers to desist from promoting such schemes without verifying its authenticity, by saying that “inducement to cheating is an offence punishable under Ineidn Penal Code.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-bust-online-investment-racket-on-social-media-site-101634495903829.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Four robbers arrested after shootout in Greater Noida||Police on Sunday morning arrested four members of a “screwdriver” gang following a shootout in Greater Noida’s Sector Beta 2. Police said that the members of the interstate gang have several cases registered against them in Delhi, Mathura and Rajasthan. According to police, the gang was infamous as “screwdriver” gang as its members would offer lift to people in a car and then attack the victims with screwdrivers and later rob them of their valuables.The suspects were identified as Anand Verma, a native of Rewari in Haryana; Shiv Kumar Verma and Deepak Verma from Bulandshahr; and Bablu Verma from Dadri in Greater Noida. Police also recovered over ₹1 lakh in cash, 12 screwdrivers, one hammer, several ATM cards, four countrymade pistols, some live bullets and a Swift car from the possession of the suspects.Police said that at least 26 cases of robbery, including 12 in Gautam Budh Nagar, are registered against the gang members in different states.“Around 11am, during checking at Pari Chowk, police spotted a speeding car without a numberplate. When asked to stop, the car driver tried to flee towards Chuharpur underpass, but police cordoned off the area and surrounded the vehicle. Then the robbers opened fire at police, and in a retaliatory firing all four suspects sustained bullet injuries in their legs. We arrested them and took them to the hospital for treatment,” said Vishal Pandey, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida. The officials said that they will book the suspects under the Gangsters Act.Anil Kumar, station house officer, Beta 2 police station, said that the gang had been active in the city since February and would often target senior citizens. “The gang members would offer lift and then injure them with a screwdriver and rob them. All four suspects are the members of screwdriver gang. We are looking into their criminal history. It has come to the fore that they had been jailed in the past,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-robbers-arrested-after-shootout-in-greater-noida-101634495851332.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida authority launches group housing plot scheme after 5 years||After a gap of nearly five years, the Greater Noida authority on Sunday decided to launch a plot scheme for group housing projects in the city. The authority will raise around ₹400 crore by selling four plots under the scheme, officials said.Of these four plots, one each is located in sectors Zeta 1 and Eta 2, and two plots are in Sector Sigma 3. The size of the plots will range from 23,500 square metres to 39,321 sqm.The authority officials said that a realtor, according to the UP government directions, will have to develop at least 25% flats for economically weaker section (EWS) and low income group (LIG) on each plot. It was 2016 when the Greater Noida authority had last launched the group housing plot scheme. The brochure of the new scheme will be available online from October 18 and the last date to download it from the websites -- greaternoidaauthority.in and https:/etender.sbi -- will be November 8. The last date to submit the applications is November 12 and the e-auction will be conducted on November 22, the officials said, adding that the reserve price has been fixed at ₹32,000 per sqm. “We will scrutinise first if an interested developer is financially and technically qualified to build the project and deliver the units as per the scheme. We have made it mandatory that each developer on these four plots also build EWS and LIG units,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.This is the first time that the authority has made it mandatory for developers to build EWS and LIG units in a group housing project. According to the authority, at least 200 housing projects are way behind their respective schedules due to multiple reasons, including ‘fund diversion’ and poor demands in the city. Developers said that the market conditions are tough post the Covid-19 pandemic.“Due to the economic crisis post Covid-19, the real estate sector is also witnessing a bad time currently. We hope that the scheme do well amid this slowdown in the realty sector,” said Prashant Tiwari, president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (western UP chapter).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-authority-launches-group-housing-plot-scheme-after-5-years-101634495847560.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Integrated industrial township in Greater Noida to be connected with air, rails||The Greater Noida authority is taking steps to connect the integrated industrial township in Greater Noida with Jewar airport, Metro and railway, said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of the authority, on Sunday.“We have started taking measures so that this township, which earned appreciation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the recent national Gati Shakti event in Delhi, gets connectivity with Jewar airport, Aqua Line Metro corridor, dedicated freight corridor on the Indian Railways, and Bodaki transport hub. We will build roads on small stretches as the township,” said Bhooshan, who is also the CEO of the Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Limited (IITGL).Bhooshan said this during an event where he allotted a 64,000 square metres land in the township to a foreign company which will manufacture components of LED with an investment of ₹600 crore. A total of five big companies have already bought nearly 200 acres in the township, and as of now, the IITGL has at least 200 acres of industrial land which can be allotted for industrial projects.In August, 2016, the Uttar Pradesh government formed the industrial authority -- IITGL -- in Gautam Budh Nagar. In 2017, the IITGL started allotting industrial plots in an integrated township spread over 747 acres. Mumbai-based developer Shapoorji Pallonji developed the township located around 40 kilometres away from the Jewar airport site. Nearly 50% of 747 acres is earmarked for industrial usage, and the rest for residential and commercial purposes.This township is first of its kind, which will work on “plug and play” mode. This means the company can start the operations right after allotment as the basic facilities, including drainage, sewage, waste management, roads among other services are already laid out.“Greater Noida has ranked 12th in ease of doing business, and we are trying to top the list by providing transparent and hassle-free services to the investors. We aim to help them in setting up businesses and then create job opportunities for the youth in this region,” said Bhooshan, adding, “This township will discharge zero waste into soil, recycle waste water and solid waste, and also provide the best services to companies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/integrated-industrial-township-in-greater-noida-to-be-connected-with-air-rails-101634495843447.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Noida air quality only improves to ‘poor’ despite showers, rain likely today||Despite intense rainfall in and around Noida, the air quality in the region on Sunday only improved to the ‘poor’ category from ‘very poor’ a day earlier, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data.Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that the AQI in the city on Sunday was still ‘poor’ because it was cumulative of the past 24 hours.Noida on Sunday recorded the air quality index (AQI) at 288, against 312 on Saturday, even as the city received 22mm of rainfall between 8:30am and 5:30pm.The officials said that the air quality “must have improved due to the rain” in the afternoon.“There could be multiple reasons, including vehicular pollution and effigy burning, behind the spike in the pollution in and around Noida. The AQI in the city on Sunday was still poor because it was the cumulative of 24 hours, and the improved AQI would be reflected in the Monday reading,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad and Noida (acting).The 24-hour air quality monitoring by the CPCB suggested that the air quality in Noida is likely to swing between the ‘poor’ and ‘very poor’ categories. According to the CPCB, the city’s AQI at 6pm was 236 in Sector 62, 256 in Sector 125, 270 in Sector 116, and 330 in Sector 1.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.According to CPCB, the AQI in Ghaziabad on Sunday was 310 against 349 a day earlier, and 244 in Greater Noida against 330 on Saturday. Meanwhile, weather analysts said that the thunder showers are likely to continue on Monday.“A cumulative effect of southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea at the upper level, easterly winds from the Bay of Bengal at the lower level, a low-pressure area over South Madhya Pradesh, and a minor western disturbance over western Himalayas has led to the rainfall in the region. This may wear off from Monday evening,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.Two injured in lightningMeanwhile, thunder lightning struck a house in Noida’s Phase 3, leading to destruction of a property, police said on Sunday. “Thunder lightning struck a house in a village in Phase 3, leading to destruction of a house. A woman and a child were injured after a part of the house collapsed. The woman was taken to a hospital in Noida Sector 71, and the child sustained minor injuries and is out of danger,” said the Noida police in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-air-quality-only-improves-to-poor-despite-showers-rain-likely-today-101634495784882.html
18-10-2021||Delhi||Automated driving test centres to soon stay open in Delhi all week: Govt||Soon, the automated driving test facilities in the capital will increase their operating hours from seven to 12 and function on all days of the week, a move that is likely to bring down waiting times of driving licence applicants.The tests will be held from 8am to 8pm unlike 9am to 4pm earlier.Senior transport officials on Saturday said these facilities have been outsourced to a private company that has already taken over the operation and maintenance of three of the driving tracks located in Dwarka, Sarai Kale Khan and Raja Garden.“The remaining tracks will be taken over in the next 15 days. The idea is to improve customer experience. Now, if someone visits any of these driving test tracks, they are greeted by officials in uniform and are guided through the process,” said KK Dahiya, special commissioner (transport).
18-10-2021||Pune||Traffic police on wrong end of quick getaways, violent reactions to law||PUNE The case of an IT professional’s arrest in a case of attempted murder of a traffic policeman has brought forth the recurrence of grievous assaults on traffic police officials. The arrested man was identified as Prashant Shridhar Kantawar (43), a resident of Mohammadwadi in Hadapsar. “This man is an IT engineer and is obviously quite educated. His car was flagged down and our system showed a past violation for which he was asked to pay-up as per the prescribed protocol. That enraged him so much, as is the case in most such cases, that he did this. Now he is in police custody for five days as the case is serious. Now we will recreate the crime scene, retrieve CCTV and build a proper case. The injured official was in the hospital overnight and has injuries on his arm, leg, and back,” said sub-inspector Gajanan Bhosale of Mundhwa police station who is investigating the case.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sheshrao Jaybhay of the traffic division of Pune police. Jaybhay was, unfortunately, not the first victim this year in Pune. A 42-year-old man was remanded to judicial custody by a local court in Pimpri for dragging a traffic policeman on the road after his hand got stuck on the arrested man’s motorbike along Wakad-Hinjewadi road in April.The arrested man, Sanjay Eknath Shedge (42), a resident of Adhale Khurd area of Maval, Pune, was riding on a Hero Honda Pleasure vehicle around 5.30pm on Friday along Wakad-Hinjewadi road. Ingale stopped him in order to check his papers at the nakabandi he was manning.The policeman’s hand got stuck in the carrier attached to the back of the vehicle when the accused tried to run away. He was chased and arrested by the local police. The man was booked in a case registered at Wakad police station.In January, constable Ravindra Namdev Karvande (30), working with the Chakan traffic division of Pimpri-Chinchwad police was assaulted with an iron rod in Talegaon-Chakan chowk by two for directing them to move the container truck. The two men identified as Rohit Babu Salvi (20), and Harshdeep Bharat Kamble (22), both residents of Kalyan, Thane, were remanded to judicial custody and a case was registered against them at Chakan police station.When these cases had seen a spike in 2019 during the tenure of former police commissioner K Venkatesham, the police purchased body cameras which helped record these incidents. However, the cameras seem to have taken a backseat in the recent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/traffic-police-on-wrong-end-of-quick-getaways-violent-reactions-to-law-101634495725409.html
18-10-2021||Gurugram||Six dengue cases take tally to 170 this season, DC appeals for mosquito breeding checks at homes||The district health department on Sunday reported six new cases of dengue, taking the tally of cases to 170. Amid rising cases, the deputy commissioner on Sunday appealed to residents to take all safety precautions to control the spread of the vector-borne disease. Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram on Sunday, appealed to residents to check all pots, water trays, coolers and trays inside the refrigerators; every week, to ensure that water does not accumulate and there is no mosquito breeding on their premises. “Citizens must pay special attention to cleanliness in their surroundings and ensure that they do not allow water to accumulate around homes. All pits should be filled with soil and clogged drains be cleaned. If it is not possible to prevent water stagnation in or around the house, then petrol or kerosene oil can be poured there. All the room coolers, water in the vases, utensil for feeding birds must be emptied once a week and dried completely. People must not keep broken cans, tyres, utensils, bottles in the house where fresh water can accumulate,” Garg said. The deputy commissioner also informed that door-to-door checks are being done by field workers. He appealed to the citizens to celebrate every Sunday as a “dry day”, during which all the coolers and tanks in the house should be thoroughly scrubbed with a cloth and the water from the refrigerator tray also be cleaned. “During power cuts, water melts and collects in ice trays in the refrigerator, which is clean water, where also breeding of mosquitoes can happen. Residents must remember to clean it and also ensure that water from air conditioners is also not being collected,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/six-dengue-cases-take-tally-to-170-this-season-dc-appeals-for-mosquito-breeding-checks-at-homes-101634495486169.html
18-10-2021||Gurugram||Palam Vihar Extension resident attacked over parking disagreement||A man was injured in a disagreement over car parking in Palam Vihar Extension late Saturday, as he was attacked a group of residents after blowing his car horn to get a parked car moved. The attackers also entered his house and misbehaved with his family members, according to the police. The police said a case was registered under sections 147, 148, 323, 427, 452, 506, 509 and 511 of the Indian Penal Code at Palam Vihar police station on Sunday. In his complaint to the police, Ramchander Sarma, a resident of Palam Vihar Extension, told police that around 8pm on Saturday, he was passing through street number 10, when he blew his car horn and asked the occupants of a house to move their car a little. However, the residents took offence and started abusing and attacking him.After a while, a group of attackers allegedly broke his house gate, entered the premises and started beating him. They also misbehaved with women in the family, Sarma alleged. The police said that a case has been registered against three persons. “The matter is being probed and a case has been registered,” Subhash Boken, spokesperson, Gurugram police, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/palam-vihar-extension-resident-attacked-over-parking-disagreement-101634495483438.html
18-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG yet to recover ₹7 cr from contractors of street vending zones||Senior officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) directed officials to recover dues of ₹7 crore from three contractors who oversaw its street vending zones till 2019. The recovery has been pending since April, when a police case was registered against them and recovery notices were issued. Officials said that the matter came up for discussion during the MCG’s town vending committee (TVC) meeting last Thursday, following which the civic body’s commissioner, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, directed officials to recover the dues at the earliest.“Adhering to the directions of the MCG commissioner, the accounts and legal branches of the MCG have issued fresh notices to all three contractors concerned. They have been given a one-month deadline to deposit the remaining sum, failure of which would lead to lead to further action being initiated against them,” Dr Vijaypal Yadav, deputy municipal commissioner (DMC) of the MCG, who oversees the street vending zones, said.According to MCG officials, the issue pertains to three contractors hired in 2016 to oversee their street vending zones. The tenure of three contractors ended in September 2019 and was not renewed, but they illegally continued to collect monthly fees, including the MCG’s share, from street vendors.The MCG has over 1,600 street vendors in its 148 vending zones. For placing their cart in a vending zone, each street vendor pays ₹1,500 per month, of which ₹1,000 went to the contractor and ₹500 to the MCG.Cumulatively, the three contractors have paid ₹30 lakh and as per the agenda list for MCG’s TVC meeting, the contractors owe the MCG ₹2.68 crore, ₹2.41 crore and ₹1.9 crore.The issue came to the MCG’s notice in March this year, following which it was raised in a House meeting in April and an inquiry was subsequently conducted. After the probe, the three contractors were blacklisted an FIR was registered against them. However, six months on, they are yet to pay the sum.Since November last year, there has been severe scrutiny over the vending zones, which also led to the discovery of the three contractors continuing to collect fees from street vendors, officials said.As per a report submitted by Yadav in April to senior officials for perusal, the MCG, in 2016, had issued a work order for incorporating 3,452 street vendors into its street vending zones but the civic body had managed to only regularise 1,620 vendors under it. Of these, around 350 were also operating illegally as their original owners had either leased the carts to others or transferred the ownership to them, violating norms of the Haryana Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Scheme, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-yet-to-recover-7-cr-from-contractors-of-street-vending-zones-101634495429338.html
18-10-2021||Gurugram||CM Manohar Lal Khattar opens Har Hith stores, aims to generate jobs||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday inaugurated 71 Har Hith stores, a series of franchise stores, across the state from Gurugram, in a move to generate employment as well as sell quality products at the right prices, officials said.The stores will sell 550 domestic products, including foods, grocery, fast-moving consumer goods, home care and personal care products, sourced from 60 companies, at affordable prices. The government plans to open 5,000 stores across the state to wipe out unemployment.Khattar said they have set a target of providing employment to at least one member of each family by 2025 and to achieve this goal, “no stone would be left unturned for creating new dimensions of self-employment.”Khattar inaugurated the first Har Hith store in Farrukhnagar and also became the first customer to buy goods from such a store. Later, he inaugurated 70 stores across the state virtually, from the government tourist complex in Sultanpur.The chief minister (CM) said that such stores would be opened in all areas having a population of 3,000, in rural zones, and 10,000, in urban zones, for people to, directly and indirectly, benefit from them.Apart from micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), small industrial units and cooperative sector units, quality products prepared by women’s self-help groups (SHGs) will also be procured and made available at these stores at a price lower than their competition in the market, Khattar said.After the inauguration, the CM also interacted with villagers who had gathered at the Sultanpur tourist complex and took their feedback on the availability of fertilisers and other essential items.Earlier in the morning, Khattar also inspected the houses built under the Ashiyana Scheme in Sector 47 and directed the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran to clean and repair these flats by next month so these can be allotted to citizens of the below poverty line (BPL) category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cm-manohar-lal-khattar-opens-har-hith-stores-aims-to-generate-jobs-101634495427852.html
18-10-2021||Gurugram||Speeding: Two dead after falling off Iffco Chowk U-turn flyover||Two 21-year-old men died on Sunday after falling from the Iffco Chowk U-turn flyover around 11.30am. According to the police, the two were speeding on a Bullet motorcycle when they hit the boundary wall of the flyover at a high speed and fell off it.The police said the two of them were taken to a nearby private hospital for treatment by passersby, but one of them was declared brought dead, while the other is undergoing treatment. Later in the night, the police confirmed the death of the second person during treatment. The matter is being probed by the Sector 29 police.The deceased were identified as Saidur Rehman, a resident of Leh in Ladakh who was a student of a Delhi college, and Mohd Zaid, a resident of Mandikhera village in Nuh. The motorcycle was owned by Zaid and has a registration number of Nuh, the police said.According to a preliminary investigation, the two of them had taken the Iffco Chowk U-turn flyover and were going from Delhi to Sukhrali, when their motorcycle, which was being driven at high speed, hit the wall of the flyover due to which the rider lost balance. However, it was unclear who was riding the motorcycle.“Both the riders fell from flyover due to the impact of the crash, which is at a height of around 18 to 20 feet above the ground. The vehicles moving below at a high speed had to stop suddenly. The passersby took the victims to Medanta Hospital, where one of them was declared brought dead,” a police official, who did not wish to be named, said.The police official said that the matter is being probed and only after analysing the CCTV feed would they be able to know the exact reason behind the accident.The relatives of both the victims were informed and family members of Zaid reached the hospital in the afternoon. Rehman’s family is likely to reach Gurugram on Monday, police officials said.Following the incident, there was heavy congestion on the carriageway as vehicles slowed down. The situation normalised after they were taken to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/speeding-two-dead-after-falling-off-iffco-chowk-u-turn-flyover-101634495426164.html
18-10-2021||Gurugram||Rainfall fails to improve Gurugram air, in very poor zone for second day in a row||Air quality in the city deteriorated rapidly over the past two weeks, from the satisfactory category to the very poor category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index (AQI) bulletin, an indication that anti-pollution measures are still lacking.Even as the city received light rainfall on Sunday, it recorded an AQI of 332 (very poor) on the CPCB bulletin, worse than the poor air quality recorded in neighbouring Delhi. This was the second consecutive day the city recorded very poor air, after recording an AQI of 308 on Saturday.However, on Sunday, data collated from the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) air quality monitors painted a different picture, with 10 of the 12 monitors depicting the satisfactory level of air quality, while two monitors, at Tau Devi Lal Park and Rezang La Chowk, recorded moderate air quality between 9am and 6.30pm.Officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) attributed the dip in air quality to weather conditions of drop in temperatures and low mixing height of pollutants, inhibiting their dispersion.“This dip in air quality in the past two days is because of unfavourable weather conditions as there is a decrease in temperature, slow wind speed and decrease in mixing height of pollutants. This, ultimately, obstructs the pollutants to disperse in the atmosphere,” Kuldeep Singh, the regional officer of HSPCB for Gurugram (north), said.When asked if the dip in AQI was due to lack of enforcement of anti-pollution measures issued on October 1, he said, “After reading various reports of dust control norms not being followed, especially at construction sites, I visited a few areas and saw the situation. I have instructed all agencies to follow the measures properly and submit a daily report. Our teams will also start conducting surprise raids at the hotspots or from where complaints are received, and take action accordingly.”Experts agreed that the dip in air quality may be due to unfavourable weather conditions, but pointed out that source reduction of pollutants has not happened.“Despite all instructions being issued, there is no difference in managing vehicular emission or dust management on the ground. Weather conditions are unfavourable, but with the rain that the city received on Sunday, the effects will be seen over the next two to three days, but our AQI may still be on the higher side as pollution sources in the city have not been checked properly,” Abhishek Srivastava, a city-based environmental engineer, said.According to the CPCB data, between October 3 and 6, the city recorded satisfactory air quality, with AQI scores below 100 while on Saturday, the city recorded very poor air quality for the first time this season.The pollution board has identified that the main causes for pollution in Gurugram are dust pollution from construction and demolition activities, vehicular pollution, and solid waste burning. The pollution control board has identified 18 hotspots for vehicular air emissions or traffic congestion, 13 hotspots for road dust, 10 areas used for rampant solid waste disposal, and seven hotspots for industrial air emissions.On October 1, directions were issued to 40 agencies in the city, including the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, GMDA, Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran and the transport department, among others, to adhere to action plans issued for pollution hotspots in the city.More rain likely on MondayGurugram received light rainfall of around 1mm on Sunday, bringing slight relief to residents from pollution. Strong surface winds also helped slightly improve the air quality during the day.According to the weather bulletin issued by the Meteorological Centre in Chandigarh, heavy rain with thunderstorms, lightning with gusty winds (speed 30-40kmph) is likely at isolated places across the south and south-east Haryana districts.On Sunday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 31.8 degrees Celsius (°C), two degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 24°C, which was six degrees above the normal. The humidity level was recorded at 92% at the end of the day.The air quality in Delhi-NCR is likely to improve to the moderate category over the next two days as an effect of the rainfall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rainfall-fails-to-improve-gurugram-air-in-very-poor-zone-for-second-day-in-a-row-101634495425121.html
18-10-2021||Gurugram||Fire breaks out in South City-2 apartment, no injuries||Residents of a third-floor apartment in Q Block of South City-2 had a narrow escape from a high-intensity fire that broke out on their housing premises on Saturday afternoon. No injuries were reported in the incident and the flames were doused in an hour.According to the fire department, the occupants had just left the premises, located on the top floor, around 1.30pm when the incident took place. Such was the intensity of the blaze that a team of officials from the Sector 50 police station and the fire department evacuated all occupants of the building.Rajesh Kumar, assistant fire safety officer (AFSO), Haryana Fire Services, said, “One of the neighbours had alerted us about the fire. The house was locked from outside as its occupants had left home just a few minutes earlier. A fire tender from the Sector 29 fire brigade was immediately dispatched. It took fire department officials around 15 minutes to reach the spot.”The apartment is located in Sector 49, behind Park Hospital and had three occupants. The lanes leading up to the site of the fire were extremely narrow due to the high density of residential buildings.Kumar said that the firemen, upon seeing the high intensity of the blaze, called for a water bowser truck from the Sector 29 fire brigade. A water bowser truck is similar to a water tanker and transports water to a fire site for dousing operations in instances when a hydrant is not located nearby.“It took us over an hour to douse the fire. Most items in the apartment were gutted. The fire could have spread to the three floors located below and as a precautionary measure, all its occupants were evacuated from the building jointly by Gurugram police and fire department officials,” Kumar said.Kumar said that dousing operations were conducted in such a fashion to ensure that the blaze did not spread to the kitchen, where an LPG cylinder was stored, failing which the blaze could have amplified.Fire department officials said that the electricity voltage load in the building was extremely high and they suspect that a short circuit caused the fire.“It was only when the occupants returned from the market did they find out that their house had caught fire. Their versions have been taken by firemen and investigations are ongoing to ascertain the cause,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fire-breaks-out-in-south-city-2-apartment-no-injuries-101634495423757.html
18-10-2021||Noida||Trying to drive away lizards, twin boys fall to death from Ghaziabad high-rise||Fourteen-year-old twin brothers were killed late last night in Ghaziabad by falling off the balcony of their 25th floor flat in the Siddharth Vihar locality while trying to drive away lizards, police said on Sunday. The incident took place reportedly at 1 am on Sunday, though the police were yet to piece together the sequence of events leading to the tragic accident. The police identified the twins as Surya Narayan and Satya Narayan, both students of Class 9. Police said initial questioning of the parents of the twins suggest that the deceased were trying to drive away lizards in the balcony, standing on a chair place atop a table. Police said while the mother of the two was asleep, their father TS Palani, was in Mumbai for official work. Palani, police said, is a senior officer with finance company. “When the incident took place, their mother and sister were sleeping in a separate room. Though the sequence of events is not clear at this juncture, we held discussions with their parents during handing over of the bodies. They said that there used to be a couple of lizards in the balcony, and the two boys were probably trying to drive them away, as they used to do often,” Mahipal Singh, circle officer (CO - city 1), said on Sunday evening. The police said that they also found a table and a chair in the balcony. “As their parents suspect, the children probably placed the chair atop a table and were trying to drive away lizards. In the process, they might have slipped and fell down. The bodies were handed over to the family members after a post-mortem examination. Earlier, there were speculations that the twins were playing in the balcony, but it was not the case. As of now we did not find any foul play,” the CO added. According to police, the incident took place at Prateek Grand City high-rise in Ghaziabad’s Siddharth Vihar locality. The residents said that the high-rise is a project comprising about 4,000 flats as high as up to 26 to 29 storeys. The occupancy is about 250 families at present, they added. The residents who rushed to the site soon after the incident said that the two children were lying close to each other. “There was hardly a distance of one metre between them. The guards also heard one loud sound as if they landed almost at the same time. Their bodies had injury marks as a result of the fall, and they were declared brought dead when taken to a hospital. Their father was away to Mumbai for the inauguration of his company’s new office, and he rushed back on Sunday morning,” said Sudhakar Yadav, member of the residents’ coordination committee of the high rise. He said that the residents also found a table and a chair intact in the balcony. “It was around 1am when the guards at the entrance of the parking heard a loud sound and they thought that some cars must have collided. But the noise came from the backside of the tower. Both children were found lying on the grass near the walking track. Police was called and they inquired about the incident,” Yadav added. Senior police officials said that they will continue probe into the incident. “On Sunday morning, we came to know from initial details that the children had told their mother that they will observe the moon from the balcony. Things are still not clear, but we will rope in a special team to inquire the reasons for the accident. There are several questions that need to be answered,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1). The police said that they have not received any complaint so far from the family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/trying-to-drive-away-lizards-twin-boys-fall-to-death-from-ghaziabad-highrise-101634495304381.html
18-10-2021||Chandigarh||CT scan won’t raise cancer risk in Covid patients: Experts||Medical experts from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, have said CT scans are not increasing the risk of cancer in Covid-19 patients.The CT scan is a frequently used medical tool for diagnosing various diseases. The findings of the study have been recently published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research (IJMR), the official journal of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).“During the second wave of the pandemic, there was a big controversy in India that CT scans are increasing the risk of cancer in Covid-19 patients. It was being said the CT scan could produce genetic mutations and cause cancer, as it involved the use of ionizing X-rays which are categorised as hazardous radiation. However, we reviewed the current scientific literature and concluded that this theory holds little merit,” said Dr Mandeep Garg, chest radiologist, PGIMER, who is the lead author of the study.Despite using X-rays for more than 125 years and CT scans for nearly 50 years now, there was no definite scientific evidence to date, which could prove that CT scans increased cancer risk, the doctors concluded.The co-authors of the study are Dr Nidhi Prabhakar from PGIMER and Dr Ashu Seith Bhalla from AIIMS, New Delhi.Dr Garg said, “Also, not doing a CT scan fearing the hypothetical risk of radiation-induced cancer in a clinically relevant indication can delay treatment and cause more harm. The exposure to radiation from diagnostic medical imaging tests like CT scan results in limited radiation exposure and that too only to a portion of the body being scanned.”“Even if any damage occurs to the cells due to low-dose exposures to the CT scan, the body has the inherent ability to overcome this cell damage and repair DNA without leaving any signs of injury,” he said.The doctors also said there had been rapid technological advances in both CT scan hardware and software and the radiation delivered to patients in each CT scan examination has considerably reduced.Though there were no signs of causing cancer, the doctors advised that the CT scan should be used judiciously and only when clinically indicated or when its results are expected to impact the treatment decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ct-scan-won-t-raise-cancer-risk-in-covid-patients-experts-101634420409544.html
