19-10-2021||Delhi||IIT Delhi offers new UG course on energy engineering||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi on Tuesday announced a new undergraduate course-- B.Tech. in Energy Engineering, that will be offered by the institute’s department of energy science and engineering (DESE).“Students, who have qualified JEE (Advanced) 2021, are eligible for admission to this programme at IIT Delhi. The new UG programme is going to start from the academic session 2021-2022 with an intake of 40 students,” the institute said in a statement on Tuesday.Speaking about the need for the programme, professor KA Subramanian, head of DESE, said, “The B.Tech. programme in energy engineering is designed to equip the students with the essential knowledge and skills to take up challenges in the energy sector and help achieve sustainable energy, which is accessible, available, and affordable.”He also said energy is one of the fastest-growing sectors and is in a critical transition--from conventional to clean and renewable energy, resulting in ample placement opportunities in energy sectors.Director of IIT V Ramgopal Rao said, “Energy is crucial as it has considerable implications on economic development and environmental sustainability. Hence, many opportunities exist in the energy sector. Students, who are passionate about taking up a career in the energy sector, can join the new B. Tech. in energy engineering programme being offered by IIT Delhi.”The institute said the energy engineering graduates are likely to find “the best technology jobs in core energy sectors and organizations engaged in a variety of activities pertaining to climate change, conventional energy transition to clean and renewable energy, energy access and security, application of AI and IoT in the energy sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/iit-delhi-offers-new-ug-course-on-energy-engineering-101634668134734.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||2 held in Delhi for robbing vendors, morning walkers||The special staff of northwest district police arrested two men, who allegedly committed snatchings and robbed elderly morning walkers and street vendors in the morning. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani said the arrested men, identified as Pankaj alias Rajesh (24), and Tannu alias Prince (23), robbed a 71-year-old vegetable vendor, Ramvilas Prasad, of ₹4,600 at Haiderpur in Shalimar Bagh area on October 14. “Prasad was going towards Azadpur. Around 4am, the suspects, who were on a motorcycle, threatened him with a weapon and robbed him of the money. A case was registered and the special staff was tasked to identify and nab the robbers,” said Rangnani adding that the team arrested the suspects on Monday and recovered ₹2,200 of the stolen money and a bike used in the crime.During interrogation, Rangnani said, it came to the fore that Pankaj was previously involved in seven cases of snatching, burglary and theft while Tannu had one case against him in the past. “They mainly committed crimes early morning, when there would be less gathering at public places. They came out around 4am and robbed street vendors, daily wagers and elderly morning walkers, who had small amounts. The suspects believed that since they robbed small amount, the victims won’t report the crimes,” she said adding that the suspects used the stolen money to buy alcohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-held-in-delhi-for-robbing-vendors-morning-walkers-101634668133410.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Not in my backyard: Growing resistance to new mobile towers from Delhi RWAs||When the result of the referendum came in at Navjeevan Vihar, it showed 120 against, and 3 for. And so, like almost every other neighbourhood in the Capital, this leafy and quiet south Delhi enclave decided against allowing the installation of a mobile tower. It’s an almost self-destructive fight that’s playing out across the city: everyone is hungry for bandwidth and connectivity, in fact, under the current circumstances where people are still working and studying from home, even more than they were before the pandemic struck; yet, no one wants the mobile or so-called cell towers around. The reason: fear that radio frequency or RF waves cause cancer. Science says that the levels of RF waves most people are exposed to on account of proximity to a mobile tower are unlikely to be harmful. There is also, as yet, no research that shows a link between RF waves and cancer. But science is usually powerless against sentiment and emotion. Ask Ruby Makhija. The secretary of the Navjeevan Vihar Resident Welfare Association (RWA) says most people are aware of research that says mobile towers are safe, but that there is still a lot of concern over “radiation” from such installations. There’s also fear of the value of a house next to a mobile tower going down -- perhaps a bigger fear than radiation in Delhi. She puts the onus on the companies and government agencies to educate people better. Meanwhile, her RWA is one of 56 from south Delhi that last month petitioned the south corporation (MCD, south) on problems regarding the installation of new mobile towers while demanding a more consultative process to fix their locations. It isn’t just the fixed towers that are points of contention; even the so-called cellular tower on wheels (COWs) are. And so, Delhi’s mandate under the National Broadband Mission to at least double the number of its mobile towers from 20,012 to 46,000 between 2020 and December 2022 hangs fire. Across the northern part of the city, with complaints pouring in from residents and municipal councillors about the new cellular towers on wheels, the north corporation (MCD, north) decided on September 20 to put on hold the installation of any new cellular tower on wheels in its jurisdiction pending a review. Yogesh Verma, chairman of Keshavpuram , where several such complaints were flagged , says the moratorium on such installations continues. “We are trying to find locations away from residential areas where empty plots or abandoned parks can be used . We are trying to involve residents and councillors in the process.”  Verma, who is also former deputy Mayor of north MCD admits that connectivity is also important but, in the same breath, adds that the towers have a real perception problem. The result: “Everyone wants good mobile connection, no one wants a tower.” In some instances cases, residents have gathered to prevent tower installations and police have had to intervene; in other cases, residents have approached the courts. For instance, the residents of Gayatri Apartments in Sector 9 Dwarka have objected to a mobile tower being installed in a green area behind the society citing health implications. Rajeev Suri, a Defence Colony resident who filed a petition against a tower being installed in the central park of the colony said the South Delhi Municipal Corporation was trying to build one on top of storm water drain which is illegal. “Our green areas should be sacrosanct and they are under attack. If we need new towers, government buildings should be preferred. The community has the first call on the use of space where they live and their consent should be taken. The concept of public commons does not seem to exist in our city.” A few months ago, the standing committee of the south corporation directed officials to revise the existing policy on towers, effectively barring their installation on school and hospital buildings. The immediate trigger was a new tower in a Janakpuri hospital . The behaviour of the corporations and councillors is understandable. Hell hath no fury like a RWA scorned, and no one wants that when municipal elections are scheduled for early next year. Indeed, during the south corporation’s deliberations, a councillor said each tower could cost him 2000 votes. The corporation has sought to assuage everyone’s fears, but to no avail. In August, it held a special house of councillors meeting on mobile tower related issues. SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan says that a myth has developed about mobile towers in peoples’ minds. “This house was held with experts, doctors and officials from telecom department to educate the councillors so that they can pass on the message.” But it’s so far been a losing battle. Data presented to the house by the Department of Telecommunications or DoT shows that Delhi has 20,102 towers (December 2020) with an average of 13.55 towers per square km. Under the National Broadband Mission, the aim is to increase this to at least 46,000 by December 2022 with a goal to achieve 50mbps availability of broadband speed. The Cellular Operators Association of India reports that Delhi needs nearly 37,000 additional mobile towers by 2024 to resolve connectivity issues. Delhi currently has around 32,304 telecom towers, and needs approximately 69,223 by 2024, according to the association’s estimates.Lieutenant General SP Kochhar, COAI director general, said , “The issue of inadequate indoor telecom coverage is a long-standing one for mobile users across the world. The problem has escalated in recent times, with higher data uptake during the pandemic.” DoT is organising several awareness seminars to assuage the fears of RWAs. One such event was held last week and saw Vijay Prakash, director, DoT (Delhi sector) explaining that the World Health Organization, on the basis of its reference of at least 25,000 scientific articles published over the past 30 years, concluded that there is no evidence of health consequences due to low level of electro magnetic force (or EMF) radiations. RFs are a kind of EMF. “India’s EMF norms are 10 times more stringent then international norms and over 43,000 base transceiver stations have been randomly checked in Delhi out of which not a single case of EMF norms violation was found,” he added. The department also operates the website www.tarangsanchar.gov.in where people can see locations of mobile towers in their areas and their current EMF levels. Additionally, complaints can also be lodged on this portal for getting a particular site inspected with a fee of ₹4000. “DoT field units perform tests in the presence of the applicant and report is shared with them,” Prakash explained. Dr Vivek Tandon, additional professor of neurosurgery at AIIMS, said that there was no causal relationship between EMF radiations and brain tumour or hearing problems or disturbed sleep cycle. “People get alarmed that EMF is placed in Group 2B carcinogen (something that can cause cancer) but it only indicates that more evidence is needed in this regard. People do not know that even Aloe Vera and pickled vegetables are in Group 2B carcinogens,” he told representatives of the participating RWAs. The RWAs were convinced that mobile towers were not generating harmful radiation, but they were not convinced about installing them in their neighbourhoods. A senior Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) official said that mobile towers are safe and called improved mobile connectivity a “necessity”. “This is a misconception about towers emitting harmful radiation. EMF radiation norms, which are stricter than international standards, are currently in place and people should not be afraid of new tower installations. While people require better mobile connectivity, new towers are needed for improving it,” said the official.Atul Goel, president of URJA (United Residents Joint Action) , a collective body of RWAs, echoed the sentiment of Defence colony resident Suri and suggested that the towers be “installed in government buildings, offices, even atop community garbage collection centres (or dhalaos)” . Mahesh Uppal, a senior telecom expert, said that mobile towers are absolutely crucial for mobile connectivity. “If we need better mobile connectivity, we need mobile towers. It is a fact that when the mobile tower is far away, the mobile handset emits more power and the risk is greater. It is better not to have a tower installation too far away from you,” he said. He added that the fear behind mobile towers was irrational as the tower radiation norms are much stricter in India than many western countries such as the US. “It is in people’s interest to focus on enforcement of these norms rather than opposing the new tower installations” No one likes missed calls. But the problem is that they seem to like mobile towers even less.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-in-my-backyard-growing-resistance-to-new-mobile-towers-from-delhi-rwas-101634668073525.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: SC appointed panel finds alarming violations in Ghazipur poultry market||A Supreme Court appointed panel has listed major violations of safety rules at the Ghazipur poultry market (popularly known as the Ghazipur Murgha Mandi) that pose serious public health concerns, senior municipal officials said. The slaughter house monitoring committee, constituted in accordance with 2012 Supreme Court order, submitted its report to the principal secretary of the urban development department on September 30. HT has seen a copy of the report.The report said that despite the bird flu scare earlier this year, conditions in the biggest wholesale poultry market of the city remain alarming. The report flags that no records of the source of consignments are being maintained and no veterinarian was found in the market during an inspection by committee members on September 23, 2021 that is a mandatory condition for running a slaughter house. The Ghazipur poultry market is managed by Delhi Agricultural Marketing Board.The committee also reported that blood and offals were being directly discharged into the drain without any treatment. The panel was headed by the director of veterinary services, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) Ravindra Sharma, and had members from the veterinary services, animal husbandry department and Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). The report also noted that shops meant for sale of live birds were being used for slaughter of birds in large numbers even though trade of livestock and slaughter of birds are two distinct activities requiring different licences to operate.“It can be estimated that more than four lakh poultry birds were being brought into the market. The health status of these birds, majority of which were found injured and some were so sick that they were drifting in and out of consciousness,strongly indicated that there was a lack of sufficient veterinary attention being provided. No consignment that was being brought into the market had a ‘fitness certificate to transport’ which is provided by a veterinarian,” the report states. It is important to note that similar violations were also flagged by the same panel in November 2020 but little seems to have changed on the ground.The report also noted the possible environmental impact due to non-scientific disposal of by-products. “It is estimated that more than three thousand birds were being slaughtered in each outlet in the mandi. Fresh blood was either being collected in barrels or poured in drains. Slaughtering and dismembering of carcasses was being carried out next to drains, and offals and blood were being discharged into drainage system without any treatment or processing (thereby) posing serious risk to public health,” the report said.Noting that there is complete neglect of hygiene and general sanitation in the market, a monitoring committee member said that they have found several instances of violation of slaughterhouse rules (2001) and the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. The committee has recommended action by specific agencies dealing with the full range of violations at the market. It said that health and hygiene violators be dealt by FSSAI, Delhi Police should prosecute traders who are found transporting birds in violation of rules, and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee should impose environmental compensation cess on those found polluting water. Mohammad Imran alias Kallu, a member of the Ghazipur poultry market association, said the traders were shifted from places such as Jama Masjid and Qasabpura to Ghazipur in 1990s but adequate facilities were not provided to them. “This concerns small animals, so a separate slaughterhouse may not be needed. However, there is no no modern slaugtherhouse for poultry in the city. We also want facilities such as proper drainage, wash rooms, etc. The traders pay a fee to operate from the market but facilities are not provided to us,” he added.Officials of the Delhi Agricultural Marketing Board did not respond to repeated calls made to elicit response on the panel’s findings and recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sc-appointed-panel-finds-alarming-violations-in-ghazipur-poultry-market-101634667954723.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two arrested for committing four robberies in one night in Dwarka||Police on Tuesday said they have arrested two men, who were involved in a series of four robberies within a span two hours in Dwarka last week, after an encounter in Dwarka Sector 10 on Wednesday night. The two arrested suspects sustained gunshot wounds in the shoot-out, and their interrogation led to the arrest of their associate, a former Delhi Civil Defence employee, the police said.The arrested men were identified only by single names as Sachin,21, and Bablu,20, both residents of Mangolpuri in outer Delhi. Their accomplice Vishal, a resident of Sultanpuri in Delhi, was arrested later. Police said the duo was travelling in a car when the police team intercepted their vehicle in Dwarka Sector 10 and asked them to surrender. The duo opened fire at the police in a bid to escape. One of the two shots fired by them hit a policeman, but he was saved by his bulletproof jacket, police said. Two shots that the police fired in retaliation hit Sachin and Bablu in their knees, police said.On the intervening night of October 11 and 12, four incidents of armed robbery were reported from Dwraka, police said. In the first incident, the complainant alleged that a Santro car stopped in front of his scooter around 12.30am near Mahadev Apartments, Sector 23. Three persons got out of the car and robbed him of valuables, a senior police officer said.In the second incident, the mobile phone of the second complainant was snatched near Hotel Welcome by three to four men and after committing the robbery, they fled in a Santro car, the officer said. The third incident happened around 1.15am — the mobile phone of a third person was snatched from Sector 9, Dwarka. In the fourth incident, a man named Shagun reported that around 2.35am a car stopped in front of his scooter near Vegas Mall, and the occupants robbed him of his mobile phone, police said.“The arrested men and their one known associate planned to commit a series of robberies in quick succession, after taking inspiration from a crime show on TV,” said a senior police officer, adding that the suspects were identified after the investigating team scanned more than 200 CCTV camera footage and questioned nearly 100 persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-two-arrested-for-committing-four-robberies-in-one-night-in-dwarka-101634667953427.html
19-10-2021||Lucknow||Shine City fraud case: Three accused booked under Gangsters Act in Varanasi||A case has been registered under the Gangsters Act at Cantt police station in Varanasi against three main accused in the multi-crore Shine City fraud case, police said.Commissioner of police, Varanasi, A Satish Ganesh said real estate and multi-level marketing company’s chief managing director Rashid Naseem, its managing director Asif Naseem and director Amitabh Shrivastav had been booked under the Gangsters Act. “Varanasi Commissionerate police are carrying out an inter-state operation to nab the culprits,” he added.Ganesh further said so far five accused in the case had been arrested in the last 15 days. They included Tariq and Mushtaq from Bihar, Aryan Bhargav from West Bengal and Rajiv Singh from Rajasthan. He said one more accused Meera Shrivastav was arrested from Dhanbad in Jharkhand on Tuesday.The Varanasi commissioner of police has announced a reward of ₹50,000 for each police team involved in successful inter-state operations in connection with the case.Rashid Naseem is accused of duping several people of crores of rupees on the pretext of investments in his company. While many of the company’s officials have been arrested in different raids conducted recently, Rashid Naseem his brother Asif and some other accused are still out of police net.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shine-city-fraud-case-three-accused-booked-under-gangsters-act-in-varanasi-101634667713492.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt fines owners of 286 construction sites for violating dust control norms||The Delhi government has fined owners of 286 construction sites for violating dust control norms, said environment minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday.“The [chief minister Arvind] Kejriwal government will not tolerate violations. All construction agencies must only take up construction work following all anti-dust norms or be prepared for strict action. The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) imposed penalties to the tune of ₹90 lakh after finding violations at 286 sites across the [Capital] and warned [owners] of serious repercussions if norms are not complied with,” said Rai in a press statement.The statement added, “DPCC teams have visited 1,105 construction sites so far; norms are being followed at most sites; citizens are actively bolstering our efforts. [We have given] clear instructions to DPCC teams to take strict action against violators and submit reports daily to keep us aware of the situation on the ground. The Delhi government is running an anti-dust campaign from October 7 to control air pollution in Delhi. Citizens have shown constant support for the campaign.”“The Kejriwal government is leaving no stone unturned to reduce pollution in Delhi... the government is running a large-scale anti-dust campaign. Environment minister Gopal Rai said that all construction agencies must only take up construction work following all anti-dust norms or be prepared for strict action,” the statement added.Rai had held a meeting with representatives of government construction agencies on September 14 and representatives of private construction agencies on September 17 to discuss controlling dust pollution. During that time, a 14-point agenda regarding preparations at every construction site was discussed. Public notices were issued on September 21-22, saying that it is necessary to implement the 14 rules on construction sites. After this, a reminder was sent to everyone on October 2, the government said in the press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-fines-owners-of-286-construction-sites-for-violating-dust-control-norms-101634667683237.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Default bail an indefeasible right, under trials must be informed of this right: Delhi HC||Holding that default bail — if no charge sheet is filed in the maximum period prescribed or the permitted extended period of investigation — is an “indefeasible part of the right to personal liberty”, the Delhi high court on Monday issued a slew of directions legal entities and agencies concerned to ensure that the custody of an under trial is not extended mechanically and that there is “application of mind before deciding such pleas”.Justice Manoj Ohri, while granting bail to an accused in a dowry death case, said sending an under trial to jail or extending such remand is a judicial function that requires due application of mind.“The right to seek default bail under Section 167(2) CrPC is a fundamental right and not merely a statutory right, which flows from Article 21 of the Constitution of India. It has been held to be an indefeasible part of the right to personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, and such a right cannot be suspended even during a pandemic situation. The right of the accused to be set at liberty takes precedence over the right of the state to carry on the investigation and submit a charge sheet.”“The order remanding an accused to custody is not an empty formality and at that stage, the magistrate is required to apply his mind for the necessity of remand. The 60th or 90th day of custody assumes great significance as in the event of non-filing of charge sheet, a right under Section 167(2) CrPC, which is held to be an indefeasible and fundamental right, accrues in favour of the accused. To ensure that this right does not get defeated in any manner an obligation is cast upon the magistrate to inform an under trial prisoner about accrual of such right,” justice Ohri said in his 24-page judgment.The judgment came on a plea by a man challenging an order of the trial court dismissing his revision plea seeking default bail.The accused and his family members were booked under Sections 304B (dowry death) 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code on January 16, 2020.The accused was arrested on January 18, 2020, and was sent to judicial custody after being produced before the magistrate the next day. His judicial custody was extended time and again, including on April 15, 2020, when his custody was extended till April 29, 2020.However, the time period of 90 days to file a charge sheet expired on April 18, 2020. The accused contended that he should have been granted default bail as the investigating agency had failed to file the charge sheet.Noting the lapse, the court issued directions to ensure that the rights of under trial prisoners to seek default bail are not defeated despite the legislative mandate and the principles of law enumerated by the courts time and again, and that the custody of an under trial is not extended mechanically as has been done in the present case.It directed that the under trial prisoner be produced before the court concerned on the next day — i.e, on the 61st, 91st or 181st day as the case may be — so that he can be duly informed of his fundamental right to seek default bail if no charge sheet is filed in the maximum period prescribed or the permitted extended period of investigation.The court also modified the present format of the custody warrant and included a a column indicating the day on which the right of “default bail” will accrue to the under trial.It also directed the district legal services authority to ensure that the remand advocates/legal aid counsel posted in criminal courts are instructed to keep an under trial informed of his right to seek default bail and the date of accrual of such right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/default-bail-an-indefeasible-right-under-trials-must-be-informed-of-this-right-delhi-hc-101634667594775.html
19-10-2021||Other||Acid-burnt bodies of couple found in Unnao||Kanpur: The bodies of a man and a teenage girl, missing for the last one week, were found in a field in a burnt state at Bangarmau in Unnao district on Tuesday, said police. Police suspected that the acid could have been used to destroy the two bodies or make them unrecognisable. The man was aged around 20 and the girl was 16, who went missing on October 13, they said.“Bodies have been sent for autopsy and an FIR was lodged with the police. We are exploring the hate killing angle,” said Avinash Pandey, superintendent of police (SP) Unnao. “Initial investigation suggests that girl’s father had beaten up the man outside his house the day he disappeared with the girl. The role of the local policemen is also being investigated,” Pandey said. Their bodies were identified through the mobile phones, clothes and slippers found nearby, police said. Meanwhile, the girl’s family has alleged kidnapping by the man while the latter’s filed a simple missing complaint. However, the man’s father alleged that the police tortured him when he went to file the missing complaint to the police. He spent entire night in the police lock up and was released in the morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/acidburnt-bodies-of-couple-found-in-unnao-101634667593547.html
19-10-2021||Lucknow||Kushinagar airport inauguration today: 8 UP airports servicing 74 destinations||After its expected inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday, Kushinagar International Airport will add to the number of airports in the state.In the days to come, the airport is expected to operate more international flights than Lucknow because of its bigger runway and other facilities, Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials said.Lucknow Airport has operated without any competition in the past. Till 2017, there were only four operational airports (Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Agra) in the state. Only Lucknow and Varanasi airport had the distinction of being international airports. In all, 25 destinations (15 from Lucknow, 8 from Varanasi, 1 from Gorakhpur, 1 from Agra) were connected through air services.At present, eight airports have become operational with a total of 74 destinations (21 from Lucknow, 20 from Varanasi, 8 from Gorakhpur, 5 from Agra, 11 from Prayagraj, 4 from Kanpur, 2 from Hindon, 3 from Bareilly).Lucknow Airport has seen some good airlines withdraw their services because of its small runway in the past. Singapore Scoot, Tiger Air closed operations from Lucknow despite good air traffic because of runway problems. Similarly, Thai Smile which started operations in 2016 for Bangkok stopped its services.Now that the runway of Kushinagar airport is bigger and better than Lucknow airport, more international flights are expected to prefer Kushinagar. Airlines from South East Asian (Buddhist) countries have already made queries for slots at Kushinagar airport, authorities said.The runway of Kushinagar airport is 3,200 metres long and 45 metres wide which is fit for landing of big aircraft, while the runway of Lucknow airport is just 2,800 metres long and 30 metres wide, making it difficult for big aircraft to land here.Besides, the Kushinagar airport has an advanced turning pad, additional runway strip, taxiway, isolation subway, advanced runway lighting for smooth landing and take-off of aircraft.An AAI official said on condition of anonymity, “To have more international flights, Lucknow airport will need to expand its runway or it will continue to have its mediocre status despite being the state capital.”Minister of state for civil aviation Nand Gopal Gupta ‘Nandi’, said, “Healthy competition is always good for business. We need more international airports in a state like Uttar Pradesh. Today Lucknow, Varanasi and Kushinagar have international level airports in the state. Another international airport at Jewar is being developed by the state government, besides developing Maryada Purushottam Shri Ram Airport in Ayodhya. Soon there will be five international airports in the state and we expect good air traffic from all these airports.”Commenting on the Kushinagar airport, Nandi said, “Work on its terminal began in 2016 at a cost of ₹199.41 crore. We expect good air traffic from Kushinagar in the days to come.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kushinagar-airport-inauguration-today-8-up-airports-servicing-74-destinations-101634667534982.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||250 Delhi students felicitated for mentoring girl students in govt schools||Around 250 students from the Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women (IGDTUW) were felicitated by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday for successfully mentoring over 1,000 girl students of classes 11 and 12 in Delhi government schools for six months, and encouraging them to pursue higher education in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields.A survey done by government officials showed the number of girl students who knew the timelines for competitive examinations went up from 38% to 91% in the past six months. The government survey also showed that the students’ awareness regarding financial support increased from 7% to 54% while that of mock tests increased from 22% to 96% in the past six months. Also, the students’ determination for pursuing higher education increased from 28% to 94% in the past six months.“Only 21% students had any idea about the nature of papers they had to answer to clear the entrance exams [before the mentoring programme began] but this number went up to 99% over the past six months. Students also reported that their communication, self-motivation, confidence and time management skills significantly improved [in the past six months],” the government said in a statement on Tuesday.The initiative Education Mentoring Programme was launched by the Delhi government in March this year to encourage more girl students to pursue education in STEM fields. “Over 1.5 lakh (150,000) Delhi government school students write the board exams each year. Of these, only 5,000-6,000 are girls from the science stream. Even they often do not have access to information and guidance about careers at large, and the field of engineering in particular,” the government said in a statement on Tuesday, explaining the reason for launching the programme.Under the Education Mentoring Programme, girl students who recently cleared the Joint Entrance Exam had the opportunity to share their “experience, learnings and advice” with aspirants. The young mentors also discussed the available choices of courses in STEM, entrance examinations and question patterns, resources available for preparation, and financial aid schemes of the government.“Our education system has perfected its ability to cater to the top 5% of our students. But you and I need to work hard to make sure that all 100% of our children have the opportunity to fulfil their potential. I urge all of you to now go motivate all your friends to become mentors too,” Sisodia said at the felicitation event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/250-delhi-students-felicitated-for-mentoring-girl-students-in-govt-schools-101634667413647.html
19-10-2021||Lucknow||Rape victim’s self-immolation: Dy SP terminated from service||Suspended deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Amresh Singh Baghel, who was arrested on September 30 in connection with the self-immolation by a woman who had accused BSP MP from Ghosi Atul Rai of raping her two years ago, was terminated from service on Monday, said home department officials on Tuesday.The woman and her male friend, who was the key witness in the rape case, had immolated themselves in front of the Supreme Court in New Delhi on August 16 this year and the duo later succumbed to burns.The officials said Baghel was found guilty in the departmental enquiry of making inappropriate comments in the enquiry report in a separate complaint related to the same case and he was terminated after taking legal opinion in the matter.A home department official privy to the development said the state government order with consent of the governor dated October 18, 2021 stated that the DSP, who was posted as circle officer of Bhelupur, Varanasi, in 2020, had made inappropriate comments in his report dated August 8, 2020.He said the CO stated in his report that it seemed that the woman along with her two associates had framed the MP in a fake case. “This comment was considered inappropriate in the case related to crime against woman when the MP is chargesheeted in the case and the matter is pending at the MP/MLA court of Prayagraj,” he stated.He said the DGP had suspended the CO on December 30, 2020 after finding his comment inappropriate and departmental enquiry was contemplated against him.Another official said the CO was named by the woman in the facebook live video before she set herself on fire. Minutes before the self-immolation, the victim and the key witness in a facebook live feed had accused certain police officers of UP police of supporting the BSP MP, who is currently in jail, and harassing them.On September 30, the Varanasi police had arrested the CO after registering a fresh FIR against him on various charges, including abetment of suicide, at Lanka police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rape-victim-s-self-immolation-dy-sp-terminated-from-service-101634667233506.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Rise in dengue cases: AAP accuses BJP of negligence, BJP refutes charge||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of negligence, citing the increase in dengue cases in Delhi.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless”.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD). Municipal elections will be held in Delhi next year.“The BJP is committing criminal negligence, and the MCDs under them are responsible for the rise in dengue cases in Delhi. BJP leaders have put the budget of dealing with dengue and malaria in their own pockets instead of spending it on machines and medication,” alleged AAP spokesperson Atishi in a press conference.She also said, “The BJP-ruled MCDs have not bought anti-dengue medication for fogging even till this month. We fail to understand why they are taking the situation so lightly. They have not taken even a single step in time to prevent dengue in Delhi. More than 70% of posts are vacant in the anti-malaria department. At least one fogging machine is required in every MCD ward, but MCD does not even have enough fogging machines. How can one even trust them at this point?”Dismissing the allegations as “baseless”, Delhi’s BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “MCDs have invested in awareness campaigns, fogging and checking the spread of dengue and malaria by regularly inspecting homes, especially coolers (in homes), while chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is wasting crores of rupees on hoardings and campaigns. They should stop wasting money on advertising and instead help MCDs financially to better control the spread of dengue and malaria.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rise-in-dengue-cases-aap-accuses-bjp-of-negligence-bjp-refutes-charge-101634667113430.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Bank staffers among 12 held for trying to steal from NRI account||The Delhi Police’s cyber cell (CyPAD) on Tuesday said they have arrested 12 persons, including three employees of HDFC Bank, for attempting to fraudulently withdraw nearly ₹6 crore from a non-resident Indian (NRI)’s dormant account with the bank’s Delhi branch.In all, the arrested persons made “66 failed attempts” in the past six months to withdraw the money, both by trying to hack into the account using internet banking and by using a fraudulently obtained chequebook, the police said.“The fraudsters also procured an Indian mobile number, whose 10 digits were identical to the NRI’s cellphone number in the United States, which was registered with the bank account and was also listed in the know your customer (KYC) details. They attempted to use the Indian mobile number to gain access to the account via internet banking,” said deputy commissioner of police (CyPAD) KPS Malhotra.
19-10-2021||Delhi||Delta variant ups herd immunity threshold, 80%+ need antibodies: Study||The Delta variant has meant that close to 80-90% of the population needs to be vaccinated or have had a previous infection (and thus antibodies) in order for a protective wall of population immunity to be strong enough to slow down the virus, researchers from two premier Delhi institute have said, citing serosurveillance data from before the April-May wave of infections in Delhi and the outbreak that happened despite it.Herd immunity is reached by highly effective vaccines that can stop transmission, but it has been complicated in the case of the coronavirus Sars-Cov-2 due to mutations and waning immunity. The mutations in the Delta variant made it significantly more transmissible -- by some estimates, more than twice when compared to the virus that was first found in Wuhan.With that virus, which was estimated to have a basic reproduction number (the number of people the virus can spread to on average, also known as R-nought or R0) was between 2 and 3, and the herd immunity threshold was considered by 60-70%. Now, according to a pre-print study by researchers from Maulana Azad Medical College, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, and the Delhi government health department, this threshold may be 80-90%.The research refers to Delhi’s January round of sero-surveillance to show that despite 56.13% people testing positive for antibodies, there was a massive wave of Covid-19 with over 28,000 cases reported in a single day at its peak in late April. “The antibody seroprevalence in January showed a more than two-times increase, coinciding with a rapid decline in the test positivity rate and the daily new incident cases suggestive of high population-level immunity. The high seroprevalence through natural infection was insufficient to achieve herd immunity and avert the second wave of the pandemic in Delhi,” the study says. There is another instance when herd immunity can collapse -- that is when the mutation makes the virus more resistant to immunity from an infection with an older variant. A surge in cases despite high sero-positivity was previously reported from Manaus in Brazil, where the Gamma variant (P.1) that can significantly evade immune was identified. “Rapid Covid-19 vaccination with the highest possible coverage remains the most feasible means of combating and ending the Covid-19 pandemic,” even though a previous infection provides higher and longer term immunity,” according to the paper. The researchers also suggest that serial sero-surveys be continued to monitor the waning population levels of antibodies. Genetic sequencing is also needed to keep an eye out for variants that may be more effective in evading immunity, according to the study. Dr Nandini Sharma, first author of the study and professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College, said, “In the study we assumed the R0 of the virus to be 2 and showed that to prevent a huge surge in infections, hospitalisations, and deaths we need 80 to 90% of the population to be sero-positive either through infection of vaccination. The data is from January when we did not anticipate a second wave due to delta whose R0 is much more.” She said, “Now, we are unlikely to have an outbreak of delta. But the cases might go up if a new variant emerges that is more infectious and can evade the immunity.” There is a need to continue following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and preventing large gatherings for the time being, she said. Dr Ekta Gupta, professor of virology at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences said, “The number of cases have gone down in Delhi because of the high levels of exposure in April and May along with a good pace of vaccination. This, despite people not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour – this is clear from the fact that we are seeing other respiratory diseases like flu in Delhi again, which had reduced because of masking.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delta-variant-ups-herd-immunity-threshold-80-need-antibodies-study-101634666874547.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Closure of educational institutes hits PG owners in DU’s north campus area hard||The closure of educational institutes and the shift towards online classes due to Covid-19-related restrictions since March last year have hit the rented housing business in Delhi University’s (DU) north campus area. Many owners said they have had to shut their businesses down.With a new academic session set to begin in online mode and the impending danger of the third wave of Covid-19, paying guesthouse (PG) owners said if students do not return soon, the economic impact might be irreversible.Like previous years, of the around 280,000 applicants to DU this year, only 40% of the aspirants (115,000) are from Delhi-NCR areas. Since there are less than 4,000 beds available for undergraduate students in different college and university hostels, most outstation students end up staying in PGs or sharing rented accommodation with other students.Thanks to online classes, scores of PG owners who rented buildings to run hostels for outstation students have shut down their businesses in the past year.Vikas Bansal, who runs the famous Circuit House PG in the Kamla Nagar area, owns four buildings and had rented five others to house around 500 students every year before the pandemic. Due to the pandemic-generated financial crunch, he said he can now offer students only 200 beds in the four buildings he owns.“Most of the hostel buildings and PGs currently operational in the north campus area are owned by people running the businesses. Those who rented property for the purpose had to give up their lease because it was impossible to pay rent, electricity, water, and other charges,” said Bansal, who is also the vice-president of the Delhi Student Housing Association-- a collective of students, property and PG owners formed during the pandemic to address housing issues.“We are completely dependent on the university guidelines. So far, there is no clarity regarding the reopening of classes and the mode of teaching (online/offline) in the coming days. We are hoping for in-person classes to resume at least in a phased manner from January. If that doesn’t happen, the businesses of hostel-owners like me, who own property, will also collapse,” he said, adding that the economic impact would be “irreversible.”Bansal also said that several start-ups and housing facilities that were offering living space to students in the area have shut shop in the past 18 months due to the uncertainty of the situation and the high maintenance costs, including housekeeping, electricity, rent, water, and others.Several hostel owners said that another reason for the closure of the hostel and PG business in areas such as Kamla Nagar, Hudson Lane, GTB Nagar, Vijay Nagar, and Kingsway Camp was the way the buildings were constructed. They said the properties were designed to house students, not families, and hence could not be rented out to anyone else.Rajpal Singh, who had rented 12 buildings, is currently in the process of shutting down his hostel business. “In the past four-five years, many buildings were constructed specifically to be used as hostels. For instance, there would only be one kitchen in a multi-storeyed building. The buildings cannot be converted into regular flats and rented out to families because they lack drawing rooms, lobbies, and separate kitchens,” he said.Singh explained that since PGs were a commercial establishment, PG owners would have to pay electricity and other kinds of rent accordingly. “I was spending over ₹25,000 per month on these expenses, including paying salary to housekeeping and security staff. It was no longer sustainable to run the business so I decided to shut it down. I had paid around ₹2-3 crore as security deposit for these buildings, but the money was adjusted in lieu of the last few months’ rent and I did not get any of it back,” he said, adding that the second wave of the pandemic was particularly devastating for hostel owners.“In January this year, some students had started returning to campus. But the second wave of the pandemic crushed all hopes of normalcy. Parents too are scared about sending their wards back to campus and with the risk of a third wave, there is a lot of uncertainty,” he said.Ajay Singh, the owner of Aparna Hostel which has housed about 500 students every year for nearly two decades, said he had to sell two of his cars to keep up with the monthly cost of maintaining the hostel ( ₹2 lakh per month).He said that until last March, there were at least 1,000 hostels and PGs in the one-km radius of DU’s north campus. “Around 50% of hostel owners had to leave their furniture behind when they gave up their lease. There is no assistance scheme for PG owners,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/closure-of-educational-institutes-hits-pg-owners-in-du-s-north-campus-area-hard-101634666753529.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s south civic body launches ‘gift a tree’ scheme to boost its greening drive||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday kicked off a new greening initiative called ”gift a tree”, a programme through which residents may gift tree saplings, instead of extravagant gifts, to their near and dear one on their special occasions and festivals. Launching this online drive by planting a sapling of maulshree at Harsukh Park, justice (retired) Adarsh Kumar Goel, chairman of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), said to protect the environment, such initiatives should be taken up on a priority basis. “It is the need of the hour that we should show our commitment to save greenery by planting and adopting trees, thereby contributing to afforestation efforts, promotion of biodiversity, setting right damaged ecosystems, mitigating climate change and improving the environment. This (gift a tree) is a good initiative by the SDMC, under which one can book and plant a tree at a selected SDMC park by logging on to the online module. While an e- certificate will be generated for gifting the tree, the south corporation will give an undertaking to take care of tree for its whole life,” he said. Civic officials said anyone who wishes to gift a tree needs to log on to the SDMC portal and book a space in one of the 20 SDMC parks selected for the purpose, choose the sapling and make the payment. SDMC director (horticulture) Alok Kumar said, “To avail of the ‘gift a tree’ scheme, a person need only spend about ₹2,000-2,500. This concept encourages people to do away with extravagant gifts in favour of gifting a tree by planting the sapling in the name of their loved ones.”The civic body will plant the sapling at the park and also set up a tree guard around it with details of the person in whose name the tree was planted. An e-certificate to commemorate the gift will also be given to the beneficiary. The civic body will from then on care for the tree for its lifetime at no added cost and the person adopting it will be able to visit the tree any time they choose, the officials said.The person gifting the tree as well as the person in whose name it being planted may also take part in the plantation ceremony, if they so wish, officials said. SDMC commissioner Gyanesh Bharti, who handed over the e-certificate to the NGT chairman, said trees are key component of this earth as they protect the environment. “A single tree absorbs nearly one tonne of carbon dioxide in its lifetime, which helps in controlling global warming. Besides, plantation is the easiest way to protect the environment. Through this initiative, people can ensure plantation in selected parks of the SDMC, where the civic agency will look after the gifted tree for its whole life,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-civic-body-launches-gift-a-tree-scheme-to-boost-its-greening-drive-101634666633455.html
19-10-2021||Lucknow||MNNIT to shut BTech course in info technology||Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT), Allahabad, the lone NIT of Uttar Pradesh, has decided to close down its once popular BTech in Information Technology programme from 2021-22 session. “All 110 seats of this 17-year-old course have now been merged into BTech Computer Science (CSE) programme,” said MNNIT officials. “The move has been prompted by waning interest among top aspiring techies as well as firms taking part in placement exercise,” they added.“The institute’s senate and MNNIT’s apex decision-making body—the Board of Governors—have both approved the proposal in this regard. The step follows an in-depth study undertaken by the institute,” said MNNIT director prof Rajeev Tripathi while confirming the move.He said the institute had also merged the 110 seats of BTech IT with BTech (computer science) course. As a result, the total seats of BTech (computer science) have risen from earlier 180 to 290. The institute was the first in the country to start an undergraduate programme in computer science and engineering in 1976-77. It started BTech in IT course from 2003-04 session.“A scrutiny of past records showed that BTech in IT programme was low on the preference of top aspirants as compared to the BTech in computer science and engineering course and, as a result, the BTech (IT) was attracting aspirants much lower in the merit. We also observed that even companies hiring our students preferred BTech in computer science and engineering pass-outs to BTech in IT pass-outs, believing that the course in computer science and engineering is more holistic and covering a wider spectrum of skills and knowledge as compared to IT,” prof Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mnnit-to-shut-btech-course-in-info-technology-101634666454459.html
19-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Two booked for beating up men for playing loud music||Police have booked two persons for beating up as many men on Monday night for allegedly playing loud music in Noida’s Shahdara village, said officials on Tuesday.The victims -- identified as Ramveer (goes by first name), 28, and Ghanshyam, 30 -- both residents of Shahdara village, suffered injuries in the incident and are undergoing treatment in a local hospital. The duo works at a reverse osmosis (RO) plant in the village.Ajay Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Surajpur police station,said, “The victims were allegedly playing loud music at their workplace around 10pm on Monday. Two of their neighbours -- Rajendra, 30, and his brother Vijendra, 33 -- asked them to lower the volume of the music system. When the duo refused to do so, the four got into an argument, and Rajendra and Vijendra attacked the victims with sticks and rods.”Uttam Kumar, a sub-inspector investigating the matter, said that the two victims were sent to the community health centre (CHC) for medical examinations. “According to the medical report, they have not suffered serious injuries. However, the victims claimed that they have suffered internal injuries and got themselves referred to a hospital in Delhi from the CHC,” he said.Meanwhile, a video of the incident in which the two suspects could be seen beating up the victims with the sticks has gone viral on social media.SHO Kumar said that a non-cognisable report (NCR) against the two suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 147 (rioting) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) was filed at the Surajpur police station on Monday night. “The suspects are still on the run, and a police team is conducting a search to arrest them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-two-booked-for-beating-up-men-for-playing-loud-music-101634666393252.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body’s FD reserves surge at Rs82,410 crore||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) fixed deposits (FDs) crossed the ₹82,000-crore mark recently after surpassing ₹80,000 crore earlier this year. According to BMC’s finance department, FDs worth ₹5,664 crore matured this year, even as BMC invested ₹9,079 crore in new deposits. According to the statement to be presented in the standing committee on Wednesday, BMC has ₹82,410 crore in 343 separate FDs at private as well as nationalised banks. The civic body earns around ₹1,800 crore as interest per year on FDs. In the ongoing fiscal’s budget, BMC had taken an internal loan from FDs, attached to long-term infrastructure projects such as infrastructure development fund. For the construction of infrastructure projects such as the coastal road, BMC has linked FDs worth ₹50,952. The amount is expected to be spent in the next few years. Further, FDs of around ₹26,000 crore are part of the employees’ provident fund and pension accounts.In the statement to be presented on Wednesday, the BMC has stated, “The FDs were at ₹79,002 crore in August. Of this, FDs of ₹5,664 crore matured and BMC made a new FD worth ₹9,079 crore by adding the matured FDs. The fresh amount invested in FDs is ₹3,407 crore in August, taking the total to over ₹82,000 (sic).”In February, the civic body had presented a budget of ₹39,038.83 crore for the 2021-22 financial year, with no new taxes for Mumbaiites. The budget focusses on upgradation of the city’s infrastructure, healthcare and municipal education systems. The budget was 16.74% more than the previous year’s budget that was pegged at ₹33,441.02 crore. BMC’s capital expenditure – money utilised to upgrade infrastructure and amenities – has increased to ₹18,750.99 crore in 2021, which is ₹7,847.41 crore more than last year’s allocation at ₹10,903.5 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-s-fd-reserves-surge-at-rs82-410-crore-101634666333295.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s north corporation kicks off new module for online transfer of teachers, principals||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Monday kicked off the new module for online transfer of teachers and principals to bring more transparency in the education system, the officials said. Launching this module at the civic centre, north corporation mayor Raja Iqbal Singh said the civic body has started the process of online transfer of teachers and principals to bring about more transparency in the education system. “With every information available in the public domain through this module, our teachers need not to run here and there for their transfer. Besides, this new system will also reduce human interaction – which often leads to malpractices,” he said. Echoing similar views, Alok Sharma, chairman of the education committee, north corporation, said the transfer process of teachers has been made fully computerised by this online transfer module. “The applicant needs to apply through their biometric identity for transfer. Under this module, the teachers and principals will be able to select a maximum of five schools of their priorities, and the computer will automatically allocate the school on the basis of first come, first-served, as per the vacant posts available,” he said. Sharma further said the north corporation has re-engaged nearly 700 contract teachers at its primary schools earlier this month. “The proposal to re-engage 667 primary teachers was first approved by the education committee and then it was vetted by the commissioner. The contract of these teachers was terminated in 2020. The move will benefit all primary teachers who were hit hard by loss of jobs during the coronavirus pandemic,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-north-corporation-kicks-off-new-module-for-online-transfer-of-teachers-principals-101634666275638.html
19-10-2021||Noida||CBSE schools in Gautam Budh Nagar gear up to hold Term-1 board exams this year||School authorities in Gautam Budh Nagar are gearing up to prepare students for the new pattern of the examinations after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday released its date sheet for the first-term board examinations for classes 10 and 12, officials said on Tuesday. The CBSE will be holding offline examinations for the first time, ever since the coronavirus pandemic outbreak.According to the circular issued by the CBSE, the 90-minute Term-1 examination will have objective type questions, and Term-2 examination -- scheduled to take place between March and April -- is likely to have subjective or objective type questions. This will be decided according to the pandemic situation in the country at that time, said the officials.The first term for Class 10 board examination will be conducted from November 30 to December 11, 2021, on the major subjects. The examination on the major subjects for Class 12 will be held from December 1 to December 22.“There are a total of 148 CBSE-affiliated intermediate schools in Gautam Budh Nagar, with nearly 40,000 students in classes 10 and 12, according to the official data,” said Dharamveer Singh, district inspector of schools, Gautam Budh Nagar.Renu Singh, principal of Amity International School in Noida, who is also the Noida coordinator of CBSE, said, “Unlike board examinations in the earlier format, when question papers were collected from CBSE’s designated centres, password-protected encrypted question papers will be sent to schools online this year. Schools will get half an hour (30 minutes) after entering the passwords, and they will have to print the question papers within this time period. For this, schools have to be well-equipped, and there will be a greater number of examination centres this year.”As the CBSE has already shared the sample papers for Term-1 board examinations, schools have been conducting mock tests to prepare students for the new pattern. “This time, we have objective type questions which require thorough understanding on topics. It is a huge shift for the students from the earlier pattern of board examinations. We have been conducting mock tests and practical examinations offline, so that the students understand the new pattern well,” said Kamini Bhasin, principal of Delhi Public School (DPS) in Noida.Seema Kaur, principal of Pacific World School (PWS) in Greater Noida West said that the students are preparing themselves for the examinations through resources such as sample papers, worksheets and periodic assessments. “After attending online classes and giving online examinations for over a year now, the students need to be ready to face offline examinations for Term-1 board examinations. To ensure this, we have been holding offline practice tests at the school, in accordance with guidelines issued by the CBSE,” she said.Aditi Basu Roy, principal of Grads International School (GIS) in Greater Noida and president of All India Principals’ Association (Gautam Budh Nagar chapter), said that holding Class 10 examinations before Class 12 examinations will ensure that all the issues with the new pattern are resolved by the schools and the CBSE itself. “According to the examination schedules, Class 10 examinations will be conducted before Class 12 examinations. This is a strategic decision by the CBSE which will help the schools as well as the Board to resolve issues which may come during the Class 10 examinations, so that Class 12 examinations could be conducted smoothly. The CBSE will put observers at each centre, and encrypted question papers will be sent to the schools for the examinations,” she said.Meanwhile, Manoj Kataria, president of Parents’ Welfare Society in Gautam Budh Nagar, said that parents are also confident enough to send their children to schools for offline examinations. “With almost negligible numbers of Covid-19 cases daily, at present, parents are confident about sending their children for offline board examinations. Moreover, students will be able to maintain social distancing as there will be a greater number of examination centres, and the strength of students will be manageable. In addition, with over one and a half years into the Covid-19 pandemic, students of classes 10 and 12 are old enough to understand and obey Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cbse-schools-in-gautam-budh-nagar-gear-up-to-hold-term-1-board-exams-this-year-101634666274487.html
19-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man jailed for life for raping, killing one-year-old girl||The district and sessions court in Greater Noida’s Surajpur on Tuesday sentenced a man, 28, to life imprisonment for raping and murdering a one-year-old girl in Badalpur on February 22, 2017. The court also imposed a ₹50,000 fine on the convict -- identified as Vijay (goes by first name) alias Bijju -- who is a resident of Deri Scanner village in Badalpur.Dinesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Badalpur police station, said Vijay, who lived in the neighbourhood of the victim, frequently visited her house. On the day of the crime, Vijay visited the victim’s house in the afternoon and found that she was playing outside the house. He took her out on the pretext of buying her some goodies.“The man took her to an isolated place, raped her, killed her, and then threw her body in a small pit,” SHO Kumar said.Family members of the child launched a search, but failed to trace her. Later, some children informed them that they had seen Vijay going to a nearby field with the girl in the afternoon.The victim’s family informed the police, and a case was registered against Vijay under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 376 (rape), Section 302 (murder) at the Badalpur police station in 2017, and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act sections 5 and 6.SHO Kumar said that Vijay was arrested the next day after he committed the crime and was sent to judicial custody. “Police had filed a chargesheet in this case within a month,” he added.Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety), Gautam Budh Nagar, said on Tuesday that the additional district judge (special POCSO 1), Niranjan Kumar, sentenced Vijay to life imprisonment after hearing the case.“The court has also fined Vijay ₹50,000, failing which he will have to serve 30 months more imprisonment... So satisfied that the culprit of such a heinous crime against a young victim has been suitably punished,” Shukla said, adding that the Noida police has been pursuing all women-related cases in the court seriously, leading to convictions.Total 70 persons have been convicted in women-related cases since November 2020, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-jailed-for-life-for-raping-killing-one-year-old-girl-101634666273320.html
19-10-2021||Noida||Air quality ‘satisfactory’ in Noida, mercury rises by 7°C||The air quality in Noida and adjoining areas continued to remain under ‘satisfactory’ levels even as the temperatures soared by seven degrees Celsius (°C) on Tuesday.According to weather analysts, rainfall in most of the northern parts of the country have suppressed the transport of pollutants and reduced the biomass burning, leading to a better air quality.The air quality in the city, which oscillated between ‘very poor’ and ‘poor’ category till Sunday, improved a little following the rainfall on Sunday, thereby keeping the air quality in the ‘good’ category on Monday and the ‘satisfactory’ category on Tuesday.“Though rainfall activities have stopped in Delhi-NCR, most of the parts of northern India saw patchy rainfall on Tuesday. This suppressed the biomass burning and reduced transport of pollutants. The region is receiving northwesterly winds, which for the time being will be cooler because of the snowfall in the hilly region. The air quality will, however, start dropping over the next two days as the region will become dry and the daytime temperatures will increase, leading to the resumption of transport of pollutants and biomass burning,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) reading, on a scale of 0 to 500, for Noida on Tuesday was 79 against 45 a day earlier. Similarly, Ghaziabad’s AQI was 77 against 45 on Monday, and Greater Noida’s AQI was 78 against 38 a day earlier.An air quality index (AQI) between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’, and above 400 is ‘severe’.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida on Tuesday were recorded at 30.1°C and 20.5°C against 23.1°C and 20°C, respectively, a day earlier. At Delhi’s Safdarjung weather station, considered average for the national capital region (NCR), the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 31.2°C and 19.9°C -- one degree below and two degrees above the season’s average, respectively.“The maximum and minimum temperatures will hover around 31°C and 19°C, respectively, on Wednesday. The sky will mainly remain cloudy,” said an official of the IMD on Tuesday.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the low biomass burning has led to an improvement in the air quality in the city. “Local land surfaces are wet, so the dust re-suspension is the bare minimum, which has led to a low presence of particulate matter (PM10) in the air. Presence of western disturbance has led to scattered rainfall over North India and low biomass burning. This condition improved the AQI, with low PM2.5,” according to a statement issued by the SAFAR on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-satisfactory-in-noida-mercury-rises-by-7c-101634666213457.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Mobile phone found in Taloja jail at Navi Mumbai||A mobile handset was found in one of the cells of Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. The jail houses some high-profile inmates and the prison authority has reported the matter to Kharghar police. Senior inspector Sandipan Shinde of Kharghar police, said, “An unclaimed phone was found inside the prison. The matter has been reported to our police station and we are investigating the matter”. Shinde added that as there was no SIM card in the phone, they are trying to trace the owner/user of the device through its international mobile equipment identity (IEMI) – a unique serial number – to find out how it had reached the jail.The police are not clear if any inmate had used the mobile phone. Police sources said that once the phone’s owner is identified, they would be able to answer all the questions.Taloja jail houses more than 2,000 prisoners, including some high-profile under-trial prisoners such as dismissed Mumbai Police officers Sachin Vaze, Riyazuddin Kazi, Sunil Mane and Vinayak Shinde, retired encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma and some white-collar crime accused such as Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor and convicts such as gangster Abu Salem, who is serving life imprisonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mobile-phone-found-in-taloja-jail-at-navi-mumbai-101634666095254.html
19-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad, Noida asked to implement Grap||The sub-committee constituted by the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and adjoining areas on Monday directed several agencies, including those in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, to implement several pollution-control measures with immediate effect in areas with “very poor” and “poor” to “moderate” air quality.An air quality index (AQI) reading between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that the committee also directed the implementation of certain measures which require the participation of citizens in order to keep a check on air pollution.“The committee suggested several measures, which include keeping pollution under control certificates (PUC) up-to-date; keeping engines of cars and two-wheelers properly tuned; adherence to lane driving; optimal usage of private vehicles and no disposal of garbage/waste in the open. Such directions have been issued for the first time and respective agencies have been asked to implement these measures,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB.“It is now up to the respective agencies to begin enforcement of the measures to abate pollution in the coming days. Both Ghaziabad and Noida have their winter action plans ready. With the directions, measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) come into immediate effect,” Sharma added.The Grap lists different measures to be implemented when air quality deteriorates.The committee has directed the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh, UPPCB, transport commissioner of UP, Ghaziabad municipal corporation, Noida Authority, Ghaziabad Development Authority, and Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority, among others to “stringently” enforce/stop garbage burning; stop activity in brick kilns; not tolerate visible emissions and strictly enforce PUC norms.“We will start with a drive to check for violations of PUC norms and levy penalties. We will strictly enforce the directions,” said Vishwajeet Pratap Singh, additional regional transport officer, Ghaziabad.Ghaziabad is one of the 16 non-attainment cities in UP and its pollution levels are some of the highest across the country.According to UPPCB records, Ghaziabad, in 2017, reeled under “severe” air pollution for 47 days. The city saw 50 days of “severe” pollution in 2018. Records indicate that there were no “good” air days in 2017 at all, while there were only four such days in 2018.Ghaziabad saw 31 “severe” air days in 2019, and 24 “severe” air days in 2020. In 2019, there were “good” air days and in 2020, there were 13 such days.In the first nine months of 2021, Ghaziabad witnessed 10 days of “severe” pollution in January and February, but only nine days of “good” air.“Most of the ‘severe’ air quality days happen in October, November, December, and January, and even if their number reduced a bit in 2020, it is due to judicial orders and intervention by courts. However, the prolonged monsoon this year may help reduce the number of ‘severe’ pollution days. It is now up to the agencies to sustain the momentum,” said Akash Vashishtha, a Ghaziabad-based environmentalist and lawyer.“Ghaziabad lacks public transport, which is a major reason why the residents are forced to use their own vehicles, and this leads to major contribution to air pollution. Illegal factories operating in different areas also are a major source of pollution. The burning of waste is also a common sight in small localities. Above all, strict enforcement is must,” said Sushil Raghav, a Ghaziabad-based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-noida-asked-to-implement-grap-101634666093931.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai fisherman releases endangered turtle found near coastal road site back to sea||A hawksbill sea turtle – a protected species under the Indian Wildlife Act (1972) – was rescued and released back to the sea by a fisherman from Worli Koliwada on Tuesday around 8pm, just off the Mumbai coastal road construction site. The incident sparked critical reactions from conservationists, who said that the controversial infrastructure project has so far ignored the presence of such biodiversity in the region.The fisherman, Nitesh Patil, who is the director of the Worli Koliwada Nakhwa Vyavsay Sahakari Society, found the turtle close to Bandra-Worli Sea Link, where work on the Coastal Road-Sea Link interchange is due to commence this month. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) recently began preparing the construction of this segment of the controversial infra project, prompting nearly 200 boats from across the Worli fishing zone to gherao a temporary jetty at the coastal road construction site on October 14.“This further confirms the presence of marine life along the coastal road project. This is not the first time that we have seen the presence of protected marine life in the area. Dolphins are also frequently seen by the fisherfolk who take their boats out there,” Patil told HT.Shaunak Modi, a city-based marine biologist and director of the Coastal Conservation Foundation, pointed out that the exact location of the turtle was less than 200 metres away from the site of the coastal road reclamation. “The presence of turtles, dolphins, corals and other rich biodiversity that are found in the inter-tidal zone has been completely overlooked by the coastal road’s environment impact assessment report. A more rigorous, honest assessment is required,” he said.An official with the state forest department’s mangrove cell, which is tasked with conservation of marine life and implementation of mitigation measures to protect biodiversity in relation to the project, said, “We have already received about ₹150 crore from BMC to be used for biodiversity conservation. The money is kept in a fixed deposit as per the organisation’s mandate, and specific measures to conserve biodiversity will be implemented to protect such species.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fisherman-releases-endangered-turtle-found-near-coastal-road-site-back-to-sea-101634665973340.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab ex-CM Amarinder Singh to soon announce his own political party||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said that he will launch his own political outfit soon, news agency PTI reported. Amarinder Singh quit the Congress last month after Punjab saw a change in chief minister with Charanjit Singh Channi taking over the role.Amarinder Singh said that he will not rest until Punjab’s future is secured. “Will not rest till I can secure the future of my people and my state. Punjab needs political stability and protection from internal and external threats,” the former chief minister was quoted as saying by his media advisor Raveen Thukral.The former chief minister who said that he would not join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) earlier, however, kept the door open for a coalition. Singh however outlined that the farmer’s interest will then have to take the centrestage. “Hopeful of a seat arrangement with BJP in 2022 Punjab polls if farmers protest is resolved in farmers’ interest. Also looking at alliance with like-minded parties- Akali groups, particularly Dhindsa & Brahmpura,” Singh was quoted as saying by his media advisor.The final months of Singh’s tenure as a chief minister was fraught with infightings as Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu and a group of rebel ministers accused him of not fulfilling promises made in 2017. Sidhu and Singh opposed each other and Singh’s resignation from the post of chief minister came two months after Sidhu’s elevation as state unit chief.“I feel humiliated. This is the third time they (Congress high command) have called the MLAs. Apparently, they do not have confidence in me and didn’t think I could handle my job. But I felt humiliated at the manner in which they handled the whole affair,” Singh said last month, while tendering his resignation. He also called Sidhu ‘unstable’ and deemed him ‘unfit’ for Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ex-cm-amarinder-singh-to-soon-announce-his-own-political-party-101634665802735.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Union environment ministry notifies final ESZ around Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary||The Union environment ministry has notified the final demarcation of the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) around Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS). The notification was gazetted on October 14 and accessed by Hindustan Times on Tuesday. With the ESZ now in effect, certain activities such as setting up of new, polluting industries will be prohibited in a 48 square kilometre (sq km) zone around TCFS, while others such as construction, eco-tourism and infrastructure expansion will be regulated by a ministry-appointed ESZ management committee.An ESZ is a buffer zone created around protected areas – namely wildlife sanctuaries and national parks – to reduce developmental pressures on the environment. After several months of being in the offing, the Centre had recommended final notification for the delineated ESZs on August 17 during a Union environment ministry’s ESZ expert committee meeting, the minutes of which were published on September 8.The draft notification for the declaration of ESZ around TCFS was first notified on November 6, 2019, but was subsequently re-notified on April 30 after the Maharashtra government revised its proposal to increase the area earmarked for protection by the forest department. It was initially proposed to include 34.06 sq km of adjacent land within the ESZ, but the state government in March wrote to the Centre, proposing the inclusion of an additional 14 sq km of land therein.The proposal also increased the maximum width of the originally proposed buffer area to a maximum of 3.98km, as compared to 3.5km earlier. At its southernmost point near Vashi bridge, the width of ESZ is 0km, while at its northernmost point at Thane-Kalwa bridge, the width is 2km.The ESZ monitoring committee that will implement the notification includes the additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), mangrove cell; deputy conservator of forests (DCF), mangrove cell; district collectors of Thane and Mumbai; joint commissioner of Mumbai civic body, two independent experts in ecology and biodiversity nominated by the state and a regional officer of the Maharashtra State Pollution Control Board (MPCB) from either Mumbai or Thane. The APCCF (mangrove cell) will serve as the chairman.“All development work that is permissible as per the notification will be monitored and sanctioned by the ESZ committee with conditions that the local environment and biodiversity cannot be harmed. This notification has been pending for a long time and the committee will conduct regular meetings to enforce its provisions to the fullest extent,” said Virendra Tiwari, APCCF, mangrove cell.Spread across 1,690.5 hectares (ha) across Mulund, Vikhroli, Bhandup, Kanjurmarg and parts of Mandale village near Mankhurd, TCFS is home to 12 true mangrove species, 39 mangrove associates, 167 species of birds including flamingos, 45 fish species, 59 species of butterflies, 67 insect species, among other mammals such as jackals. In May 2018, the state had declared it a flamingo sanctuary.The ESZ notification does not mitigate developmental pressures entirely. HT had reported on August 28 that the Union environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) for CRZ clearances has given a go-ahead for setting up 47 transmission towers in Mumbai, a portion of which will pass through TCFS for less than half a kilometre. EAC has recommended that bird diverters should be installed among the transmission lines “so as to avoid accidental collision of birds ie flamingos”. Similarly, the Mumbai-Ahmedabad high-speed bullet train has also been permitted to cut through the sanctuary, diverting just over 3ha of forest land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/union-environment-ministry-notifies-final-esz-around-thane-creek-flamingo-sanctuary-101634665853371.html
19-10-2021||Lucknow||Kheri DM sounds red alert amid flood threat||District magistrate Dr Arvind Kumar Chaurasiya sounded a red alert about impending flood in Kheri following excessive discharge of water into Sharda river from Banbasa barrage located in Champawat district of Uttarakhand on Tuesday.“Around 5,33,000 cusec water had been discharged into the Sharda river from Banbasa barrage till Tuesday afternoon. It is likely to enter Kheri within next few hours,” he said. “It was in 2013 when over five lakh cusec water was released into the Sharda river which resulted in flood in 181 villages then,” Kheri DM added.He asked the residents of flood-prone areas of Nighasan, Pallia, Dhaurahra and Lakhimpur tehsils to move to safer places in view of the flood threat.Moreover, incessant rain for the past two days in the district and neighbouring Nepal led to the swelling of Kheri rivers of Sharda, Mohana, Ghaghra and Kaudiyala. Now, excessive discharge of water into the Sharda river would worsen the situation.Kheri DM Dr Arvind Chaurasia, who alongwith SP Vijay Dhull, reached Sharda barrage in Sharda Nagar on Tuesday to review the flood situation instructed sub-divisional magistrates of Pallia, Nighasan, Dhaurahra and Lakhimpur to ensure that the people living in low-lying areas were moved to safe places.Meanwhile, heavy rain since Sunday coupled with strong winds has left Kheri farmers deeply worried about their paddy crops in the harvesting season. Rain and heavy winds have flattened the paddy crops while the harvested paddy crop lying in fields submerged in water causing severe loss to the farmers.
19-10-2021||Other||14 Moga cluster officers for stubble burning issued show-cause notice||Moga With the district reporting 62 cases of paddy stubble burning cases to date, additional deputy commissioner (general), Harcharan Singh, has served show-cause notices to 14 senior officers, appointed as cluster officers to control the menace. These officers failed to act against stubble burning even as they have been given nodal officers under them to help curb the menace. Those issues the notices include tehsildars, block development and panchayat officers (BDPOs), sub-divisional officers (SDOs), sub-divisional engineers (SDEs), block agriculture officers and junior engineers (JEs). These officers failed to submit daily action taken reports on farm fire incidents to the Moga administration. Now, they have directed to file reply to the notices within three days or face departmental action. The Moga administration has appointed nodal officers for every village and over 20 cluster officers to check stubble burning incidents. They are obligated to share daily action taken reports through a mobile application called ‘ATR’ (action taken report), developed by Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC), after physical verification of stubble burning incidents. Their failure in sending reports caused inconvenience to the Moga administration in monitoring and data compilation of stubble burning incidents; the administration also faced difficulty in sharing information of stubble burning incidents with the state government, the notice to them reads. Sources added that nodal officers were not going to villages for physical verification of stubble burning, due to farmers’ agitation. Other claim that technical glitches in the mobile application led to the non-submission of daily reports. “We have served notices to the 14 officers not sharing reports, and they have separate verbal reasons. We have sought explanations and replies from them. Their replies will reveal the actual reason for failing to upload the action taken reports,” the ADC (G) added. The 14 officers issued the show-cause notices are Iqbal Singh, SDO; Gurdeep Singh, JE, water supply and sanitation department; Navroop Singh, SDE of construction sub-division Moga; Manvir Kaur, naib tehsildar of Ajitwal; Sukhvir Kaur, BDPO Moga-1; Jarnail Singh, supervisor of Guardians of Governance (GoG), Manjot Singh Sodhi; BDPO Kot Ise Khan, Kirpal Singh; BDPO Nihal Singh Wala, Joginder Singh; SDO of Mandi Board, Baghapurana, Deepak Kumar; naib tehsildar of Nihal Singh Wala; Gurbhej Singh, assistant project officer (APO) of BDPO Kot Ise Khan, Partap Singh; tehsil in-charge of GoG, Sudhir Kumar; SDE Moga-1 and Gurpreet Singh, block agriculture officer of Nihal Singh Wala sub-division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14-moga-cluster-officers-for-stubble-burning-issued-show-cause-notice-101634665675055.html
19-10-2021||Other||Chief electoral officer directs authorities to keep vigil on Himachal borders||The chief electoral officer of Himachal Pradesh, C Palrasu, has directed all authorities concerned to keep round-the-clock vigil on inter-state and inter-district borders to prevent flow of cash, liquor and drugs during the election process for October 30 bypoll.He was presiding over a review meeting of state nodal officers of police, excise and taxation, and income tax departments on Monday evening.Discussing the State Election Security Plan prepared by the police department, Palrasu emphasised on making comprehensive arrangements for checking and prevention at border areas, district and state borders.He directed 24-hour surveillance at inter-district and inter-state checkpoints and other entry points for control and monitoring of alcohol, drugs, cash, illegal arms etc from neighbouring states and districts.Emphasis was laid on establishing coordination with officers of districts or states concerned. Instructions were given to take preventive measures against history-sheeters, proclaimed offenders and other criminals in the respective assembly constituencies and execution of pending non-bailable warrants.Besides this, instructions were given to deposit arms, an action plan for deployment of Central Armed Police Forces, coordination with flying squads and other enforcement agencies and to send reports of various activities on daily-basis.The excise department was directed to closely monitor the movement of all vehicles at the RTO checkposts, border checkposts and keeping all liquor stores and distilleries of Kangra, Solan, Shimla, Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti and Chamba districts under CCTV surveillance round-the-clock during the bypoll. Instructions were given for making proper arrangements of police personnel for monitoring supply of all types of liquor without a valid license.The income tax department was directed to keep a close watch at the activities of airports, hotels, financial brokers, cash couriers and other suspicious agencies or persons during the bypoll period so as to check the undeclared cash flow.The department was also directed to coordinate with the enforcement agencies and the district monitoring cell of the respective districts and to keep an eye on cases of deposits or withdrawals of suspicious nature of more than ₹10 lakh.Inspector general of police (armed police and training) JP Singh, additional director (investigation) income tax Ankur Alya, nodal officer and additional commissioner, state tax and excise Hitesh Sharma, additional chief electoral officer Neelam Dulta, and deputy chief electoral officer HL Dhiman also attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chief-electoral-officer-directs-authorities-to-keep-vigil-on-himachal-borders-101634664713338.html
19-10-2021||Other||Fatehpur assembly constituency: Congress citadel ready for a triangular contest||One of the most fertile areas, Fatehpur assembly segment in Kangra is a known farming hub with most of the families in the constituency dependent on agriculture. This Congress citadel for over a decade is set for a tough triangular battle on October 30 by-election.The by-election was necessitated after the death of Congress legislator Sujan Singh Pathania. The former minister died of prolonged illness in February this year.Pathania, a former forest officer, was elected from Fatehpur (earlier known as Jawali) in 1977 on Janata Party ticket. Next election he contested as a Congress nominee but was defeated by BJP’s Rajan Sushant who was re-elected in 1985 election as well.Pathania won two consecutive elections in 1990 and 1993 before again losing to Rajan Sushant in 1998. He was re-elected in 2003 but again lost to Sushant in 2007.In 2009, the seat was vacated after Sushant was elected to the Lok Sabha and Pathnaia won the by-poll and was re-elected in 2012 and 2017.This time, the contest is between Sujan Singh Pathania’s son Bhawani Singh Pathania, BJP’s Baldev Thakur and Rajan Sushant who is contesting as an independent.Precursor to 2022 assembly pollsThe byelection to Fatehpur assembly segment holds importance as it would be a precursor to the voting trend in 2022 assembly election. Population-wise largest district Kangra holds key to the formation of government.The district sends 15 legislators to the 68-member state assembly and data of previous elections shows that the party which wins maximum seats in Kangra forms the government.In the 2017 assembly polls, the BJP had won 11 seats and Congress only three while independent candidate won one seat.BJP faces bumpy rideThe BJP which is looking to wrest the seat from Congress is facing a bumpy ride due to infighting. The squabbling in the Fatehpur unit of BJP began even before the party had announced tickets. Former Rajya Sabha MP Kripal Parmar was a frontrunner for BJP ticket but lost the race to Baldev Thakur.Before the ticket announcement, posters calling Parmar an outsider were put up in the constituency.Fearing a rebellion, the party chose Baldev Thakur over him. Peeved over the denial of ticket, Parmar is staying away from campaign even as the chief minister Jai Ram Thakur convinced him not to contest as an independent. Recently, his close confidents have been expelled from the party for anti-party activities.Recently, posters calling Thakur an outsider also cropped as his home originally falls in adjoining Jawali constituency.Former BJP MP Rajan Sushant, who is contesting as an independent, will also harm the party’s prospect as he still enjoys a considerable vote bank.BJP had lost last three elections from Fatehpur due to infighting between the factions.However, the BJP leadership denies any infighting. Industry minister and the in-charge for Fatehpur bypolls Bikram Singh said: “All the talks about infighting are nothing but rumours being spread by the opponents to weaken the BJP. We will win the election with a thumping majority and will end the decade-long drought.”He said BJP is seeking votes on the achievements and works done by Centre and will emerge victorious.The BJP is also facing the farmers’ ire in Fatehpur which reflects the mood of the public. The BJP candidate and workers faced protests by the farmers over non-fulfilment of their demands and were even denied entry in several villages.Rajender Mehra, a local said the BJP has failed to fulfil its promise of opening a grain market in the local area. “Our crops are rotting in the field as the Punjab has banned the crops from outside the state in its markets,” he said.Inflation, unemployment Congress’ poll plankMeanwhile, the opposition Congress has made rising prices and unemployment the main poll plank in the bypoll. Sujanpur legislator and Congress in-charge for Fatehpur Rajinder Singh Rana said the BJP was running the government like a market where profit matters the most.“People are reeling due to high prices of essential commodities and have decided to teach the saffron party a lesson,” he said.He also alleged that BJP has foreseen its defeat and now was threatening the employees to win the elections.Caste matrixFatehpur assembly segment is dominated by Rajput community followed by OBC. The Brahmins also have a sizeable population in the constituency and have traditionally sided with BJP.Former MP Rajan Sushant, who is contesting as an independent, is a Brahmin and will hurt BJP the most.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fatehpur-assembly-constituency-congress-citadel-ready-for-a-triangular-contest-101634664473277.html
19-10-2021||Noida||GT Road to be connected with Noida airport||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to build a 25km road in order to connect GT Road, also known as National Highway 91, with the proposed international airport at Jewar. The four-lane road will boost connectivity between Bulandshahr and Jewar, officials said, adding the GT Road passes through Dadri in Greater Noida. The state government has directed the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) to work on multi-modal connectivity plan to connect the Jewar airport with rest of Delhi-NCR cities, including Bulandshahr, Meerut, Ghaziabad, Delhi, and Faridabad, said the officials.“To connect NH 91, also known as GT Road, with the Noida International Airport, the UP government has planned a 25-km road. The government has asked the National Highways authority of India (NHAI) to work on this new link that will boost connectivity between Khurja/Bulandshahr and Jewar. Now, the NHAI will prepare a detailed project report and work on it,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.Meanwhile, the Integrated Industrial Township Greater Noida Limited (IITGNL) has decided to build a four-lane 2.5km road and an underpass on NH-91 near Shiv Nadar University to connect proposed logistics hub at Greater Noida’s Bodaki with the highway. Also, one interchange is planned at Dankaur village on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) and another is planned at Sirsa village on the expressway that passes over NH-91 and the Yamuna Expressway, officials said.“The interchange at Sirsa will connect a 130-metre-wide Greater Noida road with the EPE and interchange at Danakaur will connect the EPE with the Yamuna Expressway that reaches till Jewar airport site. It means Greater Noida’s logistics hub, transport hub and integrated Industrial Township will enjoy smooth connectivity with airport once these projects are built,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO of IITGNL and Greater Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gt-road-to-be-connected-with-noida-airport-101634664354242.html
19-10-2021||Kolkata||BJP MP seeks additional central forces for Oct 30 Bengal bypolls||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Arjun Singh on Tuesday wrote to the chief election officer of West Bengal seeking additional security personnel for bypolls to four assembly constituencies which will be held on October 30. The lawmaker cited that it is necessary to ensure free and fair elections in the upcoming bypolls to Dinhata (Coochbehar), Santipur (Nadia), Gosaba (South 24 Parganas) and Khardah (North 24 Parganas) constituencies.In his letter, Singh claimed that post-poll violence has not yet ceased in the state. “As you are aware the spate of post-poll violence, which started from the day of counting after the General Election, still continues. The High court also took cognizance of the situation and ordered a CBI probe in the case,” Singh wrote.Singh alleged that cadres of Trinamool Congress (TMC), the ruling party in the state, attacked BJP candidates Joy Saha from Khardah and Ashok Mandal from Dinhata while they were conducting door-to-door campaigns in their respective constituencies. He in his letter said that he cannot rely on the state police.According to a report by news agency PTI, Ashok Mondal, the BJP candidate for Dinhata assembly constituency, and Natabari's party MLA Mihir Goswami were allegedly heckled by TMC supporters in the presence of Jalpaiguri's BJP MP Jayanta Roy during campaigning at Nayarhat. The local TMC leaders, however, denied the involvement of its workers in these cases. Nisith Pramanik’s retaining his Lok Sabha seat necessitated the by-election to Dinhata assembly constituency.“In this context, we repeat our request made earlier for immediate allotment of Central Security cover for our candidates as we have no reliance on the West Bengal Police,” Singh wrote. He requested the CEO to deploy 30 companies of CAPF per constituency to ensure that the bypolls on October 30 are held peacefully.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-mp-seeks-additional-central-forces-for-oct-30-bengal-bypolls-101634663513549.html
19-10-2021||Other||Jubbal-Kotkhai: Apple is the flavour of the poll season||With the campaign to the bypoll reaching its last leg, emotions and issues related to horticulture are running high in the apple heartland in Jubbal-Kotkhai constituency that has remained the turf of two former chief ministers.Apple cultivation is the main source of livelihood for the majority of the electorate in this constituency. In spite of a good crop, apple season this time has been agonising for the farmers. The weather vagaries hit the crop earlier, unseasonal snow in spring caused widespread damage to orchards in the middle and higher belts, and repeated spells of hail battered the fruit. The farmers did not get compensation for the losses.Later, prices in the market crashed, mainly due to the nexus between the merchants and wholesale dealers. The ₹6,000 crore apple economy which mostly runs on the free market model, was dealt another setback when Adani group, a big corporate buyer in Himachal Pradesh’s apple market, announced its opening price for premium quality fruit at just ₹72 per kg against ₹88 per kg it offered last year.There were widespread protests in the apple-growing regions of the state. Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a conglomerate of 21 fruit and vegetable growers’ associations, was at the forefront of the campaign. The agitation echoed loud in Jubbal and Kotkhai too.The farmer was angry over the steady silence maintained by the government. Horticulture minister Mahender Singh‘s and urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj’s statements further infuriated the growers. Both blamed the economy for the losses. Farm unions demanded the government to implement Market Intervention Scheme on the analogy of Kashmir, besides the implementation of the APMC Act. The fruit cultivators also wanted the government to abolish various charges the commission agents were pocketing.Apples are one of the core issues for fruit growers in the by-polls. “Na hum Congress waaley na hum BJP Waley hum hein Seb waley (neither we are Congress nor BJP, we are apple growers),” says Chetan Bragta, an independent candidate who rebelled against BJP after he was denied ticket and party preferred Neelam Saraik over him.Chetan is riding high on sympathy wave after his father Narinder Bragta’s death in June. Bragta, a former horticulture minister, was a popular leader and widely known for his contribution towards apple-growing areas. He was instrumental in introducing anti-hail guns, strengthening the local mandis.“There is no fault of mine, the party did not let me mourn my father’s death. I was asked to be in the field for campaigning, I don’t understand why did they do this to me,” says Chetan whose election symbol is apple.He has come out with a vision document promising more CA stores, fruit processing industries, high-density plantation, setting up horticulture university and promoting orchard tourism in his assembly segment.“Roads and horticulture have always been my priority, the BJP government ignored the apple-growing regions in the last three years. the government should talk about what they did for apples, the main Theog-Hatkoti road, which is the lifeline of apple growing regions, is still incomplete, while the conditions of link roads have gone from bad to worse,” says Rohit Thakur, former MLA, ex-chief parliamentary secretary and grandson of former chief minister Ram Lal Thakur.Thakur lost the last election to BJP’s Narinder Bragta by a margin of 1,062 votes. Rohit’s grandfather Ram Lal Thakur had remained legislator from Jubbal and Kotkhai, seven times and he defeated Virbhadra Singh in 1998. Rohit who himself has been legislator thrice is trying to defend his legacy.Former CM Virbhadra Singh had also remained a three-time MLA from here.On the other hand, BJP’s Neelam Saraik too is raising issues related to apples. “Actually, some people have not been able to tolerate that commoner has been allocated the ticket,” she says. To allure voters, BJP had announced separate sub-divisional magistrate office in Jubbal and Kotkhai and a tehsil and fire station in Kalbogh region.Samyukt Kisan Morcha is opposing the BJP. “Our organisation is non-political but it’s obvious that the farmers will oppose the BJP over farm laws and the impact of these laws is visible everywhere,” says Sanjay Chauhan, former mayor who hails from Kotkhai, co-convenor of SKM.“The cost of production has skyrocketed, while the prices have remained stagnated since 2010. So government must provide MSP as is being given in Kashmir. The government must strictly ensure timely payments. Government must seriously think of implementing universal carton and speed up building cold chain facilities,” says Mahijit Rathore, president of Nawar Valley Apple Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jubbalkotkhai-apple-is-the-flavour-of-the-poll-season-101634663813310.html
19-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: 20-day diversions announced on NH-9 for pipeline repair works||The Ghaziabad traffic police have announced traffic diversions from October 20 to November 10 on the National Highway 9 in the wake of Ganga water pipeline repair works which will be taken up by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). Traffic police officials said that the Tigri underpass area at Vijay Nagar will be out of bounds for commuters due to the work. The officials said that all the vehicles from Noida and Greater Noida which come to Ghaziabad using the Tigri roundabout will have to use other route like the one at Shahberi to come to Ghaziabad. “Those vehicles that want to proceed to Delhi, via Ghaziabad, from Noida and Greater Noida will have to use the underpass at the Vijay Nagar bypass and thereafter use the Delhi-Meerut Expressway to travel to Delhi. The expressway lanes will not be closed/diverted during the diversion period. No vehicle will be allowed to use the service road to move to Noida,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). “Likewise, the traffic coming from Mohan Nagar and Siddharth Vihar will also use the Vijay Nagar bypass to travel to Delhi. The diversion is due to repair works of the Ganga water pipelines and may last till November 10. We have also informed the Noida traffic police about the diversions,” Kushwaha added. The diversions have been announced under the phase 2 (UP Gate to Dasna) of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, the officials said. NHAI officials said that they will try to finish the work before Diwali, that means before November 4. “We are expecting that the work will finish in the next 10 days. Since the new high-capacity water pipelines were laid due to expansion work of the expressway, we need to connect the new pipelines. So, the diversions have been announced for the work to go on smoothly,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. “The works will also be taken up at Bamheta and Dasna locations, but it will be done later on,” he added. The pipelines bring Ganga water from the Upper Ganga Canal near Dasna and the water is taken to the Pratap Vihar treatment plants from where it is supplied to Ghaziabad and Noida with the help of pipelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-20-day-diversions-announced-on-nh-9-for-pipeline-repair-works-101634663216340.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Four booked for gang raping 26-year-old||Kasarvadavali police on Tuesday booked four persons for gang raping a 26-year-old woman. The woman, in her complaint, claimed the incident happened in 2019 after her boyfriend took her along with his three friends, who allegedly raped her unnaturally. According to the police, the accused was identified as Govind Rajbhar, 32. Complainant told police, the accused took her video when they were in a relationship and would often threaten to make it viral if she refused to meet. An officer said, “The accused had also borrowed ₹7.55 lakh and did not return. During their relationship in 2019, the accused took her with his three unknown friends who allegedly raped her in the car. Later the accused assured her for marriage and went to her village. There, he clicked a video of her sister while she was taking a bath and threatened circulate the video if she revealed about the relationship to anyone.”“The complainant later approached the police and registered a case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code against her boyfriend and three unknown persons. We are yet to arrest the accused,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-booked-for-gang-raping-26yearold-101634663213536.html
19-10-2021||Noida||Man shoots self after killing woman in Greater Noida’s Dadri||A 25-year-old man allegedly killed a 23-year-old woman after she refused his advances and then shot himself on a busy road in Dadri on Tuesday evening, the police said. The suspect, Bunty, a resident of Gautampuri colony in Dadri, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital, the police said, adding the woman lived with her family in Railway Road colony in Dadri. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said the suspect and the victim were known to each other for some years. “They lived in the same colony till recently and later they shifted to other places,” Pandey said. The woman’s father, a complainant in the case, said that on Tuesday, the victim and her younger sister had gone to buy some medicines from the market. “When they were returning home, Bunty reached there on a motorcycle and intercepted them. He then got into an argument with my elder daughter over some issue. The suspect suddenly took out a pistol and shot her dead,” he said. Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer, Dadri police station, said the victim collapsed on the road due to injury and then suspect put the gun on his temple and fired a shot, wounding himself critically. “Both the persons received one bullet each in the head. Local people informed the police and a team rushed them to a private hospital where doctors declared the woman dead,” Tripathi said. The SHO said Bunty was later referred to Noida’s district hospital for treatment. “Primary investigation shows the woman had rejected his advances which led to the incident,” he said. The woman’s body was sent for a post mortem and its report is awaited, the police said, adding that a case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the suspect. “We are investigating the matter from all angles,” Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-shoots-self-after-killing-woman-in-greater-noida-s-dadri-101634662673077.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||‘Doing politics over religious issues will make India like Afghanistan, Pak’: Punjab minister||Punjab MLA and state agriculture minister ‘Kaka’ Randeep Singh Nabha on Tuesday said Indian politicians should keep from doing politics over "religious matters" lest the environment in the country becomes like the "one in Afghanistan and Pakistan."“The bravehearts who helped the country achieve independence and gave democracy to the country are constantly being sidelined. The country is being weakened,” he told news agency ANI.He further stated that religious politics creates a “feeling of mistrust and insecurity” among the people. “If this situation continues, then the day is not far when the situation in India will become like Taliban ruled Afghanistan, and Pakistan,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Congress leader’s remarks come in the aftermath of the gruesome killing of a 35-year-old man from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district at the farmers’ protest site at Delhi’s Singhu border. Identified as Lakhbir Singh, the Dalit man’s body was found hanging from a police barricade with his left arm chopped off. A post-mortem report on Saturday explained that Lakhbir died owing to excessive bleeding and as many as 22 injury marks were found on his body.Watch here| Singhu hand chopping & murder: Watch how Rakesh Tikait described the incidentLakhbir was allegedly murdered for desecrating a Sikh holy book. Three individuals belonging to the Nihang namely Narayan Singh, Bhagwant Singh and Govind Preet Singh, who have claimed responsibility for the killing, were sent to a six-day police custody by a local court in Sonipat on Sunday.Notably, Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma has blamed the farmer union leaders and the opposition parties for the killing of Lakhbir. In a statement, he said that Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait was fanning anti-national sentiments and was giving “provocative speeches” in a desperate bid to advance his political career.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indian-politicians-must-refrain-from-doing-religious-politics-punjab-minister-101634661207324.html
19-10-2021||Other||Punjab speaker accepts Khaira’s resignation as MLA||Chandigarh Punjab Vidhan Sabha speaker Rana KP Singh on Tuesday accepted the resignation of rebel Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Bholath and former leader of opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira from the state assembly. A notification to this effect was issued by the state assembly, which stated that consequent upon the resignation of Khaira, the Bholath seat has fallen vacant. There will be, however, no by-election as the general assembly polls in the state are less than four months away. Khaira said he had resigned on June 3 before joining the Congress. “The speaker asked me to submit the resignation in the prescribed format, which I did today in person. My resignation has been accepted,” the two-time Bholath legislator said. Khaira had joined the AAP in December 2015 after resigning from the Congress and won the Bholath assembly seat in 2017; he, later, became the leader of opposition in the Punjab assembly. However, he fell out with AAP top brass and led a rebellion following his unceremonious removal as the leader of opposition. He quit the AAP to float his own separate outfit, Punjab Ekta Party (PEP), ahead of the 2019 parliamentary elections. Khaira had first tendered his resignation from the state assembly in April 2019 to contest from the Bathinda Lok Sabha seat which he lost. “I had taken my resignation back at that time because I did not want to oblige the ‘fake revolutionaries’ (AAP) and the people of my constituency to go through the nightmare of byelection. I am with the Congress and will contest from Bholath (in the upcoming polls),” he said. As per the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, a member can withdraw the resignation any time before it is accepted. Khaira rejoined the Congress with two other MLAs Jagdev Singh Kamalu and Pirmal Singh Khalsa who had revolted against the AAP leadership to protest against the former’s removal from the position of leader of opposition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-speaker-accepts-khaira-s-resignation-as-mla-101634661773410.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||3 of family die after water tanker rams into scooter in Virar||Three persons, including a 10-year-old girl, were killed after a water tanker collided against their scooter at Bhatpada in Virar (East), on Tuesday early morning. The unidentified tanker driver is absconding. Senior inspector Suresh Warade of Virar police station said, “The victims Yogesh Shamrao Madhavi, 32, his mother Sunita Madhavi, 60, and his daughter Veda were headed to Virar from Chandip when the victim, while overtaking the tanker, suddenly lost control near Bhatpada and the tanker dashed against the bike. All the three riders fell and sustained serious injuries.” Locals rushed Veda to the Sanjeevani Hospital, where she succumbed to her injuries during treatment, said the officer. “We have seized the water tanker; however, the unidentified driver is absconding. We have registered a case under section 304 (a) (causing death by negligence), 337, 338 (causing hurt), 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code and section 184 (driving dangerously) of the Motor Vehicle Act against the unidentified accused. We are checking the nearby CCTV footages for clues. The postmortem report is awaited, and we are investigating further,” said Warade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-of-family-die-after-water-tanker-rams-into-scooter-in-virar-101634661413035.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai becomes first city in MMR with 100% first vaccination dose against Covid||Navi Mumbai has become the first city in the MMR region to have all its citizens over 18 years of age vaccinated with the first dose of Covid vaccine. The city is racing towards full vaccination with Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reporting that more than half the population has also taken the second dose.In all, 11,07,233 residents have taken the first dose of Covid vaccine, giving the city 100.02% vaccination rate amongst those over 18 years of age, according to NMMC. Of these 5,76,567 have also taken the second dose, i.e. 52.08% of the eligible population.Said municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, “It is certainly very comforting, especially in view of the third wave threat. We had gone all out with our efforts and active participation of the residents to complete the vaccination to avoid the third wave or at least to reduce the impact.“September and October have been landmark months with more than 3.5 lakh doses being given in just a month and a half. We ensured that more vaccination centres were opened so that they were close to the residences. In case of shortages, we ensured a balance of first and second dose. Those above 45 years of age were given preference initially.“We identified the super-spreader categories and vaccinated them and also facilitated the vaccination of seriously ill patients in their homes. There was constant review of the situation amongst all officials and departments.”On the plans ahead, Bangar said, “Fortunately, the third wave has been extended. We are confident that we will complete the second dose as well soon. The availability of doses is not an issue any more. The only restraint is that there is a gap of 84 days. We will complete it as soon as the residents are eligible.”Appealing to the residents, he said, “We should not get complacent as there are news reports that a third wave will not come. I still believe that it will come, it is just a matter of time. Of course, the severity can be less due to vaccination.“We should try to totally avoid it. Why take a chance? Take all precautions and efforts to postpone it as far as possible. Our vaccination drive for not just the second dose but also the first will continue in view of the presence of a floating population in Navi Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-becomes-first-city-in-mmr-with-100-first-vaccination-dose-against-covid-101634661123659.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 4th straight day of fewer than 2,000 Covid-19 cases||In view of the decline in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government has extended the timings of restaurants and eateries till 12am, while shops have been allowed to function till 11pm from Tuesday onwards. In addition, all preparations are being made for colleges, which are slated to open from Wednesday. Till now, all hotels and shops had to pull their shutters down by 10pm.Following the order of the Maharashtra government, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) also gave a green light for this move. Meanwhile, restaurants and eateries can continue with delivery of food round-the-clock.Maharashtra, for the fourth consecutive day, recorded fewer than 2,000 Covid-19 cases (1,638) on Tuesday.The state government, in its notification, defended the extension, citing the upcoming Diwali season. “In the wake of the upcoming festival season, it is now felt that restrictions imposed on times of functioning for various establishments such as shops, restaurants, hotels, among others, will lead to more crowds in the shorter duration they are currently allowed to function,” cited the notification. It, however, said that all other Covid-19 restrictions will continue to remain.Hotels and restaurant associations welcomed the move, but are not entirely happy with easing of restrictions. “The additional two hours will provide much-needed succour to the beleaguered hospitality industry. Our sector was the worst affected by Covid-19 restrictions. However, we wish extensions were granted till the pre-Covid deadline of 1.30am,” said Pradeep Shetty, senior vice- president, Hotel & Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI). Similar is the stance of Shivanand Shetty, president, Indian Hotels and Restaurants Association, (AHAR), one of the leading association of hoteliers. “We have almost come to normalcy and hence the original timings should be restored quickly,” said Shetty.The Chamber of Association of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT), which represents the manufacturers and shopkeepers, have welcomed the extension. “It’s good that the state government is gradually opening up as there is still a threat of a third wave,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, CAMIT.On Monday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had held a series of meetings, including with the members of the Covid-19 task force, to decide further easing of restrictions, in line with the decline in the number of Covid-19 cases.The state government has also decided to ease the restrictions further as amusement parks, auditoriums and theatres will be opened from October 22.Mumbai’s tally of new cases was 314, along with four deaths, thus bringing its toll to 16,188. The number of Covid-19 patients right from the outbreak last year has now reached 6,594,820.There were 132,467 tests done on Tuesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 2,791.There are currently 26,805 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 7,741 patients, followed by Mumbai with 5,521 active patients and Thane with 3,618.The toll has now reached 139,865, with Pune leading with 19,553 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 16,188 and Thane with 11,407.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-4th-straight-day-of-fewer-than-2-000-covid-19-cases-101634661117791.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena headed UD dept restarts double increment for BMC staff with Masters in Marathi||In an apparent move to play the Marathi card ahead of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation elections, the Shiv Sena-headed urban development department cleared a proposal to restart the policy to give two additional increments to BMC employees who have completed their post-graduation in Marathi subject. UDD minister Eknath Shinde cleared the proposal of the BMC on Monday. The decision by the department will benefit 1,489 BMC employees and would put a burden of ₹52.63 lakh on the civic body. The double increments were given out since 2011 to promote the use of and encourage studying Marathi language. They had stopped since 2015 after the sixth pay commission came into force, increasing the financial burden on the civic body. Sena legislator Sunil Prabhu, who was following up on the proposal, said he had written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and sought intervention from environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray on the issue. “The proposal was cleared on March 9, 2011, but its implementation was stopped in 2015. At that time, the standing committee had stated that it should be extended till the academic year 2018. This proposal was pending with the government since 2018. Now with this decision, over 1,400 employees will benefit from this decision,” Prabhu said. This is the second such decision to push Marathi language after CM Uddhav Thackeray fast-tracked construction of Marathi Bhasha Bhavan at Marine Drive in Mumbai instead of Navi Mumbai. The Marathi language department is also headed by the Shiv Sena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-headed-ud-dept-restarts-double-increment-for-bmc-staff-with-masters-in-marathi-101634660872871.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Arbitrator cannot pass ex-parte orders without issuing notices to parties: Bombay high court||Observing that an arbitrator cannot pass ex-parte orders without issuing notices to parties to the dispute before it, the Bombay high court (HC) has struck down an arbitral order against Godrej Properties. Justice GS Kulkarni said sections 18, 19 and 24 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, mandate that in the conduct of arbitral proceedings parties are not only treated with equality but each party “shall be” given full opportunity to present its case. “This would be more imperative when the parties are already before the arbitral tribunal,” said justice Kulkarni while striking down the October 8 order passed by the sole arbitrator on an interim application filed by Goldbricks Infrastructure Private Ltd., the other party to the commercial arbitration which had staked certain claims against Godrej Properties. Goldbricks Infrastructure had last year moved HC. The court had referred the commercial dispute for arbitration to a retired Chief Justice of India. Both the sides had filed applications for certain interim measures, and acting on such a plea filed by Goldbricks Infrastructure, the arbitrator had on October 8 restrained Godrej Properties from dealing with or creating any third party rights in unsold flats and other units of Residential Zone –II. Godrej Properties had moved HC, challenging the ex-parte order, claiming that the order was passed by the arbitrator without even issuing a notice to them, which the arbitrator could not have done. Justice Kulkarni accepted the argument advanced on behalf of Godrej Properties. The single-judge bench said Section 24 (2) mandates that the parties “shall be” given sufficient advance notice of any hearing and this would include hearings for ad-interim, interim or final orders. “In my opinion, the provisions certainly make it incumbent upon the arbitral tribunal to give sufficient notice of any hearing to the parties before it,” said the court. “If this is what is plainly reflected from the said provisions of the Act, it would be unknown to law and quite peculiar for an arbitral tribunal to pass an ex-parte ad-interim order, on the mere filing of a section 17 application, without hearing even the party making the application, much less the contesting respondent,” justice Kulkarni added, referring to the fact that the sole arbitrator had not even heard Goldbricks Infrastructure before passing of the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/arbitrator-cannot-pass-ex-parte-orders-without-issuing-notices-to-parties-bombay-high-court-101634660812800.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||2 weeks after reopening schools no spike in Covid cases among kids in Mumbai: BMC||Over two weeks after the reopening of schools in the city, no spike has been reported in the number of Covid-19 cases among children. However, the city has recorded a marginal drop in the number of cases. According to the data, between September 14 and 30, 1,024 cases were reported in the 0-19 age group that went down to 732 cases between October 1 and 17.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has, starting October 4, allowed the reopening of schools for Class 8 to 12. Further, starting from today, colleges also have been allowed to remain open. However, colleges have been asked to have lectures in staggered time format, and students and staff members have been asked to remain vaccinated.However, in the case of those below the age of 18 years, a vaccine is yet to roll out. As of October 17, 50,246 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the 0 to 19 age group, of which 14,090 cases are in the 0 to 9 age group, followed by 36,156 in the 10 to 19 age group.In terms of fatality, the 0 to 9 age group has reported 19 deaths till now followed by 41 in the 10 to 19 years of age group.Further, a fall has been reported in other age groups also. According to the data, in the age group of 20 to 29, 1,005 cases were reported between October 1 to 17. In the same age group, between September 14 and 30, 1,375 cases were reported.In the age group of 30 to 39, during the same period cases went down from 1,925 to 1,210. In the age group of 40 to 49, cases went down from 1,627 to 1,136. Similarly, in age groups above 50 years of age also went down from 3,926 cases to 3,021 cases.According to BMC officials, there is no spike reported yet, but it will be too early to conclude that there will not be any spike in the case of children or adults. Earlier, in the last week of June, the BMC’s sero survey on children had revealed that more than 50% of the paediatric populace in Mumbai had antibodies against Covid-19. The survey among the 1-18 years age group was to gauge the prevalence of the virus among the young population. The overall sero positivity rate is 51.18%.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “Over two weeks have passed but no spike is reported when it comes to Covid-19 cases in children. It could be due to high level of antibodies present, but at the same time we are ready to vaccinate around three million children. Our current strength of vaccinated centres will be sufficient to roll out vaccination for children once the vaccines are made available by the government.”Apart from the reopening of schools and colleges, the BMC has also given several other relaxation in the month of October including reopening of religious places, theatres, auditoriums followed by increasing operational hours for shops and restaurants. Owing to these relaxations, the BMC has maintained that the period till November 20, 2021, will remain crucial.Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid-19 task force, Maharashtra said, “In general, across all age groups including those of children, the cases are on the decline. This is partially maybe because we do not have any new variant of concern. Also, a significant number of children already have Covid-19 antibodies. Hence, we should wait for proper vaccines for children to be rolled out.”Dr Joshi added, “For adults, the vaccination is already going on at a good pace. Despite these factors, we will need to be careful and cautious. In this, unvaccinated and partially vaccinated citizens have to be more careful.”On Monday, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar had said that the BMC is ready to vaccinate over three million population of children. However, it is awaiting vaccine and its guidelines to be rolled out by the Central government.Meanwhile, on Tuesday 314 cases were reported followed by four deaths taking the case tally to 752,344 and toll to 16,188. The city’s recovery rate is 96% with 728,138 recoveries followed by fatality rate being 2.15%. There are 5,521 active cases in the city. On Tuesday, 57,660 citizens were vaccinated. In the city, 13,572,771 doses have been administered so far and 4,923,773 citizens are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-weeks-after-reopening-schools-no-spike-in-covid-cases-among-kids-in-mumbai-bmc-101634660753229.html
19-10-2021||Gurugram||Aravalli demolition: MCF starts wrapping up demolition of Khori Gaon||The Municipal Corporation of Faridabad, which resumed a demolition drive at Khori village settled on Aravalli land on Tuesday, said that work will be completed this week. Around 300 houses were still to be removed and over 50% of these were demolished on Tuesday, officials said.Yashpal Yadav, the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF), said, “We started removing the illegal squatters on Monday and we are aiming to complete the work by Thursday. Around 300 houses are being demolished, of which almost 50% of the work has been done. During this drive, we are removing makeshift houses of people who stayed back after the initial demolition drive and also demolishing half broken houses from the last time.”Earlier, Yadav had said that residents living in Khori are those who were allowed to stay back upon requesting officials that they be allowed to collect and sell the construction and demolition waste.“Now, if anyone wants to take the construction and demolition waste, then they will have to take special permission from us before going,” Yadav said.About 6,600 dwelling units in Khori village were razed by the MCF over the last few months as the illegal colony was encroaching 150 acres of Aravalli forest land. On June 7, the Supreme Court fixed a six-week deadline to remove the 6,600 structures in the Khori Gaon colony.The court directed MCF to act without exception against all unauthorised structures on forest land. However, demolition of illegal farmhouses and banquet halls on Aravalli land hit a hurdle, as owners had approached the Supreme Court seeking relief, claiming that their structures had come up after the state government had amended the norms in 2019, which was immediately put on hold by the top court in March 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/aravalli-demolition-mcf-starts-wrapping-up-demolition-of-khori-gaon-101634660692758.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||CR announces 4-hour railway block between Thane and Diva on Wednesday||The Central Railway (CR) will operate a four-hour block on Wednesday early morning for undertaking the construction work of the fifth and sixth railway line between Thane and Diva railway stations. The block will be operated between 12.25am and 4.25am on Wednesday. During the block, all slow local train services towards Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) departing from Diva railway stations will be diverted on the fast railway lines between Diva and Mulund railway stations. The diversion will happen between 3.48am and 4.15am. The first local train from Diva towards Mumbra and Kalva railway stations will depart at 4.35am. Earlier, the Central Railway in September operated a block for 10 hours between Kalva and Mumbra railway sections on the slow railway lines for the construction work of the fifth and sixth railway line between Diva and Thane railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cr-announces-4-hour-railway-block-between-thane-and-diva-on-wednesday-101634660636590.html
19-10-2021||Gurugram||Dengue: Hospitals gear up to handle rise in cases after heavy rain||Hospitals in the city are gearing up to handle an uptick in the number of dengue cases following heavy rainfall over the weekend, despite hitting a six-year high so far. The district reported four new cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 184 for this year. According to the health department data, 86, 66, 94, 22 and 51 cases of dengue were recorded in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively.With 101 dengue cases reported over the past weeks, doctors said that the cases are likely to rise till Diwali (November 4). Dr Manish Rathi, deputy medical superintendent, Civil Hospital, said, “We are still seeing around 400 patients (per day) walk in with complaints of fever at the internal medicine out-patient department. In another two to three days, with the impact of rain, more such cases are likely, but we have prepared to deal with the situation. We have a 30-bed dengue ward along with a functional neonatal intensive care unit (ICU) and our paediatrics ICU will also be functional by end of this month.” He said that residents should look out for symptoms of bleeding and rashes, besides fever and cold, and seek professional help at the earliest. According to the daily dengue and malaria bulletin issued by the district administration on Tuesday, a total of 12,738 notices have been issued in the district so far for larvae breeding. On Tuesday, larvae breeding was found in 186 houses across the district. Doctors from the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 said that in the past week, at least 50 patients suffering from fever were admitted to the hospital. “In the past week, at least 50 patients with fever and thrombocytopenia (a condition where one has low blood platelet count) have been admitted to the hospital, along with regular cases of fever in the OPD. Cases of dengue are usually reported until Diwali, but with rain continuing, more cases are likely to be reported this season. After Sunday’s rain, not much waterlogging was reported from roads but as water gets accumulated in households, there is still a chance for mosquito breeding,” a senior doctor with the internal medicine department of Civil Hospital said. Experts said that patients should seek medical help immediately as platelet count can drop rapidly. Dr Rajesh Kumar, a senior consultant with the internal medicine department of Paras Hospital, said, “Dengue cases multiplies during rainy season because the weather conditions and temperature become conducive for the growth of the mosquitoes. It has been seen that patients who get infected in the month of October or November get severe infection and the chances of ICU admissions also increase. The cross reaction that happens between the types of dengue make the condition of the patient serious, resulting in more severe drop in platelets and fluid presence in stomach and chest. If the patient doesn’t get timely medical intervention, it can cause death as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dengue-hospitals-gear-up-to-handle-rise-in-cases-after-heavy-rain-101634660635260.html
19-10-2021||Gurugram||NHAI seeks power connection for Ambience Mall underpass on priority||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has asked the power utility company to expedite the process of approving power connection for lighting the Sirhaul underpass, which was opened for traffic on October 17 on a trial basis.NHAI officials said that they have applied thrice for the power connection, but it is still pending. After two applications were rejected, the authority has written to the power utility company, Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN), seeking a power connection at the earliest.Officials of the DHBVN said that the first two applications were declined due to lack of documentation and complete information, and that the third application is currently under process and its review will be expedited.At present, the NHAI is using diesel generator sets to power the lights in the underpass.The Sirhaul underpass near Ambience Mall helps city residents to avoid going to Rajokri in Delhi to take a U-turn to reach Ambience Mall and DLF Phase-3, which would also reduce congestion at the border. The underpass was scheduled to open on October 15 but it was delayed because of pending work.In a letter to the DHBVN on October 14, Nirman Jambulkar, project director, NHAI, said, “It is submitted that during the recent site inspection, it was observed that the underpass at above location has been substantially completed and is almost ready for being made operational. However, in the absence electric connection, to be released by DHBVN, the said underpass can’t be put to public use. Considering the importance of the project being monitored at the highest level by central and state government, it is requested that the electricity connection may be released by DHBVN immediately.”A DHBVN spokesperson, however, said that the application submitted by the NHAI contractor in January was incomplete and the same was intimated through a letter. In the case of the second application, the DHBVN had sought a consent letter from the contractor for setting up a transformer at the site and payment thereof. However, the consent letter was not submitted, as a result of which the application was declined.“The third application was submitted on October 8 and it is being processed on priority and if the documentation is complete, the connection will be released at the earliest. Since this is a government connection and pertains to infrastructure, the department will ensure it is cleared on priority,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nhai-seeks-power-connection-for-ambience-mall-underpass-on-priority-101634660634001.html
19-10-2021||Gurugram||Third sero survey: Faridabad to be tested again due to 14% inconclusive results||A day after the results of the third statewide serological survey revealed that 14% of the samples collected from Faridabad were found to be inconclusive, the state health department on Tuesday announced that resampling would take place on October 25 and 26 in Faridabad district.Rajeev Arora, the additional chief secretary for health, Haryana, said, “As 14% of the samples collected from Faridabad yielded inconclusive results, the survey will be carried out again in Faridabad district. Sampling for the survey will be done on October 25-26 and results will be declared by November 1.”Officials said that preparation for the survey will be completed by October 22 by the district health department after which fieldwork for collecting samples will start. The testing of samples will be done between October 27 and 29.In the third serological survey, the Faridabad district reported the lowest seropositivity at 64.2%. In urban areas of the district, the seropositivity was found to be 64.1% while in rural areas, it was 64.2%. In the Faridabad district, 1,320 samples were collected for the survey conducted in September this year.Dr Vinay Gupta, the chief medical officer of Faridabad district, said, “In the CLIA test (the type of serological test done by the health department this time) conducted for the sero survey, if results are above 0.3, then it is considered positive but if the result is below 0.2, then it is negative. In the samples collected from our district, results of 14% samples were between 0.2-0.3, which is why the survey will be conducted again.”Gupta said that the survey is being conducted again as the current seropositivity of 64.2% is based only on results 86% of the samples. “As results for 14% of the population were inconclusive, we cannot say for sure that the current seroprevalence is correct. It can be possible that whole of the 14% of the population have antibodies developed or partially. As it is a big number of the sample size, the survey has to be conducted again,” he said. A serological survey finds the level of antibodies that may have been developed either after an infection or being vaccinated. The results will help the department plan strategies and assess their preparedness for the third wave of Covid-19. In the third sero survey, children were included for the first time to assess the level of immunity in this vulnerable and unexposed cohort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/third-sero-survey-faridabad-to-be-tested-again-due-to-14-inconclusive-results-101634660632785.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Think of children as a reservoir of Covid-19 virus: Expert||Children can be potential reservoirs of the Sars-CoV-2 and vaccinating them becomes a public health imperative, according to Indian virologist Dr T Jacob John. The senior medical expert emphasised prioritising the Covid-19 vaccine for children between 12 to 18 years in order to minimise the virus transmission and risk of emergence of new variants by mutations. “We have underestimated the epidemic among children as they are not falling sick so much, but we must think of children as a reservoir of the virus,” said John. He was speaking at an online session organised by the Indian Academy of Paediatrics on Tuesday evening. He cited a study by researchers at the Harvard-affiliated Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) that confirmed that children are capable of carrying and replicating the Sar-CoV-2. The study published in the Journal of Infectious Diseases included 110 Covid-19 patients aged two weeks to 21 years. While the researchers did not find a correlation between viral load and severity of the disease in kids, they said that it was a misconception that children, who are mostly asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, are less infectious. John suggested that the government should prioritise children in the age group of 12 to 18 as a pilot and then open the vaccination for much younger children. India’s epidemic stage is over “India has reached the end of the epidemic phase of Covid-19, and is in an endemic phase which will be a long haul,” said John. “Paediatric vaccination will play a crucial role in keeping the Covid-19 numbers in the endemic stage,” he said. Navi Mumbai-based Paediatrician Dr Vijay Yewale, who is a former president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics, said that the Covid-19 trend among children has been that of mild disease. “We see Covid-related complications very rarely among children,” he said, adding that it is likely that the government will open paediatric vaccination only for children with comorbidities at first. John cited his observations of the past 16 weeks during which the number of cases in India has been steady without any upswings. In addition, the latest serological survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research has shown 70% sensitivity. “At least 95% of the population has antibodies, considering all the factors,” he said, adding that barring some states like Kerala, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Sikkim, India is in an endemic phase. John predicts that a third wave is unlikely in the current circumstances, but if it hits, the timing will be sometime mid- 2022 or the last quarter of 2022. “India’s endemic phase is likely to be influenced by re-infections. But we can forget about the third wave for the time being. If at all the third wave hits, it will be because of a new variant which does not acknowledge our existing immunity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/think-of-children-as-a-reservoir-of-covid-19-virus-expert-101634660514029.html
19-10-2021||Other||GT road, Grand Chord rail line safe haven for smuggling drugs to Delhi||Recent seizures of narcotics in huge quantities by the Bihar police have indicated that the Grand Trunk (GT) road and Grand Chord railway line have become a safe haven for smuggling Doda powder to national capital Delhi.Rohtas police on Monday recovered 38 kgs of Doda powder and arrested a man and a woman from a Delhi bund bus. The drug was worth ₹30 lakh in Delhi, the arrested smugglers, identified as Jogan Ram of Latehar and Noorani Bibi of Palamu, told police.Rohtas SP Ashish Bharti said that police and intelligence officers have been interrogating the arrested smugglers to know the kingpins and white-collared persons behind the illegal narcotics trade. On September 22, the officials at Aurangabad had seized 97 kgs of Doda powder worth ₹77 lakh from a tribal man and an 18-year-old girl of Palamu. They confessed to coming to Aurangabad to board a Delhi bound train to hand over the consignment in Delhi.On June 9, Gaya police had seized 112 kgs of Doda powder worth ₹90 lakh from an auto-rickshaw near Dobhi on GT Road (NH 2). The consignment was to be loaded on a Delhi-bound bus.Opium and Doda powder were also seized from smugglers in Gumla and some other districts of Jharkhand in recent months. The contraband drug, often called ‘the poor man’s heroin’, is a narcotic derived from the opium poppy and is in high demand for making Ayurvedic and Unani medicines as well as used by addicts in the national capital, Noida and Gurugram. Some so-called Hakims also used the powder for making medicines, an official said.Opium is cultivated under Maoist’s protection in their dominated areas in remote hilly Gaya and Aurangabad districts of south Bihar and bordering Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. Drug smuggling is a good source of their earning.Police and security agencies working in the region to finish the economic resources of Maoists often destroy the poppy cultivation in these districts. But it is very difficult to locate the cultivation in dense hilly forests in the unapproachable terrain.Licensed growers have to destroy Doda after extracting the Opium. But due to the lack of monitoring of the destruction process by the government, smugglers are earning crores by buying Doda from the farmers at cheap rates, said an official..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gt-road-grand-chord-rail-line-safe-haven-for-smuggling-drugs-to-delhi-101634660332716.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown curbs eased, Mumbai sees rise in train travellers||With the easing of restrictions and reopening of schools, the city’s suburban railway network has witnessed a rise in the number of passengers. On Monday, nearly 3.2 million passengers travelled by local trains on the Central Railway (CR) and 2.7 million passengers travelled by local trains on the Western Railway (WR). The WR currently has nearly 2.5 million passengers travelling by local trains as opposed to nearly 2 million in August, September and starting of October. The CR currently sees 3 million passengers, compared to 2.5 million in August, September and in the beginning of October.Both the zonal railways have also seen a rise in the number of monthly season railway tickets issued. From Oct 1 until Monday, CR issued 520,000 monthly passes, with an average of 28,000 a day. The WR has issued 272,317 monthly passes from October 1 till October 18, with an average of 15,000 passes daily.“The number of passengers has increased after the state government eased the restrictions. We continue to be vigilant and conduct surprise inspections by our commercial staff on the railway stations and inside local train compartments,” said a senior Central Railway official.Passenger associations have asked the railways to operate local trains in full capacity, expecting a further increase in passengers. “As colleges reopen in Mumbai on Wednesday, the number of people travelling will rise further. Both the zonal railways should restart train services at 100% capacity,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-curbs-eased-mumbai-sees-rise-in-train-travellers-101634660272811.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane Traffic Police to take action against errant auto rickshaw drivers outside station||THANEIn a relief to thousands of commuters, Thane traffic police have initiated a special drive against errant auto rickshaw drivers outside Thane station. This will be a joint effort of Thane police, traffic police, GRP, RTO and RPF in order to provide convenience to commuters. Strict action would be initiated against autos flouting the rules.On Monday, a meeting was held with the auto rickshaw union and traffic police. “This meeting included auto driver representatives from across the city. All the auto rickshaw drivers have been informed that it was mandatory to use license, permits and batches. They were informed not to use fancy numbers, to stand in a queue as per the rickshaw rules, not to leave any queue outside the station and not to charge any passengers exorbitantly,” said Balasaheb Patil, DCP, Thane Traffic.An ultimatum has been given to all the drivers. They have to stitch uniforms by the end of the month. From November 1, the police will take strict action against those not wearing proper uniform code.“We urge the citizens also to wait in queue for their turn to get into the auto. Any auto driver taking more than three passengers must be avoided. If there are drivers charging exorbitantly, they should be brought to the notice of the officials present in the vicinity,” added Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-traffic-police-to-take-action-against-errant-auto-rickshaw-drivers-outside-station-101634660154175.html
19-10-2021||Patna||Panchayat polls hold up recruitment of teachers in Bihar||The State Election Commission (SEC) in Bihar has turned down the request of education department for permission to carry on with the process for sixth phase of recruitment of school teachers, citing the ongoing panchayat elections, officials said.“The district advisory committee (for recruitment of teachers for government schools) has a member from the district council. It has been clear laid down in the model code of conduct guidelines that there would be an embargo on implementation of any scheme of the state government or the Centre which involves any representative of the panchayati raj institutions either directly or indirectly,” said a letter from the deputy secretary, SEC, to the director, secondary education.Panchayat polls in Bihar, being held in 11 phases, end on December 12.Education minister Vijay Choudhary said the government was keen on completing the sixth phase of teachers’ recruitment at the earliest, which is why it had sought permission from the SEC. The department had also initiated the exercise for verification of documents of shortlisted candidates, but it had to be stopped midway due to panchayat elections.Reacting to unrest among candidates because of the delay, the minister said, “I appeal to the candidates to understand the situation and not get misled. Panchayati raj institutions are the appointing authority for teachers in schools. As soon as the sixth phase is completed, the seventh phase will start,” he said.Additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar said, “So far, two rounds of counselling for around 38,000 candidates out of the total 94,000 vacancies have been completed, while either first or second round of counselling is due in 1,200 recruiting units at the panchayat level. After the second round of counselling is completed in all the recruiting units, the department will take a call whether it should go in for third counselling or not.”Kumar said the seventh phase of recruitment would commence soon after the sixth and would also add the carry forward the vacancies from the sixth. “There will be enough vacancies even in the seventh phase, as there is shortage of teachers. But the department wants the deserving ones to get the jobs. Verification of documents is also a cumbersome process, but it has to be completed beforehand to prevent any kind of forgery,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/panchayat-polls-hold-up-recruitment-of-teachers-in-bihar-101634659854512.html
19-10-2021||Ranchi||Ex-JMM treasurer booked for bid to lure party MLA, ‘pull down’ Soren govt||Nearly three months after the Ranchi police arrested three persons for conspiring to destabilise the Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand, a former treasurer of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), once a confidant of the chief minister, has been booked by the police on a complaint by a party legislator for allegedly luring him with money to break away and help the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) form the government. According to the FIR (first information report) lodged by the police on October 12 on a complaint by senior JMM legislator Ramdas Soren, Ravi Kejriwal offered him money and other benefits if he was willing to help bring down the government. Kejriwal, a former treasurer of JMM, was suspended from the party in August last year. Ranchi’s senior superintendent of police Surendra Kumar Jha said, “An FIR has been registered with the Dhurwa police station. The matter is being investigated. Further action would be taken accordingly.” Ramdas Soren told Hindustan Times on Tuesday that he had filed his complaint through his personal assistant on October 9 and the FIR was registered on October 12. Sources said the case has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Prevention of Corruption Act. Hatia additional superintendent of police Vineet Kumar has been made investigating officer in the case. Ramdas said he was Kejriwal came to his his official residence a few weeks back and offered him money and a ministerial berth if he breaks away and helps BJP form a new government. He said he filed the complaint after informing his party’s senior leadership.“Being from the same party, we have known each other for long. Kejriwal came to my official residence in Dhurwa along with another person, Ashok Agrawal, whom I don’t know. He said he was in touch with other legislators as well. I told him in clear terms he was knocking on wrong doors,” the MLA from Ghatshila said. Kejriwal could not be contacted. On July 25 this year, Ranchi police had arrested three persons, Abhishek Dubey, Amit Singh and Niwaran Prasad Mahto, for allegedly conspiring to overthrow the coalition government of the JMM, Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in Jharkhand. They were arrested on a complaint by Congress MLA from Bermo, Anup Singh alias Kumar Jaimangal. The police had claimed they had confessed that they planned to contact political personalities and offer them cash.The police had declared to have seized ₹2 lakh in cash, documents and electronic equipment from the accused. The police, however, are yet to file charge sheet in the case. Ranchi SSP said investigation in the case was still on. JMM, BJP trade fireReacting to the fresh case, JMM said they are not surprised by the “dirty tricks” of the BJP, which, in turn, described the new case as a diversionary tactic by the Soren government. “Who all are involved would be known only after police investigation. However, BJP started its dirty tricks the day the Soren government came to power. State BJP leaders often make statements that this government would fall soon. How? They should explain that,” said JMM spokesperson Manoj Pandey. Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “This government has a knack for coming up with such conspiracy theories every few months. Similar allegations were made few months back. What happened in that case, nobody knows. This government has failed to deliver on electoral promises. Whenever they are cornered over any issue or there are rumblings within the alliance, they come up with such diversionary tactics. And this time, the allegation is against their own leader,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/exjmm-treasurer-booked-for-bid-to-lure-party-mla-pull-down-soren-govt-101634659852987.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||19-year-old killed by friend with heavy object in Bhiwandi||A 19-year-old boy was killed by his friend after they had an alcohol party. The accused smashed the victim’s head with an object and died after heavy blood loss. Shanti Nagar police have arrested two accused in the case.The deceased was identified as Mohammed Asif Ansari, 19, a resident of Govind Nagar of Shanti Nagar, Bhiwandi. Ansari and his friends went to a rented house of another friend for a birthday party. According to the police, he left home at around 10.15pm and told his mother that he’d return after dinner.His mother Shakila Ansari, 50, tried calling him but he didn’t pick up the call by 12 midnight. She then tried to call his friends. One of them narrated that the accused, Shafiq Ansari, 19, allegedly beat up Asif. She went to the house of her son’s friend and took him to the hospital but he was declared dead.An officer from Shanti Nagar police station, said, “The accused and some of his friends were drunk and got angry over some joke cracked by the deceased. The accused already had grudges against the deceased, and in anger smashed the deceased’s head with a heavy object. He was arrested immediately after a complaint was registered by the deceased’s mother.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/19yearold-killed-by-friend-with-heavy-object-in-bhiwandi-101634658952615.html
19-10-2021||Other||PSPCL CMD post: 22 apply, shortlist of 3 to be out this week||Patiala A screening-cum-selection committee that Punjab chief secretary Anirudh Tiwari heads will meet this week to shortlist three names for the post of Punjab State power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) chairman-cum-managing director. The government has received 22 applications for the CMD post, which fell vacant on June 6, 2020, and IAS officer A Venu Prasad has had the charge since. The chief minister will take the final call on the appointment. With issues like the Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs), higher tariff charge dogging the state, the government plans to scrap some PPAs that have higher fixed and variable costs. “The government is keen to take concrete action to bring down electricity tariff and to bring a White Paper on the PPAs to nail the wrong-doings,” a source told HT, adding that the government not only wanted to bring the White Paper, but to nail erring officials as well, sources claimed. Apart from former CMD Baldev Singh Sran, director (distribution) DPS Grewal; chief engineer Damanjit Singh; former directors NK Sharma and VK Garg have also applied. Grewal is also considered a contender, as he had effectively resolved problems of industrial consumers, during his stint as Ludhiana chief engineer. Principal secretary (power) KAP Sinha said, “Applications have been received and screeing-cum-shortlisting will be done this week. By next week, PSPCL will have a regular CMD.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pspcl-cmd-post-22-apply-shortlist-of-3-to-be-out-this-week-101634658892658.html
19-10-2021||Other||Punjab farmers oppose Singla’s presence in training camp||Sangrur Farmers opposed the presence of Punjab public works development minister and local MLA Vijay Inder Singla in a farmer training camp at a local resort on Tuesday, claiming that the minister wanted to gain political mileage. The state’s farmers have been protesting against Singla for allegedly being opposed to their interests. The training was meant to apprise farmers of new techniques and processes in farming and new avenues they could take up. The farmers raised slogans and held a protest on Dhuri road. The protesters alleged that the department did not inform them about the lecture of Singla in advance. “Farmers reached in their 100s to attend the camp. However, when we saw the minister, we boycotted the camp and opposed the presence of Singla. Farmers are not getting payment of sugarcane dues and the debt on Punjab is increasing day by day. But the minister wanted political mileage,” said Sarabjit Singh, former sarpanch of Alal village.Sangrur chief agriculture officer Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal said that over 1,000 farmers participated in the camp, but just about 100 ‘politically-backed’ among them opposed the minister.Singla said that farmers would not face shortage of DAP fertiliser in the state. He advised farmers to follow the recommendations given by the experts and adopt bee keeping, fish farming, poultry and dairy farming.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-farmers-oppose-singla-s-presence-in-training-camp-101634658532812.html
19-10-2021||Other||For flouting faculty norms, Punjabi University bars 12 colleges from taking 1st year BEd students||Patiala Punjabi University has barred 12 of its affiliated colleges from admitting new students in BEd (Bachelor of Education) first year from this academic session of 2021-22. These colleges were found flouting norms by either not appointing a principal or not getting this position approved; there were also issues and irregularities in the appointment of faculty members. The norms for these have to be in line with the ones that the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) and the university issue. The first counselling for admission to BEd courses in colleges across the state is going to begin from October 21.Varsity’s dean (colleges) Gurpreet Singh Lehal said under the NCTE guidelines, for an intake of 100 students in the BEd course, there is a requirement of 16 full-time faculty members, including a regular principal. “The selection of at least 10 faculty members, including the principal, should be approved by the university. For the past many years, these colleges have not recruited any University-approved faculty member and principal despite many reminders and warnings that the university issued to them,” Lehal said, adding that after the last warning in August, these colleges had assured the varsity of appointing an approved principal and the minimum required faculty by October 15.“For BEd second year and for MEd courses in these colleges, students continue to suffer as well. We have now strictly instructed these institutions to appoint the minimum required faculty and principal, after following all norms and approval, within two months,” the dean added.The colleges debarred from admission include Bhagwati College of Education (Mansa); GN College of Education, Guru Nanak College of Education for Girls (Samao); Guru Tegh Bahadur College of Education (Dalelwala); Malwa College of Education (Kotkapura); Malwa College of Education, (Sardulewala); Sai College of Education (Lehragaga); Shiva College of Education; Swami Dayanand College of Education (Bhucho Mandi); Universal College of Education and Vidya Sagar College of Education (Fatehpur).SPECIAL USE OF TECHNOLOGY TO CHECK GHOST FACULTYLehal added Punjabi University has started using a special software to bring transparency and efficiency in the working of the college development council. “All affiliated colleges have been instructed to display detailed faculty information with photographs, with other information such as infrastructure, time table and facilities for students and faculty on their official website,” he said, adding that a comprehensive database of faculty members of all affiliated colleges of the university will be developed.“The database will also be useful in mitigating the menace of ‘ghost faculty’, which refers to teachers who simply do not exist or exist in two or more colleges simultaneously,” he said. A software developed by the university will mine through the database to unearth such ghost teachers, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-flouting-faculty-norms-punjabi-university-bars-12-colleges-from-taking-1st-year-bed-students-101634657872731.html
19-10-2021||Lucknow||In 48 hrs, most UP districts see above average post-monsoon rains||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh recorded above average post-monsoon rains in the last 48 hours caused by western disturbances and cyclonic trough, which had affected daily life in several districts including Lucknow. As per the data of the IMD, the state received an average of 80mm rainfall between October 1 and 19, which was 178% more than the normal 29mm rainfall expected during this period.The state capital recorded over 300% more rains than normal in the last 48 hours. The showers accompanied with strong winds came in spells on Monday afternoon followed by continuous drizzle on Tuesday. Trees were uprooted and power supply remained disrupted due to the inclement weather, which also caused water-logging leading to traffic snarls in various parts of the city.Besides Lucknow, 34 districts across the northern parts of the state received above average rainfall in the last 48 hours, according to rain statistics of the Indian Metrological Department (IMD). “The rains and strong winds in the last two days were caused by western disturbances and a low cyclonic pressure above the state. The atmospheric conditions are expected to subside after Wednesday,” said JP Gupta, director, state MeT department.The heavy showers also brought down temperatures across UP. The minimum temperature stayed near the 20 degrees Celsius mark in Lucknow while the maximum hovered around 27 degrees in the last two days. The MeT department issued a similar forecast for Lucknow till Thursday.The rains alarmed Kharif cultivators who were planning to harvest their produce from this week. “The farmers will have to delay harvest for at least a week now. The rain will cause more damage to the farmers who have harvested their crops, but have failed to store or sell,” said agriculture economist Dharmendra Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/in-last-48-hrs-most-up-districts-see-above-average-post-monsoon-rains-101634657392617.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Police constable among six arrested for threatening Kalyan bar owner with gun||A police constable attached to Titwala police station and his five friends have been booked for threatening to kill a bar owner in Kalyan with a gun and damaged his property over a bill issue on Monday night.Mahatma Phule police officers of Kalyan are investigating the matter and all the six accused have been arrested. The accused have been identified as Mangal Chauhan, 30, Rikin Gajjar, 25, Harishyam Kanhaiya, 48, Shekhar Sarnobat, 28, Vikrant Kelkar, 28 and constable Uttam Ghode, 31.The accused were having a party at Tal Bar in Kalyan (W) till midnight and despite being asked to pay the bill and leave the hotel, they didn’t listen to the hotel owners or the waiters. While they were leaving, the owners asked for the bill payment of ₹16,000. The accused first refused to pay the bill and started arguing. The issue reached a point where two of them took out the gun and threatened to kill the owner.An officer from Mahatma Phule police station said, “We have received calls from hotel employees informing about the altercation and the owner of the bar threatened with the gun. We got the CCTV footage of the same, after which we registered the case against all the six accused and arrested them. They all have been sent to police custody for one day by the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-constable-among-six-arrested-for-threatening-kalyan-bar-owner-with-gun-101634656372389.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||After electricity, Channi govt in Punjab waives off pending water bills||A day after waiving off pending electricity bills in Punjab, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday announced the waiver of pending water bills for consumers of rural and urban areas.Taking to Twitter earlier in the day, Channi said that the state government has decided to waive off arrears of rural water supply schemes, water supply and sewerage charges for domestic connection worth ₹1,868 crores. “Arrears on tubewell power bills for public water distribution in both rural and urban areas would also be waived off," the Punjab chief minister tweeted.Furthermore, Govt. of Punjab has decided to provide free power to all Rural Water Supply (RWS). The service charge on all RWS schemes will be reduced by 70% from Rs.166 to Rs.50 per household per month in the villages worth 440 crores.Channi also said that that his government would provide free power to all rural water supply (RWS), and reduce the service charges on all RWS schemes by 70% from existing ₹166 to ₹50 per household every month in the villages.On Monday, Channi burnt copies of power bills in Punjab's Chamkaur Sahib in a symbolic gesture to announce the waiver.We Promised and We DeliveredThe waiver of unpaid electricity payments has commenced, as promised to the people of Punjab. The resolution to waive the arrears of all Punjab users with a 2 KW load has been put into effect today by burning copies of these bills. pic.twitter.com/TDLKZyMZLD“We Promised and We Delivered. The waiver of unpaid electricity payments has commenced, as promised to the people of Punjab. The resolution to waive the arrears of all Punjab users with a 2 KW load has been put into effect today by burning copies of these bills,” Channi wrote on Twitter.The Punjab government last month announced to waive off the outstanding bills of domestic electricity consumers with up to 2kW load usage. The government said move will cost the state exchequer around ₹1,200 crore.The decision by the Congress-led government in Punjab is seen a move to woo the electorate of the state ahead of assembly elections in 2022.The Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal, whose party has decided to contest the assembly elections in Punjab, announced round-the-clock electricity supply in the state if voted to power in the 2022 polls. Kejriwal also announced to provide 300 units of free electricity to every household and promised to write off pending bills of domestic consumers.Calling the power crisis in Punjab “man-made”, Kejriwal said the problem can be resolved by upgrading the transmission system. “We faced a similar problem in Delhi during our initial years in government. We changed the transmission system, and the situation has improved to the point that people don’t buy inverters now,” Kejriwal was quoted as saying in a report published in Hindustan Times.In a separate decision, the Channi cabinet tweaked the existing policy of outsourcing Group D employees, and said that they would be recruited on a regular basis. “If the officers are permanent recruits, then the recruitment for class D would also be on the same pattern. An initiative towards creating just & fair Governance,” he posted on Twitter.The Punjab chied minister further said the state government is already in the process of finalising a policy to safeguard the interest of such employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-electricity-channi-govt-in-punjab-waives-off-pending-water-bills-101634653782727.html
19-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence:Investigators seek custody of another key accused||LUCKNOW/LAKHIMPUR KHERI Investigators sought police custody remand of local BJP corporator, Sumit Jaiswal, who was arrested along with three others on Monday, for further interrogation in connection with the killing of four farmers on October 3, after which violence broke out in Tikunia village, said police officials.Jaiswal is a complainant in the second FIR lodged regarding the killing of two BJP workers, a journalist and a driver in the violence that broke out after the SUV of the minister’s son allegedly mowed down the farmers. He was present in the vehicle that allegedly mowed down four farmers during a protest against the agricultural laws.The other three arrested people -- Shishupal of Lakhimpur Kheri, Nandan Singh Bisht of Lucknow and Satya Prakash Tripathi of Kaushambi -- were present in the remaining vehicles, which were part of the convoy.The first FIR was lodged by a farmer, Jagjeet Singh, in connection with killing of four farmers. MoS Home Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra and 15-20 others were accused in the case.So far, the police had arrested 10 accused, including minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, his two accomplices Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey, in connection with the case. Ashish Mishra was named in the FIR while the names of the other accused surfaced during investigation.14 days’ judicial custodyOn Tuesday evening, the four accused – Sumit Jaiswal, Shishupal, Nandan Singh Bisht and Satya Prakash Tripathi –were produced before the court of remand magistrate Diksha Bharti. Senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav said the court sent them to 14 days’ judicial custody till November 2. He confirmed that the investigation officer of the case moved an application to the court for police custody remand of these accused. The application was scheduled to be heard on Thursday, he added.Photographs of suspects releasedMeanwhile, the special investigators focused their investigations into the second FIR in the Tikunia violence case, summoning witnesses and seeking cooperation from people to identify the suspects through photographs.Six photographs released by the investigators showed groups of agitating farmers visible around injured people lying on the ground and near the SUV that allegedly mowed down the farmers.The pictures were obtained from the videos provided to the investigators. The police urged people to help identify the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-investigators-seek-custody-of-another-key-accused-101634655352494.html
19-10-2021||Lucknow||Cong to give 40% tickets to women in UP polls, says Priyanka||LUCKNOW Looking to consolidate its support base in Uttar Pradesh, the Congress on Tuesday announced that it would give 40% tickets to women in the UP assembly elections slated for early next year.The party, which could win only seven seats in the 403-member UP house in 2017 polls, had decided to put its bet on women in the UP elections.“The Congress will give 40% tickets to women in the forthcoming UP elections,” said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi while speaking to media persons at the UP Congress Committee (UPCC) headquarters with ‘Ladki hoon, lad sakti hoon’ (I am a girl, I can fight) slogans painted in the backdrop. The AICC national general secretary and in charge of party affairs in Uttar Pradesh said the decision was aimed at making women, who constitute roughly half the vote bank, a “full-fledged partner in power.”The announcement by the Congress leader was greeted with the bursting of firecrackers and slogan-shouting by women workers who were watching the press conference on a large screen installed in the party office. Priyanka called upon women to join politics to change the “politics in Uttar Pradesh” and said applications for tickets would be accepted till November 15. “This decision is for every woman who wants to bring about a change, fight for justice and work for unity and development. Only women can bring about a change because they have compassion, they are firm and they have the power. We promise to ensure full participation of women in the state’s politics,” she said. Whether the Congress would extend the same (40% tickets to women) to the national level or other states, Priyanka said she was the general secretary in-charge of UP and it was for other state units to take a call on the issue. The Congress leader said if she had her way, the reservation for women candidates in distribution of party tickets may have been 50%. The AICC general secretary tasked with regaining the party’s lost ground in the political heartland, however, was non-committal about contesting the upcoming state polls herself. “It has not been decided as yet,” she quipped in response to a question on the possibility of her contesting the polls.About leaders seeking tickets for their wives or other family members, she said: “What is the harm if people want tickets for their wives or other women of their family? When they fight elections, they get empowered.” Priyanka Gandhi also used the occasion to target the BJP government on Lakhimpur Kheri incident where eight people, including four farmers, died recently. “This government shows how it can protect those who crush people. This is wrong,” she said. Referring to all women she met over the past two years, including police women who detained her in Sitapur, Priyanka said: “It was pitch dark in Sitapur. I was surrounding by the police including women cops. I also argued with them. They asked me to sit in a jeep and took me to Sitapur police lines. One of them was Madhu and the other was Pooja. They were on duty till 4am. This decision (40% tickets for women) is for them as well.” Asked whether the party would be able to get women candidates, she said: “Yes, we will get candidates and they will contest the election. If they don’t get sufficient strength this time, they will get it next time. We will help them fight the election.” “This is a good move. Every political party should follow it. The decision, if followed by other parties too, will bring about a social change and discipline to politics,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University. “The Congress has never worked for women and is now talking about 40% reservation for them only in view of UP assembly elections,” said Chandra Mohan, spokesman, UP BJP. BJP MP and former UPCC president Rita Bahuguna Joshi said the Congress did not have any consideration for women and she felt humiliated when she was in the Congress. BSP chief Mayawati described the announcement as “pure election drama.” “The Congress remembers women, Dalits and backwards only when it is out of power. When in power, it could have brought a law for 33% reservation for women in Parliament and state assemblies,” she tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cong-to-give-40-tickets-to-women-in-up-polls-says-priyanka-101634654512253.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, Raj Kundra file ₹50 crore defamation suit against Sherlyn Chopra||Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty and her husband Raj Kundra have filed a ₹50 crore defamation suit against actor Sherlyn Chopra, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. The couple have also asked for a 'public apology' from Chopra.This defamation suit comes days after Chopra lodged a complaint against Shetty and Kundra on October 14 for alleged sexual harassment, cheating, and criminal intimidation."I have filed a complaint to register FIR against Raj Kundra for sexual harassment, cheating and criminal intimidation." she told reporters outside Juhu police station.Chopra further claimed that on March 27, 2019, Kundra visited her house and sexually assaulted her, ANI had reported.Live Law reported that the defamation notice sent to Chopra claims that her allegations against Shetty and her husband are "concocted, false, frivolous and baseless…made with an ulterior motive to defame and extort money". The notice also claims that these allegations are Chopra’s attempts to absolve herself from the ongoing investigation against her.Shetty and Kundra through their lawyer have also accused Chopra of passing “lewd remarks” against them on social media and to the press. They have also alleged that Shetty’s name was dragged into the matter to “gain TRP attention” and “create unwanted controversy”.The notice also mentions a phone call between Shetty and Chopra on April 20, when the former enquired about the allegations and the former reportedly said they were baseless and made at the behest of her lawyer, reported Live Law.Kundra and Chopra are both involved in an ongoing investigation for their alleged involvement in streaming of pornographic content on an app. Mumbai Police has accused Kundra of being the ‘main facilitator’ in the case and alleged that he along with other accused, exploited young women struggling in the movie industry by filming them in obscene ways.Kundra, who is out on bail, has denied these charges, and Shetty while reaffirming her trust in police and judiciary has claimed that she was not aware of what Kundra did for work since she was too busy with her own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bollywood-actor-shilpa-shetty-raj-kundra-file-rs-50-crore-defamation-suit-against-sherlyn-chopra-101634651433177.html
19-10-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka records 349 new cases, 14 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday logged 349 new cases of COVID-19 and 14 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,84,022 and death toll to 37,967, the health department said. The day also saw 399 discharges, pushing the total number of recoveries to 29,36,926. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 161 new cases, as the city saw 125 discharges and 5 deaths. Total number of active cases in the state is at 9,100. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 0.41 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 4.01 per cent. Apart from Bengaluru Urban, Udupi recorded 3 deaths, while one death each was reported from Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, Kodagu, Mysuru, Tumakuru and Uttara Kannada. After Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru logged the highest of 37 new infections, Dakshina Kannada 24, Hassan 23, and Uttara Kannada 19. Bengaluru Urban district now has a total of 12,49,662 positive cases, followed by Mysuru 1,78,802 and Tumakuru 1,20,574. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 12,26,666, followed by Mysuru 1,76,041 and Tumakuru 1,19,231. Cumulatively a total of 4,95,74,033 samples have been tested, of which 85,022 were tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-records-349-new-cases-14-deaths-101634650802579.html
19-10-2021||Dehradun||In Uttarakhand, Ganga breaches danger mark; officials monitor water level 24X7||After two days of continuous rainfall, the Ganga river breached the danger mark on Tuesday morning in Haridwar. The Central Hydrology department measured the Ganga water level at 294.35 m on Tuesday morning which is 0.35 m above the danger mark (294 mtr). District magistrate Vinay Shankar Pandey has directed tehsildars of Haridwar, Laksar, the police and irrigation department to remain alert and cautious about the situation in areas along the Ganga River. Regular updates will also be communicated with the disaster management control room and concerned administrative officials. The District Disaster Management Control Room is also in touch with respective districts control rooms of Garhwal division round the clock. Haridwar also falls in Garhwal division along with seven other districts.As a precautionary measure, a 40-member National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) team has been deployed from its Ghaziabad base in Haridwar. NDRF 8 Battalion Ghaziabad official Raj Kishore said that the squad is on standby and will leave for any disaster-affected place as per directives. The NDRF squad of expert divers, medical personnel are well trained in disaster-related operations. At Har-Ki-Pauri and adjacent Ganga ghats, police personnel are regularly awarding pilgrims and local people for listening to warnings and not moving towards Ganga ghats owing to a rise in water level. A discount of 20% is also being given by hoteliers on directives of the local administration to pilgrims and tourists who are lodging in hotels and lodges owing to the Char Dham pilgrimage being halted due to a two-day rainy spell. According to district development tourism officer Seema Nautiyal, approximately 28,000 pilgrims and visitors are staying in Haridwar in past two days. On Sunday, 34.6 mm of rain was recorded while on Monday it was 16.6 mm of rainfall in Haridwar. The minimum temperature also touched the 20 degrees mark. “This winter season may be slightly more colder than previous years taking into consideration the daily temperatures for the past week and heavy rainfall in the monsoon season,” said Gagan Matta, assistant professor of Environmental Science at Gurukul Kangri University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/in-uttarakhand-ganga-breaches-danger-mark-officials-monitor-water-level-24x7-101634649232210.html
19-10-2021||Lucknow||‘One day or the other’: Priyanka parries question on electoral debut||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday deflected questions about contesting the assembly elections scheduled to be held next year in Uttar Pradesh, where she has been tasked with shoring up her party's fortunes. Priyanka Gandhi is the general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, where the Congress party could manage to win only seven seats in the 403-member House in the last assembly polls in 2017.Priyanka Gandhi’s comments about her electoral debut came as she announced the Congress will give 40 per cent of its tickets to women in the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections slated for early next year.Also read | 'To keep them safe’: Priyanka says 40% seats for women in UP pollsAs the 49-year-old was asked about whether she would choose Amethi or Rae Bareilly, which were once considered the party’s bastions in Uttar Pradesh, she was non-committal about contesting the upcoming state polls. “I will have to fight [the elections] one day or the other,” she replied to a question about the possibility of her contesting the polls.Pressed further about whether it will be Amethi or Rae Bareilly, Priyanka said, “I have not taken the decision yet... I will let you know as and when the thing develop”.The reporter again asked Priyanka Gandhi whether she could guess about the assembly seat she will pick in the 2022 UP assembly polls. “You have been trying to get a reply out of me. But there is no answer to your question for the time being. I will look into it later," she said.Also read | In Lakhimpur Kheri, Priyanka Gandhi attends last prayers for killed farmersOn Sunday, Congress leader PL Punia said that Priyanka Gandhi would be the party’s face in the election campaign for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year.“So, the people are impressed by her and currently in the entire state, no politician is more popular than Priyanka Gandhi. As far as around whom the campaign will be centred, we are fortunate that Priyanka Gandhi is available for (campaigning) all the time,” Punia said during an interview with news agency PTI.Also watch | Will Priyanka Gandhi contest from Amethi under shadow of Rahul's 2019 loss? Watch replyShe was not forthcoming on whether a woman would be projected as the Congress’ chief ministerial face in the state after her announcement about the allocation of seats to women. “I will tell you about this later when I want,” Priyanka, who has been visiting the politically crucial state regularly and hitting out at the Bharatiya Janata Paty-led government,  said.“It is the party’s promise to give 40 per cent tickets to women in the coming elections. Had I had my way, I would have given 50 per cent tickets to them,” Priyanka said earlier in a press conference in Lucknow, adding it could be taken forward in the 2024 general elections.Also read | Priyanka Gandhi hits out at govt over rising fuel prices"There is no hidden meaning behind it. We want women in politics to become full-fledged partners in power. We have decided that in the upcoming assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, the Congress party will give 40 per cent of tickets to women," she said.The announcement by the Congress leader was greeted with the bursting of firecrackers and slogan-shouting by the party’s women workers who were watching the press conference on a large screen installed in its office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/one-day-or-the-other-priyanka-parries-question-on-electoral-debut-101634647826041.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||How Forky made her way into my house, and heart||God knows from where she arrived and settled herself in the roadside garden of our corner house in the lane. The cries emanating from her hunger pangs caught my daughter’s attention, and she went outside to look for the source. She discovered it to be an abandoned, lean and fragile puppy. Taking fancy to the little creature, she brought milk in an earthen bowl for her. As they say, whatever your birthplace, you gravitate to the place where you finally settle. The puppy came in as a young, perhaps six months old; and took refuge in our garden. She adjusted herself in this place as if it was destined for her. Just into her 11th grade, and confined indoors because of the Covid pandemic, my daughter spent her free time with her. My better-half and she named her Forky. Though Forky was protected by the garden grills, they often came out to shoo away the stray dogs who dared to bark at her. I’m sure animals understand the language of love, that’s why she stayed on with us. Forky’s presence affected the life of our 10-year-old Labrador, who couldn’t make out why he had suddenly lost the undivided attention of the family. He would often bark when we served her food as if it was out of his share. Thankfully, he didn’t do her any harm, and they signed a tacit peace accord between themselves within a few days. But it was me who always found her reprehensible. Perhaps Forky was too thin and freaky, or she was a street dog; whatever the reason, she didn’t fit my description of a pet. For one full year, I couldn’t tolerate her presence. Initially, I tried to shoo her away whenever my daughter wasn’t around. But invariably, I had to back down as her stern voice came out of nowhere, reminding me to stay put. I often told her, Forky was her sister from a previous birth. However, she didn’t seem to mind my poking as long as her favourite wasn’t touched or shooed. As she grew up, Forky became our best defence against any intruder. She was a better bet than any doorbell or CCTV camera. Her incessant shrill barking was a foolproof alarm for someone’s presence at the gate. In charge of opening and closing the locks of the house, every morning I would see her sticking her nose in between the logs of our gate. Customarily, I would shoo her, but then one day, I just opened the gate and allowed her to come onto our veranda. I realised; it wasn’t just an entry to my house; it was as much an entry into my heart. I don’t know when and how this change of heart happened. Probably it was her persistence, despite my snubs, that did the trick. For the first time, I could feel the power of endurance in relationships. I wondered how as humans we distance ourselves from others over paltry matters, pledging never to cross paths with them. I guess we need to learn from the animals how to make a place in someone’s heart. If we just learnt this basic lesson of persistence, the rift in our relationships, the rising divorce rate in our families would drop. She taught me, if we were a little more tolerant and hung on despite the adversities, it’s just a matter of time before we end up in everlasting togetherness. vikasdeepak23@gmail.com The writer is an Ambala-based prosthodontist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/how-forky-made-her-way-into-my-house-and-heart-101634648211794.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Amid decline in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra to further ease curbs||Amid a sustained decline in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the state government has further eased restrictions and decided to extend operational timings for restaurants and shops from the current 10 pm deadline. The state reported 1,485 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, its lowest single-day spike in over 17 months. On May 12, 2020, the state added 1,026 cases. Mumbai reported 371 fresh cases on Monday and four fatalities.State health minister Rajesh Tope said it has decided to extend shop timings in Mumbai till midnight, while restaurants can remain open till past 1 am. The disaster management department will draft guidelines in this regard ahead of Diwali.The state government on Monday announced that amusement parks, excluding water rides, will resume operations from October 22. A decision on water parks will be made at a later date.Also Read: Maharashtra allows eateries to stay open till midnight, eases norms for shopsOn Monday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a series of meetings, including with the members of the Covid-19 task force, to decide the further easing of restrictions. He also met representatives of theatres and cinema halls, and a delegation of truck, tempo, and bus transport federation. Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar was present in the two meetings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-decline-in-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-to-further-ease-curbs-101634648151962.html
19-10-2021||Kolkata||Bengal bypolls: BJP candidate, MLA heckled in Coochbehar, party accuses TMC||A BJP candidate for the upcoming assembly by-elections and a legislator were heckled in the presence of a saffron party MP allegedly by TMC supporters during campaigning in West Bengal's Coochbehar district on Tuesday.The local TMC leadership, however, denied the involvement of party workers in the incident.Ashok Mondal, the BJP candidate for Dinhata assembly by-election, and Natabari's party MLA Mihir Goswami were heckled in the presence of Jalpaiguri's BJP MP Jayanta Roy during campaigning at Nayarhat.Alleged TMC supporters raised 'go back' slogans as the BJP leaders reached the area to campaign for the October 30 by-poll. Police, however, brought the situation under control.Mondal and Goswami had faced a similar situation in Bamanhat area on Monday.BJP alleged that the incidents were engineered to prevent the party candidate from campaigning.The by-election to Dinhata assembly constituency was necessitated by the resignation of Nisith Pramanik, winning candidate and Minister of State for Home Affairs, who retained his Lok Sabha seat.The TMC renominated Udayan Guha, who had lost to Pramanik.Besides Dinhata, by-elections will also be held in Santipur (Nadia), Gosaba (South 24 Parganas) and Khardah (North 24 Parganas).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bypolls-bjp-candidate-mla-heckled-in-coochbehar-party-accuses-tmc-101634647171021.html
19-10-2021||Patna||Ground realities cannot be learnt from one’s drawing room: RJD’s swipe at Congress in Bihar||With the campaigning for by-polls to two seats in Bihar gaining intensity, a war of words has broken out between the Congress and RJD with RJD’s Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha on Tuesday launching a scathing attack against Congress in-charge of the state Bhakta Charan Das alleging the latter has ‘no knowledge of state’s politics’ and ‘cannot know ground realities by sitting in a drawing room’. Jha’s comments come a day after Das had made a strong accusation against the RJD of digressing from the long fight of upholding secularism and fighting communalism and reaching an understanding with those ‘forces’ against whom both the Congress and Left have been fighting for long. “I feel, the RJD has had an understanding with those forces against whom we have been fighting though the party is not coming out in the open. This is a game-plan. In the days to come, they will go with those forces. After all, it is clear the RJD does not need the support of 19 Congress MLAs. It means, they have got support of other forces,” Das had told the media. Asked whether he implied that RJD was in an understanding with the BJP and could join hands with the saffron party, Das asserted it was clear the RJD did not need Congress support having decided to contest both Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan seats. “If the RJD wanted to form government, they would have needed 19 MLAs. It means, RJD is getting support from the party against whom we all had come together to form the Grand Alliance,” the Congress in-charge said. Das, a former MP, also had slammed the RJD for breaching the coalition dharma saying that the Grand Alliance would have been intact had RJD respected the Congress demand for being allotted the Kusheshwar Asthan seat , which has traditionally been the party’s stronghold. Admittedly, the RJD on Tuesday countered Das point to point with the party’s national spokesperson in a media interaction calling Das’s statement of “RJD having an internal understanding with the BJP” as laughable and unfortunate. “The Congress-in charge of Bihar does not have any knowledge of social economic and political history of the state or RJD’s sacrifices. Becoming the party’s in-charge does not mean destroying the party,” Jha said. On Congress’s accusation that RJD had strayed from its ideology of secularism, Jha said the Das should know that it was RJD chief Lalu Prasad who had the guts to stop BJP patriarch L K Advani’s Rath Yatra in 1990 in Samastipur. “There were many Congresses chief ministers but nobody showed the guts or courage to stop the Rath. It was Lalu Prasad who had the courage to stop Advani in Bihar. Before making any comment, first turn the mirror towards yourself,” Jha said, emphasizing that RJD’s secular credentials cannot be doubted as it had relentlessly fought against communal forces and made sacrifices to oppose the BJP. The RJD MP also refuted Das’s allegation that the principal opposition party had breached the coalition dharma. “RJD has fulfilled coalition dharma with Congress at all times staying behind at good and bad times especially during its bad times. RJD is doing its coalition dharma by making all efforts to defeat the JD(U)-BJP coalition in the by-polls and we shall accomplish that. But I will urge you (Das) to gain some knowledge of politics of the state. By sitting in the drawing room, you cannot understand ground realities of the state,” Jha said, taking a pot-shot at the Congress leader. The hostility between Congress and RJD, both having contested along with the Left as part of the Grand Alliance in 2020 assembly polls, was triggered with the RJD deciding to contest both the Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan seats in the by-polls to be held on October 30. Congress too has fielded its candidates from both the seats though the grand old party has called RJD’s unilateral decision as a violation of coalition dharma. The Congress party’s state leaders have become vocal against the RJD recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ground-realities-cannot-be-learnt-from-one-s-drawing-room-rjd-s-swipe-at-congress-in-bihar-101634644671506.html
19-10-2021||Dehradun||5 bodies recovered from debris after wall collapse in Uttarakhand's Nainital||Bodies of five labourers were recovered from under the debris after a wall collapsed near a college in Mukteshwar under Nainital district and another was rescued as heavy rain pounded Uttarakhand, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday.Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said that 11 people have died in rain-related incidents in the state on Tuesday as he assured affected people of all help.Nainital has been cut off from the rest of Uttarakhand as torrential rain threw life out of gear with at least three roads leading to the popular tourist spot blocked due to a series of cloudbursts and landslides. Houses were razed to the ground, leaving many displaced or trapped in the wreckage.The Nainital Lake overflowed flooding the iconic Mall Road as people were seen wading in knee-deep waters. Many buildings and houses were also flooded in the area.Earlier in the day, four people were trapped in the debris of a collapsed house at Rapad village in the Bhatrojkhan area of Almora district out of which a woman was rescued safely, the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) in Dehradun said. In another such incident, four labourers, including three women, were trapped in the rubble of a landslide near Joshimath in Chamoli district. The woman labourer was injured but the rest of them were safely rescued, the centre said.Uttarakhand chief minister Dhami conducted an aerial survey of the areas affected due to heavy rainfall. “Rescue teams are working hard. We have sought help from the army. Two army choppers will deploy in Nainital and one in the Garhwal regions. Houses and bridges have been damaged at many places," he told reporters this afternoon.According to the State Disaster Management Secretary, the hilly state has recorded more than 200mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours. The weather department has said that rainfall will subside by Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/5-bodies-recovered-from-debris-after-house-collapse-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital-101634643434612.html
19-10-2021||Pune||‘Following court orders, will cooperate with ED’: Mandakini Khadse’s lawyer on Pune land deal case||In the ongoing Pune land deal case, the lawyer of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse’s wife Mandakini has assured cooperation in the probe carried out by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). “We are here at the ED office. Mandakini Khadse is also here. We are following court orders and will cooperate in the investigation,” advocate Mohan Tekavade told reporters, according to news agency ANI.Last week, the Bombay high court granted pre-arrest bail to Mandakini and ordered her to appear before the ED every Tuesday and Friday till further orders. The court also asked the central probe agency to file a reply on Mandakini’s anticipatory bail application, before posting the matter for further hearing to December 7.Pune-based activist Hemant Gavande filed a petition in 2017, alleging that Eknath Khadse bought a three-acre plot in Maharashtra Industrial Development Area in 2016 by misusing his position as the revenue minister in the then Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government in the state.It is alleged Khadse manipulated the actual market price of the land, incurring the state exchequer a loss of ₹61.25 crore.In August, the ED attached assets worth ₹5.73 crore belonging to Eknath Khadse, Mandakini, his son-in-law Girish Chaudhari, among others in the land deal case. The agency filed a chargesheet on September 4 this year in which it named three people along with sub-registrar Ravindra Muley and Benchmark Buildcon Private Limited.The ED alleged that Chaudhari and Khadse bought the land for ₹3.75 crore when its actual price was ₹22.83 crore. Subsequently, Muley was taken into custody by the court.The attached assets include one bungalow, three residential flats, seven land parcels worth ₹4.86 crore, and bank deposit to the tune of ₹86.28 lakh, according to ANI.However, earlier this month, Muley was granted bail by additional sessions judge, HS Sathbhai. A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court said that prima facie it doesn’t appear that the sale deal lodged in 2016 was undervalued to pay the stamp duty, Hindustan Times reported.While Mandakini has been instructed to appear before the ED on Tuesday and Friday every week, the Bombay HC has exempted Eknath Khadse from any appearance in view of his poor health. In October, senior advocate Aabad Ponda and Swapnil Ambure sought for the exemption by informing the court that the NCP leader underwent surgery for grade-3 haemorrhoids in a Mumbai hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lawyer-of-ncp-leader-s-wife-says-will-cooperate-with-ed-in-pune-land-deal-case-101634642892656.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi air to stay in satisfactory category on Tuesday||Delhi sky was likely to be partly cloudy throughout Tuesday, as per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast, which also predicted the maximum temperature in the national capital to remain around 29 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. Rains had lashed parts of Delhi-NCR over the Sunday and Monday, causing water logging in the city.The Met department has predicted the minimum temperature in the city to be 19 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, more than two notches down from Monday’s 21.1°C, but two notches above normal for this time of the year. The maximum temperature was 23.9°C on Monday, nine degrees below normal.Delhi’s air quality remained in the satisfactory category on Tuesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am to be at 59, which is at the lower-end of the “satisfactory” category.On Monday, the average 24-hour AQI was 46, a drop of over 250 in just a day. The index on Sunday had shot up to 298 and was categorised as “poor”, leading to breathing discomfort on prolonged exposure.Residents of Delhi breathed good air after 413 days on Monday as heavy downpours through the day settled down pollutants. It was the first time since 2015 that the air in the national capital has been so clean in October.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Also Read: How to build urban climate resilienceOn Tuesday morning, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), however, said that Delhi’s air quality index was in “good” category.“Delhi’s AQI is in the good category with PM2.5 as the main pollutant. Local land surfaces are wet and so dust re-suspension is minimum which lead to low PM10. Presence of western disturbance has led to scattered rainfall over north India, leading to low biomass burning. This condition improved AQI with low PM2.5. Fire counts reduced to 170 and its share is only 1% to PM2.5. Moist surfaces inhibit re-suspension of dust which will keep AQI in good [category] for next 24 hours and after that the AQI will degrade to satisfactory for Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-to-stay-in-satisfactory-category-on-tuesday-101634642738692.html
19-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida man abducts traffic cop on being asked for car documents, arrested||A 29-year-old man in Uttar Pradesh's Greater Noida has been arrested for allegedly abducting an on-duty traffic policeman who had stopped him to check the documents of his car, officials said.The car was suspected to have been stolen and the accused asked the traffic policeman to get inside the vehicle to see the documents, but forcibly took him on over a 10-km-long drive before dumping him near a police post, they said.“Accused Sachin Rawal had stolen the Maruti Swift Dzire from a showroom in Gurgaon, Haryana two years ago on the pretext of taking the car out on a test drive,” a police spokesperson said.“Rawal, who lives in Ghodi Bacheda village in Greater Noida, had put on a forged number plate on his car, the number of which was same as that of a car belonging to a resident of his village,” he said.On Sunday morning, the traffic police had started a vehicle checking campaign in Surajpur where Rawal's car was intercepted for inquiry following an input that he was travelling in a stolen vehicle, the official said.Traffic constable Virendra Singh had asked Rawal to show the documents related to the vehicle. Rawal asked him to get inside the car and that he would show soft copies of the documents which he claimed were in his mobile phone.“However, Rawal locked the car once the constable sat inside and took off. He later dumped the contable near Ajayabpur police chowki and sped away,” the police spokesperson said.An FIR was lodged at the Surajpur Police Station on Monday under IPC sections 364 (kidnapping), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 368 (wrongfully concealing or keeping in confinement, kidnapped or abducted person) and the accused was arrested later in the day, police said.The car used in the crime has also been impounded, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-abducts-traffic-cop-on-being-asked-for-car-documents-arrested-101634641868501.html
19-10-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: We are all pedestrians, let us respect our right to walk||PUNE Walking is the most basic means of transport and a fundamental element of the human condition. Countless generations of our ancestors have walked the earth. A walk – the Dandi March – is part of India’s freedom struggle. Walking enables study, livelihoods, everyday needs, relationships, recreation, and exploration. According to the 2011 census, one-third of all work trips are by foot. Women depend on walking more than men. Studies show that 60 per cent of children walk to school. As a transport mode, walking provides individual health benefits and is good for the city’s environment and economy. Walking is a part of trips by other modes too – we walk to and from a bus-stop, six-seater, or rickshaw.Pedestrian lives lost due to lack of attentionEven though walking is such an important part of our individual and collective lives, across the country pedestrians face difficulties. Road design, management, and maintenance seem much more oriented to the needs of automobiles than of people.In most cities, there is not even the semblance of a decent footpath. Not only is road space taken up by moving vehicles, but parked vehicles also occupy and deny even the margins of the road to pedestrians. The lack of safe facilities to walk and cross results in a shocking human cost. In 2019 alone, 25,858 pedestrians were killed in road crashes in India. Road crash reports show an 85% increase in deaths of pedestrians in five years. In Pune, about one-third of all road crash deaths are pedestrians.Policy support for the pedestrian modeStreets and walking neighbourhoods must be strengthened and made safe and inclusive in such a way that it accommodates all types of road users - from children to senior citizens to differently-abled people.Our government and even the United Nations recognise the importance of walking. India’s National Urban Transport Policy, promulgated in 2006, emphasizes the mobility of people and not vehicles. The vision is to provide sustainable and affordable mobility which is accessible to all citizens. India has also committed to reducing road accident deaths. India’s Smart City Mission recognises that walking contributes to cleaner air and less congestion and makes education, health care and other social services more accessible to the most vulnerable populations.Two sustainable development goals are concerned with safe, accessible, convenient walking facilities for all (SDG 3.2 and 11.2). The UN’s New Urban Agenda of 2016 urges countries to ensure safe, inclusive, accessible, green, and quality public spaces, including streets, sidewalks and cycling lanes, squares, waterfront areas, gardens, and parks. Such spaces foster a peaceful and healthy society, promoting the values of living together and social interaction.How can we accelerate the move from high policies to local action? Call for a Pedestrians’ DayCitizens’ groups in Pune and many other cities are coming together to call for a Pedestrians’ Day, in a campaign by the Sustainable Mobility Network India (see https://www.sumnet.in/npd/). A petition has been initiated with Jhatkaa.org. The hope is that citizens and citizens groups, educational institutions will reach out to their elected representatives to celebrate the Day and promote awareness of the needs of pedestrians. Campaign coordinator Suraj Jaipurkar says, “The aim is to draw attention to the status of walkability and road safety and call for integrating these as core elements of sustainable mobility and transport infrastructure.” Observing such days has helped raise awareness and increase commitment to these important causes. They provide an occasion to discuss, reflect, generate ideas and spur action. December 11 is Pune’s Pedestrians’ DayIn Pune, it is wonderful to note that the mayor has declared December 11 as Pedestrians’ Day for the city. We can all support the national call and observe Pedestrians’ Day in Pune. Students and citizens’ groups can conduct meaningful activities – check your neighbourhoods for walkability and condition of footpaths, the safety of pedestrian crossings, functioning of signals with pedestrian phase, enforcement of ‘stop line’ at signals enabling safe crossings. More ideas are at https://savepunetraffic.org/pedestrians-day/On Pedestrians’ Day, activities may include neighbourhood walks and rallies, no-vehicle day, civic group meetings to present walkability study results to local decision-makers as specific suggestions for action. Let us celebrate and enable walking. Let us become a more equal and respectful society. Finally, we are all pedestrians. Let us respect our own right to walk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-we-are-all-pedestrians-let-us-respect-our-right-to-walk-101634641840098.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt reviewing policy to sell trees on panchayat land||Following orders by the Punjab and Haryana high court and National Green Tribunal (NGT), the state government is reviewing the policy of selling trees on panchayat land. Rural development and panchayats department director Manpreet Singh has issued an order restraining panchayats from auctioning and cutting trees on village land till further orders. Also read: Stubble burning: Centre must push states to adopt the Pusa bio-decomposer modelIn the order last week, the director referred to a high court stay on cutting trees on the plea of advocate HC Arora, seeking intervention against auction notices that the three panchayats had issued for the sale of khair trees. “It was directed that no trees shall be cut in the area concerned without the leave of the court,” the order read. On the complaint of a Faridkot resident Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja, the NGT directed the Punjab principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) to probe the matter and take remedial measures, including action against violators. More than 2,000 full-grown trees on 135 acres at a defunct cooperative sugar mill have been axed to clear land for developing a housing project of the Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (PUDA) in the past four months. The director said that following directions of the high court and the NGT, the government is reviewing its existing policy for selling trees, and therefore, restrained the panchayats from auctioning and cutting trees till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-reviewing-policy-to-sell-trees-on-panchayat-land-101634641838709.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||‘Not right to play cricket with Pakistan’, AAP's Atishi says over recent attacks in J&K||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) hit out at the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the upcoming India-Pakistan T20 World Cup match. Citing the recent spate of attacks in Jammu & Kashmir, the Arvind Kejriwal-led party insisted that considering the prevalent situation the Prime Minister “must agree with the stand of not conducting the match”.“We see people being attacked in Kashmir. I'm sure that even PM agrees with the stand of not conducting the match (IND v PAK) as when (the BJP was) in opposition he used to question that when state sponsored terrorism is taking place in India why should we play cricket with them?” AAP MLA Atishi said at a press conference on Tuesday.Also Read: Extension of BSF’s jurisdiction in Punjab: AAP seeks rollback of decisionAtishi also said that unless such attacks against Indians cease, cricket matches should not be played with Pakistan. “So, I am sure that not only AAP but even BJP and its leadership along with the PM will agree that unless such attacks in India and targeted attacks on Indians stop, it will not be right to play matches like this,” she added.India and Pakistan are scheduled to play a much-anticipated high-octane T20 World Cup match in Dubai on October 24. Union minister Giriraj Singh was the first politician from the BJP to insist on “reconsidering” the upcoming match. "I think if relations (between India and Pakistan) are not good then this should be reconsidered," Singh told reporters on Monday.Both the AAP and Singh were referring to the civilian killings carried out in Kashmir by militants in the first two weeks of October. Armed militants have so far killed nine civilians, most of whom were non-local migrants, in public spaces.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/not-right-to-play-cricket-with-pakistan-aap-s-atishi-says-over-recent-attacks-in-jk-101634641448019.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra allows eateries to stay open till midnight, eases norms for shops||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday said eateries and restaurants in the state can stay open till midnight while shops and other establishments are allowed to operate till 11pm in view of the festive season.A government notification issued earlier in the day by Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said the restaurants and establishments are required to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour and ensure that service providers are vaccinated against the coronavirus disease.“In the wake of the upcoming festival season, it is now felt that restrictions on time of functioning for various establishments like shops, restaurants, hotels etc. will lead to more crowding in the shorter duration in which they are currently allowed to function,” the order read.Restaurants & eateries can now remain open till 12 midnight, while shops and establishments can stay open till 11 pm with immediate effect. pic.twitter.com/HqPXctl620Kunte, however, said in the order that the local district disaster management authority may restrict these timings if it feels it is necessary, but such a restriction can only be further eased with the consent of state disaster management authority.At present, restaurants are allowed to operate between 7am and 10pm with 50% of their seating capacity.On Monday, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government decided to reopen amusement parks across the state from October 22, even though restrictions on water rides will remain suspended. The Maharashtra chief minister also asked the management of theatres and movie halls, which are scheduled to reopen from October 22, too, to conduct fire and structural safety checks before welcoming patrons. “Restrictions are being gradually eased as the number of Covid cases is on the decline. Amusement parks, auditoriums, and theatres will be opened from October 22. There has been a constant demand to extend the timing of the restaurants and shops. Guidelines for extending the hours of restaurants and shops across the state will be out soon. Amusement parks can be operated except water rides,” the statement said on Monday.A delegation of members of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India, the umbrella body of premium restaurants and star-rated hotels, recently urged the Maharashtra government to revert the time, till which restaurants and bars can stay open, to their original deadline of 1.30am, citing economic loss. The delegates assured the government of vaccinating the staff at such eateries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-allows-eateries-to-stay-open-till-midnight-eases-norms-for-shops-101634637244618.html
19-10-2021||Patna||Bihar-based trust to set up super specialty hospital in Ayodhya||A trust which governs one of the most renowned temples of Bihar and is known for philanthropic activities across the state, will set up a super specialty hospital at Ayodhya, its chief said here on Monday. Mahavir Mandir Nyas chief Acharya Kishore Kunal, who has been credited with renovation of a temple adjacent to Patna Junction, conspicuous by its tower that soars about 150 feet, disclosed this while talking to reporters here. A retired IPS officer, whom the then prime minister V P Singh had appointed as officer-on-special duty to seek rapprochement between Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Babri Masjid Action Committee at the height of the Ayodhya controversy, Kunal has devoted himself to religious activities post retirement. The Nyas manages the temple and runs a number of health care facilities in Patna, including a cancer research institute, besides an orphanage. “We have proposed to name the hospital, where world class facilities will be on offer, as Raghav Arogya Mandir. The final shape will be given to the process on November 1 when we will be in Ayodhya for the Ramayana Conclave”, he said. “It is a matter of pride that our bid has been accepted though big players like yoga exponent and Patanjali group founder Ramdev were also in the race,” said the bureaucrat-turned-religious leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharbased-trust-to-set-up-super-specialty-hospital-in-ayodhya-101634636212734.html
19-10-2021||Dehradun||16 killed as rain lashes Uttarakhand; roads, houses washed away||As many as 16 people have died in Uttarakhand so far as incessant rain continued to lash various parts of the state, razing houses, damaging roads and several people were trapped in rubble following cloudbursts and landslides. Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami said that 11 deaths were reported in the state on Tuesday as he asked people not to panic and assured them of all necessary steps to evacuate those stranded.  Dhami said three helicopters of the Indian Army will soon arrive to assist in relief and rescue operations underway in the state. Two of these helicopters will be sent to Nainital and one to the Garhwal region to rescue people stranded in different areas, he said. He also reiterated his appeal to Chardham pilgrims to stay put where they are and not to resume their journey until the weather improves.  Also read | Uttarakhand rain: Badrinath national highway blocked in 7 places due to debris"Due to heavy rains, the rescue team is facing difficulty but we will rescue everyone. The metrological department has also said that from today the rain will be less. We appeal to all the people to not travel till the situation is normal," he added.The Uttarakhand chief minister said that the damage caused by the rain is being assessed as he admitted that farmers have been hit hard by the incessant showers. He also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to him on the phone to take stock of the situation and assured him of all help. Also watch | Nainital temple flooded, bridge washed away, lake overflows amid rainsSeveral roads have been blocked due to landslides or washed away in the last two days in Uttarakhand. A bridge over the Gola River was washed away bringing the traffic completely to a standstill on the Haldwani-Sitarganj highway. Trains to Kathgodam were also cancelled after the shunting line of the station there was washed away.Nainital was cut off from the rest of the state with three roads leading to the popular tourist spot blocked due to a series of landslides. The iconic Mall Road in Nainital and Naina Devi temple located along the banks of the Nainital Lake have been flooded, while a hostel building has been damaged due to landslides. According to an official, at least 10 people were feared buried under debris following a cloudburst in Ramgarh block of the Nainital district. The cloudburst, which is a sudden and very heavy localised rainfall, was reported around 5am on Tuesday and led to a flash flood in Ramgarh and Okhladanda blocks.Also read | After IMD warning, Uttarakhand CM appeals to halt Char Dham yatra for next 3 days“It resulted in heavy damage in Ramgarh as well as Okhladanda block… At least 10 people are suspected to be buried under muck in Ramgarh’s Khiladi village,” Nainital district magistrate Dheeraj Singh Garbiyal said. “However, exact information could be availed only after rescue and administrative teams reach the spot,” Garbiyal, who is was on his way to the spot, added.After landslides blocked the exits in the Nainital town, around 100 people were stuck at Lemon Tree on the Ramnagar-Ranikhet route as water from the swollen Kosi river entered the resort. According to a report, the district administration is trying to help tourists stranded in the town and the police have been deployed to warn incoming and outgoing traffic.  The Indian Metrological Department has forecast that rainfall activity will reduce significantly in the state from Tuesday. "Isolated to scattered rain/snow over Himachal Pradesh on 22-23 October, and isolated to scattered rainfall over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, northwest Rajasthan on 23 October," the IMD said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/16-killed-as-rain-lashes-uttarakhand-roads-houses-washed-away-101634635930134.html
19-10-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt announces electricity subsidy of over ₹20,700 crore||Amid concerns regarding a power crisis in the country, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday announced a subsidy of over ₹20,700 crores on electricity, with an aim to provide cheap electricity to farmers and domestic consumers.Speaking to ANI, Chouhan said, "Today in Cabinet meeting, we have decided to give a subsidy of over 20,700 crores on electricity to provide cheap electricity to our farmers and domestic consumers in spite of an increase in power prices across the world."The chief minister also requested people to consume electricity wisely and to save as much power as possible. He added that electricity must not be wasted 'just because it is available'.A few chief ministers in the country have flagged the power crisis that might arise in their respective states due to the coal shortage in power generation plants. These states include Delhi, Punjab and Chhattisgarh.However, Union Minister of Coal Pralhad Joshi on Thursday assured that there would be no shortage of coal for electricity production and the temporary shortage of coal was due to rain.Speaking about crop destruction in Madhya Pradesh caused due to unexpected rains, Chouhan said, "Due to untimely rains, crops of farmers were damaged in some parts of the state. I want to assure them that they do not have to worry at all. I have given instructions for a survey that will be done to assess the damage and relief will be provided to farmers."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-announces-electricity-subsidy-of-over-rs-20-700-crore-101634635188133.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan's fundamental rights must be protected, victim of vendetta NCB official: Shiv Sena leader moves SC||The fundamental rights of Aryan Khan, Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan’s son who is in jail in connection with a case of alleged seizure of drugs from a cruise ship in Mumbai, must be protected and the affairs of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and its officials in Mumbai must be investigated, a Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader has said in a petition to the Supreme Court. Kishore Tiwari in his petition has urged the top court to take suo moto cognizance to protect the fundamental rights of Aryan Khan, who has been booked under the NDPS Act by the NCB."I would like to point out towards the malafide style, approach and dirty vendetta affairs of NCB at Mumbai and it's officials targeting select film celebrity & few models since last two years and would like to request Your Honour to order to institute special judicial investigation & enquiry to unearth the role of NCB official…," Tiwari said in his plea, according to news agency PTI.Also watch | Aryan Khan's 3 promises to NCB during counselling amid drugs caseThe Shiv Sena leader has referred to the statement of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik casting aspersions on the NCB and said it is high time the central agency is probed by a top court judge to unravel the truth.Also read | They catch a celebrity, click photos: Uddhav's dig at NCB after Aryan's arrestAryan Khan is currently lodged in the Arthur Road prison in central Mumbai in connection with the alleged seizure of drugs from a cruise ship. A special court under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has posted the bail applications of Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmum Dhamecha to October 20, nearly 10 days after the three were arrested.Special judge VV Patil, who heard arguments on October 13 and 14, said he would pronounce his order on October 20.An NCB team led by Sameer Wankhede raided the Goa-bound cruise ship on October 2 evening based on a tip-off that a rave party was scheduled on the ship. The team allegedly seized 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of charas, and 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy) and a sum of  ₹1.33 lakh in cash and later made the arrests. As many as 20 people were arrested under various sections of the NDPS Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-s-fundamental-rights-must-be-protected-ncb-probed-sena-leader-to-sc-101634632418833.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly polls: SAD announces 4 more candidates||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced on Tuesday four more candidates for the Punjab assembly polls to be held next year, taking the total number of names announced so far to 74.Baldev Singh Mann has been fielded from Sunam while Harpal Juneja will contest from Patiala Urban seat, said senior SAD leader Daljit Singh Cheema.Former Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee chief Gobind Singh Longwal will be fielded from Lehra and Hardev Singh Megh from the Balluana assembly segment.The SAD had in June allied with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) for elections to the 117-member Punjab assembly.According to the seat-sharing arrangement, the Mayawati-led BSP will fight in 20 of the 117 assembly seats in Punjab, while the rest will be contested by the SAD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-assembly-polls-sad-announces-4-more-candidates-101634628486637.html
19-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand rain: Badrinath national highway blocked in 7 places due to debris||The Badrinath national highway in Chamoli district has been completely blocked due to debris at seven places following incessant rains over the last 48 hours, the district administration said on Tuesday. The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a red alert for Uttarakhand forecasting heavy to very heavy rainfall for the next few days.Many areas in the district have been facing power cuts since Monday, reported news agency ANI. The Uttarakhand government has, meanwhile, halted the Char Dham Yatra and urged the passengers en route to return to a safe place and avoid the pilgrimage for a day or two as a precautionary measure. As per the ANI report, a total of 2,500 devotees have taken shelter at the Badrinath Temple and are waiting for the highway to re-open.The Chamoli district received fresh snowfall this morning. The district also received 19.8 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours.Heavy rain continues to lash Uttarakhand, leading to a rise in water level in many rivers and water bodies. An under-construction bridge over the Chalthi River in Champawat got washed away on Tuesday due to a rise in water level, visuals in ANI showed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday spoke to Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami to take stock of the situation arising due to heavy rains in the state. Dhami on Monday took a detailed review of the situation from the disaster control room of the state's secretariat.Gujarat chief minister Bhupendra Patel also dialled his Uttarakhand counterpart Dhami to provide necessary assistance to the pilgrims from the state, who are stranded there due to natural calamity and rains, informed the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-rain-badrinath-national-highway-blocked-in-7-places-due-to-debris-101634623890625.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Shiromani Akali Dal names four more candidates||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday named four more candidates for the 2022 assembly elections in Punjab. Also read: Indian Army guns down six LeT terrorists in Rajouri jungles, fire-fight onFormer Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal has been fielded from Lehra assembly segment, former minister Baldev Singh Mann from Sunam, Harpal Juneja from Patiala (Urban) and Hardev Singh Megh from Balluana (reserved), according to SAD senior vice-president and spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema. The party has named 74 candidates so far out of its share of 97 seats in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), which has been allocated the remaining 20 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-shiromani-akali-dal-names-four-more-candidates-101634628337675.html
19-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan to introduce stringent provisions to check unfair means in recruitment exams||The Rajasthan government plans to bring the use of unfair means in recruitment examinations under the category of cognisable and non-bailable offences and to increase the punishment for it from three to seven years.“To prevent malpractices in recruitment examinations and to take strict action against those involved in the use of unfair means, the state government will make the law related to it more stringent. An ordinance will be brought in this regard soon,” said chief minister Ashok Gehlot.The ordinance is being proposed against the backdrop of irregularities reported during the Rajasthan Eligibility Exam for Teachers this month. Over a dozen government officials were suspended on charges of dereliction of duty during the examination. The state government snapped mobile internet and SMS services for 12 hours for fair conduct of the exam.Also Read: Rajasthan governor stresses on bridging digital gap for students in rural areasGehlot said there will be provisions for strict action against those involved in cheating, paper leaks, and other irregularities in competitive examinations. He added strict action should be taken against those involved in unfair means. “If any government officer or employee is found to be involved in cases such as a paper leak, dummy candidate sitting and copying in recruitment examinations, the state government will terminate him.” He added if a person associated with any private educational institution is found to be involved, then its recognition will be cancelled.The state had to cancel the librarian recruitment exam after the suspected paper leak. Eight people were arrested for allegedly helping candidates cheat during the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test in September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-to-introduce-stringent-provisions-to-check-unfair-means-in-recruitment-exams-101634622757430.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab emerging as preferred destination for ethanol plants||Punjab is proving to be a favoured destination in the country for setting up ethanol distillation plants. As many as 25 business houses have approached the state’s excise and taxation department with expression of interest to set up the plants, and as per reports more are keen. Ethanol, the purest form of ethyl alcohol with a concentration of 99.65%, is a key ingredient in alcoholic beverages like beer, wine and brandy, and is used in large quantities in ethanol blended petrol (EBP), which helps reduce pollution, vehicular fuel cost and increases mileage. Currently, the country has 200 ethanol plants, with an annual production capacity of 684 crore litres. Among these, four, attached with distilleries, are in Punjab.With establishment of more plants in the state, country’s capacity is expected to touch 775 crore litres, which can help save ₹30,000 crore of foreign exchange. “Each plant of 100 kilolitre per day (one lakh litres per day) capacity will require an investment of ₹100 crore. Currently, 8.5% ethanol is blended with petrol in the country and this is expected to touch 20% by 2025, as mandated in the National Bio-Fuel Policy of 2018. The sector will certainly become a booming business in the future,” said excise department joint commissioner Naresh Dubey. A litre of ethanol is sold to petrol companies at ₹50 per litre. Why Punjab? Abundant supply of water and food grains is the primary cause for industry’s interest in setting up ethanol plants in Punjab. Wheat, paddy, maize and sugarcane, which are easily available in the state, constitute as major raw materials for the industry. Besides food grains, ethanol is also produced using non-edible agricultural waste, left over after harvesting. This can include corn cobs, rice straw and wheat straw, which are converted into cellulose and later fermented to form ethanol. This in turn can be blended with conventional fuel. “Ethanol is best sourced from sugarcane and its waste, which is also grown in the state,” said an officer of the rank of joint commissioner. Besides, each plant requires 20 to 35 acres, which is available in the state.“To encourage the industry, we have drastically cut down the licence fee to ₹5 lakh per plant, whereas for a distillery ₹1 to 3 crore is charged. After a formal expression is received, the department will issue a letter of intent and set a deadline of three years to start production to full capacity,” said Dubey. The plants are also seen as a major revenue source in form of GST and employment generation, as each plant will employ at least 200 people. An industrialist, keen to set up an ethanol plant in the state, said, “We are planning to set up a plant with a daily capacity of 150 kilolitres. Ethanol is equally beneficial for the country and the investors. It will also conserve water, as it is produced from maize and sugarcane as well. More area under maize and sugarcane cultivation means lesser water-guzzling paddy, hence sub-soil water will be conserved.” Other than Punjab, neighbouring Haryana is also flocked by similar investors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-emerging-as-preferred-destination-for-ethanol-plants-101634617236791.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Rojgaar Bazaar 2.0: All you need to know about Delhi govt's jobs portal||The Delhi government is all set to create the Rojgar Bazaar 2.0 portal that will be a job matching platform for entry-level jobs for youth of the national capital. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has issued tenders for developing the portal.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia claimed that Rojgaar Bazaar 2.0 would be a first-of-its-kind innovative platform launched by any state government to provide all employment-related services seamlessly to its citizens."The Rojgar Bazaar 2.0 will be a gateway to access skill training, career guidance and skill credentialing and a mobile app will also be made available," a statement issued by Sisodia said.What is Rojgaar Bazaar?It is a digital platform being created by the Delhi government which will list available jobs to help people of the national capital. The site will use artificial intelligence to draw up the best job matches.According to Delhi government, it will offer end-to-end employment related information to those on the lookout for jobs in the city.Tenders for Rojgaar Bazaar 2.0 were floated by the Delhi government's employment department on October 14.Other offerings on the portalManish Sisodia said that in addition to AI-based smart-matching and employer verification, the platform will also provide a range of other critical services. "This will range from skilling, career guidance, skill credentialing and automated analytics services, all of which will help in enhancing the job seekers' ability to gain meaningful livelihood," the deputy chief minister said in a statement.While services such as skilling and career guidance will help the job seeker to pursue an aspirational career, a strong analytics platform will provide the government with rich insights to frame policies and drive on ground positive impact, he added.The second iteration will draw upon the success of Rozgaar Bazaar 1.0, the AAP leader said.Rojgaar Bazaar 1.0It was launched in August last year, which the Delhi government said, turned out to be a "lifeline" for the unemployed youth as well as small businesses of Delhi during the time of Covid-19.Over 14 lakh job-seekers and 10 lakh jobs have already been advertised on the current Rojgaar Bazaar portal.According to Delhi employment department, Flipkart, Amazon and HDFC Bank have made registrations on the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rojgaar-bazaar-2-0-all-you-need-to-know-about-delhi-govt-s-jobs-portal-101634616604847.html
19-10-2021||Mumbai||Tragedy averted as RPF constable saves woman who fell from train at Kalyan||A constable of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) saved a pregnant woman from getting stuck in the gap between the train and platform at a railway station near Mumbai. The incident took place when the woman tried to de-board a moving train and, in the process, slipped and nearly got stuck in the gap.Shivaji M Sutar, the Chief Public Relations Officer (CPRO) of Central Railway, took to Twitter to share the CCTV footage of the incident. “RPF staffer Shri SR Khandekar saved the life of a pregnant woman who had slipped while attempting to de-board a moving train at Kalyan railway station today,” Sutar posted on Monday. “Railway appeals to passengers not to board or de-board a running train,” he added. Railway Protection Force (RPF) staff Shri S R Khandekar saved the life of a pregnant woman who had slipped while attempting to de-board a moving train at Kalyan railway station today.Railway appeals to passengers not to board or de-board a running train.@RailMinIndia pic.twitter.com/68imlutPaYIn the 22-second-long-video, passengers can be seen standing near the train. It starts moving and, all of a sudden, the woman is seen trying to get off the train. However, she is unable to balance herself and stumbles. Seeing this, the RPF constable immediately rushes to her aid and, with the help of two other men, saves her. Others, too, rush to help her.According to a media report, the woman and her family--husband and child--were to board a train from Kalyan to travel to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. However, they boarded another train, which started moving by the time the family realised their mistake, resulting in the incident.The report further stated that she was unhurt and safe, and the family proceeded to leave for Gorakhpur in their scheduled train.This is the second such incident to have taken place at the Kalyan railway station in recent days. On September 30, a 48-year-old man was saved by two women constables of the RPF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tragedy-averted-as-rpf-constable-saves-woman-who-fell-from-train-at-kalyan-station-101634611014653.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||‘Rail Roko’: Farmers block key tracks in northern Haryana||The six-hour countrywide ‘Rail Roko’ call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence evoked a good response in northern districts of Haryana as farmers blocked tracks, affecting the movement of trains on the busy Delhi-Chandigarh and Amritsar stretches. Despite rain, farmers remained present at several locations in Karnal, Kurukshetra, Rohtak and Panipat districts.Agitators reached the Karnal railway station and laid siege of tracks around 10am on Monday. However, farmers served food and water to the people stuck due to the stir. In Kurukshetra, farmers protesting under the banner of BKU (Charuni) did not allow the movement of trains till 4pm. Similar protests were witnessed in Panipat. Farmers sat on tracks at Uchana in Jind, Dadri, Bahadurgarh, Hisar, Rohtak, Sonepat and many other parts of the state. Rapid Action Force was deployed at the Sonepat railway station.Azad Palwan, BKU’s Jind district president, said, “We blocked railway lines on a call given by the SKM demanding the arrest of Union minister Ajay Mishra. Justice can’t prevail in the Lakhimpur Kheri case until he resigns from the Modi cabinet. The BJP government is shielding him and his son,” he added.The protesting farmers also stopped a goods train in Bhiwani, but the protest ended peacefully in the region.With the Railways not issuing any advisory to suspend or divert trains, hundreds of passengers were stranded and complained that the government should have issued an advisory. “I had to go to Delhi, but there are no trains since morning. Now, I have been left with no other option but to wait here until the movement of trains is restored,” said a woman passenger waiting at the Karnal railway station.Reacting to the problems faced by passengers, BKU (Charuni) Karnal district president Jagdip Singh Aulakh said, “The call was given a week ago and the commuters should have avoided travelling.”Cops were deployed at the railway stations, but the protests remained peaceful.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rail-roko-farmers-block-key-tracks-in-northern-haryana-101634593234702.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||No doubt Ram Rahim was actual beneficiary of Ranjit Singh’s death: CBI court||There is no doubt to the fact that Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who was feeling aggrieved by the circulation of the anonymous letter on sexual exploitation of sadhvis of Dera Sacha Sauda, was the actual beneficiary of shutting the mouth of Ranjit Singh for ever, the CBI special court has said. It said that other convicts who have been found to be directly involved in the murder had no personal enmity with the family of Ranjit Singh, another factor that points to the involvement of Dera head. Khatta Singh, a controversial but key witness in the case, has given eyewitness account of the conspiracy hatched for murder and reason that it was due to letter on exploitation of sadhvis. His testimony became clinching evidence in this case even as Khatta Singh, who once served as driver of Dera head, at one point of time had turned hostile. The court said that his testimony deserves acceptance if it is evaluated in its entirety coupled with the facts and circumstances of the case and the pressure on him due to influence the Dera chief enjoyed. The 365-page conviction judgment and 46-page sentencing order elaborates on account of 60 prosecution witnesses and twist why it deserved to be accepted. The court also took note of testimony of Saroj, sister of Ranjit Singh, who had stated that Ranjit had confided in her how he is facing threat from Dera as they suspected that he was behind circulation of the letter in question. She had also stated that Jasbir Singh and Sabdil Singh had been visiting Ranjit’s house prior to the occurrence. Ranjit’s father Joginder Singh had also deposed that Sabdil and Jasbir told Ranjit that accused Gurmeet Ram Rahim was unhappy and that he wanted him to apologise for his act otherwise he will be killed. “..it emerges out that it was the origin and circulation of the anonymous letter in question, which the Dera people were inquiring,” the court said adding that since it was circulated by the Taraksheel Society, and a member of society was a co-villager of Ranjit Singh, Dera suspected Ranjit Singh’s hand behind it. Further, there was reference to exploitation of a Kurukshetra girl, suspected to be Ranjit’s sister. “It is crystal clear that the Dera people were having full suspicion about the involvement of Ranjit Singh in the origin and circulation of the anonymous letter in question and they had openly threatened to eliminate Ranjit Singh,” the court said. It also stood proved that Ranjit was summoned to the Dera and was asked to apologise, which he refused and resulted in conspiracy to kill him, an account corroborated by Khatta Singh. The fact of Ranjit getting an insurance policy in June 2002, a month before the murder, was another evidence that he feared for his life at the hands of the Dera head.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-doubt-ram-rahim-was-actual-beneficiary-of-ranjit-singh-s-death-cbi-court-101634593054071.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Casteist remarks case: Actress Yuvika Choudhary joins probe, gets bail||Actress Yuvika Choudhary joined the police investigation in Hisar’s Hansi and later was released on interim bail in a case of making objectionable and derogatory remarks on the Scheduled Caste community in a video she had shot with her husband Prince Narula. The police had registered an FIR (first information report) against Choudhary under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on May 28 on a complaint filed by Dalit rights activist Rajat Kalsan. Kalsan had alleged that the actress made some derogatory and objectionable remarks on people belonging to SC in the video which hurt the sentiments of his community.Subhash Sharma, PRO of Hansi police, said the actress was arrested as a part of an investigation in a ‘casteist remarks case’ and later released on bail. Yuvika Choudhary, who has acted in the movie Om Shanti Om besides appearing in reality television shows Bigg Boss and Nach Baliye, found herself in hot water after she used a ‘casteist’ slur to describe how badly she was dressed in a video blog in May this year. Demands for her arrest began trending on the social media shortly after she uploaded the video, which also featured her husband, reality television star Prince Narula. After Kalsan approached the local police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/casteist-remarks-case-actress-yuvika-choudhary-joins-probe-gets-bail-101634592213918.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP holds rally in Ellenabad amid farmers’ protest||The Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) on Monday held its first rally for the Ellenabad bypoll which is scheduled for October 30 to support its nominee Gobind Kanda at Kagdana village amid farmers’ protest. Kanda is facing a triangular contest from INLD’s Abhay Singh Chautala, who is eyeing the fourth consecutive victory from his traditional family’s bastion and Pawan Beniwal of the Congress, who had switched sides ahead of the byelection. The bypoll was necessitated after Abhay resigned in the favour of farmers protesting against three farm laws on January 27.Addressing the gathering while farmers showed them black flags on the outskirts of the village, BJP’s state president OP Dhankar said Abhay had promised that he will not fight the election until three farm laws are repealed while tendering his resignation.“ Now he is in fray again. Have the farm laws been repealed? He is betraying the voters and doing politics thinking they are fools. The people of Ellenabad want to go with the BJP-JJP government. We have identified potable and irrigation water as the main problems of this region and we will solve these issues,” he added.Ajay Chautala’s family skips the rallyHaryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, his brother Digvijay Singh Chautala and JJP’s national president Ajay Singh Chautala gave a miss to the BJP’s rally. Only JJP’s state chief Nishan Singh remained present on the stage. A day earlier, Ajay Chautala had campaigned for Kanda in Ellenabad, but Dushyant has not visited once since the date of byelection was announced.Heavy police and paramilitary forces were deployed in the village to maintain law and order amid farmers’ protest. The farmers said the BJP leaders are taking help of security forces to enter the villages and these incidents show how much resentment is brewing among farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-holds-rally-in-bjp-holds-rally-amid-farmers-protest-101634590653789.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Day after Sidhu’s missive to Sonia, Channi promises to implement party agenda, resolve all issues||Blurb: Chandigarh Amid a fresh push by Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu for implementation of pending agenda ahead of the assembly elections, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday said that all matters will be resolved and the agenda of the party implemented. The chief minister’s statement came a day after Sidhu again flagged 13 issues, including justice in sacrilege cases, exemplary punishment for big fish behind drug trafficking, cancellation of faulty power purchase pacts, cut in power rates and fixing responsibility for scholarship scam, in a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. “Be it 13 points, 18 points, 21 points or even 24 points, whatever the agenda is, we are implementing it. Not a single point will be left out,” Channi told reporters at a press conference after a state cabinet meeting in which water bill arrears of consumers in urban and rural areas were waived. The chief minister said it was his (Sidhu’s) right to raise issues as the state chief. “The party is supreme and the government will implement its ideology. Ghar ghar wich challi gal, sarkar kareigi masle hal (There is talking in every household that government will take care of all issues),” he said in response to Sidhu’s letter. The chief minister also played down their differences, stating that in case it occurs that they (he and Sidhu) had issues, he would make the PPCC chief sit beside him at his next press conference. Channi and Sidhu, who have not been on the same on senior appointments, some cabinet inductions and portfolio allocation, had a late-night meeting on Sunday to improve coordination between the party and the state government with the state polls less than four months away. Cabinet minister Pargat Singh, considered close to Sidhu, and central leaders Harish Chaudhary and Krishna Allavaru were also present in the meeting held barely hours after the PPCC chief posted his letter to the Congress president on Twitter. The Punjab Congress president, who has been steadfast on his demand for implementation of pending promises, took up the matter at the meeting, citing their significance for the party in the state. “We are having regular internal meetings with different leaders of the party every day. There will be another round of meetings again today,” Chaudhary said, refusing to go into details. While Sidhu did not respond to calls, his wife and former chief parliamentary secretary Navjot Kaur said they (PPCC chief and CM) held a long meeting to discuss to find a way for cancellation of PPAs. “We do not want a situation where we decide to cancel PPAs and run into the legal tangles. That’s why they sat till 3am,” she told journalists in Amritsar. Sidhu, Chaudhary and some other party leaders had another round of talks on Monday evening to discuss the appointments in the state and district units and hiring of a private firm for poll campaign management and publicity on social media. Half-a-dozen private companies are said to be vying for the party’s poll campaign management work in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-sidhu-s-missive-to-sonia-channi-promises-to-implement-party-agenda-resolve-all-issues-101634589214353.html
19-10-2021||Other||Migrants crowd railway station to catch a train out of Kashmir||Inside the main railway station of the city’s Nowgam area, dozens of non-locals are eagerly waiting for a train that will take them to Banihal in the Jammu division.Among them, Jintendra from Bihar, who used to sell ice cream and other products in the Habba Kadal area in the Old City, left his rented accommodation early in the morning along with six other men to catch the train at the station.Dozens of non-local workers have left Kashmir since morning either through cabs, buses or trains. They started leaving after the fresh attack on a group of non-locals at Wanpoh in Kulgam district on Sunday night. The attack left two dead and another injured.Many spent the night in security force camps and police stations, and some are determined to stay put in the Valley despite the fear. Many have returned to their rented accommodations.Zahir-ul-Islam, who hails from Malda district in West Bengal, said they received a call from the police last night and were asked to reach the police station in Ganderbal. “We were 20 people staying in four rooms at Ganderbal. After noting down our details, we all were taken to the nearby camp at Dignibal where more than 500 non-local workers had assembled,” he said.“Only a few hundred people were given food, rest all of us remained hungry. In the afternoon we were allowed to go. The police officers asked us whether we wanted to go home and many of us declined to go back,” he added.He said their group was involved in construction work and wanted to complete all the remaining projects.“We will stay for the next two months. Despite killings, we won’t leave Kashmir,” he said.His words were echoed by his roommate Faruqul, who is also from West Bengal. “We are not afraid. We will only go once our works get complete here.”At Sopore, non-local workers were called to the police station late last night and then kept in a school building on the national highway and in a hostel of a degree college.“When we reached the police station, we were taken to a school building close to the Army and police camp and kept there for the night. Some of our colleagues left for homes early by taking cabs. We are still in the school building, and we haven’t decided whether to go or stay,” said Dalip Paswan, a labourer from Bihar.At the railway station in Srinagar, many non-locals said they felt unsafe after the killings.“I never wanted to go before January, but back-to-back attacks on non-locals have left all of us scared,” said Darmendra from Bihar.Another labourer Dhananjay from Bihar said after the killings, they don’t want to stay. “With each passing day, the situation is turning bad and people from Bihar are being targeted,” he said.Since October 1, 11 civilians have been killed in targeted attacks in different parts of Kashmir and among those killed five were non-locals.Officials at the railway station in Nowgam said workers had been coming since morning and many waited for five to six hours till the arrival of trains that took them to the Banihal station.However, officials are tight-lipped over the workers leaving the Valley. Soon after the attack at Wanpoh in Kulgam, the police had moved many non-locals to secure places in south Kashmir, Ganderbal and Baramulla districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/migrants-crowd-railway-station-to-catch-a-train-out-of-kashmir-101634588975291.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC polls: Draw of lots for reservation of wards today||The draw of lots for reservation of wards for women and Scheduled Caste candidates for the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections will be held on Tuesday. The Chandigarh state election commissioner, SK Srivastava, will conduct the draw of lots in the presence of representatives of political parties at the UT Guest House in Sector 6 at 10.30am. The elections to 35 wards are scheduled in December this year, as the five-year period of the Chandigarh MC is ending on December 31. Of these, 16 wards will be reserved, including 12 for women (nine general category and three SC category) and seven for SC candidates (including the three SC woman candidates).The elections will be conducted by nine returning officers (ROs) and each of them will be assisted by two assistant returning officers (AROs). Besides, two ROs and four AROs have been kept in reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-polls-draw-of-lots-for-reservation-of-wards-today-101634588678839.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||At 24°C, Monday was coldest October day in Chandigarh in 10 years||After 0.5mm rain in the afternoon, the city’s maximum temperature dropped to 24°C, making Monday the coldest October day in over 10 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The second-coldest day in the month was October 15 in 2014 when the maximum temperature was 25.2°C.Four degrees lower than Sunday’s 28.4°C, the day temperature on Monday was eight notches below normal for this time of the year.However, it is likely to rise from Tuesday onwards as clouds make way for the sun.On Sunday too, following 1.3mm rain, the temperature had dropped by 8 degrees from 36.4°C on Saturday. While IMD usually maintains the record for the highest maximum temperature each month, officials reckoned that Monday’s was most likely the lowest day temperature in even more than 10 years and they hadn’t seen it go below 25°C in October ever.Speaking about this, IMD Chandigarh director Manmohan Singh said, “A Western Disturbance was active in the region for the past two days, bringing along cloudy skies and rain, which cooled down the city. Snow in various parts of Himachal Pradesh also made the winds here chilly.”Singh said clear weather was likely to return from Tuesday onwards and will cause the maximum temperature to rise again to up to 31°C. For now, there is no forecast of rain in the near future.Meanwhile, the city’s minimum temperature also reduced slightly from 21.8°C on Sunday to 21.6°C on Monday. It is expected to remain in the ballpark over the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-24-c-monday-was-coldest-october-day-in-chandigarh-in-10-years-101634588677726.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rail roko: Delhi-Chandigarh Shatabdi among four trains cancelled, passengers left harried||Hundreds of passengers were left stranded after four trains, including the morning New Delhi-Chandigarh shatabdi, were cancelled in view of the farmers’ “Rail Roko” agitation on Monday.The other three trains cancelled were Ambala-Saharanpur (04532), and Kalka-Ambala-Kalka (04570/69), an official communication from the Ambala division of the Northern Railways said.On a call by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of multiple farmers unions spearheading the anti-farm laws agitation, farmers laid siege to railway tracks from 10am to 4pm at several locations under the division.Places that remained blocked under the division included Ambala, Yamunanagar, Dappar, Ghaggar, Rajpura, Raipur Khurd and Shambhu. This snapped rail connectivity on the Ambala-Saharanpur, Ambala-Delhi, Ambala-Chandigarh and Ambala-Amritsar routes.“As many as 18 trains remained stranded at railway stations in the division due to the agitation and were regulated for their destinations after the tracks were vacated after 4pm,” a railway public relations officer said.Six trains were also delayed at the Chandigarh railway station, according to station superintendent JP Singh, who added that the situation at the station remained peaceful.Meanwhile, commuters had a harrowing time finding alternatives to reach their destinations. Haryana Roadways buses were seen running over capacity due to the sudden demand.Manoranjan, a resident of Delhi, who was travelling with his family in the New Delhi-Chandigarh Shatabdi, had to book a cab. “I wasn’t aware of the agitation and was travelling to Chandigarh for a function. As the trains stopped, I had no option but to book a cab to reach on time,” he said.The SKM had called the protests to demand the removal of Union minister Ajay Mishra over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, in which his son Ashish Mishra Teni is the main accused.Haryana home minister Anil Vij said a fair probe was underway and justice will prevail. “Arrest of the son of an incumbent Union minister is only possible under the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. It was unimaginable in the previous governments,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rail-roko-delhi-chandigarh-shatabdi-among-four-trains-cancelled-passengers-left-harried-101634588676220.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Woman battling depression ends life at Panjab University||A woman in her late 40s hanged herself to death at her house in the residential area of Panjab University on Monday. According to police, the deceased, whose husband is a peon in the university, was getting treatment for depression. She was home alone on Monday afternoon when she took the extreme step. Police were informed around 1pm, following which they initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The deceased is survived by her husband and three children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-battling-depression-ends-life-at-panjab-university-101634588674517.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC to shift milch animals outside city limits||City mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Monday launched the work to clean up three acres of vacant land in Sectors 91 and 94 for the construction of cow sheds. In a recent resolution, the municipal corporation (MC) had decided to set up cow sheds outside the city limits to provide space to livestock owners in villages under its ambit.The final approval is awaited from the Punjab local government department.Meanwhile, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has handed over the land, located near the garbage dump, to the civic body for the purpose.The mayor said a committee had also been constituted at the level of the deputy commissioner to fix the rent rates. The space will be rented after construction of the sheds and fencing of the area. Deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said presence of cattle in the villages under MC limits led to several issues, including accidents, garbage and sewerage blockage. Therefore, while considering cattle owners’ issues as well, MC had decided to provide them space outside the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-to-shift-milch-animals-outside-city-limits-101634588673532.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Parking contractor fined ₹70,000 for violations||The municipal corporation on Monday imposed a fine of ₹70,000 on the parking contractor of Zone 2 for various violations.During an inspection, a team of the MC’s engineering wing team found haphazard parking in all lots in Sectors 5, 8, 9, 17, and 22, and attendants were also not wearing proper uniforms. Last week, MC had fined the contractor of Zone 1 (32 parking sites) ₹10,000 for similar violations. MC commissioner Anindita Mitra said any deviation from the parking contracts will not be tolerated and officials concerned had been directed to take strict action against contractors violating the terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhparking-contractor-fined-70-000-for-violations-101634588619074.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||After hitting lowest mark, Chandigarh tricity’s weekly Covid cases on the rise again||After getting a breather last week with the lowest Covid-19 cases since the second wave, the tricity is once again witnessing a rise in infections.In the week ending on Sunday (October 17), a total of 50 Covid cases surfaced in the tricity, as compared to 47 in the previous week.Though the rise in cases is marginal, the health department officials have cautioned that complacency, especially during the ongoing festival season, can cause the caseload to shoot up further.Of the total 50 cases this week, Mohali reported 26, followed by Chandigarh with 14 and Panchkula 10. No one tested positive in Panchkula on three days, while the daily count remained zero in Mohali and Chandigarh tally on one day each. At 26, cases in Mohali were 188% higher than nine cases last week. However, Chandigarh’s count dipped from 32 to 14. In Panchkula, it changed from six to 10.In some relief, no fatality owing to the virus was reported in the tricity this week, after three deaths in the week ending on October 10.At the peak of the second wave in May, the tricity had recorded 46,245 cases and 790 deaths in just one month. With restrictions on public movement being put in place, the curve started flattening thereon and only 50 cases were recorded in the last week of July. The weekly cases have been fluctuating ever since, but have never crossed the 100 mark. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “Covid cases in Mohali district have started increasing again, so testing has been intensified. But it is also crucial to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, especially during the festival season when public movement increases.”Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “As restrictions have been lifted and festivities are underway, more gatherings are taking place. To avoid serious infection, people must complete their vaccination cycle as early as possible. Even if people are vaccinated, they must maintain social distance and wear face masks in public. Only these precautions can avert the third wave.”She added, “Since 60% of the population is already immunised in Chandigarh, leading to herd immunity, the transmission rate is under control. The health department is sticking to the testing-and-vaccination practice to control the spread. Any rise in the positivity rate is revealed through testing people.”Nine test positive in tricityThe tricity logged nine fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, down from 13 on Sunday.Chandigarh confirmed four cases, while three people tested positive in Mohali and two in Panchkula. No death was reported in any area for the 13th straight day.However, the active cases rose from 66 to 68 since Sunday. A total of 34 patients are still recuperating in Mohali, 24 in Chandigarh and 10 in Panchkula. The latest cases in Chandigarh came from Sectors 19 and 28, and Khuda Lahora. The three cases in Mohali were from Dhakoli and Mohali city. Chandigarh’s caseload has reached 65,306, including 64,462 recoveries and 820 deaths. In Mohali, 68,785 people have tested positive till date. As many as 67,683 have beaten the virus, but 1,068 have died. Panchkula has confirmed 30,753 infections so far. Among them, 30,365 patients have been cured and 378 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-hitting-lowest-mark-chandigarh-tricity-s-weekly-covid-cases-on-the-rise-again-101634588617928.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three Chandigarh shops sealed for selling crackers||Continuing its drive against the sale of crackers, the UT administration on Monday sealed three shops at Palsora village in Sector 56. The shop owners were booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which entails imprisonment up to six months.Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM, South) Rupesh Kumar, who raided the shops, said, “Sale of crackers is not allowed under the orders of the State Disaster Management Authority in place in the city and violators will face action.”On Dussehra as well, the SDM had sealed a cracker shop in Attawa village, Sector 42. Besides, five Ramlila associations and seven individuals were booked for bursting crackers during the festival’s celebrations on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-chandigarh-shops-sealed-for-selling-crackers-101634588615703.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Stung hard by dengue, Mohali’s govt hospitals run out of testing kits||Struggling with an unprecedented rise in dengue patients, government hospitals in Mohali have run out of the testing kits to detect the vector-borne disease.The tests are conducted for free at the government hospitals in Mohali’s Phase 6, Dera Bassi and Kharar. But with no more kits available, patients have been forced to turn to private hospitals, where they are being charged anywhere from ₹800 to ₹1,000 per test.In just two months, Mohali has witnessed 1,622 dengue infections, a 244% spike from the 471 cases detected in 2020. The district has also lost 12 residents to the virus, transmitted by the Aedes aegypti mosquitoes.Notably, as per norms, the health department only considers test reports by a government lab, and then carries out insecticide spray in the positive patient’s house. All private hospitals and labs need to report any suspected or confirmed dengue cases to the health department for remedial measures.Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said, “The shortage of kits is not only in Mohali but in entire Punjab. We have sent the demand to the state government and hopefully, it will be sorted out soon.”“We are facing an alarming situation. Anti-dengue drives have been started and the number of anti-larvae teams has been increased. But we need the full cooperation of residents, who need to take vector-control measures at their houses,” she said.“Over 1,600 people have been infected and 12 have died in Mohali. Ten of these deaths were reported in just 16 days of October and two in September,” said the civil surgeon. She said maximum dengue cases were surfacing in urban areas, including Phases 3B1, 4 and 5, Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Kurali.District epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra said the civil hospital in Phase 6 was equipped with a 50-bed dengue ward, while those in Kharar and Dera Bassi had six beds each, and most of these were available for serious patients.Pvt hospitals warned against overchargingCivil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur warned private hospitals and laboratories against overcharging patients for tests and treatment, and said patients can contact the helpline 104 for complaints and queries.Due to the spurt in dengue cases this year, the Punjab health department had recently fixed charges for the NSI Antigen and Dengue Antibody tests as ₹600 each, and ₹50 for Platelet Count Test at all private hospitals.‘Dengue cycle changed due to late rains’On the current rise in dengue cases, Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “Earlier, dengue cases would start surfacing in July and last till September, as dengue mosquitoes breed in stagnant water, when the temperature is high. However, due to monsoon’s arrival and withdrawal getting delayed over the recent years, the breeding cycle has completely changed, leading to more cases now. But these should start ebbing away with the dip in temperature.”She cautioned residents against allowing stagnating water in their households. “The health department is inspecting houses and challaning the violators, besides conducting fogging,” Dr Singh added. 110 more contract infection in tricityOn Monday, as many as 110 more people got infected with dengue in the tricity, but the figure was lower than 193 on Sunday.Of the total cases, 68 were reported from Mohali, 25 from Chandigarh and 17 from Panchkula.Apart from 1,622 cases in Mohali this year, Chandigarh has detected 419 dengue infections, while 355 people have contracted the disease in Panchkula.While Mohali has confirmed 12 deaths since September, Chandigarh and Panchkula have not reported any fatality owing to dengue so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stung-hard-by-dengue-mohali-s-govt-hospitals-run-out-of-testing-kits-101634588614344.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||3rd sero survey: 76% population in Haryana has Covid antibodies||Haryana’s 76.3% population has developed coronavirus antibodies, state the findings of the third round of serological survey conducted by the state health department in September. The survey aimed to assess the presence of coronavirus antibodies developed in the population either by natural infection or as the result of Covid vaccination. The third round’s seroprevalence is significantly higher as compared to the previous rounds of serological survey conducted in 2020. About 14.8% population in the second round conducted last October and 8% in the first round in August 2020 was found to have developed Covid antibodies. While the population sampled in the first and second rounds of survey was 18 years and above, the third round also included children aged between six and 17 years and adults aged 18 years and above. ‘Kurukshetra tops in seroprevalence’Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who released the report of third round of serological survey on Monday, said the sero positivity was 78.1% in urban areas and 75.1% in rural areas. “Kurukshetra district was found to have the highest sero positivity at 85% and Faridabad at 64.2% has the lowest seropositivity,” the health minister said. Vij said that since Faridabad had the highest inconclusive samples at 13.2%, the district would be resampled. He added that 75% men and 77% women were found to have developed antibodies. ‘Close to achieving herd immunity’Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said that their aggressive vaccination programme also supplemented to higher seroprevalence in the community. About 2.48 crore individuals, including 1.75 crore with first dose, have been vaccinated in the state. “Although, the results of this round of sero survey are somewhat near to the level of achieving herd immunity, a large proportion of population is still vulnerable. Therefore, enforcing Covid-appropriate behaviour is still our utmost priority,” Arora said. Sample size increasedThe ACS said for the third round, the sample size was increased to 36,520 as compared to 18,700 samples (seroprevalence: 8%) in the first round and 15,840 samples (seroprevalence:14.8%) in the second round in 2020. He said that 21,912 individuals in 18 years and above category, 10,956 in 10 to 17-year age group and 3,652 individuals in the 6-9 age group were sampled during the third round. Arora said that since the health minister wanted the third round of sero survey to be more inclusive, it was decided to expand the sample size to include the most-vulnerable population of children above six years. “This was done considering the possibility of third wave affecting the kids,” he said. It was decided that the efficacy of vaccination should also be determined by detection of anti-spike coronavirus antibodies. 69.8% kids aged between 6 and 9 years have antibodiesAs per the third round, the sero-positivity rate in kids aged between six and nine years was 69.8%. It was 73.2% in adolescents (10-17 years) and ranged between 76.7% and 79.5% in individuals aged 18 years and above. Health officials said that stratified simple random sampling technique was used in this study to maintain uniformity and comparability with the national-level sero survey. The health department selected 60% samples from rural areas and 40% samples from urban areas. Nodal officer for Covid Dr Dhruva Chaudhary of Rohtak PGIMS said that serological surveys gave an accurate estimate of the population exposed to Covid infection, including asymptomatic individuals. “The sero-survey findings enable better understanding of population protection against epidemic peaks which is not possible in hospital-based surveillance,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3rd-sero-survey-76-population-in-haryana-has-covid-antibodies-101634588193634.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Girl aged 18 gangraped in Ludhiana; two held, minor accused on the run||Two youths have been arrested for raping an 18-year-old girl when she was in the fields on Sunday evening. A juvenile accomplice of the accused is yet to be arrested. According to the complaint, the girl was allegedly raped after being sedated. The arrested accused have been identified as Gurinder Singh and Yadwinder Singh of Shatabgarh village. The girl approached the police on Monday after which a case was registered. Mother of the victim said she, along with her daughter, had gone to the fields to fetch fodder for cattle. The mother said her daughter left for home with a bundle of fodder. However, she later found her daughter lying unconscious in the fields. She rushed her to the government hospital at Machhiwara. After gathering consciousness on Monday, her daughter narrated the whole incident, following which they informed the police. Sub-inspector Santokh Singh, who is investigating the case, said according to the girl, the accused intercepted and overpowered her in the fields. They poured liquor into her mouth and gangraped her when she was in a stupor. The sub-inspector said the victim is a school dropout. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/girl-aged-18-gangraped-in-ludhiana-two-held-minor-accused-on-the-run-101634588133383.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Appointment of Punjab DGP: UPSC seeks govt view on cut-off date for remaining service period of probable officers||The appointment of a regular DGP may take some more time as the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) has sought clarification with regard to the service period of nine senior-most officers whose names were forwarded by the state government. According to the information, the UPSC sought state government’s view on the ‘cut-off’ date to be considered for evaluating the remaining service period of officers shortlisted for the top police post. The state had sent the names on September 30 and now the UPSC wants to know if it (September 30) should be considered to evaluate the mandatory service period left or the date when previous DGP Dinkar Gupta was removed as Punjab Police head. The government discussed the matter on Monday and the reply will be filed on Tuesday, an official said. The Punjab government had sent the names of nine IPS officers to the UPSC, which, in turn, will choose three names after evaluating various factors as per the laid-down norms. The state government will have to pick one of the three officials for the top police job. The norms make it mandatory that the officers being considered for the post should have at least six months’ service left. One of the strongest contenders for the post, 1986-batch IPS officer S Chattopadhyaya, would have been out of the race for the top police job had the government not sent the panel to the UPSC on September 30 as he is scheduled to retire on March 31 next year. After Charanjit Singh Channi replaced Capt Amarinder Singh as chief minister, then state police chief Dinkar Gupta proceeded on a month’s leave and the government removed him from the top post on September 10, posting him as chairman of Punjab Police Housing Corporation. The government has given the additional charge of the state police chief to 1988-batch IPS officer Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota till a regular DGP is appointed. Sahota’s appointment had become a bone of contention between chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu, who questioned the probe conducted by him in the Bargari sacrilege case during the previous SAD-BJP regime. Sidhu camp is desperate to see Chattopadhyaya as the next DGP. The officer was given the additional charge of vigilance chief on October 14, the day Sidhu had met central leaders of the party in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/appointment-of-punjab-dgp-upsc-seeks-govt-view-on-cut-off-date-for-remaining-service-period-of-probable-officers-101634587717702.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||1st dengue death in Delhi this year as cases spike||The national capital has reported its first death this year to the mosquito-borne viral illness dengue, and cases are on the rise, with 382 of the 723 patients in 2021 detected in October alone, according to a weekly report by municipal authorities.The report added that 243 cases of dengue were reported in just the week-ending October 16.To be sure, October is usually the worst month for dengue in the city. In 2020, a total of 395 cases of dengue were reported between October 1 and 16 last year, and 644 cases were logged in the same period in 2019. Delhi faced its worst dengue outbreak in 2015 when nearly 16,000 people were affected, and 60 died.
19-10-2021||Delhi||AAP calls BJP’s slum outreach ‘a farce’ after civic body rejects foot overbridge||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday called the Delhi BJP’s “Jhuggi Samman Yatra” a “farce” after a municipal corporation rejected a proposal to construct a foot overbridge at a location between Naraina Vihar and Inderpuri station for those living in Buddha Vihar J J Colony and Inderpuri.Addressing a press conference, AAP Kalkaji MLA Atishi noted that the proposal for the construction of the foot overbridge was made to facilitate movement of over 70,000 people living in Buddha Vihar JJ Colony and Inderpuri slums after their regular travel route was blocked following an order of the Delhi high court. “But the BJP-ruled municipal corporation refused to provide land for it. This is the real face of the BJP... Their Jhuggi Samman Yatra is a farce,” she alleged, sharing a letter from the municipal corporation concerned.The Delhi BJP did not comment on the matter. The Delhi BJP launched the Jhuggi Samman Yatra on October 15 in a bid to reach out to residents of such clusters in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-calls-bjp-s-slum-outreach-a-farce-after-civic-body-rejects-foot-overbridge-101634587240462.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC team in Canada to discuss saroops’ printing outside India||Despite opposition from majority of the gurdwara bodies and Sikh organisations based in Canada, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has initiated the process to start printing saroops (copies) of Guru Granth Sahib abroad.A high-level SGPC delegation comprising senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad, SGPC executive member Mithu Singh Kahnke, member Bhai Ram Singh and assistant secretary Balwinder Singh Kahlwan is holding talks with the management committees of various local gurdwaras in Canada. In the executive committee meeting chaired by SGPC president Jagir Kaur on August 23, 2021, it was decided to start printing Guru Granth Sahib saroops in Canada, USA, Australia, etc. The SGPC chief had announced that printing will be done as per the ‘maryada’ and their transportation will be done by road.Talking over the phone from Canada, Bhitewad said the issue was discussed with the gurdwara management committees of British Columbia (BC), and Calgary.“The response is positive. Discussions on complete adherence of ‘maryada’ during printing and transportation of ‘saroops’ are being held. A report on the response of the gurdwara bodies and ‘sangat’ will be submitted to the SGPC chief,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-team-in-canada-to-discuss-saroops-printing-outside-india-101634587293837.html
19-10-2021||Other||SGPC to set up Sikh Mission in Ujjain gurdwara||Amritsar The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) will set up a Sikh Mission at Gurdwara Sri Guru Nanak Ghat, Ujjain, in Madhya Pradesh to propagate the Sikh faith, said president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Monday. Two days ago, the Sikh community members of Ujjain met SGPC President Bibi Jagir Kaur at Indore during a religious congregation organised in the memory of late Gurdeep Singh Bhatia, former president of Madhya Pradesh (MP) Chhattisgarh (CG) Kendri Sri Guru Singh Sabha. The SGPC chief added that the Mission would be set up through the Dharam Prachar Committee of the SGPC. Preachers, a raagi (one who sings Gurbani in raaga) and dhadi (balladeers) jathas would be deputed for the task. The sangat of Ujjain has also invited the SGPC chief for attending the Gurmat Samagam to be held on November 21 on Guru Nanak Dev’s birth anniversary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpcto-set-up-sikh-mission-in-ujjain-gurdwara-101634587233325.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Festive rush: No sign of temporary parking sites in Ludhiana markets||In view of the traffic snarls seen in markets every year during festive season, police along with GLADA, municipal corporation and other departments, had promised to set up temporary parking sites in at least 10 locations, however, there is still no sign of these anywhere in the city.The proposed sites for the temporary parking sites were the vacant land of the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) opposite the mini secretariat, Dr BL Kapur Memorial hospital near Daresi, vacant GLADA land near Old Session Chowk, the site behind the civil hospital, vacant LIT land near Feroze Gandhi market, vacant land behind the bus stand, a vacant LIT complex on Rani Jhansi Road, the LIT parking near Orient Cinema, vacant land near Mohini Resort on Chandigarh Road, and parking of Flamez mall at Malhar road among others.But with authorities failing to deliver on the promise, some contractors are using the situation to mint money. Abhinav Sharma, a resident of Model Town Extension, said, “A contractor outside a shopping complex in the city has been charging ₹100 from people for parking their car for an hour. The residents are forced to pay as there is no other option available.”Shopkeepers claim the trouble is more this year due to the ongoing construction work on Ferozepur road. Madhur Mahindra, public relation officer of Connaught Place market association, Ghumar Mandi, said the market witnesses heavy rush of vehicles on weekends. “As festival season is on, the number of vehicles and visitors has increased. Police are towing away vehicles for wrong parking, but no efforts are being made to streamline the flow of the traffic in the market,” he said, adding, “Earlier visitors used to park their vehicles alongside Ferozepur road. Due to ongoing construction work, there is no space left for parking.”City residents are facing similar problems on Sat Paul Mittal road (Malhar road) and Pakhowal road. Due to delay in completion of work, the stretch faces traffic jams all the time.Rahul Verma, Punjab Road Safety Council member, said that due to non-cooperation of some of departments, the establishment of temporary parking lots has remained a non-starter. There are many places which could be utilised as parking.He added that as Dhan Teras, Karva Chauth and Diwali are around the corner the traffic problem could increase in such areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/festive-rush-no-sign-of-temporary-parking-sites-in-ludhiana-markets-101634587055261.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Drug cartel kingpin admits to preparing 250 kg heroin||Harminder Singh Randhawa, alias Romi Randhawa, the kingpin of an international drug cartel who was extradited from Thailand nearly three months ago and sent into the custody of the Punjab Police’s special task force (STF) had prepared 200 to 250kg of heroin during his last visit to Punjab. The contraband was handed over to Manjit Singh, alias Manna, and others to sell it among addicts. However, the STF had recovered only 31kg of heroin so far from the gang members, said officials privy to the investigation.Randhawa, who runs a restaurant in Thailand, was not facing any criminal case in Punjab before he was booked by the Special Task Force (STF), Ludhiana, in a drug haul case in October 2020. Randhawa has a formula to prepare heroin after mixing chemicals. He also passes on his skills to other gang members. Tanvir Bedi, another kingpin of the drug racket, used to provide chemicals to the gang members, said officials. Randhawa told the STF that Bedi was also in Thailand, but later he moved to Australia.Inspector Harbans Singh, in-charge at the STF, Ludhiana, said the court extended Randhawa’s remand by two days on Monday. The STF will bring other members of the racket on production warrants from jail to recover the remaining heroin.A process is already on for the extradition of Tanvir Bedi from Australia. A lookout circular has been issued against him. The police are also trying to issue a red corner notice against him.The STF has recovered 31.418kg of heroin, 6kg ice drug, 2kg narcotics powder, ₹25 lakh drug money, 4 cars and a scooter from the accused so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drug-cartel-kingpin-admits-to-preparing-250-kg-heroin-101634586933280.html
19-10-2021||Other||Punjab caps dengue test rate in private facilities at ₹600||Chandigarh With dengue cases in Punjab already thrice the number last year, deputy chief minister Om Parkash Soni, who also holds the charge of health, on Monday directed the formation of district level committees under deputy commissioners. Soni, who chaired a meeting of the inter-sectoral coordination committee of the State Task Force on dengue control, also directed officers of local bodies department and the Punjab State Rural Development to procure new fogging machines. He added that the department has fixed the price of dengue test in private hospitals and laboratories at ₹600 across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-caps-dengue-test-rate-in-private-facilities-at-rs-600-101634586877394.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ rail roko delays 26 trains passing through Ludhiana||As many as 26 trains plying from or through Ludhiana railway station got delayed on Monday due to a six-hour long farmers’ agitation in the state to protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, leaving rail passengers hassled.A passenger train, plying between Ludhiana and Hisar, was also cancelled. It was to depart from the Ludhiana railway station at 9:30 am. Three trains, including Chandigarh-Firozpur train, which was to depart from Ludhiana at 7 am got stranded at the station as farmers blocked the Firozpur-Ludhiana section at Ajitwal Yard around 5:15 am.Amritsar-Bandra Paschim Express, which had a scheduled departure at 10:15 am from Ludhiana, had to be halted here along with Firozpur-SAS Nagar express train due to the track blockade.Other prominent trains which were delayed included the morning and evening New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi, Swaraj Express, Shan-e-Punjab, Malwa Express, Pathankot Delhi Intercity and Amrapali Express. These trains were rescheduled and plied post 4 pm after the farmers’ protest ended, however, passengers were left fuming.Updesh Kumar, a resident of Delhi travelling in Paschim Express, said he came to Ludhiana for some work on Sunday and was to return in a day. “I would have reached Delhi around 4 pm. I empathise with the farmers but they should also understand that if they are agitated with the government, they should not make the public suffer for it,” said Kumar.Sanjay, another passenger, blamed railway officials for not serving food in the train. “Since we are stuck in the trains, railway officials should serve us food,” he said.Sachin from Rajasthan who was travelling with his kids also expressed his displeasure. “I went to Amritsar to visit the Golden temple and could have reached home today but I am stuck here now. My kids are also getting restless,” said Sachin. Meanwhile, farmers blocked the railway tracks near Sahnewal and Rajpura following which New Delhi-Amritsar Shatabdi was halted near Shambu station around 10:07 am.Some commuters boarded buses from the nearby highway, covering a major distance on foot.Alok Gupta, a passenger in Shatabdi, accused the railways of mismanagement. “When officials knew about the farmers’ agitation, why didn’t they cancel the trains beforehand? We could have commuted by road and got our skin saved from such harassment,” said Gupta.Meanwhile, Tarun Kumar, station director, Ludhiana, claimed that the availability of water for the stranded passengers was ensured. He added that trains were not cancelled in advance so as to let the maximum trains to pass.Railways issued a refund of ₹18,000 to the passengers whose trains were cancelled, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-rail-roko-delays-26-trains-passing-through-ludhiana-101634586874987.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jagbans Powar is PPSC chairman||Chandigarh The Punjab cabinet on Monday approved the name of Jagbans Singh Powar, former deputy comptroller and auditor General of India, as the Punjab public service commission (PPSC) chairman. The post was vacant since July. Power also remained principal auditor general in Punjab and was also head of the National Academy for Audit and Accounts, Shimla. Earlier, a state committee had shortlisted three persons for the post, including former head of the state vigilance bureau BK Uppal, a retired army officer and Powar. The Punjab government led by Capt Amarinder Singh wanted to appoint Uppal as the commission chairman, but with the change of guard, the decision was changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jagbans-powar-is-ppsc-chairman-101634586813221.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Waiting for work||They are sitting on their haunches, waiting for work. House painters Madan Lal, Gopal, Jagdish and Malik are stationed with their paint brushes in Old Delhi’s Tiraha Behram Khan. This is one of the historic quarter’s traffic junctions where freelance labourers gather to be picked up for assignments. Their clients—mainly builders and contractors— hire them for small projects, which might last from a few hours to the entire day. The labourers later return to this same spot, and wait for more work.It is 3 in the afternoon. These four painters say they haven’t been approached since the morning. They live nearby in a rented room and have been here since 8am—they left only once for a quick lunch at “Sanjay ka Hotel.” It is possible that the day may end on a zero earning, one of them says matter-of-factly. “We are used to not getting any work for long stretches of time, especially since the karuna (coronavirus),” says the extrovert Malik. He is in his mid-20s. The eldest among the four is Madan Lal, 55. He is affectionately known as “chacha.” Although strenuous physical work becomes increasingly trying at his age, “chacha” cannot afford to retire. “Who will take care of me,” he argues, shrugging his shoulders. “My wife is dead, my son is dead.”All the labourers are from Aligarh district in UP. “Hardly any work there,” says Malik. They have been in Old Delhi for years. May be they can find more work by shifting base to some other place in the Capital. Malik shakes his head. “Our roots are now in Purani Dilli. We know the people well. The landlord understands when we can’t pay the rent on time. People help us when we need to borrow money, they know we won’t be running away.” Mr Lal, the “chacha,” too speaks up forcefully—“We cannot start again in a new place, especially in these times when one relies so much on the help of others.”With almost no income in the past few days, “we are surviving by borrowing from each other,” says Gopal.The painters will leave the area only after 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-waiting-for-work-101634586506374.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers squat on rail tracks, train services hit in Punjab||Farmer unions blocked railway tracks at more than 200 points across Punjab as part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s six-hour “rail roko” protest over the Lakhimpur Kheri violence hampering train movement.The farmers are demanding dismissal and arrest of Union minister of state Ajay Mishra in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri incidentAccording to a senior Punjab Police official of the law and order wing, protests were largely peaceful. A total of 30 trains were either cancelled or short-terminated due to blockades in the Ferozepur railway division.According to a bulletin issued by the Ferozepur divisional railway manager (DRM) in the morning, farmers started blocking railway traffic around 5.15am even as the call of “rail roko” was for six hours from 10am.DRM Seema Sharma did not respond to the calls for an update later in the day.Ferozepur railways divisional public relations officer Vikrant Kumar said they have been directed not to release any input.“Any details about cancellation or rescheduling of trains will be issued only by the headquarters,” said the spokesperson.Meanwhile, railway sources said 14 passenger trains were cancelled and 16 others were short-terminated at various stations.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) general secretary, Sukhdev Kokrikalan said the union activists blocked trains at 26 spots in 16 districts of the state. The protesters blocked the Ludhiana-Jakhal track in Sangrur. Besides, thousands of farmers led by BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan), including women, jammed the same track at the Sunam railway station. Farmers also laid siege to the Bathinda-Delhi track at Barnala and Handiaya railway stations. In Jalandhar, the members of the Doaba Kisan Union and the BKU (Rajewal) staged a protest at the Dakoha railway crossing. Some other farmer bodies staged a protest at Paragpur village. They said that the central government has been testing patience of the farmers but they are committed for a peaceful protest till the farm laws are not repealed. Farmers also laid siege to railway tracks in Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Tarn Taran districts. The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) staged the “rail roko” protest in 12 districts across Punjab and laid siege to the Amritsar-Delhi track at Devidaspura village near Jandiala Guru Town in Amritsar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-squat-on-rail-tracks-train-services-hit-in-punjab-101634586635841.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: One injured in 5- vehicle pileup on Rajpura road||A scooterist suffered injuries after a speeding car hit four vehicles on the Rajpura road near Arya College for Women on Sunday night. However, the driver of the car managed to escape after the mishap. The injured was rushed to the Dayanand Medical College and Hospital from where he was discharged after administering medical treatment. According to eyewitnesses, a speeding car coming from the Shri Dandi Swami Chowk side hit another car that led to the pileup. Mandeep Singh, a resident of Baba Deep Singh Nagar, said there was a huge rush on the road on account of it being a Sunday. He added that the road witnessed a heavy flow of traffic in the evening as people visited here for street food. The police said they were trying to trace the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-one-injured-in-5-vehicle-pileup-on-rajpura-road-101634586634725.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||DDA kicks off public hearings for Delhi’s 2041 master plan||On day one of the public hearing on the Master Plan of Delhi-2041 (MPD-2041) on Monday, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) held consultations with the public on issues concerning migrant workers and the urban poor living in the national capital. A total of 8,781 people were invited to attend the public hearing, DDA officials said.The consultations were divided into six slots and issues discussed included affordable housing for migrant workers, facilities for street vendors, provision for ownership rights to people living in resettlement colonies, provisions for day care centres or crèches, and recognition of unauthorised residential colonies that have come up on Zone O (Yamuna floodplains).The draft MPD-2041 is the vision document for the city’s growth over the next two decades, and proposes to make Delhi a 24x7 city with night-time economy, affordable housing, mixed development and transit-oriented development.Following the row over the limited time given by the DDA for public hearings, the land-owning agency has put out a detailed schedule for public hearings that will be held between October 18 and November 10. While the DDA has invited a total of 17,162 people to participate in the two-day session beginning October 18, it will hold chapter-wise hearings from October 25, officials said.The DDA has received over 1,200 objections/suggestions to MPD-2041 related to environment, economy, transport and mobility, and shelter, among others. Nearly 10,000 comments were received for the land use plan proposed under the draft master plan, while another 2,900 comments were received on development control norms.A senior DDA official said on condition of anonymity, “There were a lot of people who discussed very local issues related to sanitation and lack of toilets. There were some who spoke about the need for housing.”DDA officials said they also have got suggestions on affordable housing for the urban poor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-kicks-off-public-hearings-for-delhi-s-2041-master-plan-101634586333926.html
19-10-2021||Other||Five more die of Covid in Himachal||Himachal logged 169 fresh Covid cases on Sunday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,21,604 while the death toll mounted to 3,709 after five patients died of the infection. Among the fresh cases, 86 were reported from Kangra, 45 from Hamirpur, 21 from Mandi, nine from Bilaspur, three each from Kullu and Shimla and two from Solan. Three deaths were reported in Kangra and one each in Mandi and Una. The active case count has come down to 1,270 while recoveries reached 2,16,608 after 195 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with a total of 49,771 cases reported till date, followed by 31,363 in Mandi and 27,398 in Shimla. TRACKER Total Cases: 2,21,604 Cured: 2,16,608 Deaths: 3,709 Active: 1,270||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-more-die-of-covid-in-himachal-101634586459724.html
19-10-2021||Other||Lt Gen Devendra Sharma is Chief of Staff, Western Command||Lt Gen Devendra Sharma took over as the Chief of Staff, Headquarters Western Command, on Monday, officials said. The General Officer laid a wreath at ‘Veer Smriti’ and paid homage to the martyrs of the Western Command, said Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand.Lt Gen Devendra Sharma is an alumnus of the National Defence Academy and the Indian Military Academy. In an illustrious career spanning over three decades, the General Officer has held varied and significant appointments wherein he commanded an Armoured Regiment, an Armoured Brigade and an Infantry Division, all in the Western Sector.The General Officer’s staff tenure as a member of the prestigious Indian Military Training Team at Bhutan and the Chief Military Personnel Officer as part of the United Nation’s Mission in West Africa, have been affirmative global projections.The General Officer’s meritorious service has been substantiated with the award of Sena Medal for Gallantry and also the United Nations Force Commander’s Commendation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lt-gen-devendra-sharma-is-chief-of-staff-western-command-101634586457746.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mandi bypoll campaign: Sukh Ram’s family conspicuous by its absence||Sukh Ram’s family has been staying away from the election campaign for the Mandi parliamentary bypolls slated for October 30. Sukh Ram’s son and former minister, who has been a BJP legislator from Mandi, Anil Sharma did not attend the election rally of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur held on Sunday despite his meeting with the state BJP in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna on Saturday. Meanwhile, talking to the media, Anil Sharma said he might take a decision regarding the next course of action in a day or two. “It could be anything. My son Ashray Sharma, who is presently a general secretary in the state Congress, is also on the list of Congress’ election observers,” he said. Sharma is overtly and covertly hitting out at his own government over development works that have slowed down in Mandi. He is also upset over being ignored while planning and executing developmental works in his constituency. “If my position is strengthened, I would work to pace up the development,” he said.Sharma said Mandi had got chief minister for the first time, but that has not helped the area in any manner. He said Sukh Ram’s vote bank was still intact and it would only benefit the party with which he and his family would be in. Sharma along with his family members had switched over to the BJP. He won the 2017 assembly election and was elevated as power minister. But his terms strained after his son Ashray Sharma contested the Lok Sabha elections on the Congress ticket in 2019 against BJP’s Ram Swaroop Sharma. Anil was compelled to give up his ministerial berth. Since then the party had been sidelining him. “It was my son who contested elections not me. I did not campaign for my son. Time and again I was humiliated in the presence of the chief minister,” he said.The CM and the state BJP in-charge had held a closed-door meeting with Sharma convincing him to campaign for the party. Sharma had been kept away from the campaign in the municipal corporation elections too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-bypoll-campaign-sukh-ram-s-family-conspicuous-by-its-absence-101634586454608.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Channi hails CWC resolution on farmers||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday hailed the Congress Working Committee (CWC) for showing concern for the plight of farmers and standing in solidarity with them on the black farm laws issue by passing a resolution to the effect in its meeting. Welcoming the resolution, Channi alleged that the three agriculture black laws are the culmination of the conspiracy to subjugate India’s farmers for the advantage of a handful of “crony capitalist friends” of the Modi government. He also said that for over 10-and-a-half months, lakhs of farmers have been protesting peacefully on Delhi’s borders, blocked by spikes and boulders on the National Highway from advancing further. The CM further pointed out that nearly 1,000 farmers have laid down their lives but the Modi government refuses to even engage with them. “The Centre further refuses to repeal the three black laws and end the stalemate,” said Channi, adding the Congress is committed to the repeal of the three black laws and ensuring a just and fair minimum support price mechanism for India’s farmers and justice for landless farm labourers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-hails-cwc-resolution-on-farmers-101634586454038.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Separate state only lasting solution: Ikkjutt Jammu||“The otherwise historic reforms of August 5, 2019, have miserably failed to produce the desired results and the people of Jammu province continue to groan under the yoke of Kashmiri, communal, oppressive and totalitarian eco-system aided and backed by the government at Delhi,” said advocate Ankur Sharma, president, Ikkjutt Jammu. Addressing mediapersons here amid a spike in selective killings and terror attacks, Sharma said, “Except for a brief period of abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A, we are witnessing a continuous process of defeating the purpose of removal of Article 370. Jammu province has further been pushed to permanent inferior status and it continues to be a colony of Kashmir.” “Given such a situation, separate Jammu state is the only panacea available to meet the national requirement, empower people of the province to manage their own affairs, defeat enemies working day and night to change Jammu’s demography and create Kashmir-like situation in this strategic region,” Sharma said. He claimed that the people of Jammu province would rise in revolt sooner than later if the powers-that-be in New Delhi continue to treat Jammu as a Kashmir’s colony. Justifying the demand for separate Jammu state, Sharma said, “The manner in which terrorists targeted and brutally murdered innocent peaceful Hindus and Sikhs in Kashmir, including poor Hindu labourers from Bihar and other places and the manner in which the people of Jammu province were ill-treated and excluded from all walks of life, including the vital service sector, even after the abrogation of Article 370 and 35A, has once again established that Jammu province and Kashmir valley just can’t be maintained as a single political unit”. He also tore into the votaries of early elections based on the “fudged & fraud 2011 census” based delimitation and grant of full state status to the UT of J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/separate-state-only-lasting-solution-ikkjutt-jammu-101634586452657.html
19-10-2021||Other||Jammu and Kashmir reports 2 Covid deaths||Two Covid-19 related deaths were reported in Jammu and Kashmir after 11 days on Monday while the union territory also recorded 75 fresh Covid-19 cases. Of the total cases, 63 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw 12 infections with one death in each division. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 100 with active positive cases reaching 816.The government’s daily health bulletin also said 84,350 vaccine doses were administered on Monday taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.379 crore.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 399 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 100 and 76 active cases respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-2-covid-deaths-101634586401785.html
19-10-2021||Other||ULF claims responsibility for killing migrants in Kashmir||The United Liberation Front (ULF) of J&K has claimed responsibility or the attack on non-local labourers in south Kashmir’s Wanpoh locality on Sunday evening. In a statement circulated on social media, the ULF said the attack was carried out in reprisal as “Hindutva forces have lynched 200 Muslims only in Bihar in last one year”. Umar Wani, spokesman, ULF, in a statement warned non-locals to leave Kashmir. “As already warned all non-local to leave our land or get ready for what they deserve. This was a retaliatory strike,” the statement said.The ULF and the Resistance Front had earlier also claimed the responsibility for the targeted attack on the civilians and non-locals that took place on October 5. Vijay Kumar, IG, Kashmir, refused to divulge information about this group. Officials, however, said the group could be a front of some group already operating in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ulf-claims-responsibility-for-killing-migrants-in-kashmir-101634586400030.html
19-10-2021||Other||Witnesses give chilling account of labourers’ killing in Kashmir||All five non-locals killed by suspected militants in Kashmir this month were poor street vendors and labourers earning their meagre livelihood hundreds of kilometres away from their homes. On Sunday, militants shot dead two labourers from Bihar, Raja Reshidev and Joginder Reshidev, in their room at Wanpoh, Kulgam. Chun Chun Reshi Das, also from Bihar, sustained multiple injuries and was being treated at the Government Medical College in Anantnag. Meanwhile, the Anantnag district administration has granted ex gratia relief of ₹1 lakh each to the next of kin of both Raja and Joginder. Both the victims have been working here as construction labourers each earning ₹500-700 a day. “We were sitting in our room when we heard that some people in a room were shot at. We brought them to the hospital,” said M Zulfikar, a construction worker from Bihar staying at Wanpoh. Another worker said one of the persons was shot six times. “I don’t know how many attackers were there? I was in my room,” he said. Agency reports quoting the mother of Joginder said he had come to Kashmir some 3-4 months ago. “He is survived by three children. The government should help us,” she said. On Saturday, carpenter Saghir Ahmad, 53 of Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh, was killed at Litter village in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. He was living in rented accommodation there and had been coming to Kashmir for the past one year. His family said Saghir was doing the dishes in his rented room when he was fired upon. “He has four daughters and a son who has been working in Rajasthan. Saghir had gone for work far away from his family because of poverty. If there would have been work, why would he go hundreds of kilometres away from home,” his younger brother M Naeem told the media on Sunday. “His son was also forced to go to Rajasthan for work. They have nobody to take care of them except us. The government should provide help of ₹1 crore to my nieces,” he said. On the same day, Saghir was killed, 30-year-old Arvind Kumar Sah, a resident of Bihar, was shot dead at Eidgah in Srinagar by militants while he was busy selling “golgappas” outside the park. He used to live at Hawal along with a group of non-locals and had been coming to Kashmir for the past 10 years. On October 5, Virender Paswan, 55, from Bhagalpur, Bihar, was killed at Medina market at Lal Bazar hours after the killing of famous chemist ML Bindroo inside his shop. Paswan used to live in a small room 3 km away from the place where he was shot dead. He was selling “golgappas” when he was killed in a targeted attack. He is survived by four daughters and two sons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/witnesses-give-chilling-account-of-labourers-killing-in-kashmir-101634586398849.html
19-10-2021||Other||Poonch encounter: Difficult terrains give tough time to Army to flush out terrorists||While thick forests of Nar Khas having natural caves in Mendhar and hilly terrain of Chamrer in Surankote continue to give a tough time to the Army in flushing out terrorists, believed to be two to three in groups, sources within the security establishment were miffed over the failure of intelligence agencies in Poonch district that led to the killing of nine soldiers within four days. The Jammu and Kashmir Police have said the terrorists were believed to be hiding in the jungles since August this year. “Para action is on, but there is nothing conclusive so far. Drones and a helicopter are being used in Nar Khas but there is no breakthrough. The search operations are on in both the places—Nar Khas and Chamrer,” said an Army officer. A senior police officer said the terrorists believed to have sneaked in August from Balakote before reaching Nar Khas forests and Chamrer. “We also suspect that there could be two groups and one of them had reached Chamrer in Surankote on way to Shopian via Pir Ki Gali before they gunned down five soldiers on Monday last,” he added. “Now, such operations take time because the terrain is difficult. There is thick wild growth in the dense forest of Nar Khas where natural caves are there and visibility is also an issue,” he said. An Army source said on Monday when five soldiers were killed in Chamrer area of Surankote, the terrorists were hiding at vantage positions and had opened fire from two different directions. On Monday last the Army suffered five casualties that included a JCO followed by four more casualties. While bodies of the two soldiers were found on Thursday that of JCO and the fourth soldier was found on Saturday. Within four days from Monday to Thursday, the Army has lost nine soldiers—the worst in recent years. Sources within the establishment also flagged the issue of sharing parallel intelligence. They also divulged that the practice of deploying two intelligence men in each border village has also faded away in recent times. “Nothing substantive was shared by intelligence agencies before five of our men were downed on Monday in Chamrer. Now, if these terrorists are there since August, it clearly shows the failure of intelligence agencies and at the same time local support to them cannot be denied,” they said. It may be stated here that Nar Khas forest is barely 10 km from the LoC while Chamrer is located in Dera Ki Gali area of Surankote and sans LoC. Nar Khas forest is spread in six to eight square km of the area and has thick forests having rivulets, rivers and caves with poor visibility while Chamrer is a hilly terrain that leads to Pir Ki Gali and then to Shopian in south Kashmir. “Security forces, for now, have no exact idea about to which terror groups the hiding terrorists belong but some social sites claimed that People’s Anti-Fascist Front (PFF)—an offshoot of LeT was involved but we can’t vouch for the veracity of such claims,” said a police officer. Another senior police officer said, “Terrorists were contacted thrice and the contacts were initiated by the security forces but then in a jungle things don’t click the way you want. They seem to have been trained well in guerrilla warfare and seem to have acclimatised to the forests”. Army chief reaches Jammu Meanwhile, Army Chief General MM Naravane reached Jammu on a two-day visit to the region wherein GOC, White Knight Corps, will give an update on the security situation and operational preparedness. “The COAS will visit forward areas and interact with troops and commanders on the ground. He will visit Poonch to take stock of the situation and get a feedback from the commanders on the ground,” said an Army officer. Major attacks 1. On May 2, 2020, at least five security personnel, including a Colonel, a Major and a sub-inspector were killed during an 18-hour anti-militancy operation in north Kashmir’s Handwara area. 2. On February 14, 2019, at least 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel as well as suicide bomber Adil Ahmad Dar, a local Kashmiri youth, were killed in Pulwama. 3. On February 10, 2018, at pre-dawn, Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists attacked Sunjuwan brigade and killed six soldiers and a civilian besides injuring 20 others that included 14 soldiers. 4. On November 30, 2016, at least seven soldiers, including two Majors, were killed when militants dressed as policemen stormed a military camp in Nagrota, which also has Army’s 16 Corps headquarters. 5. On May 14, 2002, the Kaluchak military station was attacked by three armed terrorists from Pakistan. The trio first attacked a Himachal Road Transport Corporation bus on the Jammu-Pathankot highway and killed seven passengers before storming the station where they killed 23 persons, including 10 children, and five soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poonch-encounter-difficult-terrains-give-tough-time-to-army-to-flush-out-terrorists-101634586394300.html
19-10-2021||Other||Jammu and Kashmir govt signs MoU with Dubai for development projects||The J&K government on Monday signed an MoU with Dubai for real estate development, industrial parks and super-speciality hospitals۔The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed for real estate development, industrial parks, IT towers, multi-purpose towers, logistics, medical college, super-speciality hospitals.On the occasion, Union minister for commerce and industry Piyush Goyal highlighted the significance of the day and said with the signing of the MoU with Dubai, the world has started to recognise the pace with which Jammu and Kashmir was traversing on the development bandwagon.“This MoU gives out a strong signal to the entire world that the way India is transforming into a global power, Jammu & Kashmir is having a significant role into that as well,” he said.Goyal said this MoU is a milestone after which the investment will pour in from the entire globe and is a big developmental push.“Different entities from Dubai have shown keen interest in investment. Development has to be aspired on all fronts and we are on track،” he said while thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah for their focus and commitment towards the development of UT of Jammu & Kashmir.“The recent industrial package of ₹28,400 crore is a testimony towards ensured development,” he added.Terming it a momentous occasion for the UT of Jammu and Kashmir, Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said this development journey will help the UT to scale new heights in Industrialisation and sustainable growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-signs-mou-with-dubai-for-development-projects-101634586393167.html
19-10-2021||Other||Six booked for assault on ADCP in Jalandhar||Jalandhar Six persons, including three members of a family, have been booked for allegedly assaulting an additional deputy commissioner of police, Ashwani Kumar, and his aides in Jalandhar on Monday. In the FIR, Rohit Chadha, friend of ADCP Kumar states that he along with one Dharampal, had visited the Punjab Avenue locality to drop Kumar on Sunday night, when Paramjit Singh, a resident of the area, his wife and son assaulted them after a verbal spat. The FIR adds that the three of them were injured. The accused has been identified as Paramjit Singh, his wife and son; three others are yet to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-booked-for-assault-on-adcp-in-jalandhar-101634586333225.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Festive rush: Ludhiana markets chock-a-block with encroachments once again||The city’s main markets are chock-a-block once again as shopkeepers and vendors have encroached upon the roads ahead of the festive season, in the absence of any checks by the municipal corporation.This even as mayor Balkar Sandhu had warned of strict action against the practice.Encroachments can be seen in several markets, including Jawahar Nagar market, Field Ganj, Model Town, BRS Nagar, Ghumar Mandi, Daresi and others. At some places, mehandi artists have even set up tents ahead of Karva Chauth. The result: traffic snarls and parking woes for the visitors. Gurnoor Singh, a resident of New Model Town, said, “Lack of parking space is already a major concern in city markets and the situation has only worsened due to the encroachments ahead of festive season. Sometimes, we end up losing at least 15 to 20 minutes while trying to find a parking spot or navigating the jams.”In Jawahar Nagar market, shopkeepers have set up separate tents outside their shops. Dilpreet Singh, a resident of Dugri area, said, “I had gone to Model Town, Gol market, with my mother a few days ago. It was a complete mess. The MC should either act against such encroachments or come up with alternate parking arrangements.”An MC official, requesting anonymity, said, “Earlier, the MC used to charge shopkeepers and allow them to take up a portion outside their shops during festival season. As it caused traffic jams, the MC stopped the practice around three years ago. But now, they have just succumbed to the pressure from shopkeepers and politicians ahead of assembly elections.” Meanwhile, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said strict directions have been issued to the staff for removing encroachments by shopkeepers. “I will direct the in-charge of tehbazaari wing to check the situation and ensure smooth flow of traffic in the markets. Strict action will also be taken against officials who fail to act against the violators,” said Sabharwal.10 months on, MC fails to establish notified vending zones in the cityThough 10 months have passed since the Ludhiana civic body notified 64 vending zones, there are no sign of these anywhere in the city. The vending zones are being set up so that vendors can be removed from roadsides and allotted a designated space to carry out the business without affecting the traffic. The vending zones are to be established in Field Ganj, Civil Lines, Ghumar Mandi, Model Town, Gill Road, Hambran Road, Daresi among other areas. MC secretary Neeraj Jain said the process to establish vending zones is on and the MC has to take certain permissions from other departments such as LIT, GLADA etc, as a few sites fall under their jurisdiction. A few permissions are also to be taken from the finance and contracts committee (F and CC) of MC and an agenda regarding this will be taken in the next meeting, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/festive-rush-ludhiana-markets-chock-a-block-with-encroachments-once-again-101634586274279.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 25 fresh Covid cases, no death||Chandigarh Punjab on Monday reported 25 fresh Covid cases taking the tally to 602059, according to a medical bulletin.With no Covid-related fatality reported in the past 24 hours, the death toll stood at 16,544, it said. Among fresh cases, six were reported in Patiala and four each in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur. With 219 active cases, the state’s positivity was 0.12%, the bulletin said. With 32 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,85,296, it said. A total of 1,50,24,348 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state of which 31,231 were tested on Saturday. As many as 99,209 doses of the vaccines were administered on Monday, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-25-fresh-covid-cases-no-death-101634586213270.html
19-10-2021||Other||AAP protests against extending BSF jurisdiction in Punjab||Chandigarh Opposing the decision of the Union government to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday staged protests against the Centre across the state. AAP volunteers and leaders burnt effigies of the Narendra Modi-led central government and raised slogans against its decision to extend the BSF’s jurisdiction from 15km to 50 km from the international border. They also accused the Charanjit Singh Channi government of failing to protect Punjab’s rights. Leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema demanded the roll back of the decision of giving additional powers to the central force. “The BSF will now be able to check passports and customs duties, search houses and make arrests under the NDPS laws without involving the Punjab police,” he said. Cheema added that the CM should convene an all-party meeting against the decision of the Centre, suggesting that a joint delegation of all parties should exert united and uniform pressure to reverse the decision. He also sought a special session of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-protests-against-extending-bsf-jurisdiction-in-punjab-101634586034197.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad bypoll: INLD files complaint against Dushyant’s aide||The Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) on Monday filed a complaint against Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s close aide Meenu Beniwal for allegedly violating the model code of conduct in Ellenabad, which will go to bypoll on October 30. In his complaint to the chief electoral officer, INLD’s election agent Rakesh Babar said that leaders of the BJP and the JJP have been continuously violating the model code of conduct for the Ellenabad bypoll.“It has been seen in many videos and clips on social media that JJP’s key person Meenu Beniwal and others are violating the model code of conduct by distributing money after the announcement of the bypoll. It has also come to the fore that many security personnel, including black commandos and paramilitary forces personnel, have been provided to Meenu Beniwal who is neither a candidate nor such a person who is legally authorised by any law or by court’s order to have this security cover due to his life threats. This amounts to a total misuse of power and wastage of the taxpayer’s money. We demand that Meenu Beniwal and his other associates be kindly directed to leave Ellenabad area till declaration of results,” he added.INLD’s Abhay Singh Chautala, who had resigned in support of farmers protesting against three farm laws on January 27, is seeking the fourth consecutive term from Ellenabad and pitted against BJP’s Gobind Kanda and Pawan Beniwal of the Congress.Beniwal is considered a close aide of Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and it has been learnt that he had marshalled resources when the JJP was formed after a vertical split in the INLD and the Chautala family. As per sources, he was also seeking a ticket, but could not get it. A senior police official posted at Jind, while requesting anonymity, said they were also surprised after seeing Meenu Beniwal’s security cover when Digvijay Singh Chautala contested the Jind byelection in 2019. INLD state chief Nafe Singh Rathee said the BJP-JJP leaders have been making all attempts to influence the voters by distributing money and violating model code of conduct. “The election commission should take strict action against such people. It is clear that Abhay Singh Chautala is winning the by-election with a thumping majority and coalition party leaders are making all efforts through illegal means to save their candidate’s security,” he added. Sirsa deputy commissioner Anish Yadav said they have received a complaint from INLD against Meenu Beniwal for violating model code of conduct for Ellenabad bypoll.“We are looking into the complaint,” he added. Meanwhile, Meenu Beniwal said he is a resident of Ellenabad constituency and had gone to campaign for BJP-JJP candidate Gobind Kanda. “I have not violated any model code of conduct. As a citizen of this constituency, I have a right to canvas for the coalition candidate,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-bypoll-inld-files-complaint-against-dushyant-s-aide-101634586033195.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Channi announces ₹1,000 cr for Chamkaur Sahib segment||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday announced development projects worth ₹1,000 crore for villages in the Chamkaur Sahib constituency. The CM also distributed the cheques for ₹60 crore to 75 panchayats of the Chamkaur Sahib block.The chief minister also started the process of waiving the outstanding electricity bills as per his government’s promise made to the people by symbolically burning the copies of bills with pending arrears and asked the people to forget the liabilities. The Punjab government has implemented the decision to waive the arrears of all consumers with power load of up to 2KW.He addressed gatherings at Sandhuan, Gaggon, Bhairon Majra, Bela, Wazidpur and Mehtot villages.The CM announced ₹1.13 crore for a stadium at Mehtot village, besides constructing a 100-bedded hospital at Chamkaur Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-announces-rs-1-000-cr-for-chamkaur-sahib-segment-101634585974236.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pre-poll bonanza: Punjab govt waives water bill arrears||In a pre-poll populist move, the Punjab government on Monday decided to waive water bill arrears in rural and urban areas and free power to rural water supply schemes with effect from October 1. The decision that will put a financial burden of about ₹1,800 crore on the state, was taken during a cabinet meeting, chaired by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi. The cabinet also gave a nod to reduce service charges on all rural water supply schemes by 70%, from ₹166 to ₹50 per household per month in the villages. Similarly, the cabinet decided to reduce water usage charges to ₹50 per month for domestic connections of all categories having plot size above 125 square yards in municipal councils and nagar panchayats and municipal corporations. Plots up to 125 square yards in urban areas have already been exempted from paying water and sewerage user charges. These concessions would benefit nearly 25 lakh families living in urban areas. It was decided in the meeting to provide funds through budgetary support to settle outstanding arrears of ₹1,168 crore of power bills of rural water supply schemes, according to an official statement. Addressing a press conference after the cabinet meeting, the CM said the state would facilitate the Centre for acquiring land for the Patti-Makhu rail link and it will be ensured that adequate compensation is given to the farmers and landowners. Deputy chief ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and OP Soni and cabinet ministers Manpreet Singh Badal, Aruna Chaudhary, Vijay Inder Singla and Pargat Singh were also present in the press conference. Nod to recruit group-D employees on regular basis In another decision, the cabinet gave clearance to recruit Group-D employees on a regular basis. He slammed the previous governments for hiring people for these posts on an outsource basis. On a query about the status of contractual employees, Channi said the state government is already in the process to finalize a policy in this regard to safeguard the interest of such employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prepoll-bonanza-punjab-govt-waives-water-bill-arrears-101634585673203.html
19-10-2021||Other||{Lakhbir’s killing at Singhu border} Sampla writes to Akal Takht, seeks ‘bhog’ as per Sikh code||Chandigarh The National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) chairman Vijay Sampla on Monday wrote a letter to the acting jathedar of the Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh, requesting him that the bhog of Lakhbir Singh, the lynching victim on the Singhu border last week, was performed as per the Sikh Rehat Maryada (Sikh code of conduct). “You must be aware of the brutal murder of Lakhbir Singh, a Scheduled Caste Sikh from Punjab, at the farmers’ protest site at Singhu near the Delhi-Haryana border. You must have also got the information that some people, especially the members of Satkar committee, objected to the victim’s cremation as per Sikh rituals, citing the sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib,” the letter says.It adds, “In a viral video, culprits and other people can be seen saying that Lakhbir had disrespected the Sikh holy book but in reality, no video has surfaced on social media or from news organisations which can prove that Lakhbir committed sacrilege.” Sampla adds that statements given by farmer organisations or the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) indicate that the victim was found with Sarbloh Granth rather than Sri Guru Granth Sahib. “We firmly believe that SC Lakhbir should not be stated as guilty until the police investigation proves the same,” the letter says, adding that in recent times, a large number of SC Sikhs had been targeted and converted by missionaries and institutions and the process was on. He added that incidents like Lakhbir’s murder and objections to his cremation would only speed up the conversion drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lakhbirs-killing-at-singhu-border-sampla-writes-to-akal-takht-seeks-bhog-as-per-sikh-code-101634585615038.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Petition filed against Gill MLA for delay in road project||A resident of Bhattian Bet village, advocate Arun Khurmi, has moved district court against Gill MLA Kuldeep Vaid and four other officials of Nishant Bagh colony for deliberately not constructing a road near his house for a long time due to alleged political vendetta. He has filed two separate suits of civil and criminal defamation.Apart from Vaid, the petitions have been filed against Nishant Bagh sarpanch Panch Reeta, secretary Kiran Pal and junior engineer Kulwant Singh. The court has issued notice to the defendants in the civil suit for November 12.Khurmi alleged that the road leading to his house was dug up in 2018 for reconstruction. But, the sarpanch deliberately delayed the reconstruction for around three years. In February 2021, the work started and a stretch of around 800 feet has been constructed, but a 100-feet stretch has been left out outside his house.“The road is not being constructed by the sarpanch due to political vendetta and I have been complaining to MLA Vaid and other officials, but to no avail. I was forced to move the court due to the harassment and financial loss as this has impacted my clientele,” said Khurmi.Meanwhile, Vaid said he is unaware of any petition filed against him. “I will look into the matter and if any anomalies are found in work, the officials will be directed to complete the work without discrimination,” said Vaid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-petition-filed-against-gill-mla-for-delay-in-road-project-101634585614022.html
19-10-2021||Other||Ticket to US at ₹1 lakh, up 40% over pre-Covid times||Ludhiana With the United States (US) opening its skies for fully vaccinated tourists from November 8, the desire to explore or meet near and dear ones has sent ticket prices soaring. There is a mad rush to book tickets which has translated into a single direct flight seat costing an average of over ₹1 lakh for economy travel. In pre-covid times, the rate was between ₹60,000 and ₹70,000 (depending on when one booked relative to date of travel). This means an increase of 40-50%. The maximum demand is from the Doaba region in Punjab, where parents and relatives of students in the US had been anxious for the route to open up for long. For all this while, only Green Card holders, students, US citizens and their spouses were allowed to travel there. Air India and United Airlines are booking direct flights to the US from India; American Airlines is awaiting the Centre’s approval. “Since the announcement, there has been a huge demand for bookings in November and December, but seats are limited. There are indirect flights via Europe and other countries, but due to Covid restrictions and differing rules across countries, travellers are preferring direct flights only as they do not want to waste time en route. Tickets for economy fare travel are priced ₹1 lakh and above,” said Ramanjit Singh Bedi of Prompt Travels, Chandigarh.Travel agents add that there are no appointments for Visitors’ Visa for those applying afresh at the US Embassy for the next five months. “The next slot for interview for a Visitors Visa at the US Embassy in New Delhi is available only after March 20, 2022. Applicants are also exploring dates for a Visitors’ Visa after March, such is the demand,” said Aman Phallar, of Amreen Holidays in Ludhiana.A number of travellers had booked tickets in advance, expecting that the US will open up travel from November 1. “These travellers are now having to pay hefty re-scheduling costs for their tickets,” said another travel agent.Brij Mohan Singh, a farmer from Dakha said, “My daughter got married and went to reside with her husband in the US. As we have a tourist visa, we had no other option but to wait for travel restrictions to ease. My wife and I booked our flight to the US in November the day the announcement was made.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ticket-to-us-at-rs-1-lakh-up-40-over-pre-covid-times-101634585612999.html
19-10-2021||Other||3 kin of woman held for murder of inter-caste couple||Moga Police on Monday rounded up three relatives of a newly-wed woman for allegedly abducting and killing an intercaste couple at Sappanwali village in Fazilka district. Rohtash Singh, 25, and Suman Devi, 23, had tied the knot in a Chandigarh court on October 1. For now, they had taken shelter at Rohtash’s brother-in-law Sukhdev Singh’s house at Moga’s Raunta village. On Sunday, relatives of Suman abducted them from there. A few hours later their bodies were found on a street in Sappanwali village. Their bodies were cremated at this village itself on Monday morning.The three accused are Mohinder Singh, Bipin Kumar, alias Bappu, and Aman alias Pali, of Sappanwali. Nihal Singhwala police station in-charge Nirmaljit Singh said, “We have rounded up three persons in connection with the murder. The postmortem reports record that the couple was strangulated to death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-kin-of-woman-held-for-murder-of-inter-caste-couple-101634585554245.html
19-10-2021||Lucknow||Sports hub Meerut needs world-class athletics track||In a virtual interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi before the Tokyo Olympics in July, national champion and record holder race-walker Priyanka Goswami drew attention to the need for an international standard athletics track in her hometown Meerut, which is a sports hub.“We need to have international standard athletics track as well as dedicated coaches for young athletes,” Goswami said when the PM asked her about issues.In fact, Goswami, who finished a creditable 17th at the Summer Olympics after enjoying an early lead, was only repeating the long-pending demand of athletes of Meerut, which is also known as one of the biggest sports hubs of India. Goswami, as well as many other top athletes who have consistently been doing well at the international level, including Asian Games gold medallist discus thrower Seema Punia, Asian Games bronze medallist javelin thrower Annu Rani, long distance runner Parul Chaudhary, Rupal Chaudhary, Vidhi Singh, Chavi Sherawat, Vishal Saxena, Kuldeep belong to Meerut but practise outside the city due to the unavailability of facilities for them. “That’s a reality for the athletes of Meerut and other neighbouring districts in western Uttar Pradesh,” Anu Kumar, secretary of Meerut Athletics Association, said.“There are over 1000 plus athletes in the area, but they don’t have facilities for training. The only government-run Kailash Prakash Stadium doesn’t have even hurdles to conduct an athletics meet.”“That’s the reason why all our top athletes do train either at different SAI centres, New Delhi or go outside the country to train for the international events,” said Kumar, adding, “Even the government-run athletics hostel in Meerut was shifted elsewhere in 2005.”Instead of an athletics track, the state government has been laying a hockey astro turf at the Kailash Prakash Stadium.“It’s good to have a hockey astro turf in the city, but our primary need is an athletics track,” said Kumar who believes that strongly-built youths from the Jat community in the area are best suited for athletics and wrestling.“Kids in this community always have a strong build, height and above all the culture of a rich diet, including ghee, milk and curd that make them stronger for events like running, throwing and wrestling,” he said.“If we have an international standard athletics stadium here in Meerut, we would see this city producing many medallists at the international level.”He also said that this rural belt of western Uttar Pradesh has been a nursery of strongly-built individuals for Delhi Police and the defence forces.“You can see thousands of athletes running on the roads of Meerut and its adjoining districts early in the morning as they rely on athletics to get jobs in the Delhi Police and the armed forces,” he said.Enthusiasm for athletics in Meerut is such that even in the recent district championships, over 1000 athletes appeared in different disciplines in both the male and female categories. “We have 30-odd clubs and a few clubs of athletics in the city being run by former international athletes. They have been producing good results at the national level, that too without having even basic infrastructure.’We couldn’t get hurdles during the district meet as the person responsible for this at the Meerut stadium had gone on a personal tour and refused the facilities to us,” he said, adding, “Somehow we borrowed the equipment to conduct the meet.”“Other cities like Sonipat, Delhi and Panchkula have an adequate number of international standard athletics tracks. Covering a long distance on a routine basis for training isn’t possible for all the athletes of Meerut,” h e said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sports-hub-meerut-needs-world-class-athletics-track-101634583512971.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police arrests man for cattle smuggling, aides flee||Members of the Gau Raksha Dal rescued 15 cows and bulls which were allegedly being smuggled in a truck through the Hambran road. The cleaner of the vehicle was nabbed while the driver and his aide managed to flee.The cleaner has been identified as Samaun of Dauwal village of Gurdaspur. Police are on a lookout for Darshan Singh of Kotu wala Dhanaula village who is the truck driver and his aide Ghoga of Jandiala village of Sandrur.The FIR has been lodged on the statement of Harish Sharma of Preet Nagar of New Shimlapuri, who is a member of Gau Raksha Dal, Punjab. Sharma, in his complaint, stated that he received a tip-off that the accused were smuggling cows and bulls for slaughtering. He informed the police following which cops stopped the truck on Hambran road and rescued the cattle. The accused told police that they were carrying the cows and bulls to Gurdaspur.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sham Singh, the investigating officer, said a case under Sections 3, 4, 4-A of the Punjab Prohibition of Cow Slaughter Act and sections of Prevention to Cruelty to Animals Act has been registered at the PAU police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-arrests-man-for-cattle-smuggling-aides-flee-101634583394863.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Extension of BSF’s jurisdiction in Punjab: AAP seeks rollback of decision||Slamming the Union and state governments over the decision to extend the jurisdiction of Border Security Force (BSF) in Punjab, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) staged a protest outside the deputy commissioner’s office in mini secretariat on Monday and burned the effigies of Union home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Charanjit Channi.Accusing the state government of being hand in gloves with the Centre, AAP leaders stated that around 27,600 square kilometres of the state has been handed over to the Centre in the name of national security, but is in reality a political ploy by the BJP-led central government.District presidents of AAP (urban) Suresh Goyal and AAP (rural) Harbhupinder Singh Dharor stated that Channi had recently conducted meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Shah raising concerns over smuggling of weapons and from the border areas. Following this, the jurisdiction of BSF was extended from 15km to 50km in the state, which is around 50% of its area.AAP Lok Sabha in-charge Amandeep Mohi and in-charge of Ludhiana east constituency, Daljit Bhola Grewal, stated that the jurisdiction has been reduced by 30 kms in Gujrat, which is surprising.“It seems like there is no issue in Gujrat but in Punjab only, due to the political interests of the Union government. We will continue to fight against it and the state government should also make efforts to do so as the move might disturb the peace of the state,” said Mohi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/extension-of-bsf-s-jurisdiction-in-punjab-aap-seeks-rollback-of-decision-101634583217683.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police arrests six men for snatchings, burglaries||The Moti Nagar police busted a gang of snatchers and a gang of burglars on Sunday and arrested six men. In the first case, they arrested three snatchers identified as Sachin Kumar of Sherpur Kalan, Chotu Singh of Uttar Pradesh and Ranjeet Singh of Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Sherpur Kalan. Three mobile phones have been recovered from them.Sub-inspector Vijay Kumar, SHO of Moti Nagar police station, said that on October 15, they had snatched a smartphone and some cash from Ajay Kumar of Gehlewal village. Kumar added that the trio was active in the area for the past few months and robbed commuters after threatening them with sharp-edged weapons.Three burglars were also arrested and six stolen mobiles and one motorcycle was recovered from their possession.They have been identified as Raju Pandey of Baba Deep Singh Nagar, Sherpur Kalan; Vishal Verma of New Puneet Nagar and Sonu Kumar of Ranjeet Nagar.The SHO said they were arrested from a checkpoint in Sherpur Kalan on the basis of a tip off. They were commuting on the stolen bike and when they were stopped, they failed to produce documents for the vehicle. On questioning, they confessed to stealing the bike from Moti Nagar and committing burglaries at houses. 54 mobile phones recovered from seven snatchersThe Crime Investigation Agency (CIA) staff of Khanna police busted a gang of snatchers on Monday with the arrest of seven men. As many as 54 stolen mobile phones have been recovered from them.The accused have been identified as Deepak Kumar alias Sikander of Dharampura Mohalla in Patiala; and Baljinder Singh; Vishal Kumar; Sanjay Patel, Ajit Patel, Sanjay Rai and Sunder Pal, all from Fatehgarh Sahib.One of the members of the gang, identified as Sandip Singh alias Mota of Tura village in Fategarh Sahib is yet to be arrested.Sikander Singh, In-charge of CIA staff, Khanna, said that the police have booked four accused following a tip-off. More important information has been expected from the accused during questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-arrests-six-men-for-snatchings-burglaries-101634582912953.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||Job portal, sport centre in govt’s draft policy for differently abled||Early detection centres in all districts, a national level employment portal, and dedicated sports centres are among the provisions of a new national policy for the differently abled, a draft of which has been prepared by the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities (DEPwD) under the ministry of social justice. The draft will be finalised soon and placed in the public domain for comments, said a senior DEPwD official.“The existing policy was notified in 2006. A task force was set up in 2019 to prepare the draft policy after the new Right of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 came into force. A meeting of the expert committee is scheduled on October 25 to finalise the policy and then it will be put in the public domain,” added this person, asking not to be identified.The draft policy, derives from the Right of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (RPwD Act 2016) and aims to provide a framework for the implementation of the new law. The 2016 law which replaced the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995, added 14 disabilities to the seven mentioned in the latter.“The draft national policy, once notified, will cover the gaps in providing government facilities to people with disabilities,” said the official.While there are employment exchanges in various parts of the country for PwD, the new policy proposes the creation of a dedicated national level employment portal with information about government jobs for the differently abled. “Various departments issue advertisements regarding employment for PwD, but this portal will provide information regarding all the central government vacancies for people with disabilities at one place. It will also have information about various skill training centres in India,” added the official.Disability rights activists say that there are several barriers for the differently abled when it comes to employment.Subhash Chandra Vashishth, disability rights advocate and Director of Centre for Accessibility in Built Environment Foundation, said, “It is a good move to develop a dedicated national level employment portal for PwDs. But there should be provision for equal opportunity policy for the private sector, as the RPwD Act 2016 mandates. Most private establishments have not yet registered their EOPs with the Chief Commissioner/ State Commissioner as required by the Act.” His reference is to the Equal Opportunity Policy that both state-owned and private businesses were to declare and also register with the State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities, as mandated by the 2016 law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/job-portal-sport-centre-in-govt-s-draft-policy-for-differently-abled-101634582456931.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||And the air in Delhi was ‘good’ — after 413 days||Residents of Delhi breathed good air after 413 days on Monday as heavy downpours through the day settled down pollutants. It was the first time since 2015 that the air in national capital has been so clean in October. The overall Air Quality Index in Delhi fell to 46, categorised as ‘good’ by the Central Pollution Control Board, a drop of over 250 in just a day. The index on Sunday had shot up to 298 on Sunday, which is categorised as ‘poor’ that leads to breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure. The relief might be short-lived as winds from the northwest blow in smoke from the farm stubble fires in Haryana and Punjab in the coming days, experts said.Monday was Delhi’s first spell of good air not just in 2021, but since August 31 last year, data from the federal pollution watchdog showed. Delhi has not breathed good air in October since at least 2015, when the agency started keeping AQI records. The drastic fall in pollution levels was more due to the duration of the rains, scientists of the Indian weather office said, as well as showers in neighbouring states, potentially negating the effect of smoke from the burning of farm residue. “Delhi has received some intense rain spells this year, but this time, there was a drastic fall in pollution levels because the rain was widespread throughout Delhi and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and others, and it also lasted for a longer duration,” said VK Soni, head of the environment and research department at the India Meteorological Department.“We have seen that intense rain spells during monsoon this year were usually shorter spells, which lasted between two and three hours, because of which pollution levels did not drop as drastically as they did on Monday,” Soni said.Delhi this year saw one of the most erratic monsoons ever, Met department data show. It started off with an unusually delayed arrival. Instead of it normal arrival date of June 27, monsoon this year entered the capital on July 13, 16 days behind schedule. This was the most delayed arrival in 19 years. In 2002, monsoon hit Delhi on July 19.The city progressively broke a slew of monsoon-related weather records. The rains in Delhi broke records in July, August and September. Most of the city’s rainy days saw showers concentrated into a few hours, battering the city’s infrastructure and throwing normal life off kilter. The capital’s air quality has steadily dropped all month, a decline that accelerated on Friday, when AQI reached the far end of the ‘moderate’ zone at 198. On Saturday, as winds calmed, air pollution got worse and reached 284, before climbing to 298 the next day.Delhi in 2020 recorded five good air days, the most since AQI recordings began. This, however, was likely due to curbs on social and economic activities due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The restrictions have largely been lifted now.In 2015 and 2016, Delhi did not record a single good air day. In 2017, two such days were recorded — July 30 and July 31. After another year of no good air day in 2018, Delhi in 2019 recorded two good air days on August 18 and 19, official data reveal. This respite from severe air pollution will be short-lived and air quality will start getting worse under the impact of northwesterly winds from October 21, Soni said. The winds will blow from the northeast on Tuesday and Wednesday but will change to northwesterly from Thursday, when air quality will again deteriorate, Soni said. Easterly winds on Monday ensured the share of stubble fires in Delhi’s air was only 1%, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) of the ministry of earth science. The rains also kept local pollutants in check, it said. “Local land surfaces are wet and so dust re-suspension is minimum; this is also keeping the PM 10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres) levels low. The presence of western disturbance has led to scattered rainfall over north India, leading to low biomass burning. This condition improved the AQI with low PM 2.5 (particulate matter with a diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels. Fire counts reduced to 170 and its share was only 1%,” Safar’s air quality analysis read. “Moist surfaces inhibit re-suspension of dust, which will keep the AQI in ‘good’ range for the next 24 hours and after that it will degrade to the ‘satisfactory’ category,” the analysis predicted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/and-the-air-in-delhi-was-good-after-413-days-101634582553588.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Pakhowal Road ROB, RUBs project: Ludhiana MC chief directs officials to expedite work||With the project to establish a railway overbridge (ROB) and two railway under bridges (RUB) at the Pakhowal Road railway crossing missing its deadline, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a field visit to inspect the ongoing works on Monday. He directed MC and railway officials to expedite the construction.Initiated in December last year, the authorities had initially set August 31 as the deadline for the ₹120-crore project. Now, they have stated that it will be completed by December 31.Earlier, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu had assured that the RUB from Pakhowal Road towards Sarabha Nagar will be completed by August 31. The deadline was then pushed to Diwali and it has now been delayed again.An official, requesting anonymity, stated that the deadline may be further extended to February as it is difficult to complete the work by December.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal stated that the railway department had delayed their part of the work in the past and the project is now moving fast. “The officials have been directed to further expedite the construction work and it is expected to be completed by December 31. I am monitoring the daily progress and fields inspections are also conducted frequently,” said Sabharwal.Under the project, the ROB is being constructed to facilitate movement of traffic from the Pakhowal Road canal bridge towards the Hero Bakery Chowk. While one RUB is being constructed from the Pakhowal Road canal bridge up to the Leisure Valley in Sarabha Nagar, the other RUB is being constructed from Hero Bakery Chowk up to the Pakhowal Road canal bridge.Commuters left a harried lotWith the stretch from Hero Bakery Chowk to Pakhowal Road canal bridge closed for traffic, commuters have been facing a harrowing time. Those going towards Pakhowal Road from Hero Bakery Chowk have to take a detour through Model Town Extension to reach their destination.Traffic jams at Shastri Nagar railway crossing and near Krishna Mandir in Model Town Extension have added to their woes and the pathetic condition of Ishmeet Singh Road near Pakhowal Road canal bridge has further worsened the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pakhowal-road-rob-rubs-project-ludhiana-mc-chief-directs-officials-to-expedite-work-101634582433755.html
19-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhdev Thapar’s ancestral home: Ludhiana MC team starts preparing estimates for sewer, road infra upgrade at site||Facing flak over the delay in starting the beautification of the area outside the ancestral house of martyr Sukhdev Thapar in Naughara Mohalla near Chaura Bazar, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal conducted a meeting with the members of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust to discuss the project on Monday. Following this, a team of MC officials from the building branch, bridges and roads (B and R) department and operations and maintenance (O and M) cell visited the spot to initiate the process to prepare estimates for upgradation of the sewer and road infrastructure outside the house.Members of the memorial trust, including the kin of the martyr Sukhdev, have been demanding renovation of the house and the area outside for a long time. In 2018, former chief minister Captain Amarider Singh announced ₹1 crore for the work, but nothing has been done at the ground level as of now. Recently, the trust had commenced repair of the porch area outside the house.It has been learnt that the members have now approached the CM’s office and senior officials in the local bodies department, following which the local authorities have initiated the process. President of the trust, Ashok Thapar, said the house also needs renovation as the walls have weakened with passage of time and the surrounding area is in shambles. But, the house falls under the jurisdiction of the archaeological department. “We have demanded that the MC at least beautify the area outside the house and we appreciate that the work has started now. We have also been pressing for a direct approach to the house from the Chaura Bazar area. But, the authorities are delaying the process, even after the funds have been allocated for acquiring a piece of land for it. Waterlogging and lack of cleanliness are among other problems being faced at ground level,” said Thapar.Meanwhile MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal stated ₹50 lakh have been received from the state government for beautification of the area around the house. As per the demands of the trust, which includes upgrading the sewer lines and construction of road, estimates are being prepared and a team of MC officials also visited the area for the same on Monday. The project to provide a direct approach to the house is being handled by the SDM’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhdev-thapar-s-ancestral-home-ludhiana-mc-team-starts-preparing-estimates-for-sewer-road-infra-upgrade-at-site-101634582258654.html
19-10-2021||Lucknow||Narendra Giri death: CBI plea for polygraph test of three accused rejected||The court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) here on Monday rejected the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) application filed on October 12 seeking permission to conduct a polygraph (lie detector) test on Anand Giri, Aadhya Prasad Tiwari and his son Sandeep Tiwari—the three accused in the alleged suicide case of Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) president Narendra Giri—as the accused did not give their consent for the test. However, chief judicial magistrate, Prayagraj, Harendra Nath, on the request of the CBI, extended judicial custody of the three accused till October 30 which is the next date of hearing in the case.On Monday, all the accused appeared before the court from jail through videoconferencing and refused to give their consent for the polygraph test alleging that the CBI had filed the application only to harass them.The CBI, in its application, had requested the CJM court to pass an order for carrying out a polygraph test on Anand Giri, Aadhya Prasad Tiwari and his son Sandeep Tiwari, who are in jail for allegedly abetting the suicide of Mahant Narendra Giri. Giri’s body was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room in Baghambari Gaddi Math in Prayagraj on September 20. A purported suicide by the chief priest of Bade Hanuman Temple named his disciple Anand Giri, Bade Hanuman Temple priest Aadhya Prasad Tiwari and his son Sandeep of harassing him. All three were arrested in connection with the case.Later, an FIR was lodged against Anand Giri and two others under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) with Georgetown police station here. The state government first set up a special investigative team to probe the case. On September 22, the government recommended a CBI probe into the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/narendra-giri-death-cbi-plea-for-polygraph-test-of-three-accused-rejected-101634581952799.html
19-10-2021||Pune||Civic activists question PMC nod to riverfront development project||PUNE: Civic activists on Monday raised concerns over the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) hurriedly giving its nod to the riverfront development project without a detailed study of the same. They pointed out that the irrigation department and Central Water and Power Resource Station (CWPRS) had not given their approval to the project.Civic activists Sarang Yadwadkar, Vijay Kumbhar and Vivek Velankar held a press conference and raised various questions about the project. “We have been asking various questions to the PMC for the last few months but neither the PMC nor the consultant have addressed them. We are surprised how the elected members have given the project their nod without studying it!” Yadwadkar said.“The irrigation department had clearly said that the PMC does not have the right to change the flood lines. However, the PMC is changing the flood lines and thereby creating land in the river. They are even planning to sell the government-owned 180 acre land around the river,” Yadwadkar said.Velankar said, “Whenever we raise questions, PMC officials say they don’t have any idea and ask us to check with the consultant instead. The PMC is answerable to the citizens not the consultant. It is the PMC’s responsibility to check the detailed project report (DPR) and address the citizens.”Kumbhar said, “If this project is executed, the city will face the problem of flooding. But political parties are not concerned about floods. They just want their share of the project/cost. Citizens should think about electing such leaders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-activists-question-pmc-nod-to-riverfront-development-project-101634581892743.html
19-10-2021||Other||Bihar bypolls: JD(U) inducts Tarapur veteran Shakuni Choudhary’s son to clinch seat||PATNABihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) on Tuesday inducted a son of a veteran politician who holds considerable sway over Tarapur assembly constituency, where bypoll is scheduled for October 30.Rohit Chaudhary, whose brother Samrat is with the BJP and a minister, showered praises on the chief minister, JD(U)’s de facto leader, after joining the party at its state headquarters here.The move is, however, seen as an attempt at “damage control” by assuaging the Chaudhary brothers’ father Shakuni Chaudhary, who had represented Tarapur a record seven times. Despite having announced retirement from active politics, he remains popular in the area.Chaudhary has represented the seat as an Independent as well as on tickets of the Congress, Samata Party and its later avatar the JD(U), besides the Rashtriya Janata Dal founded and headed by Kumar’s arch rival Lalu Prasad.During the state elections last year, Chaudhary is said to have lobbied hard with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to ensure that one of his sons was fielded from Tarapur. However, as per National Democratic Alliance formula, the seat went to JD(U), which fielded sitting MLA Mewa Lal Chaudhary, who had, notably, wrested the seat from Shakuni Chaudhary himself in 2015.Mewa Lal retained the seat but died of Covid-19 earlier this year. The party has now fielded Rajiv Kumar Singh, who belongs to the same Koeri caste as the Chaudharys (Shakuni and Mewa Lal). The assembly segment has a predominance of Yadavs and Koeris and all MLAs here so far have been from either community.The ruling JD(U) had won the seat last year by defeating the RJD candidate by a margin of around 7,000 seats. This time, the party is pitted against RJD’s Arun Kumar and Rajesh Mishra of the Congress.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-bypolls-jd-u-eyes-tarapur-veteran-shakuni-choudhary-to-clinch-seat-101634572175384.html
19-10-2021||Other||Gold, designer necklace worth ₹24 lakh seized from ex-BJD MLA’s house: Official||More than four months after he was released from jail in Tata Motors job fraud case, Gopalpur MLA and former Biju Janata Dal (BJD) minister Pradeep Kumar Panigrahy is facing heat again from the state agencies. Odisha vigilance officials on Monday said they seized around 1440 grams of gold and a designer necklace worth ₹24.25 lakh from his house.“During the course of searches, 1440 gm of gold and a Sabyasachi Mukherjee brand designer necklace worth ₹24.25 lakh were found in the house of Pradeep Kumar Panigrahy. Steps are being taken for their attachment. The bank accounts of Panigrahy and his family members would be blocked,” said a senior official of the vigilance department.On Sunday, Odisha vigilance officials carried out searches at several premises of Panigrahy over allegations of him possessing assets worth ₹5.05 crore which was disproportionate to his known sources of income.Vigilance officials said following allegations of possession of disproportionate assets by Panigrahy, a secret verification was conducted which revealed that the former BJD minister amassed disproportionate assets between May 2009 and November 2020. The vigilance department registered a case against Panigrahy on October 4 in this regard.The 56-year-old MLA, once considered to be the blue-eyed-boy of chief minister Naveen Patnaik, was arrested in December last year by the Odisha Crime Investigation Department (CID) over allegations of having collected money from youths in Ganjam district on behalf of his prospective son-in-law Akash Pathak, son of former IFS officer Abhay Pathak, with the false promise of providing jobs in Tata Motors.He was then slapped with six more cases in different police stations and continued to be in jail till the Orissa High Court in June granted him bail. However, Akash Pathak continues to be in jail as he is yet to get bail in a case of cheating lodged by the CID. Pathak’s father and former Indian Forest Service officer Abhay Pathak was released from jail in Bhubaneswar in July this year.Till last December, Panigrahy was considered the first among equals in the regional party and one of the very few with direct access to chief minister Naveen Patnaik. In 2004, Patnaik asked him to oversee his assembly constituency Hinjili in Ganjam district for nearly a decade. He was then given a BJD ticket in 2009 from the seaside Gopalpur constituency from where he won on a trot three times.In 2014, Patnaik made him minister of three departments, including rural development, higher education and science and technology. He was dropped from the cabinet in 2017 but was still seen as powerful. He was appointed BJD’s Ganjam district president in 2015 despite the district having three senior cabinet ministers. In 2019, he was made responsible for 15 assembly constituencies of the undivided Ganjam district in recognition of his organisational skills.His troubles began soon after the 2019 polls when he was blamed for the party’s defeat in three of the 15 constituencies. He retained his own seat Gopalpur by a slim margin of 2,600 votes, the lowest margin in Ganjam district. There were allegations that he had sabotaged the BJD’s prospects in these constituencies. His access to the chief minister ended soon after.Last year, he ran out of favour when he wrote several letters to the chief minister demanding the Odisha government to bring back migrant workers from Gujarat during the Covid-19 lockdown. He then complained that the state government was ignoring local MLAs in the fight against Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gold-designer-necklace-worth-rs-24-lakh-seized-from-ex-bjd-mla-s-house-101634571033346.html
19-10-2021||Delhi||JEE Advanced topper among girls: Fortunate to get a rank for my dream college, IIT||New Delhi Sitting at her home in Delhi’s Rajouri Garden, Kavya Chopra, an IIT-JEE aspirant, anxiously refreshed the results of the JEE (Advanced) exam “every 10 seconds” this week, before the final big reveal. She has bagged the All India Rank 98, and has, at the same time, become the topper among girls appearing for the nationwide engineering entrance. The only girl in the top 100 this year, the 17-year-old happy topper looks back at her preparations and calls her worry “unwarranted”.“Stressful moments are all throughout. The last 15 days, after JEE (Advanced) got over, I had been a bundle of nerves because I was worried about the rank that I was going to get with these marks. Fortunately, I got a good enough rank to get into my dream college - IIT Delhi,” says Chopra, whose mother is a Maths teacher and father is a software engineer. A student of Delhi Public School, Vasant Kunj, she says she took online classes from Allen Career Institute. Earlier this year, she had scored a full score of 300 in the IIT-JEE Main exam.Congratulatory messages are pouring in from all corners, says Chopra. “Friends are congratulating me. Treat mangte hai! We’re all planning to go somewhere outside, once Covid subsides,” she says.The pandemic has been tough and schools have been operating online. However, this didn’t have a toll on her academics. “My teachers made sure there wasn’t a lot of difference between the online and offline mode of classes. I never felt the impact of the pandemic where my studies were concerned. Of course, my social life was affected. School was way more fun offline. My friends and I used to chat all the time, we used to play in the ground. Covid has restricted a lot of things.A science student, she scored 97.2% in her class XII exams. And Chopra says she couldn’t have done it without the support of her parents! Talking about the diet she maintained during this time, she shares, “I didn’t a have a say in that aspect. I didn’t have much of an opinion on that at all. Whenever I wanted to eat something outside the routine, I’d just ask them. If they felt it wasn’t too close to an exam, they’d get it for me.”However, Chopra admits that the pressure and cut throat competition is too much for people her age. “When I look at JEE , it’s just six hours of your day that will be determining the next four years of your life. Naturally, that’s the kind of pressure that can be challenging for someone our age to handle. But when you think about it, a lot of other people are going through that too, right? I’m not the only one. There are 10 lakh such people who went through engineering entrances. When you have that thought in your brain, that you’re not alone but it’s a collective thing, it kind of reduces of gravity of that (pressure). You’re able to focus more on the actual prep rather than the pressure,” she says.Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fortunate-to-get-a-good-enough-rank-for-my-dream-college-says-jee-advanced-girls-topper-kavya-chopra-101634554650211.html
