20-10-2021||Noida||2 held in Noida for snatching mobile phones||Two people, who allegedly snatched mobile phones and sold them to prospective buyers at cheap rates, were arrested in Noida on Wednesday. Police identified the suspects as Sachin Sharma (25), and Sunny Kumar (26) -- both residents of Khoda colony in Ghaziabad.Vinod Kumar, station house officer of Sector 58 police station, said police received information about the movement of suspects in Sector 60. “A police team reached the spot and found the two suspects riding a motorcycle. The police team stopped them for checking and found five stolen mobile phones and ₹700 cash with them,” said Kumar. According to police, the suspects revealed that they had stolen the motorcycle from Noida two months ago and fixed a doctored number plate on it. Kumar said during interrogation, the suspects revealed that they roamed around the city and snatched mobile phones, which they then sold for cheap to other people. “We have found at least five cases, where the suspects snatched the mobile phones,” he said. The suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-held-in-noida-for-snatching-mobile-phones-101634754503899.html
20-10-2021||Noida||Health camps, awareness drives for patients of respiratory diseases in Noida||Amid the rising air pollution in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district health department has appointed a nodal officer who has been tasked to hold health camps and awareness drives across the district and to maintain proper stock of medicines and medical equipment for people with lung diseases who are at a greater risk from air pollution.According to health officials, accredited social health activists (ASHAs) and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) workers have been instructed to carry out awareness drives in rural areas.“The health workers will inform and educate patients at risk of aggravating respiratory illnesses like bronchitis and asthma on precautions to be taken by them in order to avoid air worsening conditions. Besides, people will be advised to wear eye protecting glasses in order to avoid allergic conjunctivitis,”said Dr Amit Kumar, nodal officer appointed for the purpose by the district health department.The officials said that since people working in industrial sectors are exposed to more pollutants, the health department will also hold health camps in those areas.“The health camps will be organised in the industrial areas for those at the risk of respiratory issues due to high concentration of pollutants in the air. Besides, awareness campaigns will also be carried out to inform the workers about preventive measures to be taken in order to avoid any health issues due to pollutants,” said Dr Kumar.The officials will also carry out inspections at government hospitals and health centres in the district to ensure availability of medicines and medical equipment. “During the inspections, we will ensure medicines required for treatment of patients of respiratory illnesses and equipment such as inhalers and nebulisers are in sufficient quantity,” he said.Dr Sunil Kumar Sharma, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “The health department has been tasked to take curative measures in case pollution levels in the district increase and respiratory issues among patients are reported. These are precautionary steps and no such cases have been reported so far.”On Wednesday, the air quality of Noida dipped to the ‘poor’ category. According to data from the Central Pollution Control Board, the air quality index (AQI) reading for Noida on Wednesday was 240 (‘poor’) against 79 (‘satisfactory’) a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/health-camps-awareness-drives-for-patients-of-respiratory-diseases-in-noida-101634754442560.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Govt to get initial report of 7th Covid sero survey in Delhi on Monday||The preliminary results of the seventh round of the serological survey conducted in Delhi last month to estimate the population-level exposure to the Sars-CoV-2 virus (which causes Covid-19) are likely to be submitted to the state government on Monday, according to officials aware of the matter. “This round of the survey was conducted in great detail, so it will take some time to analyse the data. However, a preliminary report will be submitted on Monday. A more detailed report is likely to be submitted in early November, around Diwali,” said an official from Delhi’s health department who asked not to be named. Diwali this year will be celebrated on November 7.The complete report will also contain information about vaccine eagerness or hesitancy, which was among the “extensive list of questions” for which data was collected digitally during the survey, said the official. The government roped in three non-governmental organisations to help collect data during the survey. Sero surveys are blood tests that check for antibodies to a virus. They are a good measure of the exposure of a population to the pathogen. They are also a proxy for the level of broad immunity that exists in the population, although the best immunity is that achieved through vaccination.A portion of the samples collected will also be analysed for neutralising antibodies that specifically target the Sars-CoV-2 virus. This will help researchers correlate the level of IgG antibodies detected in semi-quantitative tests (which just show whether levels of an element are high or low) to the level of neutralising antibodies and thereby estimate the protection that a person has from the coronavirus disease. This will be the Delhi government’s first complete survey after the brutal fourth wave of infections, which saw the city add over 28,000 infections at its peak. The last round of the survey in Delhi in April was interrupted due to the emergence of the fourth wave. Just 13,000 samples were collected, instead of the 28,000 targetted. These samples, however, returned a reading of nearly 56%, which means 56 of every 100 residents of the Union territory were exposed to the virus. The previous five surveys returned readings of 56.13%, 25.5%, 25.1%, 29.1%, and 22.6% respectively.However, a study from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that collected data at the peak of the second wave showed a seropositivity of 67% in Delhi. Further, a sero survey among staff members in the Council of Science and Industrial Research in Delhi showed a seroprevalence of 80% after the second wave. IgG antibodies, which the survey tests for, are developed around 10 to 14 days after the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-to-get-initial-report-of-7th-covid-sero-survey-in-delhi-on-monday-101634754322586.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune city reports no new death, 116 more cases on Wednesday||Pune: On Wednesday, Pune city reported no new death due to the Covid-19 infection, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and state health department both reported zero death due to the infection. This is the first in the past eight months when the city has not reported any casualty due to the infection. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol tweeted, “There is no record of Covid-19 infected deaths in Pune today. While corona infection has been brought under control in Pune Municipal Corporation, now the death toll has also come under control. Today, not a single corona infected person has died in the municipal area. This is the first time we have received this relief since February 6, 2021.” As per the state health department reports issued on Wednesday, Pune district has reported 398 new Covid cases and one death due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.12 million have recovered, 19,903 deaths and 7,537 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 191 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 363,896 and the death toll stood at 6,863 as one more death was reported on the day. Pune city reported 116 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 519,933 and the death toll stood at 9,190 as no more deaths were reported on the day. PCMC reported 91 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 268,044 and the toll stood at 3,501 as no more deaths were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-city-reports-no-new-death-116-more-cases-on-wednesday-101634754262631.html
20-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Stretches of National Highway 9 turning into dumping sites, says NHAI||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has said that several stretches of the National Highway 9 (NH-9) are slowly turning into dumping sites, and blamed the Ghaziabad municipal corporation for the dumping activity. Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said that they will start levying a penalty against the corporation for open dumping of solid waste if the civic body fails to address the issue as the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) is in effect in the district. Officials from the NHAI said that they have sent written communications to the district officials and the municipal corporation for the dumping at different underpasses, service roads and side lanes of the highway. “During a meeting held on Monday, We have intimated the issue to the district officials. The corporation officials were also present in the meeting. The garbage dumps were found near Kala Patthar, Khoda, Behrampur, Bamheta, Rauhl Vihar, Bagu and Mehrauli, among other locations. It has come to our knowledge that corporation staff are indulged in such practices as they do not have sufficient landfill sites,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. Garg further said that the NHAI is also facing encroachment issues in the form of shops and unauthorised stands for auto-rickshaws and buses on the highway. “All the issues have been communicated to departments concerned. On our part, we have prepared dozens of flex boards to send out messages that there should be no garbage dumping, no encroachments and no unauthorised stops on the highway. The issues are prevailing in phase 2 of the corridor and the boards will soon be put up at 15 different locations,” Garg added. The 19.8km phase 2 of NH-9 (including the Delhi-Meerut Expressway) starts from UP Gate and extends up to Dasna. The Ghaziabad municipal corporation denied any dumping of solid waste at the stretches along the highway, but said that the issue could be related to the old garbage collection centres on the service lanes. “We have shut down the garbage processing sites near Raj Nagar Extension and also at Muradnagar. So, there is a gap in processing of about 500 metric tonnes of solid waste (out of an estimated 1,200 metric tonnes generated every day). At present, we are focussing on resolving the issues at the Galand landfill site and a boundary wall is being constructed there. We will take the solid waste there for processing,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. “As a result of the gap in processing, it may be possible that extra waste from the old garbage collection sites could have spread along the highway. We will get it cleaned up. As regards the garbage reported near Khoda, it is not our jurisdiction area,” Tanwar said. Meanwhile, the UPPCB officials said that they have clearly directed the agency to not dump garbage in open during the period when Grap is in effect. “Open dumping may result in fire incidents which will impact the air quality. We will start levying penalties against the corporation if it fails to check open dumping of waste in the city,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad.Ghaziabad traffic police officials said that they have taken up drives to remove encroachments. “We have earlier conducted anti-encroachment drives. We will conduct more drives and deal with squatters strictly,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-stretches-of-national-highway-9-turning-into-dumping-sites-says-nhai-101634754144122.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Over 900 sites in Delhi violating dust control norms, says CAQM||With an aim to control dust pollution in Delhi-NCR, the Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi and Adjoining Areas (CAQM) intensified action against construction sites, with state monitoring teams inspecting over 6,500 sites, of which over 900 were found to be violating dust control norms, the CAQM said in a statement on Wednesday. The commission said dedicated teams were deployed in Delhi-NCR states to inspect construction and demolition sites ahead of the peak pollution season in the region. The inspection report showed that surprise checks and inspections at 6,596 construction and demolition sites were carried out, of which 963 sites were found to be non-compliant with various construction and demolition (C&D) waste management rules and dust mitigation measures, as stipulated by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). “An amount of approximately ₹3.07 crore has been levied as environmental compensation charge on the defaulting agencies, besides orders for stoppage of work at 52 locations,” the commission said. The CAQM said between October 1 and October 15, 112 teams — 37 teams in Delhi, 30 in Haryana, 20 in Rajasthan, and 25 in eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh— were constituted and deployed to conduct on-field surprise checks of C&D sites alone. “During this period, 1,268 sites were inspected, of which around 1,017 C&D sites were in Delhi, 98 in Haryana, 89 in NCR districts of Rajasthan, and 64 sites were in the NCR area of Uttar Pradesh,” CAQM said. In Delhi, of the 1,017 C&D sites inspected, 712 were found complying with dust control measures while 305 sites were found flouting norms. All 98 C&D sites inspected in Haryana were found complying. Of the 89 C&D sites inspected in Rajasthan, 86 sites were found to be compliant, the commission said. Similarly, in the eight NCR districts of Uttar Pradesh, only five sites were not complying with the stipulated dust abatement measures while the remaining 59 were following all the prescribed norms, the commission said in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-900-sites-in-delhi-violating-dust-control-norms-says-caqm-101634754084235.html
20-10-2021||Noida||Air quality in Noida dips to ‘poor’ once again, rain likely on Oct 23||The air quality of the region nosedived from the satisfactory to the poor category on Wednesday. Weather forecasters predicted the city may receive rain in the next few days, that is likely to improve the AQI. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the AQI reading, on a scale of 0 to 500, for Noida on Wednesday was 240 against 79 a day earlier. Similarly, Ghaziabad’s AQI rose from 77 on Tuesday to 278 on Wednesday. The AQI of Greater Noida was 260 against 278 the previous day. An air quality index (AQI) reading between 101 and 200 is considered moderate, between 201 and 300 is considered poor, between 301 and 400 is considered very poor, and above 400 is considered severe.According to private weather forecasting centre Skymet, the region may soon see a light spell of rainfall. “A strong western disturbance is approaching, which may lead to heavy snowfall on the hills and rains in northern regions including Haryana, Punjab and North Rajasthan. This may also lead to rains in Delhi -NCR on October 23 and 24, that may change the direction of the wind and lead to a drop in temperatures,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum and minimum temperature for Noida on Wednesday was 31.1 degrees Celsius while the minimum could not be recorded, against 30.1°C and 20.5°C a day earlier. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the biomass burning has increased and the air quality may drop if there are no rains. “Fire count is 746 and its share in PM2.5 is 12%. Fire emission from upwind region enhances PM2.5 concentration as winds are from the northwest region. Stubble burning share is likely to increase in next two days if there is no rain. The overall AQI is likely to further degrade in the next three days,” said a statement issued by SAFAR on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-in-noida-dips-to-poor-once-again-rain-likely-on-oct-23-101634754083036.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||UPPCL announces interest-waiver scheme for consumers||The UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) on Wednesday announced a one-time settlement scheme (OTS) seeking to waive off surcharge (interest) payable on electricity dues, provided consumers clear their arrears at one go.The scheme, according to energy minister Shrikant Sharma, will be applicable to farmers, domestic and commercial consumers and they can avail of the same between October 21 and November 30. “The scheme takes care of the interests of farmers and small domestic and commercial consumers,” he said.Under the domestic and commercial consumers using load up to 2 kw and farmers using tube well connection of any load will have the benefit of 100% waiver of surcharge on their bills with domestic consumers having additional facility of paying their dues in six instalments.“The interest waiver in case of commercial and domestic consumers using loads more than 2 kw and maximum up to 5 kw will be 50%,” the minister said. “Under this scheme, cases pertaining to permanent disconnections and cases pending in various courts will also be entertained and disposed of,” he said.Meanwhile, UPPCL chairman M Devraj has asked officials to make wide publicity of the OTS and also organise special camps so that the maximum number of consumers can benefit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppcl-announces-interest-waiver-scheme-for-consumers-101634754022571.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Amid stubble trouble, MC’s own staff add to pollution by burning garbage||Amid rising concern over deteriorating air quality due to stubble burning, the illegal practice of burning dry leaves and organic waste is further adding to the pollution in the city even as the municipal corporation (MC) continues to remain in deep slumber.Apart from streets and roadsides, the illegal practice is also being witnessed in MC’s own parks and secondary dumping points where one can even sight plastic waste being burned, in violation of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directions. The practice has also caused fire mishaps at several places, including the main dump site on Tajpur road.Residents have also been repeated raising the issue. Honey, a resident of Model Town Extension, says, “MC’s own sweepers can often be seen collecting the waste to one side of the road and setting it on fire. The practice leads to respiratory problems for residents. We have repeatedly asked the sweepers to stop the illegal practice and have also complained to their supervisors but to no avail.”As per the directions of the NGT and solid waste bylaws notified by the local bodies department, a fine ranging from ₹5,000 to ₹25,000 can be imposed on violators, depending on the amount of garbage/waste burned.Darshan Singh, another resident of Haibowal, said, “MC should also keep a check on burning of garbage on vacant plots. Garbage piles up on vacant plots as the owners don’t bother to clean it up and neighbours continue to dump waste in such places. After some time, the waste is burned which adds to the pollution.”MC health officer Dr Vipal Malhotra said directions have already been issued to the field staff to not burn waste, otherwise action will be taken against them. “No recent complaint has been received by the department in this regard, but regular checking is done to stop the practice,” said Malhotra.Despite repeated attempts, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) chief engineer, Ludhiana, Gulshan Rai, was not available for comments.Body of engineers seeks imposition of penalty on MCThe council of engineers has also written to the chief secretary and principal secretary of the local bodies department to initiate action against erring MC officials. Citing incidents of burning of organic waste and garbage in the green belt near BRS Nagar, Canal Bridge and Subhash Nagar on Tuesday, the engineers’ body demanded that penalties should also be imposed on MC staff concerned.President Kapil Arora said, “MC staff is also involved in the illegal practice. If penalties can be imposed on residents, strict action should also be taken against officials. Burning garbage in the open causes severe damage to the environment while also troubling residents in nearby localities. Aged people and children are the most affected due to the smoke, as it leads to skin and respiratory problems.”“It has been categorically laid down by the Supreme Court that a clean environment is the fundamental right of citizens under Article 21 and it is the duty of the local bodies as well as the state to ensure that public health is preserved at all costs,” said Arora while adding that they will move the National Green Tribunal if authorities fail to take corrective steps in 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-amid-stubble-trouble-mc-s-own-staff-add-to-pollution-by-burning-garbage-101634753782490.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: His life with boxes||It’s six in the evening. He’s making boxes. He has been making boxes since 10 in the morning. In fact, he has been making boxes for 40 years. This 50-year-old man must be fed up of making boxes almost all his life.Jamal Khan laughs, bobbing his head up and down. He is sitting cross-legged on the floor in one corner of a little qabristan, or graveyard, tucked within Old Delhi’s appropriately named Mohalla Qabristan. He is surrounded by dozens of boxes he has made since the day began. “These aren’t of wood but of MDF,” he points out. The Diwali festival is approaching, he explains, saying that this is the busiest time of the year for him. “Most people exchange gifts on Diwali and they need the gift boxes.” The rest of the year remains sluggish “but somebody or the other is always in need of boxes.”Mr Khan inherited the profession from his late father, who arrived a lifetime ago in the Walled City from Allahabad in UP. “We first lived in Skakur ki Dandi, then we moved to Turkman Gate, and now I live with my wife and sons in Sheesh Mahal, behind Delite Cinema, which is 10 minutes walk away from here.” Mr Khan began assisting his father in box-making when he was just 10. “May be that’s the reason I don’t get fed up of my work. I never went to school, I never realised there could be other options in life, so I never felt discontented.”He is happy to report that he can’t say the same for his children. The sons are in school and most probably they won’t take up his work, he feels. “They will do what they will want to do,” observes Mr Khan as he concentratedly applies a coating of liquid gum on the surface of a box-in-progress. “When a supplier gives an order for big boxes, I end up making around 50 daily.” Today, the boxes he is making are relatively small and he has rustled out 150.As the twilight sky darkens further, Mr Khan gets up, turns on a lamp, and patiently sits down again. Preparing to give the finishing touch to a box, he suddenly raises his head as if struck by a novel argument. “But I can never be fed up of making boxes. This work has supported my family all these years, and the earnings help me educate my sons.”He now poses for a portrait, declaring he will leave for home some three hours later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-his-life-with-boxes-101634753642430.html
20-10-2021||Other||Work on electricity line to Noida airport at Jewar completed||The state power utility has completed the work of laying the electricity line required to provide adequate power supply for the development of the Noida International Airport at Jewar.“We have completed the work of laying the electricity line so that the power supply meets the demand of the Yamuna International Airport Private Limited, which has started work on the boundary wall. They have 11 kilovolt and 33 kilovolt supply lines to draw the requisite amount of power necessary to carry out the development work,” said Punit Gupta, executive engineer of the Uttar Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Limited, Gautam Budh Nagar district.The UPPTCL has completed laying a 7km line that connects the power sub-station in Sector 32 to the site along the Jewar-Bulandshahr road, where the airport is being developed. Officials said the airport authority needs power for boundary wall work, levelling and digging related work.Officials said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath are likely to lay the foundation stone of the Noida International Airport, which is slated to become operational by 2024, anytime next month. The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) has taken adequate steps to build required infrastructure, such as roads, electricity lines, drainage and others facilities around the airport site. “One 220/330 kV sub-station in Sector 32 is completed and work on one more is underway. Adequate power sub-stations and electricity line will be laid well in advance for operations to begin at the airport,” said Arun Vir Singh, CEO of the YEIDA and Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL).In 2018, Adityanath had directed the YEIDA, NIAL and UPPTCL to provide adequate infrastructure so that work at the airport is completed within deadline. “We had provided the land; later the UPPTCL set the alignment of the electricity line,” said Mahram Singh, officer on special duty, YEIDA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-on-electricity-line-to-noida-airport-at-jewar-completed-101634753542759.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Jeweller’s son foils robbery bid by snatching weapon||Emboldened by a few successful snatchings, a gang of three persons attempted to rob a jewellery store in Indrapuri area on Monday night, only to be overpowered by the store owner’s son, forcing them to flee the spot. Two of them later landed in the police net after being captured on closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the store.The accused have been identified as Mohammed Rizwan and Mohammed Sameer of Moradabad, and Himanshu from Hoshiarpur. The trio was living in a rented accommodation in Daba area.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, rural) Sachin Gupta said, “While Mohammed Rizwan and Himanshu have been arrested, efforts are on to arrest the third accused Mohammed Sameer.”How the crime panned outDuring preliminary interrogation, one of the accused stated that they had committed a few snatchings in and around the area which boosted their confidence and they decided to commit a robbery. They reportedly told the police that before committing the robbery, they carried out a recce of the jewellery store and found that the store owner, Kulvinder Singh, used to stay till the closing of the shop while his son, Avtar Singh, used to leave early.But the trio’s plans went haywire as on Tuesday, instead of Kulwinder, his son waited in the store till late night.Avtar Singh, in his statement, said that on Tuesday evening as he was sitting in the store, three persons arrived on a bike. All three had covered their face with a mask and were wearing surgical gloves. One of the accused, who was wearing a red shirt, pulled out a country-made weapon and pointed at him. However, Avatar acted swiftly and managed to snatch the weapon. The panic-stricken robbers fled the jewellery store, leaving their bike behind. Following this, Avatar informed the police. The entire incident was caught on CCTV cameras installed in the shop.The cops identified the trio with the help of CCTV footage and managed to nab them while they were planning to flee the city. Police is also probing whether the motorcycle used in crime was stolen. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Davinder Choudhary said the weapon used in the crime was procured from Moradabad. JCP Gupta said the case was cracked within 24 hours of the crime. He added police are trying to find if the accused have any criminal background in their native places.Armed men rob goldsmith on Hambran roadIn another late evening crime, three armed men robbed a goldsmith on Hambra Road. PAU police found CCTV footage in which the three suspects were seen riding a motorbike.Sharing details, PAU station house officer Jaskanwal Singh said the goldsmith had not installed CCTV cameras inside or outside the shop. “However, we have managed to collect CCTV images from nearby shops. The footage clearly showed two accused—one of them turbaned – entering the shop while their third accomplice waited outside,” said the SHO. The goldsmith, Kiran Verma, said two young men with their face covered entered his shop while their third accomplice waited outside on a black-coloured motorcycle. Soon after entering the shop, one of the assailants pulled out a weapon while his accomplice began collecting gold ornaments and cash. Verma added that in no time, the trio fled the scene. He said he is yet to assess the loss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-jeweller-s-son-foils-robbery-bid-by-snatching-weapon-101634753425291.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||UP lawyers boycott work over Shahjahanpur peer’s killing||Lawyers of Lucknow high court, district court and courts all across Uttar Pradesh boycotted work on Wednesday in protest against the killing of a lawyer in the Shahjahanpur district court. They demanded implementation of the Advocates Protection Act to ensure their safety.Rakesh Chaudhary, president, Awadh Bar Association, Lucknow high court, urged the state government to ensure security on all court premises across the state, on lines of the high court. The Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh had given a work boycott call in protest against the killing of lawyer Bhupendra Singh inside the court room of Additional District Judge, Shahjahanpur, on October 18. In response to the boycott call, lawyers of Lucknow high court, district court and all tribunals boycotted work. “There was a complete work boycott. We have demanded from the state government to implement the Advocates Protection Act to ensure protection of the legal fraternity,” said Sunil Dwivedi, president, Central Bar Association, district court, Lucknow. Dwivedi also demanded that security checks on the court premises be beefed up. “At all entry points in the district court proper checking must be carried out. Entry of unwarranted elements on the court campus must be stopped at any cost,” he added. ‘DFMD a showpiece at dist court’ The Door Frame Metal Detector (DFMD) installed at the entrance of the Lucknow district court (gate number three) is just a showpiece, lawyers said. “Police personnel deployed at gate number three at district court never check anyone. After the Shahjahanpur incident, there will be checking for a few days. Once the issue subsides, security personnel will again become careless,” said Rohit Kant, lawyer, district court. Whither UPSSF? The proposal to constitute the Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPSSF), a dedicated unit for security at district courts across the state, continues to hang fire. This proposal, passed after the sensational killing of a double-murder accused in a courtroom in Bijnor district, before the chief judicial magistrate, on December 17, 2019, continues to remain on paper. June 12, 2019 - Murder of first woman president of UP Bar Council, Darvesh Yadav, took place inside the district court campus, Agra. Feb 28, 2019 - Advocate Jagnarayan Yadav, 63, was shot dead inside the district court campus, Basti. Feb 13, 2020 - Two groups of lawyers clashed on the court campus in Lucknow. In the incident, one group used crude bombs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-lawyers-boycott-work-over-shahjahanpur-peer-s-killing-101634753423795.html
20-10-2021||Noida||Three persons arrested for raising ‘Pakistan zindabad’ slogans in Noida||Three persons were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raising “Pakistan zindabad” slogans during a religious procession in Noida’s Sector 8 on Tuesday night, on the occasion of Eid-e-Milad-un-Nabi, Prophet Muhammad’s birth anniversary. The arrests came after a video clip of the procession, in which people could be heard raising pro-Pakistan slogans, surfaced on social media on Wednesday, the Gautam Budh Nagar police said.Police identified the arrested suspects as Mohammad Zafar, Sameer Ali and Ali Raza, all residents of Sector 8. According to the police, they launched a probe after a purported 13-second video of the procession was widely shared on social media, in which a few people could be seen and heard raising pro-Pakistan slogans. The video clip also purportedly showed a group of people holding aloft some flags, including the tricolour, and marching with the rest of the crowd. Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, said the incident took place in Noida’s Sector 8. “In the video, a few people can be seen and heard chanting both ”Hindustan zindabad” and ”Pakistan zindabad”,” the DCP said. Soon after the clip surfaced, members of a few right-wing organisations on Wednesday protested at the Sector 20 police station demanding action against the people who took part in the procession. Uma Nandan Kaushik, zonal head, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Noida, said, “Some people raised “Pakistan Zindabad” slogans during the procession. There were also some sensible people in the procession who stopped the group from raising this slogan. Someone captured the incident on mobile phone and shared the video with us. We then informed the police and demanded action against them,” he said. Mufti Mohammad Rashid Qasmi, imam of Jama Masjid in Noida’s Sector 8, said the procession had no connection with the mosque or its organising committee. “We were not part of the procession. We came to know that some people had organised the procession, which also had the permission of the police and the district administration. We do not know what happened in the procession,” he said. The police said the organisers had permission from them to take out the procession. “We took suo motu cognisance of the viral video and registered a case under Section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence) at the Sector 20 police station. We have sent the video to an expert team for further investigation, although, prima facie, it appears that the video is genuine. We scanned the video and arrested three persons for their alleged involvement in the sloganeering,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-persons-arrested-for-raising-pakistan-zindabad-slogans-in-noida-101634753422573.html
20-10-2021||Noida||No offline classes for Gautam Buddha University’s first year students for now||With offline classes set to begin from Monday, officials of the Gautam Buddha University (GBU) have exempted first-year students from attending in-person classes as the number of students who have taken admission to its various undergraduate and post graduate courses for the academic session 2021-22 has exceeded the carrying capacity of the varsity . As per the Uttar Pradesh Gautam Buddha University Act of 2002, all registered students of the university have to mandatorily reside within the campus, said officials. “GBU is a residential university and therefore, all registered students have to be accommodated in the university’s hostels. After the Covid-19 outbreak last year, students were allowed to attend online classes from their homes,” said Dr Vishwas Tripathi, registrar of the university. Currently, the GBU has a capacity for 5,000 students at its 12 boys and six girls’ hostels. However, officials said, the strength of registered students at the university after admissions for the academic session 2021-22 will increase to approximately 6,500. The university will not have space to accommodate around 1,500 registered students. So far, around 1,000 students have taken admission for the 2021-22 academic session. “The university has introduced a number of new courses this year, such as MTech in Artificial Intelligence, MTech in railway signalling and some new certification courses, due to which admissions have increased here,” said Tripathi.From October 25, the university expects to welcome at least 3,500 students for offline classes as admissions for some courses will continue till October 30. “Officials are contemplating solutions to accommodate the extra number of registered students. In the meantime, first year students as well as international students have been exempted from offline classes. We will be welcoming other students from Monday,” said Tripathi.He added that either the university will have to construct a new hostel building or will have to make changes in the GBU Act to allow registered students to find accommodation elsewhere.“We will have to find a solution for all the registered students of the varsity to come for their offline classes. In the meantime, the hostels are ready for around 3,500 students who will take in-person lessons from Monday,” said Tripathi adding that the final decision will be taken in the academic council meeting of the university chaired by the vice-chancellor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-offline-classes-for-gautam-buddha-university-s-first-year-students-for-now-101634753364405.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||After row, Delhi Development Authority defends plan for eco-tourism at Sanjay Van||Following criticism from environmentalists and citizen groups, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has clarified that its proposal to develop an eco-tourism project at Sanjay Van is aimed at creating awareness and providing recreational facilities to people living near it.The DDA recently invited expression of interest (EOI) from companies to develop Sanjay Van in south Delhi, the 783-acre green lung of the national capital, as an ecotourism destination, with facilities for activities such as rock climbing, aerial trails (canopy tour or ziplines), forest safari, cycling, picnic and camping spots, among others.“Sanjay Van, an integral part of South Central Ridge, attracts tonnes of visitors for daily leisure activities. DDA’s current proposal of introducing activities related to nature based eco-tourism aims to create environmental awareness and recreation amidst a natural setting in an eco-friendly manner using locally available resources. The activities proposed, like rock climbing, forest leisure cycling, camping, star gazing activities, guided nature tour etc have been included keeping their nature of application and natural context,” read the statement by DDA.DDA official said that the purpose of EOI is to “encourage community participation to sensitise the public towards environmental awareness via knowledge dissemination through nature walks, educational tours etc”.The project will be developed on a public-private partnership, and a private concessionaire will have to develop and operate the proposed facilities, said a DDA official.The land-owning agency said that under the PPP model, the concessionaire will also ensure development, operations and maintenance, said a senior official.“The idea is to allow more and more users from different age groups to visit and appreciate this gem in the heart of the city. After careful site analysis, designated zones for each of the activity will be earmarked in areas already open to public with minimal or no intervention in the existing habitats. The intention is not to create a tourist spot in a natural forest but to give the opportunity to the public to feel connected with such natural heritage available in the domain of the urban fabric of the city of Delhi,” said a DDA official.DDA officials said they are not planning any major constructions in the area, since it is part of the Ridge, which is a reserved forest area where all non-forest activities are curtailed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-row-delhi-development-authority-defends-plan-for-eco-tourism-at-sanjay-van-101634753362463.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC orders govt to open ration shop in outer Delhi’s Baprola||The Delhi high court asked the Delhi government to open a fair price shop (FPS) in the vicinity of a residential complex at Baprola for the convenience of residents.“It is in the interest of the state to ensure that citizens do not have to chart their ways through difficult areas simply to get foodgrains at subsided prices,” justice Najmi Waziri said in an order dated October 12.The court was hearing a contempt plea by a petitioner who had moved court against the Delhi government’s non-compliance with a 2019 order, wherein the court asked the Delhi government to examine the feasibility of setting up the FPS in the vicinity of Rajiv Ratan Awas Yojana, Phase-2, Baprola.The petitioner contended that the FPS that served them was approximately 2.5km away from the residential area, and women had to walk through deserted stretches and forest areas simply to fetch ration.The Delhi government counsel told the court since there are only 320 ration card-holders in Rajiv Ratan Awas Yojana, Phase-2, Baprola, it may not be feasible for an FPS licensee to operate an FPS in the area.Ordinarily, each FPS caters to about 1,000 ration card-holders in an area, the counsel said.The petitioner’s counsel said that relaxation in guidelines for opening a new Public Distribution System (PDS) outlet can be considered in the case of Jhuggi Jhopdi (JJ) clusters and other areas inhabited by poorer sections of the society.The counsel added that over 800 families, mostly from the economically weaker section, are seeking an FPS in Rajiv Ratan Awas Yojana, Phase-2, Baprola.Noting the special facts and circumstances, the court said, “..it is appropriate that Delhi government open an FPS in the aforesaid place or in the immediate vicinity, as indicated hereinabove so that the poorest of the poor are served well by the state”.The matter will now be heard on December 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-orders-govt-to-open-ration-shop-in-outer-delhi-s-baprola-101634753064503.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||SDMC pulled up for asking cops to help clear encroachment in Delhi’s Rajouri Garden||The Delhi high court pulled up the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) for seeking police assistance to clear a religious encroachment (a gurdwara) allegedly being constructed in a Delhi Development Authority (DDA) residential complex at Rajouri Garden. It also fined the corporation ₹25,000 and said the civic body could either pay the fine or plant 200 tree saplings.Justice Najmi Waziri said that before seeking police assistance, the civic body should explain how the encroachment was permitted to come up in the first place.In an order dated September 29, justice Najmi Waziri, said that the “so-called inability of the municipal corporation (SDMC) to remove the encroachments because of lack of police assistance inevitably perpetuates an illegality, which [has come] up under the corporation’s own watch”.During a hearing on January 11, the counsel for DDA said the land-owning agency did not have any role in this situation as the maintenance of the residential complex had been handed over to SDMC.during a hearing on April 12, the counsel for SDMC told the court that the corporation had stopped the construction in January 2021, and scheduled its demolition in February but due to the non-availability of the requisite police force, the exercise was not carried out. He submitted that the demolition was rescheduled for April 16, 2021, following which the court asked the counsel to file a compliance affidavit before August 23, the next date of the hearing.However, on August 23, neither the counsel for DDA nor SDMC appeared in court.On September 29, the court noted that the compliance affidavit was not on record either.“The court would also note that none appeared for the SDMC or DDA on August 23, 2021,” the judge said.The court then fined the civic body to adjourn the case since the compliance affidavit was not on record. The judge also asked the corporation to fix responsibility for the lapse on the officer concerned.“The failure of the municipal corporation in discharging its statutory duties is ex facie causing immense public harassment and cannot be overlooked or condoned,” the court noted in its order.“For today’s adjournment, cost of ₹25,000 or supply of 200 trees, is imposed upon SDMC. Let the same be deposited with or supplied to the Deputy Conservator of Forests (South), GNCTD for plantation of trees along the NH-24 starting from Nizamuddin Bridge. The monies, if chosen to be deposited instead of the trees, shall be used for the purchase of trees from a government-owned nursery,” the order added.The court specified the type of trees that should be planted, adding that each tree must be two years old (minimum), its trunk must be six-foot-tall, it must bear a unique number tag, and its details must be entered in the Tree Census Register, indicating its approximate place of the plantation.The court asked the Delhi Conservator of Forest (DCF) and SDMC to file a compliance affidavit within four weeks with photographs of before and after the plantation.The court gave its order while hearing a plea by one Sourav Bose, who through his counsel Manu Nayar, contended that a religious organisation was constructing a gurdwara, adjacent to his property in the DDA residential housing colony, illegally.The plea said that the alleged construction of the gurdwara started in September last year within residential premises, which is a violation of the building bye-laws and the Master Plan.It also said that the illegal construction of the gurdwara on the ground floor in residential housing premises will attract innumerable visitors leading to residents’ safety and security being seriously jeopardised.“….it will be difficult to identify the visitors [who] will be moving in and out of the writ property, which will be a major security issue for the entire neighbourhood especially the petitioner residences as they are in close proximity to the writ property…,” the plea said.It contended that the peace and tranquillity of the entire area would be affected due to the songs and hymns that would be sung in the gurdwara.The matter will now be heard on December 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-pulled-up-for-asking-cops-to-help-clear-encroachment-in-delhi-s-rajouri-garden-101634753003708.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s street vendor survey extended by 2 more months, 71k identified in 1st phase||After several appeals and complaints by the street vendors’ associations and municipal councillors, the survey for identifying street vendors in the national capital has been extended by two more months and it will now end on December 7, 2021. The order issued by the Delhi government’s urban development department said many street vendors, who had gone to their home states during the Covid-19 lockdowns, are only now returning to the city weekly markets that had remained shut for a long time on account of the pandemic and have only recently started operating on a rotational basis. The Delhi government ordered the town vending committees to carry out the survey to identify all street vendors in the Capital in 2015, in line with the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014. The survey, which aims at identifying eligible street vendors and give them a legitimate status, began in January this year and concluded on September 30, 2021, and 71,371 vendors were identified in the exercise. The town vending committee is headed by the zonal deputy commissioner and has street vendors as its members. The National Association of Street Vendors (NASVI), however, argued that there are at least two lakh vendors in the city.The extension order issued by deputy director (local bodies) said hawkers and weekly market associations had submitted representations seeking an extension of the survey time period so as to identify more number of street vendors. “Two months additional time, from October 7 to December 7, 2021, has been granted to cover the areas which are either still not covered or partially covered,” the order issued separately on October 6 said.The urban development department has also raised the issue of publishing the details of the identified street vendors in the survey concluded on September 30. Of the 71,371 identified vendors, the local bodies have published the details of only 48,912 vendors. Richa Sinha, a spokesperson for NASVI, said that the association welcomes the extension of the survey period. “The survey process should be more dynamic in the extension period and it should include service providers like cobblers, cloth ironing persons etc., who were earlier left out. “The first part of survey also failed to capture the people carrying out street vending in deep pockets of residential neighbourhoods. The town vending committees should provide a window of time, after the conclusion of the survey in December, during which time vendors who have been left out can submit their applications,” she added. NASVI said the street vendors Act makes provision of vending space capacity with a proportion fixed at 2.5% of the city population, which puts the vending space capacity at around 5 lakh for Delhi.Many councillors have also alleged irregularities in the survey and the north corporation ordered a probe last week when abnormally high numbers of vendors were identified in Jahangir Puri ward.The north corporation has identified 5,912 vendors in City Sadar-Pahar Ganj zone, 4,018 in Karol Bagh, 2,861 in Civil Lines, 5,334 in Keshav Puram, 5,080 in Rohini, and 4,614 in Narela zone. Similarly, the south corporation has identified 8,140 street vendors in the central zone, 7,789 in south zone, 4,350 in west zone, and 3,672 in Najafgarh. The east corporation has found 10,039 vendors in Shahdara South zone and 9,604 in Shahdara North zone. Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal said the civic body will make all efforts to cover the remaining vendors during the extension period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-street-vendor-survey-extended-by-2-more-months-71k-identified-in-1st-phase-101634753002484.html
20-10-2021||Other||Punjab cabinet meeting in Ludhiana on October 27||Ludhiana Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his council of ministers will be meeting at the Bachat Bhawan in the Mini Secretariat on October 27. This will be their first meeting in Ludhiana. Sources said the meeting will be held in the morning, after which the ministers will move to Kingsvilla Resorts for the fourth edition of the ‘Progressive Punjab Investors Summit’. Channi, along with various cabinet ministers, would preside over the function that over 500 industrialists from Punjab and other parts of the country will attend. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cabinet-meeting-in-ludhiana-on-october-27-101634752822537.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||CBSE to allow class 10, 12 students to change exam centres if they have moved cities||New Delhi: In order to address concerns of candidates who switched cities during Covid-19 crisis, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday said it will soon allow students of classes 10 and 12 to change their examination centre by submitting an application to their respective schools.“It has come to the notice of the Board that some students are still not in the city of their school where they had taken admission and are residing somewhere else. In view of the above, at an appropriate time, CBSE will inform students to make a request to their respective schools to change the city of their examination centre. Schools will follow instructions given by CBSE to forward the request to CBSE in an online system,” Controller of Examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said in a notice on Wednesday.CBSE asked students to follow updates on the board’s website. “As soon as the students are informed in this regard, they can make the request to their school within schedule which will be of short duration,” Bhardwaj stated in the circular, adding that no such requests will be accepted beyond the schedule.Last year too, the board had announced similar provisions though it couldn’t be put to use as the theory papers were cancelled due to the surge in cases during the second wave.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, several families migrated back to their home towns and are yet to return due to lack of livelihood and other opportunities. Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of the Delhi government principals’ association, said there are several students in many Delhi government schools who are yet to return to the Capital.“In my school, we have a handful of students who are yet to return to the city. School officials paid their examination fee and we are now counselling them to return to Delhi so that the children can at least appear for their board exams. Most of these students are from families who lost their livelihood in Covid and went back to their villages,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cbse-to-allow-class-10-12-students-to-change-exam-centres-if-they-have-moved-cities-101634752702928.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Central Vista project: 160 entries for New India garden structure design||New Delhi: The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) has received 160 entries for the design of the “iconic” structure proposed at the New India garden which will be developed on the Yamuna riverfront as part of the Central Vista project. The CPWD has also initiated the process to finalise an agency for the plantation and landscape work at the garden.According to CPWD officials, the garden is planned to commemorate India’s 75th year of independence and will be ready by August 15 next year.The CPWD, which is executing the Central Vista project, relaunched the design competition in July — the competition was first launched in November last year — in a bid to get more ideas for the iconic structure, which will be 134m in height.Close to 600 firms from across the country had registered for the competition. A senior CPWD official said, “We have received 160 entries on our portal and offline. A time limit to finalise the design can’t be given (right now).”The CPWD has received most entries from Maharashtra (24), Karnataka and Tamil Nadu (21 each), followed by Delhi (16), Uttar Pradesh (15) and Gujarat (13).Located near the Purana Qila, the New India garden will be spread over 25 acres on the western bank of the river and have infotainment facilities, a “sphere of unity”, a walkway, an exhibit titled “Journey of India”, a “tech dome” and an open-air theatre. The “iconic structure” is planned to “realise the grand vision of Aatmanirbhar Bharat”, as per the design brief by CPWD.Meanwhile, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which is developing the Yamuna riverfront, is working on a plan to develop 90 hectares of area, opposite the New India Garden, on the eastern bank of Yamuna.DDA officials said that this is being done to ensure continuity in landscape work. “The land parcel is located right behind the Commonwealth Games village. As the area falls right opposite the New India Garden, we are planning to rope in the same agency which will be hired by CPWD for plantation to ensure continuity in design. We will soon finalise the agency,” said a senior DDA official.As the two land parcels are located on the banks of the river, environment activist Manoj Misra, convenor, Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said, “It is illegal to construct on the floodplain. There are two court orders, one by NGT and the other by the Delhi high court in 2005. The Delhi high court order clearly states that no construction is allowed within 300m from the edge of the water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/central-vista-project-160-entries-for-new-india-garden-structure-design-101634752522570.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||North MCD pushes for relaxed fire norms in Old Delhi schools||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation is pushing for relaxation in fire safety norms for special areas, especially in Old Delhi and Walled City, pointing out that the stringent norms with regard to road width will lead to closure of a large number of schools in these areas as they are located in narrow lanes and alleyways. Delhi Fire Services grants NOCs to only those schools located on roads wider than six metres -- a condition that is difficult to fulfil for many old Delhi establishments that are located in congested areas. The standing committee of the civic body has unanimously cleared a proposal asking the Directorate of Education and Delhi Fire Services to frame separate fire safety norms for special areas by keeping in mind local ground realities. The standing committee has also directed the municipal commissioner to not take action against schools until the new fire safety guidelines are framed for the Walled City.Chhail Bihari Goswami, the leader of the House, said that there are relaxations in terms of road and staircase width for guest houses in “special areas”, but similar rules do not apply to schools. “Special areas” comprise Old Delhi, Paharganj, Shahjahanabad and Walled City extension areas.“The town planning department of unified MCD had earmarked old and congested areas which were designated ‘special areas’ and relaxation in fire safety norms were provided to them. No fire safety regulations for schools in these areas had been framed by the education department at that time. The first set of rules came around 2005 which did not specify any road width, but in 2011 the road width was specified to be enough for fire safety vehicles to pass through,” the resolution cleared by the north civic body’s standing committee’s said.Goswami said that later the minimum road width was mandatorily fixed at six metres. “Now the fire safety NOCs are issued to only those schools which are situated on roads wider than 6m and because many schools in Old Delhi cannot follow this norm, they can never get a fire NOC. This can lead to the closure of all such schools unless different norms are prepared for schools in ‘special areas’,” Goswami said.He added that as a precautionary measure to prevent misuse of the anticipated relaxation in rules, the standing committee has asked the municipal commissioner to consider only those schools that received fire NOCs till three or four years ago.“We will not consider sites that have never got a fire NOC. Around 120-150 schools in the ‘special areas’ are likely to benefit in case of relaxation in norms,” Goswami said.The fire NOC issue is not only restricted to private and MCD-recognised schools but many municipal primary schools as well. Jai Prakash, former mayor and councillor from Sadar Bazar, said they have decided to shift some of the old schools located in narrow lanes to wider ones. “The number of children in schools in the area has also gone down as the commercialisation has increased and the residential proportion of the population has decreased. We have decided to shift and merge the municipal primary schools in Deputy Ganj, Roshanara and Gali Pahiya Wali. Old municipal schools are located in narrow lanes and the issue of fire NOC also hangs over them,” he added.A senior Delhi Fire Services official said that the issue of wide access roads for fire NOCs exists mainly in the Walled City areas and urban villages. “Schools in places such as Chawri Bazar, Ajmeri Gate have been operating before the building and fire safety norms were framed. Many started operations even before Independence. Such schools should follow the rest of the fire safety norms, create emergency exits, keep fire safety equipment etc..” the official said.The official added that the primary clearance requirement for a fire NOC is access to fire tenders. “The purpose of a fire NOC is to save lives. The new fire safety norms were issued based on Supreme Court orders after the Kumbakonam fire case,” the official said.On July 16, 2004, 94 students in the primary section were burnt to death in a school in Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district of Tamil Nadu, after which fire safety norms in schools came under the scanner.RC Jain, the president of Delhi State Public School Management Association, said that it was a good idea to make the separate provisions for areas like the Walled City. “The issue of fire safety was first raised in 2006 while the road width factor was considered much later. There are so many schools which existed in these areas much before these norms were framed. The road width norms have only led to harassment of school managements. We should incorporate innovative solutions to improve fire safety in these areas, such as having a common water tank or using the staircases of adjacent buildings as fire exits,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/north-mcd-pushes-for-relaxed-fire-norms-in-old-delhi-schools-101634752464551.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Mixed response from Pune colleges on first day of reopening||PUNE Even after getting official permission to reopen from the state government, colleges preferred to remain closed in the city on Wednesday. The state higher education department announced colleges would reopen from October 20 in the state. Several prominent colleges like Fergusson College, S P College and others started offline lectures, while colleges like Modern College remained shut. The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) issued detailed guidelines regarding opening up of college campuses, students safety and most importantly, that only students with both vaccination doses would be allowed in classrooms for lectures. “Though we have received the SPPU guidelines about college reopening, we have not yet started college for students. It will most probably start after Diwali vacations. By then all other safety related arrangements would also be complete. We are going to start college lectures in a phase-wise manner and have informed students to take both doses of the vaccination,” said the principal of one college, speaking anonymously. “We have not yet started any of the offline classes as there are no clear guidelines given from the SPPU or the state higher education department. The students will be called in a phase-wise manner, initially for practical classes and later on actual classroom lectures will start. But offline lectures would start after Diwali and not immediately,” said Shamakant Deshmukh, vice-principal of Modern College of Commerce, Arts and Science, Shivajinagar. “ None of the classes will be held online. We are following all the Covid protocols given by the state government. iIt will take a month for things to be streamlined. On the first day 80 classes of various standards from Class 11 to postgraduate were held physically in the classrooms,” said Prof Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, principal of Fergusson College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mixed-response-from-pune-colleges-on-first-day-of-reopening-101634752463335.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Three arrested for stabbing 24-year-old woman to death in south Delhi||New Delhi: A day after a 24-year-old woman was stabbed to death in the south Delhi’s Bindapur, Delhi police arrested three men for the crime on Wednesday.Police suspect that the woman, who knew the three men and was at a birthday party with them, turned down repeated proposals for a relationship by one of them, following which he allegedly stabbed her on Tuesday morning.Police said that around 2.15 am on Tuesday, cops on patrol duty were informed by a food delivery agent that a girl was lying heavily injured in a narrow street near Gurdwara Sewa Simran in Uttam Nagar. Immediately after this, the ERV staff reached the spot and immediately informed the police station staff regarding the same.The police rushed the girl, identified as Dolly Babber, who had sustained stab wounds, to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital where she was declared dead on arrival. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary said that a case was registered under IPC section 302 (murder) at Bindapur police station and six teams were formed to crack the case.During investigation, it was ascertained that at around 11.30pm, Babber had gone to attend a birthday party along with the suspects -- Ankit Gaba (24), who supplied cosmetic goods to medical stores, and Himanshu (20) and Manish Sharma (28), who were both jobless.“All the CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity were analysed and a local enquiry was conducted... Prima facie it has been revealed that the woman was known to all these men and in the evening preceding the incident, they were partying together on the terrace of an under-construction building in front of the gurdwara. During the party, a heated argument took place between Ankit and Dolly over some personal issues, following which Ankit stabbed her,” said the DCP.Police said that Ankit had allegedly been trying to get into a relationship with her though she kept declining his proposals.After the incident, the three suspects fled on foot to Vikas Nagar in Uttam Nagar area and then took an autorickshaw to Anand Vihar. Since they did not find any bus for Chandigarh, they then went to Anand Vihar ISBTin a different autorickshaw. They reportedly took a bus heading to Chandigarh and then to Patiala and later returned to Delhi the same day.Police received information that Himanshu and Manish were hiding in Dwarka Mod area, from where they were apprehended, and based on their information, Ankit was picked up from Sector 23 in Dwarka. Police said they also recovered the knife used to commit the offence allegedly from the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-arrested-for-stabbing-24-year-old-woman-to-death-in-south-delhi-101634752343850.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Anusuiya’s Kitchen: Lucknow’s municipal body starts service to feed have-nots||The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has started Anusuiya’s Kitchen to feed the hungry in the state capital. The motto of this project is ‘No one sleeps hungry in Lucknow’, mayor Sanyukta Bhatia said.“We approached Akshaya Patra with a scheme to feed all the poor and hungry in Lucknow and they agreed to prepare the food for the poor in their kitchen. Everybody knows that Akshaya Patra has the best kitchen facilities and they prepare food in the most hygienic way.“The food supplied will be of the highest quality as it will pass through a strict quality control process. Experts of Akshaya Patra and LMC will do a daily quality inspection according to norms of Food Safety Standards Act 2006 (FSSA),” the mayor said.“Anusuiya’s Kitchen started operating at the King George’s Medical University where we distributed food to more than 5,000 people on Tuesday,” she added.Initially, for a month, no one will be charged for food but in the days to come LMC will charge ₹10 per thali. The LMC will also increase food distribution points. Food will be distributed at all the major hospitals and important places like Avadh crossing, Charbagh, Alambagh, Aminabad and Chowk.Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “The cost of a thali is around ₹25. However, the LMC will charge only ₹10 from people. The remaining ₹15 will be paid by LMC to Akashaya Patra.”He added, “After Covid-19, LMC started its own community kitchens and served food to more than one lakh people daily. After that we were receiving a number of requests to start such food service again that’s why LMC tied up with Akshaya Patra to provide hygienic food services to Lucknowites. The effort is to feed all the hungry people on the road besides providing hygienic food at minimum rates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/anusuiyas-kitchen-lucknow-s-municipal-body-starts-service-to-feed-havenots-101634752342626.html
20-10-2021||Other||{Allegations against Amarinder} Prove sincerity by breaking ties with Cong high command: SAD to Randhawa||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday asked Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to prove his sincerity on charges against Captain Amarinder Singh by breaking all ties with the Congress high command, especially the Gandhi family. The SAD added this was needed as it was the high command that had imposed Amarinder on Punjab and the Congress for more than five decades including over nine years as CM.“Even you (Randhawa) have a lot of explaining to do for remaining Amarinder’s most-trusted aide during these years. We know Capt refused your request for a meeting four days ago. Please share what has happened in these four days to reveal Amarinder’s anti-national, traitorous character,” senior SAD leader Maheshinder Grewal said. He added, “You are the state’s home minister now. If you seriously believe that as CM Amarinder was a traitor and was indulging in anti-national activities through proximity with Aroosa Alam, a Pakistani, then act against him and book him on charges of conspiring against the country with a Pakistani agent. You should explain why you kept spending long evenings and nights with Amarinder and Aroosa.” Grewal alleged that Randhawa was the biggest confidant and the biggest executioner of Amarinder’s plans. “Now that those plans have been exposed, you want to convince us that you were not a part of his crimes. Even today, Captain Sandeep Sandhu, the main adviser of Amarinder, shared space with you in today’s press conference,” he alleged, adding that perhaps Randhawa forgot to hide his association with people close to Amarinder even today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allegations-against-amarinder-prove-sincerity-by-breaking-ties-with-cong-high-command-sad-to-randhawa-101634752282489.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police pulls down 45,000 objectionable posts from social media, registers 12 FIRs||Social Media Lab (SML) of the Mumbai Police in the past one year initiated action against 45,000 highly provocative, hateful, sensitive and objectionable posts from various social media platforms and got 26,825 of those posts either blocked or deleted. Blocking or deleting the remaining objectionable posts is still under process. The lab has also registered 12 first information reports (FIR) at various police stations in Mumbai against people found spreading rumours during the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) or National Register of Citizens (NRC) agitations, Covid-19 pandemic, and against those who were spreading religious rifts in society, spreading anti-police sentiments and terror threatening messages in the past two years. A police officer said during this period, 41,081 inflammatory posts were found to be communal in nature and many had the potential of triggering communal unrest. “Other 1,820 posts were related to terrorism or extreme acts (videos and posts showing terrorists beheading people, content promoting terrorists activities etc.),” the officer added. The police during the digital scanning of various platforms also detected a large number of posts containing gross misinformation, fake news and rumours related to Covid-19 and pulled down 1,855 such posts from the digital space. The task is carried out by the SML of the special branch-1 (SB-1) which is entrusted with the duty of conducting digital patrolling. “Terrorist, anti-nationals and anti-social elements have extended their area of functioning and reach. For terror activities and spreading their web, they use cyberspace, cyber technologies, advanced computers, networks and social media. Our social media lab acted against such content online and got them blocked or deleted, following due procedure of law,” said a deputy commissioner of police (DCP) rank officer. The lab keeps 24×7 vigil on digital platforms, keep surveillance on the online activities of people who might incite or drive others into communal violence, anti-government activities, anti-social activities, etc. thus creating unrest in the city and its peripherals. The lab’s functioning involves timely identifying potential trouble makers, detecting inflammatory contents/posts and getting them blocked with the help of the service providers, ensuring that it is stopped at a very early stage and do not spread or get viral. Officers at the intelligence wing have also observed a significant dip in a number of objectionable content, fake news, rumours and hate messages being uploaded on social media platforms in the recent past. Last year (up to September 2020) the social media lab had identified nearly 35,700 objectionable posts that had the potential of triggering untoward incidents. This year, till September the number of objectionable and provocative posts declined to 31,292. Officers posted at the social media lab attributes the decline to major service providers adopting the more serious approach in dealing with such content. “Now major service providers such as Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and YouTube respond to police requests for taking down certain objectionable or inflammatory posts comparatively in lesser time. With the introduction of the new IT Rules by the Central government, service providers have started keeping stringent checks on objectionable content online and service providers are now voluntarily taking action on such content,” said another SML officer. And now as netizens are also much aware that their account can be blocked or deactivated for a lifetime, they refrain from uploading objectionable posts after receiving the first warning from the service providers, the officers at the lab added. “Besides keeping an eye on those who could disturb communal harmony or peace, policemen at the Social Media Lab also protect women from social media bullying, cyberstalking, phishing profiles, cyber fraudsters, fake matrimonial profiles, etc. Online miscreants’ posts defamatory material about women and out staff at the lab search and block such defamatory material, thus preventing online crimes against women,” said an IPS officer.The state cyber police too detected 10,067 objectionable posts and got nearly 5,000 of them blocked or deleted during the past one year. The process of pulling down the rest of the objectionable posts is underway, said an officer. How it’s done: A team of 25 highly trained, technologically sound, multilingual police personnel work in three shifts to keep an eye on various social media platforms 24x7. The SML members search for objectionable content on the internet by putting keywords like terrorism, jihad, attacks, names of radical groups or individuals, etc. The online activity on popular platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, etc. is scanned with the help of advanced computer programs and tools. These programs also detect terror messages in Arabic, said a police officer, requesting anonymity. When some problematic content is identified by the Social Media Lab (SML), it is referred to either the additional commissioner of police or the deputy commissioner of police of Special Branch, who in turn approve the post for sending a request to the concerned service provider under section 91 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and request them to remove or block the content. “The service providers do not accept all our requests, as they adhere to their local laws. But, in cases related to terrorism or any other emergency, they usually accept our request and promptly remove the content from their platforms immediately. They also follow a verification process before taking down the content,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-pulls-down-45-000-objectionable-posts-from-social-media-registers-12-firs-101634751802456.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s SGNP to get wildlife forensic laboratory by March 2022||A proposed wildlife forensic laboratory at Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), which will be equipped to carry out DNA analysis of animals, based on swab and scat samples, is expected to become operational by March 2022 after a considerable delay, Maharashtra’s chief wildlife warden has said. The lab will be set up along the lines of a similar facility scheduled to be inaugurated in Nagpur this week, on October 22, by the police department. This development, which has now been integrated into the Maharashtra State Wildlife Action Plan 2031 (sanctioned by the chief minister during a State Board for Wildlife meeting last week), has been pending since 2019 when the state forest department first proposed a dedicated facility for wildlife forensics in Mumbai. Sunil Limaye, Maharashtra’s chief wildlife warden, said that such forensic capabilities have so far been lacking across the state, where wildlife crimes and conflict are both par for the course. “The wildlife forensic laboratory at Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP), equipped to carry out DNA analysis of animals, will be operational by March 2022. At the moment, whenever we need to conduct any forensic analysis of swabs or scat samples, we send them to labs in Jabalpur or Hyderabad. The process can take months and is a major impediment toward resolving wildlife crime and conflict cases. With our own facilities, we can create a database of vulnerable animals through scat samples. This can come in handy later. Say there is a poaching case where some animal parts have been recovered, or some tiger or leopard has attacked a human, we can identify the concerned animal in a matter of days and respond appropriately,” Limaye said, emphasizing that such a facility would lead to faster resolution of conflict and perhaps faster conviction in case of wildlife crimes. SGNP officials have already identified a location within the park premises for setting up the laboratory, which will be done at an approximate budget of ₹3.5 crore. “We are in process of acquiring the funds,” Limaye added. The laboratory’s expenses are expected to be met from the park’s annual public ledger. The laboratory will be able to cater to the needs of wildlife monitoring teams not just from Mumbai, but from across western Maharashtra and also from other adjoining states, such as Gujarat and Karnataka, which are home to vulnerable animals such as Asiatic lions and black panthers. In addition to the forensic lab, a second priority project for the wildlife department under the Maharashtra State Wildlife Action Plan includes creating a comprehensive database of all wildlife crimes in Mumbai (and across other territorial forest ranges in the state) over the last 10 years by December. “We have already started work on this over the last month. While poaching and killing of wildlife, particularly terrestrial mammals like tigers, was found to be the most predominant crime in eastern Maharashtra, in Mumbai and the Konkan region it is possession and trafficking of protected reptiles and birds, like sand boas, monitor lizards and even marine animals like turtles. We have enlisted the help of the Wildlife Trust of India and the Kerala forest department in creating this database as they have been working on a similar initiative in Kerala for the past five years, which will allow us to monitor the progress of individual cases of wildlife crime. At the moment the data is scattered across range offices and we do not have a centralized database. We have already established dedicated wildlife crime control cells, one each in Nagpur and Mumbai, for whom this database will prove extremely useful,” said Pandurang Pakhale, assistant conservator of forests, who is leading this exercise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-sgnp-to-get-wildlife-forensic-laboratory-by-march-2022-101634751682453.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Woman from Sion Koliwada arrested with heroin worth ₹21.60 crore||The anti-narcotics cell (ANC) of the Mumbai crime branch has arrested a 53-year-old woman from Sion Koliwada with over seven kilograms of heroin worth ₹21.60 crore in the illicit market. The contraband material was delivered from the Pratapgarh district of Rajasthan.The arrested woman, Amina Hamja Shaikh alias Lali, a resident of Mankhurd, had collected the drugs near her building two days ago, said police. “Shaikh has been a part of a drug syndicate in Mumbai for more than a decade and has been arrested twice earlier,” said deputy commissioner of police Datta Nalawade of ANC. The ANC on October 4 had raided a hotel in south Mumbai and had arrested two suppliers — Hakim Gul Khan and Jeevanlal Bherulal Mida, both residents of Pratapgarh — and had allegedly seized 5kg heroin worth ₹15 crore. The duo had revealed the names of the main drug suppliers in Mumbai. The ANC kept a watch on them through a network of its informants. Recently, the agency got a tip-off about a major consignment delivered in Mumbai.Police inspector Lata Sutar of the Ghatkopar ANC unit laid a trap and arrested Shaikh from Sion Koliwada area. After search police seized a total 7.2 kilograms of heroin worth ₹21.60 crore from her, added Nalawade. She revealed during interrogation that she had procured the contraband material from two residents of Naugama in Pratapgarh district. She was arrested in 2015 by the Ghatkopar ANC unit with 50 grams of heroin and had served one year in jail. She was again arrested by the Worli unit in 2018 with 25 grams of heroin and spent 10 months in prison, added Nalawade. “Shaikh sold drugs through her network of 10 regular peddlers. She revealed that her supplier from Rajasthan use a new person with a new mobile phone to deliver drugs in the city. The drugs come by train and bus, and they keep the contraband in one compartment and book tickets adjoining compartment to avoid getting caught with the consignment,” Nalawade added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-from-sion-koliwada-arrested-with-heroin-worth-21-60-crore-101634751623694.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Constable killed after truck collides with bike in Palghar||A 49-year-old police constable with the Boisar MIDC police station was killed after a truck rammed into his bike near Umroli, in Palghar on Wednesday afternoon. The truck driver Buddhav Verma, 36, along with the deceased constable Chunilal S Kokani, 49, fell into a gutter. The locals rushed them to Dhawale Trust Hospital at Palghar, however Kokani was declared dead on arrival. Senior inspector Ram Bhalsingh of Palghar police station, said, “Kokani, who was on a 24-hour Eid-e-Milad bandobast duty, was headed towards Police Line Quarters in Palghar, when the truck jumped the lane and collided with his bike. The truck belongs to Shaileshkumar Shah, a Vasai resident,” Police have registered a case under section 304 (a) (negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against Verma, who is undergoing treatment for various fractures and injuries. “We will arrest him once he is discharged from hospital. We are also awaiting the post-mortem report,” said Bhalsingh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/constable-killed-after-truck-collides-with-bike-in-palghar-101634751622387.html
20-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG seals 16 illegal structures in Zone 1, removes 100 hoardings along Dwarka Expressway||At least 16 unauthorised structures were sealed by officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) in four wards of the city on Wednesday. The structures, located in wards 13, 15, 16 and 22, all under Zone 1, were commercial and residential buildings, including a few that were under construction.“A team of enforcement wing officials sealed 16 illegal structures in areas such as Gandhi Nagar, New Colony area, Krishna Colony and Saraswati Enclave. The drive was conducted on Wednesday afternoon without any major resistance or untoward action,” SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO), MCG, said.MCG officials said the sealing drive was conducted on the instruction of MCG’s Zone 1 joint commissioner, Sumit Kumar. “Prior to the sealing, notices were issued to all 16 building owners to present official documents to show if they had carried out construction according to norms and after procuring building plan approval. All of them failed to exhibit any such documentation, following which sealing was carried out,” a senior MCG official privy to the matter said.The MCG officials also carried out a drive against illegal advertisements in areas located along the Dwarka Expressway on Wednesday and removed around 100 illegal hoardings.As per the by-laws of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act,1994, no person or firm can display any kind of advertisement within Gurugram without seeking approval from MCG.MCG officials said that they are in the process of identifying violators and subsequently, will take action against them under the Haryana Municipal Corporation Advertisement by-laws and Haryana Defacement of Property Act.“Applications are available online at the MCG’s official website for seeking permission for advertising. The person concerned has to pay the requisite fee to the MCG depending on the duration for advertising, and accordingly, the same is approved. Drives against both illegal advertisements and structures will continue this week,” Rohilla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-seals-16-illegal-structures-in-zone-1-removes-100-hoardings-along-dwarka-expressway-101634751504997.html
20-10-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to build 13 ‘missing’ link roads from next month||To improve connectivity to residential areas in newer sectors of the city (sectors 82 to 93), the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will start the construction of 13 missing road links from the next month, officials said on Wednesday. Jaspal Singh, the chief engineer of the infrastructure-I division, said, “We have started with the inspections and are also coordinating with other agencies for transfer of land to GMDA so that the construction of these roads can be started. One part of the land has already been transferred to us, so we are trying to start work by next month.” Around 3.9 kilometres of roads will be constructed to connect the missing links of master dividing roads of sectors 82/82A, 82/83, 84/85, 88/89, 82/85, 86/90, 90/93 and outer roads of sectors 87 and 81. The matter was discussed during the core planning committee meeting of GMDA last week, when the chief executive officer instructed officials to inspect each of these missing links. “A site inspection will be done for each of the missing links of these roads for which provision has been made in the estimate of construction work to be undertaken for these roads. An e-estimate should be prepared and submitted along with comments from the public,” the chief executive officer said during the meeting. Officials said that these missing link roads need to be constructed for better connectivity with the master roads. Singh said that the GMDA is taking up the matter with Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on a weekly basis to get encroachments removed from sectors 81 to 88, as most of the missing links are located in these sectors. Residents of the newer sectors said that the construction of these missing roads will reduce their travel time to other parts of the city. Praveen Malik, the vice-president of United Association of New Gurugram, a body of 40 housing societies located in sectors 77 to 90, said, “Roads are a basic infrastructure that the city must have. Construction of these link roads will improve travel time for many residents, especially those going towards IMT Manesar. At present, residents have to first to go Rampura Road and then take the IMT Manesar road, but such issues will be solved once the roads are constructed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-build-13-missing-link-roads-from-next-month-101634751503801.html
20-10-2021||Gurugram||Respite over, air quality drops to poor zone as pollution rises||Following a respite from bad air due to heavy rainfall over the weekend, the air quality in the city started deteriorating on Wednesday, recording an air quality index (AQI) reading of 235 (‘poor’) on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin.Neighbouring cities of Delhi, Faridabad, Manesar, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad in the National Capital Region (NCR) also reported ‘poor’ air quality on Wednesday. Residents and experts said that in the past two days, the air quality was better because of rain, but local sources of pollution in the city have not reduced. On Wednesday, the particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM2.5) was listed as the prominent pollutant in the AQI bulletin. Ruchika Sethi, a member of Citizens for Clean Air, a city-based group, said, “It’s important to remember the role played by meteorological conditions in the city’s air quality and the constant sources of air pollution, such as waste burning and dust pollution, within the city. If full efforts are made to curb the local triggers of air pollution, then the city, despite external seasonal factors or rains and high speed of wind, will enjoy a better air quality. But violations are witnessed on a regular basis, be it uncovered trucks with construction material or rampant waste burning.”Experts also expressed similar concerns and said that the authorities need to curb the impact of local pollution sources, apart from external factors like stubble burning. Sachin Panwar, a city-based independent air quality scientist, said, “This was a rare episode of extended October rain, and one which created a micro airshed for Delhi-NCR. Stubble burning has also been low so far this year, but still, the ground pollution levels were high. Time and again, it has been seen that favourable meteorological conditions are the only saviour and there are no significant efforts to control the localised emissions.” Panwar said that over the next three days, visibility is likely to drop in Gurugram due to high pollution, and this may, eventually, turn into smog. “Over the coming days, moisture will hold dust particles and other secondary aerosols, and we are heading slowly towards peak pollution days without any proper action on the ground,” Panwar said. According to the weather bulletin issued on Wednesday evening by Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the air quality over Delhi and National Capital Territory is likely to deteriorate and reach the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday and remain the same on Friday as well. Over the next five days, the air quality is likely to remain largely in the ‘very poor’ category. Meanwhile, officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) said that measures under the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) are being implemented in the district according to the air quality. Kuldeep Singh, regional officer of HSPCB for Gurugram (north), said, “Over the next three to four days, our primary focus is to control sources of dust pollution as the air quality is likely to deteriorate. We have issued instructions to all agencies to ensure that dust control measures, mainly sprinkling of water from a height, is followed. Our teams will be patrolling the city to ensure that the action is being taken.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/respite-over-air-quality-drops-to-poor-zone-as-pollution-rises-101634751502446.html
20-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG kicks off fogging drive as dengue cases rise||Amid surging dengue cases in the district, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) started its citywide fogging drive from Sector 4 on Wednesday. The total dengue count stood at 189 on Wednesday, with five new cases recorded on the day.Officials said that on Wednesday, the civic body procured around a dozen new fogging machines to launch the drive.“Around a dozen new fogging machines were procured today (Wednesday) following which we decided to launch the drive on an immediate basis starting from Sector 4. We are creating a schedule for the drives in consultation with the RWAs [residents’ welfare associations], ward councillors, and on the basis of complaints received on MCG’s social media handle,” Hariom Attri, joint commissioner (headquarters), MCG, who is overlooking the fogging drive, said.So far, the MCG was only conducting fogging activities in areas from which residents posted complaints on its social media handle, as it was short of necessary equipment.During a House meeting on October 11, the MCG decided to procure fogging machines as well as start a citywide fogging drive, after councillors raised the issue of poor fumigation due to broken equipment.On Wednesday, Attri said that the MCG would procure 21 fogging machines in total, of which five would be vehicle-mounted ones and the rest hand-held devices.“Around nine remaining fogging machines will arrive on Thursday, taking the total number of such machines to 36. Of the 36, 11 are vehicle-mounted while the remaining are hand-held machines,” Attri said. Lack of proper fogging has been a major concern for residents, as dengue cases continue to surge, with over 100 cases reported over the past two weeks.As per a release from the district administration, the highest number of dengue cases was reported on October 6, when 83 cases were recorded.This year’s dengue count is the highest since 2015, when Gurugram recorded 451 such cases. As many as 86, 66, 93, 22 and 51 cases were reported from 2016-2020, respectively.A senior MCG official privy to the matter said that around 110 officials, comprising five to six teams, will be deployed for fogging for extensive ward-wise coverage.“Besides fogging, the team will have multiple responsibilities such as checking houses for stagnant water or larvae inside coolers, pots, utensils, tyres, or any other such items and accordingly, issuing notices to such violators,” the official said.So far, the MCG has issued over 12,700 notices in the district.“During this dengue crisis, residents have been alerting their respective local RWAs regarding water stagnation or mosquito breeding spots on a daily basis. RWAs, thus. tend to have greater localised knowledge about such matters. RWAs working in tandem with the MCG for the fogging drives can help reduce dengue cases,” Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC), an umbrella body of RWAs in the city, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-kicks-off-fogging-drive-as-dengue-cases-rise-101634751442495.html
20-10-2021||Pune||100% beneficiaries in 18-45 age group vaxed with first Covid dose in Pune||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been able to vaccinate what it claims is close to 100% of the eligible population aged between 18 and 45 years in the city with at least one dose of the Covid vaccine, officials said on Wednesday. However, civic officials observed that a significant population is hesitant to take the second dose and are not fully vaccinated even if they qualify after gap of 84 days for Covishield, and 28 days for Covaxin. The age group above 45 years is the most hesitant to take the second shot, possibly due to side effects after the first dose and the ebbing of the second Covid wave. Although more commercial activities are opening up, a higher percentage of vaccination has helped bring down the number of new infections and also the severity of the infection even if a vaccinated person gets Covid-19. According to Dr Suryakant Deokar, PMC’s immunisation officer, “The PMC has been able to vaccinate even more than the estimated population in the 18 to 45-year category, considering the city also has a floating population coming in from Pimpri-Chinchwad and the rural parts of the district.” “We request citizens to get completely vaccinated with both doses. Even if there are side effects post first dose, they are bound to be very negligible post second dose. However, without both doses there is no immunity. We have allowed mobile vaccination in societies as well. Just file an application and the civic body will arrange for the drive to be conducted on the society premises,” said Deokar. The Pune civic body has been able to administer more 4.94 million vaccines, of which 3,153,205 are first doses and 1,788,745 are second doses. The central government has estimated that Pune city’s population is 4,210,592. As per this estimation, more than the estimated eligible beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group have been vaccinated with the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/100-beneficiaries-in-18-45-age-group-vaxed-with-first-covid-dose-in-pune-101634751202677.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Mirzapur, Karnataka stones to be used for Ram temple’s plinth||LUCKNOW Stones from Mirzapur and Karnataka will be used for laying the plinth of Ram temple in Ayodhya, work for which is expected to start around November 15. The plinth is the lowest part of a building, working as a base for any structure and is in the form of a rectangular block or slab. The three-day meeting of the Ram Mandir Construction Committee in Ayodhya concluded on Wednesday after the review of the ongoing construction work. Nripendra Misra, chairman of the committee, presided over the meeting. At present, 1.5-metre raft is being erected on the temple’s foundation. “Stones from Mirzapur and Karnataka have been brought to Ayodhya. These will be used for laying the plinth of the temple,” Anil Mishra, member of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, told media persons after the meeting. “Work is on to lay 1.5-metre raft. Out of 17 layers, around seven have been laid. By November 15, construction work related with the raft will be over. Thereafter, the plinth will be laid,” added Mishra. In the meeting, it was proposed to complete the plinth work by February next so that construction work related with the main structure of Ram temple could start by February or March, 2022. At present, casting of the raft above the temple’s foundation is going on. A maximum temperature of 22-23 degrees centigrade is required at the time of casting. For this, work (casting) is being done during the night. Ice in large quantity is also being used to maintain the temperature. The trust has already set a deadline to enthrone Ram Lalla (infant Lord Ram) in the sanctum sanctorum of the temple in Ayodhya by December 2023 to allow devotees to worship the deity. The Yogi Adityanath government had prepared a Vision Document for the overall development of Ayodhya along with the construction work of Ram temple. The government hired an international consultant, LEA Associates South Asia Private Limited, to prepare this vision document.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mirzapur-karnataka-stones-to-be-used-for-ram-temple-s-plinth-101634751142483.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Cracker trade’s flickering flame casts shadow on dealers in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Sher Ali, a cracker dealer in his late sixties, never thought that he would be switching to another trade at this stage of life. The man, who used to own a famous cracker shop – Sheru Fireworks – in Bansmandi here is now struggling with his new plastic raw material business.The trade, which was once considered most profitable, has now lost its spark, lamented Ali. Ali is not the only one facing this situation. Many others have entered into alternative trade citing dwindling demand for crackers, focus on green crackers, government restrictions in wake of rising air pollution levels and anti-cracker campaigns. “Cracker business is unpredictable and unprofitable, Hence it’s better to make a switch rather than flogging a dead horse,” said Sher Ali who switched to plastic raw material trade around two years back. Ali, who entered the cracker trade in the 1980s, said: “In those days, people used to line up before our shops and bought massive chatais (series of fire crackers) of 10,000, 15,000 and 20,000 crackers. They spent lavishly on crackers and purchase of clothes used to be second on their priority list. The trend continued till 2010, but things began to change gradually and now the trade is left with no spark.” Gulsher Azad, owner of Azad crackers, is another trader who believes that cracker trade is no longer lucrative. “It is becoming difficult for us to invest in this trade that has no future. Last year, UP Government banned use of fireworks in around 13 districts following high pollution levels. In wake of so many guidelines/restrictions and emphasis on sale of only green crackers, it’s difficult for traders to cope with the changing course of the trade,” he said. Similarly, Mahesh Gupta, another cracker seller here, said there is no point sticking to this business. “The trade has witnessed setbacks in the last few years. And the rising pollution levels are another threat to the trade. In such a situation, there is no point investing in a trade that has no future. Many cracker traders have switched to other businesses,” said the owner of Gupta fireworks. According to the Fireworks Dealers Welfare Association (Lucknow), less than 35 fire cracker licence holders are left in the city. “Cracker trade is dwindling in the state,” said Satish Chandra Mishra, president of the association. He said this year too there are no directions from the government over cracker shops. “There is hardly any time left for Diwali and the government is yet to issue guidelines regarding sale and purchase of crackers. In such a situation, traders fear investing in the business,” added Mishra. Amar Pal Singh, additional district magistrate (administration), said guidelines regarding the establishment of shops would be issued shortly. Only licence holders would be allowed to sell crackers at the designated places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cracker-trade-s-flickering-flame-casts-shadow-on-dealers-in-lucknow-101634750542437.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Multiplexes, theatres to reopen in Pune on Friday; single-screens after Diwali||PUNE: In a spot of cheer ahead of the festival of lights, theatres and multiplexes in the Pune city are set to reopen from Friday; days after the government granted them permission to begin again.After reopening, audiences will initially be able to enjoy music shows and comedy plays in the auditoriums and advance booking for the same has already begun.Sunil Mate, who is in charge of auditoriums and cultural programmes in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “We are receiving enquiries to book theatres. As the dates are vacant in October, there is no problem giving bookings to dramas and other shows. We are currently collecting the data of booking enquiries received all over the city.”Musical shows and plays have been scheduled at Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagruha and Balgandharva Natyagruha over the weekend. Satyajit Dandekar, who is coordinating the musical shows, said that audiences have responded well to the advance ticket booking.“We have arranged a musical evening on October 23 and prominent singers will be part of the show which is scheduled at Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagruha. Another musical show has been arranged on October 24. There has been an amazing response to ticket booking for these shows. Mostly, there have been group bookings by families,” said Dandekar.Shows of the popular Marathi comedy play ‘Eka Lagnachi Pudhachi Goshta’ have also been scheduled on Sunday. “We have arranged two shows of the play on Sunday. There is good response for ticket booking for the play,” said Sameer Hampi of S H Enterprises that has organised the shows.Multiplexes in the city too are reopening on Friday with the release of the new James Bond film ‘No Time to Die’. Prakash Chaphalkar, a partner in the city-based City Pride multiplex chain, said that initially only prominent properties will reopen. “There is a lot of preparation required for cleaning and sanitisation of screens. So initially, our prominent centres at Kothrud, Satara road, Shivajinagar will be reopened. Gradually, other centres will follow suit,” said Chaphalkar.By contrast, several single-screen theatres in the city are unlikely to reopen immediately. Single-screen operators cited financial constraints and the restriction of 50% capacity for not reopening single-screens immediately.Nitin Datar, president of Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India, said, “Single-screen owners have been dealing with many issues. So, most single-screens are unlikely to reopen from October 22.”Deepak Kudale, former president of Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India (COEAI), said, “It is an optional issue for single-screen operators to open or not to open single-screens. Most single-screens will open after Diwali depending upon the situation. We had a meeting with the CM and deputy CM about the problems of single-screens on Oct 18. They assured us that our problems will be addressed and a solution found.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/multiplexes-theatres-to-reopen-in-pune-on-friday-single-screens-after-diwali-101634750423196.html
20-10-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM just makes tall promises on development: Kamal Nath||Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath on Wednesday held the BJP responsible for backwardness of Punjapura under the Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency and said people should identify "actor and director" in the saffron party for their own benefit. Punjapura, an area in Dewas district, falls under the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat where a bypoll is scheduled on October 30. Talking about the coronavirus pandemic, Nath sought to know if any compensation has been paid by the BJP government to the families of those who have died due to the infection. Despite the BJP winning from the area for the last 60 years, there has been no development and people are forced to migrate in search of jobs, Nath said, addressing an election rally at Punjapura. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan should seek an apology from people for not developing the area, the Congress leader said. “The BJP has been winning from Punjapura for the last 60 years. Despite that there is no development of the region. Though situated on the banks of the Narmada River, there is a water crisis, there are no industries, no employment... all these have forced the people to migrate from here,” Nath said. The Congress has fielded former MLA Rajnarayan Singh Purni from the Khandwa Lok Saba seat, where Gyaneshwar Patil is the BJP's candidate.Accusing Chouhan of making tall promises of development, but not fulfilling them, Nath said the BJP chief minister should give an account of what his party has done for Punjapura in the last six decades. The former chief minister criticised Chouhan for announcing on a number of occasions to make Bagli, a town in Dewas district, a separate district, but not making good on his promise. “There is an actor (Chouhan) in the state and a director (apparently referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi) in the country and people should identify them for their benefit," Nath said without elaborating. Referring to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis, Nath said “On March 26, 2020, PM [Narendra] Modi had announced a package of ₹20 lakh crore for helping people. In Dewas district alone, nearly 7,000 people have died because of Covid-19 and everybody knows about it. How many people succumbed due to lack of oxygen and Remdesivir drug? Did anyone get a single rupee as compensation?” Nath said though the result of upcoming bypolls in Madhya Pradesh will not affect the stability of the BJP government, it will certainly give a message to the nation that people can't be fooled all the time. Besides the Khandwa Lok Sabha seat, by-elections are due in Raigaon, Jobat and Prithvipur assembly segments in the state. Polling for all these bypolls will be held on October 30 and votes will be counted on November 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-cm-just-makes-tall-promises-on-development-kamal-nath-101634744762584.html
20-10-2021||Other||Fresh notices issued to 141 Patiala dairy units to shift, despite CM’s halt directive||Patiala The process of shifting dairies to outside the city, hanging fire for 17 years, has run into a fresh controversy. The Patiala municipal corporation (MC) is issuing notices to dairy owners to shift business to the new location, a 21-acre site at Ablowal village, even as Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had asked the then deputy commissioner, Kumar Amit, to halt the process on October 2. This was after a delegation of dairy owners met Channi, highlighting their concerns.The presence of dairies within city limits has lead to frequent choking of sewers and resultant water-logging in Patiala. The project to shift them was initiated in 2003, but it gathered pace only after former CM Captain Amarinder Singh provided funds in 2017. In the first phase, of 257 dairies, 141 are to be shifted. The MC had set September 30 as the deadline for these units. Patiala mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said notices will be served to these units over the next week and owners have been given a week to shift. “Since Channi’s directive, we have presented our case before the state government and briefed them that all facilities will be provided to owners. If any the dairy owner fails to shift their business within the stipulated time, the criminal action will be initiated,” the mayor added.Dairy owners claimed that the MC has failed to provide proper road network, water supply connections, sewage treatment plant and other requirements before shifting the dairy owners. The site is without a biogas plant, sewage treatment plant and veterinary hospital, as proposed under the ₹17-crore project. The dairy owners also complained that they are being offered a 150 square yard plot, which is small and is not adequate to run their units. Patiala MC commissioner Punamdeep Kaur said they had listed out the facilities and arrangements made for shifting of the dairies before the deputy commissioner, who will now take final call. “We have no choice than to serve notices to dairy owners as the civic body has spent nearly ₹17 crore on the project. We are providing all necessities as promised in Phase I. Allied facilities will be provided in Phase II,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fresh-notices-issued-to-141-patiala-dairy-units-to-shift-despite-cm-s-halt-directive-101634750304853.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Reporting of tuberculosis cases in PMC down in last two years||In the past two years reporting of tuberculosis cases in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been affected as the number of reported cases have gone down from over 8,000 in 2019 to a little over 5,000 in 2020 and 2021. The coverage of tuberculosis has also been affected from 85% to 55% in the past two years.The Covid-19 pandemic had affected the coverage and reporting of tuberculosis due to a shortage of staff and less detection. The coverage of beneficiaries is done under the central government’s Nikshay Poshan Yojana.Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer, PMC, said, “In the past two years the reporting and detection of tuberculosis cases in the city have gone down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Usually whenever a patient comes to any hospital be it private or government and if the patient has been complaining of coughing for over two weeks then the sputum is sent for testing of tuberculosis. Patients that are then detected positive for tuberculosis and referred to us. However, in the past two years, the number of patients reported due to tuberculosis has come down because the OPD’s (outpatient department) were shut.”In the year 2018, the PMC could report 5,256 tuberculosis patients and the percentage of beneficiaries under the central government scheme was about 89%. In 2019, the number of TB patients went up to 8,061 and the percentage of coverage went up to 66%. In 2020 the number of beneficiaries was 5,663 and the coverage was 75% and in 2021 the number went further down to 5,248 and the coverage went down to 55%.“The pressure to handle Covid-19 in the city was so high that the focus on other diseases was almost neglected. However, now the civic body is restarting its survey of listing out non-communicable diseases and also other diseases which have to be notified as per government rules,” said Jadhav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/reporting-of-tuberculosis-cases-in-pmc-down-in-last-two-years-101634749762368.html
20-10-2021||Other||Capt colluded with BJP even as Cong CM: Harsimrat||Jalandhar Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Bathinda MP and former Union cabinet minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal alleged on Wednesday that former Punjab chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh had been in a secret alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), even during his tenure as the state CM, with the announcement of a new political outfit on Tuesday.“The cat is now out of the bag. Capt Amarinder had been in a secret pact with the BJP for the past five years, when he was the Punjab CM. Now, the new political outfit will also possibly have an alliance with the BJP,” Harsimrat said, addressing a press conference at the house of former MLA, Jagbir Singh Brar, the SAD candidate for next year’s assembly polls from Jalandhar Cantt. She added “Capt Amarinder back-stabbed Punjab as he got the three farm laws passed by colluding with the BJP, in a secret understanding. He was a member of the committee which proposed the three black farm laws since 2019.” Harsimrat also addressed a meeting of workers in Jalandhar Cantt and Central constituencies and visited the Valmiki Mandir, on account of Valmiki Jayanti. She claimed that the BJP had also supported Amarinder in the 2017 assembly polls. On the possibility of Capt Amarinder allying with Akali factions like those of Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and others, Harsimrat said, “The Capt is betraying the Congress and Punjab. He and the rebel Akalis might come together and act as a B-team of the BJP. People will identify and punish them.” On any possibility of the SAD allying with Capt Amarinder, Harsimrat said, “This is out the question. Though I am not the SAD president, but we will never have an alliance with somebody who has back-stabbed Punjab, aligned with a party that has gone out of the way to finish the state’s agriculture and defamed the Sikh community.” “We have already broken a decade-old alliance with the BJP on the Punjab issue and for farmers’ welfare. It did not remain the same alliance that was stitched together by former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee and former Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal for the betterment and communal harmony of Punjab. Today, the alliance had turned into one where complete dictatorship prevailed,” she said. On the extension of BSF jurisdiction in Punjab, she said Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had literally signed-away half of Punjab to the Centre, with the writ of the security force now extending up to 50km inside the state from the border. On the lynching of a farm labourer, accused of sacrilege, at the Singhu border, Harsimrat said the SAD strongly condemned any incident of sacrilege. However, in this case a thorough probe was warranted after news facts had emerged in the case.MODI TRYING TO STOP AAP: CHADHAAam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab affairs co-in-charge and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha on Tuesday claimed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was making every effort to prevent the party from forming its government in Punjab. Commenting on former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s announcement to float his own new party, Chadha said that while the BJP, SAD and the Congress were failing to stop the AAP from forming a government in Punjab, Modi had fielded Capt Amarinder through a fourth party to stop it. “In 2017 also, the BJP and the Akali Dal Badal had given all the votes of their workers to the Congress party to stop the AAP,” he claimed in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/capt-colluded-with-bjp-even-as-cong-cm-harsimrat-101634749642384.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||IAS officer accused of promoting religious conversions fails to get clean chit||KANPUR IAS officer Mohd Iftikharuddin, accused of promoting religious conversions, was denied a clean chit by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) in its 550-page report submitted to the state government late on Tuesday night, said officials privy to the investigations.The UP government had formed the SIT to probe videos purportedly showing IAS officer Mohd Iftikharuddin preaching Islam and allegedly making a pitch for conversions at his official residence in 2014-2016 when he was commissioner of Kanpur division. The officer was questioned for 16 hours recently. Iftikharuddin had provided copies of three books authored by him to the SIT but did not answer pointed questions. He kept pleading innocence, said officials. The investigation began after three videos of the officer went viral on social media on September 6. People in the video, including the officer, were purportedly describing Islam as the best and made objectionable remarks on other religions. Convener of Mutt Mandir coordination committee Bhupesh Awasthi had complained to the chief minister on the IGRS portal, following which the SIT was formed on September 28. It was headed by CB-CID director general Gopal Lal Meena and ADG (Kanpur zone) Bhanu Bhaskar. The government had given the SIT a week to submit the report, but the deadline was extended as the team had to go through the seven-hour-long video footage and a number of books to find out the purported objectionable content and remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ias-officer-accused-of-promoting-religious-conversions-fails-to-get-clean-chit-101634749462343.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Revenue higher than last year despite fewer property registrations in Maharashtra||PUNE: Despite fewer property registrations, revenue during the festive season this year has been higher than the corresponding period last year. During September and October last year, as many as 521,844 properties were registered in Maharashtra, bringing Rs3,552 crore in revenue. However, from September to October 17 this year, Rs4,229 crore came to the government exchequer even though only 268,825 properties were registered. According to property market experts, revenue generation has jumped this festive season without stamp duty incentive support.Jehangir Dorabjee, a prominent real estate developer and managing director of Dorabjee Estates Private Ltd, said, “We have been getting good bookings during the festive season as people are forgetting Covid and looking into the future. Also, buyers believe in the positivity of buying during the festive season. Many buyers wait for the festive season and the housing market is getting the much needed buoyancy after a long time.”Earlier, restrictions during the lockdown/s impacted the number of property registrations in the state. The department of the state’s inspector general of registration (IGR) registered 207,418 documents in June 2021, earning Rs1,831.66 crore in revenue, as compared to registering 243,799 documents in May 2021 and earning Rs1,157.86 crore in revenue. In April 2021, as many as 134,922 documents were registered for revenue earnings of Rs807.39 crore. According to CREDAI, the apex real estate body, property registrations fell in June 2021 due to expiry of stamp duty concession.In April 2020, 1,139 documents were registered for revenue earnings of Rs275 crore whereas in May 2020, 42,573 documents were registered for revenue earnings of Rs516.6 crore. In June 2020, 153,155 documents were registered for revenue earnings of Rs1,320 crore.By comparison, in April 2019, 22,848 documents were registered for revenue earnings of Rs2,161.6 crore while in May 2019, 266,223 documents were registered for revenue earnings of Rs2,797.5 crore. In June 2019, 320,183 documents were registered for revenue earnings of Rs2,553.09 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/revenue-higher-than-last-year-despite-fewer-property-registrations-in-maharashtra-101634749402120.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Couple held in Pune for duping scores in investment fund worth lakhs||PUNE A couple was arrested by Pune police for duping scores of people of multiple lakhs each through community investment funds. The main complainant against them has lost ₹60,00,000 to their investment fund. The couple has been identified as Sujata Ramgiri (38) and Channakeshwallu Ramgiri (46), both residents of BT Kawade road. They have two children.The wife, who was arrested on Tuesday, was remanded to five days in police custody while the husband, who was arrested on Wednesday, will be produced in court on Thursday.The woman has education till Class 7 while the husband is uneducated, according to the police.“She used to gather women in the community. They had a history of giving very good returns until 2016 so people fell for it. Starting 2018, they gathered funds, and she took the first draw from the fund. For the next one, they would hold an auction and after that, she reserved a section of the funds for herself. From whatever was remaining, some of the remaining people would get their money back while the others were left in a lurch,” said police sub-inspector HS Giri of Mundhwa police station who is investigating the case.The police already have 40 people on record while more are expected to register their complaint in the matter. The natives of Andhra Pradesh the couple have amassed property and valuables using the money, according to the police.A case was registered under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian penal code along with sections 3 and 4 prize, chits, and Money circulation schemes (banning) act, 1978 and sections 3 and 4 of the Maharashtra Protection of interest of depositors’ act (MPID) was registered at Mundwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/couple-held-in-pune-for-duping-scores-in-investment-fund-worth-lakhs-101634749162274.html
20-10-2021||Other||{Vicky Middukhera murder} HC seeks senior officers’ response on gangster’s fear of fake encounter||Chandigarh Taking note of the nature of allegations of custodial violence and that he could be killed in a fake encounter, the Punjab and Haryana high court has asked governments of Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh administration to respond to the issues that gangster Kaushal Chaudhary, 39, has raised. Kaushal, whose name has recently cropped up in the broad daylight gruesome murder of Youth Akal Dal (YAD) leader, Vikramjit Middukhera, in Mohali is lodged in Sangrur jail. He has claimed that agencies are conspiring to kill him on the asking of rival gangster or eliminate him in a fake encounter. To counter this, he has demanded that whenever he is sought to be taken for interrogation in any case, videography be ‘done’ of his leaving the jail premises till he reaches the police station concerned. The plea also demands that during interrogation, videography be also ‘done’, so that he can ask the court to provide him a copy, if needed, to show that he was tortured during interrogation. Posting the matter for November 2, the high court bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh directed that if replies are not filed at least one week before the hearing, senior officers of each department in each state, would be summoned to the court. The court also made it clear that the affidavits on these allegations should be of a person not lower in rank than an AIG/SSP. “They spit on the floor and asks petitioner to lick, if refused, he is forced to do so. Officers urinate on the petitioner after removing clothes and give him merciless beatings. Sharp objects are inserted in the private parts and also given electric shocks inside the jail as well as during when he is taken on a remand in a case,” the plea alleges without naming the agency. CONVICTED ONCE, FACES 38 CRIMINAL CASES As per the plea, he is an accused in 38 criminal cases, has been acquitted in four and discharged in one. He is a convict in one case in 2006 and remains an undertrial in other cases, the plea adds. His counsel, senior advocate Bipan Ghai, had submitted that the petitioner has been falsely implicated in a large number of cases by the investigating agencies. He is roped in as accused on the basis of false confessions, manipulated, of the co-accused during remand and is not based on any tangible investigation. The petitioner has been arrayed as accused only to cover up the inadequacies in the investigation done by investigation agencies, Ghai had submitted, adding that whenever the police are not able to solve a case, his client was named as an accused. The plea claims that he has been falsely implicated in the recent murders of Middukhera and councillor Sukhmeet Singh in June 2021 in Jalandhar. “The petitioner has full faith in judicial system and ready to face the trial. His family too is being pressurised not to speak against false implication,” the plea says. Taking note of these allegations, the court directed jail officials as well as policemen that rules and judicial orders with regard to arrest and questioning of the accused be followed in letter and spirit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/accused-of-yad-leader-murder-hc-seeks-senior-officers-response-on-gangster-s-fear-of-fake-encounter-101634748801626.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Colleges resume physical classes in Maharashtra||The past 19 months left visually impaired Siraj Rane, 20, from Dnyansadhna College, Thane, confined to his home, attending online classes. On Wednesday, as soon as Rane entered the college premises, he called for his friends.“Although I attended online classes regularly, I could only hear the teachers’ lectures. But when I come to college, I can also discuss the topics and lectures with my friends. Meeting my classmates and teachers in person helps me understand better, compared to just hearing their voices from my laptop,” said Rane, a third-year BA student. Colleges and universities across Maharashtra on Wednesday resumed in-person or “offline” classes, which had been stopped for over one-and-a-half years due to the coronavirus pandemic. Like Rane, the handful of students who turned up in colleges across the city were excited to be able to meet their classmates and also attend lectures in person. Colleges across Mumbai saw an around 15% turnout of students each. Although some colleges in rural parts of the state had reopened earlier, the state government had given a go- ahead to all governing authorities to resume physical classes from Wednesday onwards. The Mumbai University and the civic body released SOP ahead of reopening and asked colleges to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols.Those who are fully vaccinated were allowed to attend college and travel by local train. Joel Fernandes, a student of St Xaviers College, travelled by local train from Ghatkopar till his college on Wednesday, after almost two years. “It is now that I feel things are getting back to normalcy. It seemed ages since I followed my routine of taking the train and reaching college. Even walking towards the institute from CST railway station felt surreal,” said an elated Fernandes, a post-graduate student of Mass Communication.“Excitement and nervousness is at its peak today. After 19 months, we are out of our pyjamas and got an opportunity to dress well and attend classes. During online classes, we had to keep the video off so there was no dress code. But we need to dress well to come to college. I specifically went shopping to buy tops in the latest trend,” said Srushti Donde, 20, student of Ruia college.Teachers were happy to get to offline sessions as students were less responsive in online lectures. “We were anxious with all the Covid protocols in place and to ensure that everything is implemented well, but were also excited at the same time. The chatter and laughter is back in the college corridors and we could also have a very enthusiastic and interactive lecture, unlike online classrooms,” said Runa Shajeev, head of department for English, Dnyansadhna College, Thane.Colleges ensured all Covid protocols were in place and a hybrid set-up of teaching was prepared for students. “Thermal scanning and hand washing as well as sanitisation facilities are made available at entry points for all staff, students and visitors. Posters about social distancing norms and other hygiene practices to be followed are displayed at prominent places in the campus. Moreover, classrooms and laboratories are well equipped with online and offline modes of teaching,” said Gajanan Wader, principal, Pillai College of Arts Commerce and Science, Panvel. Hardly a handful of students attended college on WednesdayMost colleges had preferred to call post-graduate or practical batch for the first day and plan to include more students gradually. Krutika Desai, principal, Mithibai College, said, “We had around 10% students from post-graduation who attended college on the first day. We conducted all examinations online. we started with them first and are expecting a better response post Diwali.”“It was not different for our students as some used to visit for the last two weeks to solve doubts. All our teachers are fully vaccinated; students from the first year who had film making courses or practicals had requested if they could visit college for extra help. As some of them were below 18 years of age we allowed them to visit, maintaining protocols. It was almost the same crowd who attended college on Wednesday, so it was pretty much like every day for us,” said Anju Kapoor, principal of Usha Pravin Gandhi college, Vile Parle.With hardly a week before Diwali vacations begin and portions for the second year and third-year students completed, not many students were eager to attend college. This was also one of the reasons that most colleges reopened only for post-graduate and research-related courses on Wednesday. All colleges are expecting a better turnout post Diwali vacations as the new term will begin and more students will be fully vaccinated till then.Most campuses bore a deserted look despite the first day of reopening, “Exams for our undergraduate students are currently on and since the exams were planned in the online mode, we didn’t want to disturb the schedule,” said Rajendra Shinde, principal of St Xavier’s College. He added that their UG students will start attending physical classes only post exams and their Diwali break. “The post graduate batches were called to start attending physical lectures, but very few showed up on day one,” he added.Similarly at KC College in Churchgate, only those students who have practical exams were invited to college while the rest of the students appeared for their exams online. Several residential colleges, including the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IITB) had started bringing their students back on campus in a phased manner and in September this year, the institute announced that their mid-semester exams were being conducted in the hybrid mode — those on campus took offline exams while the rest appeared for exams online. “We now have only two weeks of instructional classes left, therefore our classes will continue online until the end of semester. Post Diwali break, we will be conducting exams in the hybrid mode,” said Prof Subhashis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-Bombay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/colleges-resume-physical-classes-in-maharashtra-101634748749943.html
20-10-2021||Other||Farmers stage dharna after Haryana bans entry of paddy-laden vehicles||Hundreds of farmers along with Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) activists staged a dharna on Bidauli bridge in Shamli district on Wednesday after neighbouring Haryana government stopped entry of paddy-laden tractor trolleys into the state.Angry farmers sat on dharna in the middle of the bridge, which connects UP to Haryana, and blocked movement of traffic on both sides by parking over 150 paddy laden tractor trolleys. It resulted into jam on Meerut- Karnal highway since morning.BKU’s district president in Shamli Kapil Khatiyan said paddy farmers of Shamli and adjoining districts take their paddy to Karnal and other districts of Haryana to sell on MSP. “But, Haryana government first stopped tractor trolleys on border on Sunday and they did it again on Wednesday,” said Khatiyan.He alleged that Haryana government adopted such malpractice to harass farmers of UP during procurement seasons.Sub divisional magistrate (SDM) of Un area in Shamli Mani Arora said district magistrate of Shamli Jasjeet Kaur had spoken to DC of Karnal to resolve the issue and tractor trolleys were allowed but Karnal administration again stopped entry on Wednesday. “We are trying to resolve the issue through talks,” said Arora.Khatiyan said government always claim that farmers can travel anywhere in the country to sell their crops but act of Haryana government exposes their lies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-stage-dharna-after-haryana-bans-entry-of-paddy-laden-vehicles-101634748742429.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Work on 11 new airports progressing in UP: Yogi||KUSHINAGAR Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said work on 11 new airports, including an international aerodrome in Ayodhya and another in Jewar, was progressing in Uttar Pradesh.“Air connectivity in the state is being strengthened, which would provide an impetus for development. The inauguration of the Kushinagar international airport and launch of 12 development schemes here will also benefit five crore people in the east UP region that had remained neglected post independence,” he said. The CM said only two airports were functional in UP from 1947 to 2014 – one in Lucknow and another in Varanasi while the state’s connectivity was confined to around 16 cities. “But now, the Kushinagar airport has become operational as the ninth airport of the state whereas airports in UP have direct air connectivity with 75 major cities,” said Yogi Adityanath during the inauguration of the international airport.“Majority of the Buddhist spots are located in Uttar Pradesh. The PM has realised the vision of the Buddhist circuit with the development of road network and air connectivity. And the international airport has given flight to the dreams of the people settled in the region,” he said. “Gautam Buddh attained ‘mahaparinirvana’ in Kushinagar and this place is revered by Buddhists across the world. People will be indebted to Gautam Buddh for the messages of harmony and peace. Addressing the UN recently, the PM had stated that some countries have given humanity war while India has given Gautam Buddha,” he added.Focusing on the UDAN scheme, Yogi said the PM’s intention behind the project was to ensure that even those wearing ‘hawai chappals’ (slippers) could also travel by air and this had been made possible through improved air connectivity. Yogi reiterated that the state government was developing the health sector to provide better facilities to people. “UP is establishing 30 medical colleges and each district in the state will have a medical college. The Prime Minister will soon inaugurate Gorakhpur AIIMS and other medical colleges,” he said.The UP government was also working for the welfare of the Musahar community in Kushinagar district, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/work-on-11-new-airports-progressing-in-up-yogi-101634748502333.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra health minister hints at further relaxations for train travel||As Covid-19 cases continue to show a decline, state health minister Rajesh Tope hinted that further relaxations for train travel could be provided post-Diwali if cases continue to remain low. Maharashtra added 1,825 fresh infections on Wednesday, the fifth consecutive day of under 2,000 cases.Currently, only people who are fully vaccinated are allowed to use the Mumbai suburban train services. The state government has been gradually easing the restrictions to prevent Covid-19 since mid-August. Recently, the state has decided to open up theatres and drama auditoriums with 50% occupancy from October 22, while on Tuesday, it also extended operational timings for shops and restaurants. Tope said that additional categories of passengers could be allowed to use the Mumbai suburban train services if Covid-19 cases do not rise post-Diwali. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is monitoring the Covid situation minutely; he has been speaking to the state Covid task force and senior officials. I think, post-Diwali, if there are not many cases or a high positivity rate, the chief minister can think positively on this [the decision to allow entry to all on trains],” Tope told a TV channel.It was speculated that the chief minister, who heads the disaster management department, would extend relaxation on train travel to people who have taken one shot of the vaccine to use suburban trains. However, the move was deferred till cases see a further decline, state officials said. There was also a fear that crowding could increase in trains during Diwali.Mumbai, meanwhile, went above 400 cases after four days on Wednesday with 462 fresh infections. For the past four days, Mumbai was clocking 300 cases daily. Mumbai added four fatalities, taking its death toll to 16,192. Maharashtra added 21 deaths, pushing the death toll to 139,886.The Maharashtra government extended its ‘Mission Kavach Kundal’, a campaign to boost its Covid-19 vaccination drive, up to Diwali. The campaign aims to push vaccination drive in the state, while prioritising the first dose for all citizens at the earliest. The 10-day campaign kicked off on October 8 with a daily target of 1.5 million doses a day. “Mission Kavach Kundal, which was till Dussehra, has now been extended up to Diwali to carry our vaccinations on mission mode by all the districts and civic bodies. Vaccination is our saviour, so I appeal to the people who are yet to get vaccinated, must do so,” the minister said.Tope said that vaccination is the “saviour” in the pandemic, and it has helped keep the third wave of Covid infections under control in other parts of the world. He added that with vaccinations, the state would be able to keep the impact of the possible third wave under check.“Across the world, the third wave has come, but the intensity has been low and not as threatening with fewer serious cases and lower deaths. Vaccinations played a crucial role in that. If the third wave comes here, our focus remains on vaccination so that the number of cases is not more, and if they are, they aren’t critical cases; people don’t need to get hospitalised, and the need for medical oxygen is less,” Tope said.The active cases in the state came down to 25,728 on Wednesday. A chunk of the active cases are from Pune, Mumbai, Thane and Ahmednagar districts. Eight of the 35 districts in Maharashtra currently have active cases in the single digits. These districts include Gadchiroli, Gondia, Bhandara, Wardha, Yavatamal, Washim, Dhule and Nandurbar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-health-minister-hints-at-further-relaxations-for-train-travel-101634748443069.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||100-fold rise in viral load expelled by Covid patients during the second wave: study||There was a 100-fold increase in the viral load of the respiratory particles expelled by Covid-19 patients during the second wave dominated by the Delta variant. These findings are a part of an ongoing study by the Foundation of Medical Research (FMR) and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The study has been selected for poster presentation at the ongoing 52nd Union World Conference on Lung Health being held virtually. The preliminary findings of the study shared in the poster also highlight a two-fold rise in the proportion of people expelling the virus from their breath during the second wave. Though the study is being conducted on Mumbai respondents, study authors said that it explains the higher transmission and increased number of Covid-19 cases in the second wave. An e-poster presentation is a format of presenting at scientific conferences where researchers present the findings of their research using a poster containing the gist of the study. The study includes a cohort of 75 Covid-19 patients from Mumbai who were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and were under home isolation between July to September 2021. These patients were recruited for the research within 48 hours of testing positive for the infection. More patients are also being recruited as the study is ongoing. In order to understand the viral load expelled through the respiratory particles, the participants were given N95 masks layered with a special gelatin membrane. Their respiratory particles were captured in a 30-minute process that involved talking, reading, coughing and tidal breathing. The field assistants then collected the gelatin membrane from the masks and sent them for Real-Time Reverse Transcription–Polymerase Chain (RT-PCR) testing in a stabilising medium. “More than 90% of the patients were mask-positive, meaning they were expelling ample of virus in their respiratory particles,” said Kalpana Sriraman, senior research officer at FMR and co-author of the study. “This was very high compared to our previous study when only around 42% of patients were found mask positive,” she said. Mask positive refers to samples taken from masks that tested positive in RT-PCR tests. In this case, the gelatin membranes were processed. The previous study, which analysed patients infected in the first wave, was published this April in PLOS One journal. The ongoing study highlights two other important factors: first, the Cycle Threshold (CT) value of patients during the second wave was much lower on masks as well as the swab samples. A lower CT value indicates a higher viral load as the RNA of the virus could be picked up quickly in the RTPCR. Second, those patients who were partially or fully vaccinated showed a marginal reduction in the viral load expelled by them. Patients who were fully vaccinated and had breakthrough infections still expelled the virus. “These findings will be important as we design future vaccines to break the chain of transmission,” said Dr Nerges Mistry, director of FMR and a co-author of the study. An important takeaway message from the study is the way masks are disposed of. “It is clear that the masks carry a high amount of viral load even if the patients are asymptomatic. Thus, careful disposal of masks should be encouraged,” said chest physician and study co-author Dr Vikas Oswal. He said that one must avoid touching the inner side of the mask. “Hold the mask carefully from the outer side or by the strings, roll it in a plastic bag or a newspaper and discard it. One must not let the mask touch any surface from the inner side. If someone has symptoms like cough and cold, it is ideal to discard their masks separately in a sealed plastic bag. The ongoing study has used CT values to arrive at the quantitative aspects of viral load. It is yet to undergo the peer-review process. “The Delta variant which was dominant during the second wave was undoubtedly more infectious as we saw many cases of entire families testing positive,” said Dr Kedar Toraskar, critical care specialist at Wockhardt Hospital and member of the Covid-19 task force of Maharashtra. “However, there are many other techniques to look at the quantitative aspect of the viral load other than the CT values,” he said. Maharashtra has recorded over 6.5 million cases and over 139,800 deaths. In July, this year, most districts had a test positivity rate of around 5%. The test positivity rate is now under 2%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/100fold-rise-in-viral-load-expelled-by-covid-patients-during-the-second-wave-study-101634748202197.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP trying to stop AAP with support of Congress, Akali Dal, says Raghav Chadha||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) along with the Congress and the Akali Dal were trying to stop it from coming to power in Punjab, party MLA and spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, ahead of the state assembly election next year. Further, Chadha also said that former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s party, which he had announced on Tuesday, has joined this list as the fourth party.“Prime Minister Narendra Modi is trying to stop AAP from coming to power in Punjab with the support of BJP, Congress and Akali Dal. PM Modi operates these three parties. These parties have been trying to stop AAP from coming to power,” news agency ANI quoted Chadha as saying.“When these three parties become tired of trying to stop us, then Captain Amarinder Singh has also announced to launch his new political party. Captain's party will be the fourth party in the upcoming elections which will try to stop us,” he added.Also read | BJP says open for alliance with parties that put 'national interest' first, calls Amarinder Singh ‘patriotic’The AAP leader also alleged that Modi was behind Amarinder Singh’s announcement to announce a new political outfit. “When these three parties become tired of trying to stop us, then Captain Amarinder Singh has also announced to launch his new political party. Captain's party will be the fourth party in the upcoming elections which will try to stop us,” news agency PTI quoted him as saying.He also said that the fight for power between the political parties in the state is affecting the administration and the governance.However, Chadha also expressed confidence that AAP will form the government in Punjab next year following the assembly elections. “Even after coming together, they will not be able to change the mood of the people of Punjab. The people are ready to give their mandate to AAP in the upcoming Assembly polls and make Punjab a prosperous state,” he added. The AAP became the major opposition party in the state after the 2017 polls by winning 20 of the 117 assembly seats.The remarks from Chadha came a day after former CM Singh had said that he would announce a new political party soon, after his resignation from the state’s top post last month. He also said that he was ready for a seat sharing agreement with the BJP, if the ongoing issues with the farmers are to be settled.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-trying-to-stop-aap-with-support-of-congress-akali-dal-says-raghav-chadha-101634747432575.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport handles 91,904 fliers in a day, a Covid-19 pandemic record||Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), the world’s busiest single crossover runway airport, saw 91,904 travellers transiting through the airport in a single day on October 17, a record since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the world. This comes amid a steady drop in infections throughout the country and states have eased travel restrictions. The last (pre-Covid) per day passenger record was seen in January 2020 when CSMIA handled a total of 138,999 passengers (domestic as well as international). Mumbai airport handled a total of 2,144,125 passengers and 17,292 flights (domestic and international passengers and flight included) in March 2020 after which the pandemic hit the sector and the country at large. However, airport officials said there has been a steady rise in the number of passengers choosing to travel by air now “After nearly one-and-a half years, since the commencement of the pandemic in 2020, CSMIA witnessed a record 91,904 passengers on 17th October 2021, which is the highest movement since 23rd March, 2020,” a CSMIA spokesperson said.According to airport data, nearly 75,944 passengers travelled through Terminal 2 (T2) with 37,315 passengers arriving and 38,629 departing passengers through CSMIA. Whereas, over 15,960 passengers travelled through Terminal 1(T1), with 7,690 departing and 8,270 arriving passengers. “CSMIA’s T1 catered to a total of 114 domestic flights on October 17, whereas T2 catered to a total of 494 flights (415 domestic and 79 international flights),” the spokesperson added.CSMIA said that IndiGo operated the highest number of flights — 38,833 passengers domestically, followed by GoFirst, Air India, Vistara and AirAsia. CSMIA said that Air India topped the chart in terms of catering to the highest number of international passengers with 10,226 passengers, followed by IndiGo and Vistara.Delhi, Bengaluru, and Goa proved to be the top three destinations.In 2018, CSMIA set a record of 1,004 aircraft movements in a day, with 903 scheduled, 59 non-scheduled, eight charter, 31 freighter and three military flights||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-handles-91-904-fliers-in-a-day-a-covid-19-pandemic-record-101634747965570.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Ahead of Mumbai civic polls, Thackeray cousins woo communities they once targeted||On Monday, October 18, two Hindu seers visited Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray’s house at Shivaji Park in central Mumbai’s Dadar area. Guru Ma Kanchan Giriji and Jagatguru Suryacharaji hail from Uttar Pradesh, and both had criticised Raj’s cousin Uddhav Thackeray, the president of the Shiv Sena party and the chief minister of Maharashtra, for “abandoning the cause of Hindutva.”“We want a Hindu rashtra (Hindu nation). Raj Thackeray supports the Hindutva ideology and the best thing about him is he does what he says,” said Guru Ma Kanchan Giriji soon after meeting the 53-year-old nephew of Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray. “Since both BJP and Raj Thackeray share a Hindutva ideology, they should come together,” she added. The two spiritual leaders were in town to convince Hindi belt voters in Mumbai to side with MNS, which has developed a soft alliance with the BJP, one that could convert into a partnership when the elections near. Earlier this year, in January, a year ahead of the 2022 Mumbai civic elections, Shiv Sena launched a massive on-ground campaign to get the Gujarati and Jain communities – traditionally BJP voters – on its side. The theme of the party’s first event: ‘Mumbai ma jalebi ne fafda, Uddhav Thackeray aapda’ (Jalebi and fafda in Mumbai, Uddhav Thackery is ours). The Shiv Sena plans to hold monthly events to attract the elusive Gujarati and Jain voter to consolidate its hold on the city’s municipal corporation, the country’s richest with a 2021-22 budget of ₹39,083 crore. In Shiv Sena’s annual Dussehra rally on October 15, Uddhav’s statements seemed to point towards the burying of the linguistic-divide hatchet, something the party is backing to help it succeed in the BMC election. “I believe Hindutva is now under threat,” Uddhav said. “Those who have used the ladder of Hindutva can now use the strategy of the British of divide and rule. They will create a divide between Marathis and non-Marathis. They will erect a wall within Marathis on basis of caste and community, to continue to enjoy the power in the Centre. Marathi people must unite by forgetting their differences. The division between Marathis and non-Marathis should also be buried.” Sena chief spokesperson and former Union minister Arvind Sawant said the Sena was never anti-Gujarati or anti-south Indians. “We were against the injustice meted out to the sons of the soil. A person born in Maharashtra, whether he is Gujarati or Tamilian, is a son of the soil. Our people were not getting jobs, so Balasaheb had to pick up the issue of Marathi manoos.” In a political twist of fate, therefore, both MNS and Shiv Sena seem to be wooing the same communities they once targeted as part of their “sons of the soil” agenda. Shiv Sena, founded in June 1966, fought elections on the “rights to the Marathi manoos” plank. Four decades later, in March 2006, Raj Thackeray founded MNS following an ugly succession spat with his cousin Uddhav. In the quest for a political agenda, Raj invoked the same anti-north Indian migrant workers’ card – including beating up taxi drivers who hailed from UP and Bihar – that the original Sena had used to consolidate its Marathi support base. Shiv Sena had also launched a bitter campaign in its initial decades against the Gujarati and the Jain communities in Mumbai and its suburbs. No longer. Uddhav’s Shiv Sena wants these communities to shift loyalties from BJP, while Raj’s MNS wants to get closer to the north Indian community to cement its relationship with BJP. HISTORICAL CONTEXT MNS leaders assert the party’s anti-north Indian image was created by the media. Nitin Sardesai, senior MNS leader, said, “Our stand as anti-north Indian was always misunderstood. Raj Saheb, in a 2018 gathering of north Indians, had clearly said that it was the failure of states such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to create jobs. If locals won’t get jobs there, migration is bound to happen. When locals here won’t get jobs, friction with migrants is a natural outcome.” Another senior party leader, Bala Nandgaonkar said the party “has never opposed north Indians living in Mumbai for generations.” Meanwhile, a key Shiv Sena leader, said on the condition of anonymity, “The BJP is looking at a combination of Gujarati, north Indian and middle-class Maharashtrian votes to win Mumbai as well adjoining cities in next year’s civic polls. If they are going to dent our voter base, we have to do the same with theirs. Gujaratis are a better option because the community is not hostile to the Sena under Uddhavji and Aadityaji (Aaditya Thackeray, Uddhav’s son and the state’s environment minister).” The roots of Shiv Sena’s uneasy relationship with the Gujarati and Jain communities dates back to the Samyukta Maharashtra (United Maharashtra) movement when Gujarat and Maharashtra were carved out of the then Bombay Presidency in 1960. Both states wanted Mumbai (then Bombay) as their capital, but the Central government ruled in favour of Maharashtra. Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray, a political cartoonist, began targeting the Gujarati community in his artworks. Political historians point to the Sena’s apparent grudge against the lack of private jobs for the Marathi-speaking locals in businesses dominated by the Gujarati, Jain and Marwari communities. Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “Since Samyukta Maharashtra movement the Gujarati-Marathi divide was created as Morarji Desai wanted Mumbai to be a part of Gujarat, which the Sena had vehemently opposed. Later, they (Sena) saw that private jobs came from these communities, and this furthered the divide.” In addition to these communities, the senior Thackeray launched a campaign against South Indians who, according to the Sena, were “usurping jobs in banks, corporations and Central government offices in Mumbai.” Desai added, “Balasaheb started the movement against south Indians largely on the basis of jobs. The banks had a lobby which would not give jobs to Marathis. Competency was also an issue with the Marathis.”Raj’s evolution as MNS leader was no different. His outfit called for forcibly evicting north Indian migrant workers from Mumbai and Maharashtra. In 2008, MNS workers attacked north Indians in Mumbai and other districts including Pune, Nashik and Aurangabad. They also assaulted north Indian candidates who appeared for the all-India Railway Recruitment Board entrance exams. The violent campaign yielded electoral dividends. In the 2009 Maharashtra assembly elections, MNS won 13 seats out 288, five of them in Mumbai. However, the party’s drop in influence coincided with the emergence of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance government in 2014 with Narendra Modi as prime minister. That year, the MNS won just a single assembly seat in Maharashtra, and none from Mumbai. The story repeated in the 2019 elections. “MNS only tasted success in 2009 and in Nashik civic body in 2012. Lack of organisational strength and direction to the party led to the decline in their fortune,” Desai said. SHIFT IN STANCEEarlier this year, Raj officially veered towards Hindutva with a new saffron flag for the party with a seal of Chhatrapati Shivaji in the middle. “We wanted to signify our connection not only with Marathi people in particular, but also Hindus in general,” an MNS functionary said.Guru Ma Kanchan Giriji, one of the two seers who met Raj on Monday, said the MNS chief is loved by north Indians and that “they needn’t fear him.” In December 2018, Raj had addressed a gathering of north Indians under the aegis of the Uttar Bhartiya Mahapanchayat (UBM), a non-governmental organisation. In that event, he reached out to the community saying other states must also build infrastructure and economic might to help local people get jobs. “I want north Indians to understand my side of things,” he said then. “What was wrong in asking for Maharashtrian youth to be given priority in jobs over other migrants? With 13.5 crore people in the state, we don’t have enough space to walk on the roads because of a huge inflow of migrants from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Chhattisgarh,” he said. “We understand your situation but change needs to come from within the community. You have to tell your own people that now no space is left in Maharashtra, so please don’t come here.” Soon after the unlikely post-poll alliance of Shiv Sena, Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in 2019 to form the state government, MNS gravitated towards BJP, which, to be sure, could not openly have an alliance with Raj as it would risk alienating its north Indian voters. Hence, it was left to Raj to woo the north Indian voter instead. As part of this outreach campaign, Raj is expected to visit Ayodhya in December this year. Similarly, the Shiv Sena – as part of its Gujarati outreach programme – organised gatherings to drum up support for Uddhav’s handling of the pandemic, and what Sena patriarch Bal Thackeray did for the community during the 1992-93 Mumbai riots. Shiv Sena’s change in stance also coincides with a gradual mellowing of the party’s hardline posture on Hindutva and its approach towards non-Marathi communities, with a more liberal Aaditya playing a key role in the party’s evolution. Insiders say that Sena is wooing the Gujarati community because it knows it cannot win Mumbai civic polls only on the basis of Marathi votes. “The population dynamic of Mumbai has altered. The Marathi population has not grown as much as the people from the other communities. Gujaratis, Jains and Marwaris account for a significant number of voters in Mumbai and so political parties will take that into consideration,” said Mumbai-based political analyst Surendra Jondhale. THE POLITICAL CALCULATIONMNS and Shiv Sena largely share the same vote base – Marathi manoos (Marathi person). However, the Mumbai electoral pie has other factors. As per the 2011 census, the Gujarati-speaking population in Mumbai was 19%, while Jain community (which also largely speaks Gujarati) was 4.5%. In 2011, Mumbai’s population was 12.4 million. Over the last 10 years, these numbers would have increased significantly to impact the outcome of the BMC polls.In the 2017 Mumbai municipal election, Shiv Sena won 84 of the 226 seats and just about managed to retain its senior partner position with BJP, which won had 82 and pocketed seats in the western suburbs largely dominated by non-Marathi population. Political analysts said the BJP performed well in 2017 as it adopted a development agenda. “Since 2014, the BJP had taken up the development agenda. In Maharashtra, under Devendra Fadnavis, the government took up several infrastructure projects. In Mumbai Metro project was pushed. Having their CM also helped BJP in BMC election,” said Jondhale. Sena spokesperson Sawant acknowledged that the Marathi population in Mumbai has remained constant, while the non-Marathi population has increased. This time, though, Shiv Sena is likely to bank on its Covid-19 performance as well. Insiders say that, as a chief minister with no prior administrative experience, Uddhav Thackeray managed to keep the pandemic under control and created large-scale public health infrastructure. BJP, on the other hand, is expected to use the resentment of traders and business owners against the Thackeray government for a prolonged Covid-19 lockdown in Mumbai. Jondhale, a former political science professor at Mumbai University, said, “Uddhav Thackeray had earlier said that politics of religion was not good. He has not disavowed Hindutva, but he is speaking on it because BJP is trying to corner him on that issue. Besides, he is focusing more on governance which will help his party overall, not just in the BMC polls.” He added that calling Raj Thackeray as the new Hindutva icon would be “exaggeration”. He wondered if Raj would risk losing the Marathi youth following in order to gain the trust of north Indians. “He (Raj) has the charisma, but it never translated into votes for him. When Uddhav gives directions to his party, he has the organisational strength to execute his plan, unlike Raj.” He added, “Even BJP doesn’t have it as strong as the Sena does at the ward level. But they make up for it with two faces, Devendra Fadnavis and Narendra Modi.” javascript:selectTab(’tab-panel’, ‘tabExtra’);||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ahead-of-mumbai-civic-polls-thackeray-cousins-woo-communities-they-once-targeted-101634747722548.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Doctor clicks rare Mottled Wood Owl in Prayagraj||In a first confirmed sighting, the extremely rare and endangered Mottled Wood Owl (Strix ocellata) has been clicked in Prayagraj. Endemic to the forests of central India, Mottled Wood Owl has been listed as a ‘threatened’ species on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List since 2016 and has been clicked by an ardent wildlife photographer and Sangam city’s laparoscopy and cancer surgeon Dr Arpit Bansal near the Harish-Chandra Research Institute (HRI) campus in Jhunsi. Incidentally, the spotting of this rare owl comes close to the festival of Diwali during which many owls are illegally caught and sacrificed for black magic in the country. “It was during the morning hours near HRI campus in Jhunsi recently when I spotted the Mottled Wood Owl. Owls are generally nocturnal, so it was a very thrilling moment for me to capture the Mottled Wood Owl during the daytime, even though the light was poor at that time due to clouds,” shared Dr Bansal, reliving the moment. Perched on a branch, the owl was being bothered by crows and other birds. Suddenly, it landed on the ground for hunting. And, there, I got my dream shot of the rare Mottled Wood Owl in Prayagraj, added the doctor who is director of a 200-bed Jeevan Jyoti Hospital in Prayagraj. “Its spotting is very rare, so we also uploaded its details on ebird.org — an international online database of bird observations providing scientists, researchers and amateur naturalists with real-time data about bird distribution and abundance. It will also inform the bird lovers about the possible habitat of this owl and encourage its conservation,” shared the 35-year-old medico, who has already clicked 887 species of different birds out of the total 1,349 found in India. With the click of Mottled Wood Owl, Dr Bansal has succeeded in photographing five endangered species of Owls within the busy city limits, including Spotted Owlet, Jungle Owlet, Barn Owl and Indian Scops Owl—all of which are under threat owing to depleting forest cover. “With this click, I have succeeded in photographing 31 out of 36 species of owls found in India, in their natural habitat,” he added. Dr Bansal, who has been a wildlife and bird photographer for the past ten years, says that it is high time that we start spreading awareness about owls here in Prayagraj and also in other parts of the country so that people become aware and come forward to protect these beautiful and useful birds, and put a check to any illegal activity related to harming them. DFO Prayagraj Ramesh Chandra said over 250 bird species have been spotted in Prayagraj, over the years, by bird lovers and conservationists. “We are aware of the presence of some species of owls like Jungle Owlet, Spotted Owlet, Collared Scops Owl, Short-eared Owl and Rock Eagle Owl in and around the city. Spotting of endangered Mottled Wood Owl is good news, and all efforts will be made to protect it from any harm,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/doctor-clicks-rare-mottled-wood-owl-in-prayagraj-101634747602365.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC plans 50 locations for setting up food trucks in Mumbai, slots to be auctioned||Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday directed civic body officials to formulate a comprehensive policy for allowing setting up of food trucks at 50 locations in the city. According to the plan, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) plans to draft a policy after taking into consideration the views from other stakeholders like the health department of BMC, Mumbai Traffic Police (MTP) and Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB).The slots for setting up food trucks at 50 locations will be auctioned on the same lines as slots for on-street parking lots are done in the city. Once the policy is out, the BMC will float tenders and pick bidders to run the food trucks. Some of the food trucks will be given by the BMC to women self-help groups.A BMC official who attended the meeting said, “A detailed food truck policy will be rolled out. It will be selling cooked food and not vegetables and fruits. The finer details will be worked out. All food trucks will require an NOC from the traffic police and other departments like the fire brigade. We will also identify the location and fix timings for the food trucks as part of the policy.”The official added, “As per the plan, every ward will get at least two locations where food trucks can be kept. However, the number of slots will be depending on the area available in the particular area.”Earlier, the plan was to set up food trucks in khau gallis in all 24 administrative wards of the city. However, the city was hit with a second wave days later with cases starting to increase from February 2021 due to which the plan was put on hold. The idea of food trucks was pushed by state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray who announced having food trucks across the city to boost tourism. In the 2021-22 budget, BMC reserved ₹200 crore for creating food hubs including beautification of footpaths, beautifying space below flyovers etc.Meanwhile, the BMC will continue the stay on the distribution of food trucks by corporators in the city. Also, it has not taken a call on taking back the food trucks already distributed by Shiv Sena corporators in Byculla. However, on the other hand, BJP has asked Chahal to seize the food trucks running in the city that were already distributed by the BMC. In a letter to Chahal, BJP corporator Vinod Mishra said, “Around 30 trucks are already distributed in Byculla and other areas by the local corporators. These food trucks should be taken back by the BMC and seized till a formal policy is approved. With the lack of a policy, these food trucks distributed by the BMC using taxpayers’ money are running illegally.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-50-locations-for-setting-up-food-trucks-in-mumbai-slots-to-be-auctioned-101634747542364.html
20-10-2021||Other||No talks on with Capt: Dhindsa on Punjab poll alliance||Chandigarh Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) president and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Wednesday said there had been no contact or talk with former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh regarding a poll alliance for the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab. Dhindsa said he has had no contact with Amarinder for the past three-four years. “We have been approached by several parties and the party will take a call on their feelers. At this moment, we are not thinking about elections. Our focus is on the farmers’ agitation till the time their issues are resolved,” he said, responding to the former CM’s statement regarding his plan to forge a tie-up with like-minded parties. Amarinder on Tuesday said that he planned to announce his political party soon. He also talked about a seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP if the farmers’ issue was resolved, besides looking at an alliance with like-minded parties such as breakaway Akali groups, particularly Dhindsa and Brahmpura factions. Dhindsa, however, insisted that their party (SAD-Sanyukt) would have no truck with the Congress, the Badals and the BJP. Dhindsa and former MP Ranjit Singh Brahmpura merged their parties, SAD (Democratic) and SAD (Taksali) – in May to form SAD (Sanyukt).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-talks-on-with-capt-dhindsa-on-punjab-poll-alliance-101634747362208.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||TCS to digitally manage Ram temple trust’s accounting system||LUCKNOW Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) will digitally manage the accounting system of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, and the software for this will be put in place for effective use by December-end. “The accounting system of the Trust will be digitally managed by Tata Consultancy Services. They were working on the project for the last two months and today they gave us a demonstration,” Champat Rai, general secretary of the Trust told media persons on Wednesday after a meeting of the Ram Mandir Construction Committee.The system (software) will be ready for use by the end of December, he added. Rai said: “The engineers’ group also discussed how to make the Ram temple complex eco-friendly.” The Trust has estimated that around five lakh devotees would visit Ayodhya every day during festivals after Ram temple comes up.“Where will rainwater and waste go? During fairs (in Ayodhya) if there is requirement of 10-11 lakh litre water per day then from where will this water come?,” asked Rai while telling office-bearers to prepare a plan in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tcs-to-digitally-manage-ram-temple-trust-s-accounting-system-101634747182354.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Param Bir Singh untraceable; not inclined to continue no coercive action statement, state tells HC||The Bombay high court (HC), while hearing the petition of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, was informed by the state government that it was not willing to continue its statement of no coercive action including arrest, as Singh was not traceable. The state submitted that as there were developments in other matters it could not continue the statement which was made concerning the case registered against Singh by a police officer under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Singh has sought quashing of the first information report (FIR). While hearing the petition, a division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal was informed by senior advocate Darius Khambata, for the state that as reports suggested that he (Singh) was not traceable, the state was not willing to give a statement in his matter. However, senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani for Singh submitted that as the state government had not declared his client as absconding, it should continue the statement till further hearing. Jethmalani submitted that Singh had responded twice to the summons issued to him in the atrocity’s cases. Apart from sections of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, various other sections were added in the FIR lodged on a complaint of police inspector Bhimrao Ghadge. Ghadge has alleged that when he refused to comply with Singh’s order of dropping the names of a few persons from an FIR in 2015, Singh had got FIRs against him and had also hurled castiest remarks against him for non-compliance. In another petition filed by Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rashmi Shukla, senior counsel Mahesh Jethmalani who represented her reiterated that Maharashtra government’s action of filing an FIR against her in the illegal phone tapping case was an attempt to keep a gun on her head. Jethmalani submitted that Shukla had performed her duty according to the mandate given to her and had maintained secrecy as per the law. Jethmalani further argued that there was no reason for the state to invoke the Official Secrets Act against Shukla when the state maintained that the report, she submitted to her superior was a roving probe. The senior advocate argued that the FIR against Shukla was nothing but an attempt to suppress the presence of political influence and corruption in police transfers and postings. He added that the state government was trying to shield chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, who had sanctioned the phone tapping while he was the additional chief secretary. “There is a serious attempt to avoid judicial, CBI or ED scrutiny of these documents,” submitted Jethmalani while seeking quashing of the FIR. The bench will continue hearing of Shukla’s petition on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/param-bir-singh-untraceable-not-inclined-to-continue-no-coercive-action-statement-state-tells-hc-101634747062175.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||One dead, eight missing in two boat mishaps in Lakhimpur Kheri||One person died while eight others were missing in two separate incidents of boat capsize in overflowing Ghaghra river in Lakhimpur Kheri on Wednesday, officials said.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath took cognizance of the incident and instructed officials to ensure proper help to the victims.“The chief minister has said with the help of the disaster management team, rescue and relief work should be done expeditiously,” the chief minister’s office said in the statement.In the first case, 16 villagers of Bhadaipurwa village, a hamlet of Mirjapur gram panchayat under Isanagar police limits, were attempting to visit their paddy fields on a boat across the Ghaghra river on Wednesday morning. But the boat couldn’t stand the river current and capsized mid way. Sundar Lal (65), died while others were left stranded and later airlifted by an army chopper from Bareilly.In a separate incident near Talia ghat, another boat carrying 17 persons, including seven men, seven women and three children, capsized in Ghaghra while they were returning from Jungle Matera.District officials said “Nine among these, including three women, have been rescued while search for eight persons were on.”They added “NDRF teams had been deployed to locate and trace the missing eight persons.”Meanwhile, overflowing Sharda river following heavy discharge of 533000 cusec waters from Banbasa barrage on Tuesday wreaked havoc in dozens of villages and towns in Pallia, Nighasan and Lakhimpur tehsils.The overflowing river submerged the Bhira-Pallia state highway forcing officials to suspend road-traffic. Dozens of villages and agricultural fields were left inundated in knee-deep water. Overflowing Mohana and Suheli rivers flooded parts of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/one-dead-eight-missing-in-two-boat-mishaps-in-lakhimpur-kheri-101634746642319.html
20-10-2021||Ranchi||Covid-19 vaccination: J’khand health dept looks for over 12 lakh people overdue for second dose||Over 12 lakh persons who are due for their second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine are yet to turn up for inoculation and the state health department is looking for them to ensure they take their jibe as early as possible. The state health department has shared a list of such people with all the districts to locate them and ensure they are fully vaccinated. The communication from the office of health secretary Arun Kumar Singh has also directed all districts to ramp up daily vaccination targets and ensure at least 3 lakh persons get the jab every day. Currently, the state is inoculating just over one lakh people daily. “Those on the overdue list as per the CoWin portal should be located and inoculated immediately. District wise overdue list of Covishield and Covaxin is attached,” said the letter from the health secretary’s office. As per the provided list, 8.61 lakh persons are due for the second dose of Covishield and 3.86 lakh have been due for the second dose of Covaxin across the state. Only around 20% of the 2.46 crore eligible population above 18 years in the state have been fully vaccinated, while 60 per cent of the eligible persons have got the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Senior officials in the health department said awareness and migration could be key possible reasons for people not turning up for the second dose. “Many people especially in the rural areas are not very educated so they might not be aware of the exact vaccine cycle. Also, many people migrate for work. They might even have taken the shots there and that could be showing in data of that state. We are taking requisite steps to corroborate and adjust those figures, besides creating awareness about vaccination,” said a senior official of the national health mission department. The official said directions have been given to the districts to approach all on the overdue list through their registered mobile number and take action accordingly..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid19-vaccination-j-khand-health-dept-looks-for-over-12-lakh-people-overdue-for-second-dose-101634745982169.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||SRA can work out four steps to restart stalled slum projects in Mumbai: State||To give a boost to the slum revamp schemes, the state government has given a green signal to the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) to work out four alternate methods to kickstart the stalled slum projects.There are about 225-250 SRA schemes in Mumbai which are currently languishing due to various factors like monetary issues, lack of consent from the slum dwellers as well as compliance issues.The meeting headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked the SRA to take stringent methods to ensure that the stalled projects get rolling. In most cases, the slum dwellers have vacated their houses and are sufferings as the builders have not given them their promised monthly rents.The first option was that banks and financial institutions which have funded the project can remove the old developer and bring the new developer on board to start the project. The second option was Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) signing a joint venture (JV) with the SRA in order to take care of its sale as a part of its affordable housing scheme. The third option: the builders to be allowed to pledge their sale portion to the banks and financial institutions to raise loans. The last option will be direct inviting tenders by the SRA from reputed builders to take over the stalled project.There are 12.50 lakh slums with 62 lakh residents staying in them. The SRA scheme, which was started in 1996, has been moving at a snail’s pace as it faced with problems like corruption, infighting as well as regulatory problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sra-can-work-out-four-steps-to-restart-stalled-slum-projects-in-mumbai-state-101634745922205.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||TMC sets up vaccination centres at two Thane colleges for students||Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has set up vaccination centres at Dnyansadhna College and Anand Vishwa Gurukul College for the convenience of college students who aren’t fully jabbed.Overall, these institutes received 1,000 doses of Covishield and 200 doses of Covaxin. The vaccination drive is being held from 9am to 4pm for one week starting Wednesday.This decision was taken by TMC after the State government asked educational institutes to organise such drives within their premises for the convenience of the students as only fully vaccinated are allowed to attend college.Colleges within Mumbai and neighbouring cities began on Wednesday. Most colleges had students from post-graduation or research based attending physically. However, in Thane city, a few students from the second year and third year who had completed their first term also visited to get inoculated.“We have made separate arrangements for vaccination. A few classrooms have been kept aside for vaccination and as waiting rooms. A schedule has been prepared for students who have not taken the first jab. We have called them batch wise to get vaccinated this week within the college premises itself. For those who are due for the second dose, we have made both doses available,” said Dr Hemant Chitte, principal, Dnyansadhna College, Thane.Nishant Jaiswal, 20, TYBCom student, got his second shot of Covaxin on Wednesday. “I had taken the first jab in a centre near my home in Mulund but this seemed convenient as I could attend college as well. Although our lectures are over, I can come over for solving doubts once I am fully vaccinated. I felt this was an easier process as there was no queue and I could be inoculated as soon as I reached college,” said Jaiswal.Similarly, students at Anand Vishwa Gurukul can also avail this facility for the next three days.“Each day, we are providing around 500 doses for students in both colleges. If colleges show interest, we can start this process in other institutes as well. This is part of our initiative to reach out to all sections of the society. We have provided a separate women-only facility and also have four mobile vaccination units that reach out to different parts of the city and also vaccinate the destitute,” said Naresh Mhaske, Thane mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tmc-sets-up-vaccination-centres-at-two-thane-colleges-for-students-101634745864110.html
20-10-2021||Other||Property dealer dies as illegal gun goes off accidentally at family party in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: A 25-year-old property dealer succumbed to his gunshot injuries which he received accidentally at his home during a family party at Sachha Baba Nagar in Arail under Naini police station on Wednesday morning. The youth’s friend was showing him how to handle a pistol during which the firearm went off resulting in his death, police said. According to reports, Deenanath Pandey’s son Abhilash Pandey worked as a property dealer. On Wednesday morning, he was at his home with his friends when his kin heard a gunshot. They rushed towards his room and saw him lying on the floor with a bullet injury in his chest. Abhilash was rushed to SRN hospital where he died while undergoing treatment in the afternoon. Superintendent of police (SP), trans-Yamuna, Saurabh Dixit and other senior officials reached the spot and carried out investigations and questioned those present on the spot. The SP said primary investigations revealed that Abhilash was in his house with his friends. Meanwhile, one Vivek Tiwari of same area whipped out an illegal pistol and was showing others how to handle it when it went off suddenly. Abhilash received a bullet in his chest and collapsed. He was taken to SRN hospital but could not be saved by the doctors. “Eyewitnesses are being thoroughly questioned and an FIR will be lodged on the basis of a complaint received by the youth’s kin,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/property-dealer-dies-as-illegal-gun-goes-off-accidentally-at-family-party-in-prayagraj-101634745862319.html
20-10-2021||Other||Oct rain wreaks havoc on ready paddy crop in Bihar||Heavy October rainfall has not only caused damage to standing mature paddy crops in several parts of Bihar but has also affected the prospects of rabi crops, officials said, adding though that they were yet to make an assessment of the damage.Chief minister Nitish Kumar too held a meeting with senior officials to review the loss of crops due to rains on Wednesday evening.Incessant rainfall in Nepal and in the state have also increased the threat of floods in Supaul and Kishanganj districts in north Bihar, where the district administrations have sounded alert following a surge in Kosi and Mahananda rivers.“We have alerted officials in five circles of the district and boats have pressed into service in the low-lying areas to assist people,” Supaul’s district magistrate (DM) Mahendra Kumar told HT over phone. “A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been deployed to deal with any situation,” he said, adding that there was no reason to panic as discharge into Kosi has started falling.“Agriculture officials have been asked to assess the damage and submit the report by Wednesday evening,” he said.Kishanganj DM Dr Aditya Prakash said, “Flood waters have entered a few panchayats of Terhagachh and Dighalbank blocks following the surge in Mahananda river and we are keeping a watch. Agriculture officials have started assessing the damage to crops in various areas. A report will be sent to the government.” District agriculture officer (DAO) of Purnia, Prakash Chandra Mishra, said, “We are assessing the damage. October rainfall has delayed rabi sowing by at least 15 days.” However, DAO of Saharsa Dinesh Prasad Singh said, “There is no report of any damage to crops in the district due to rains.”Farmers in Purnia and Saharsa, where paddy is cultivated over large areas, are a worried lot. “Our paddy in flowering stage has been damaged,” said Sunil Singh, a farmer in Dhamdaha. Mukhtar Alam of Shrinagar block in Purnia said, “Paddy, which was almost at harvesting stage, has been damaged by rains and winds.”In Darbhanga, Baidyanath Thakur, a farmer of Ratanpur village in Jale block, had cultivated paddy this time with great expectations. However, for the last three days, intermittent rains have shattered all his dreams. His paddy crop in about 4-5 bighas of land has been completely damaged.In Moujampur village under Benipur block, Radheshyam Mahto says sowing of paddy this year was delayed due to incessant rains and floods. Now, standing crop got ruined due to strong wind and rains.DAO in Darbhanga, Radha Raman, said actual crop damage would be known only after an assessment, to be conducted after weather turns conducive.District statistical officer, Shambhu Prasad Yadav, said the total average rainfall recorded in district till Wednesday in October was 219.94 mm, the highest in last five years. The average rainfall recorded in October last year was 12.9 mm. The average rainfall for the month of October in 2019 was 11.1 mm, in 2018 it was 5.7 mm and in 2017 the figure was 11.6 mm. Damage to paddy crop was also reported from Bhojpur district. Agriculture scientist Dr P K Dwivedi said untimely rains were not favourable for rabi crops either and had damaged tiny plants of potato and peas just sown by farmers, besides damaging paddy crops.(With inputs from Prashant Ranjan)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oct-rain-wreaks-havoc-on-ready-paddy-crop-in-bihar-101634745803617.html
20-10-2021||Patna||President lands on 3-day visit to Bihar, to grace Assembly centenary celebrations today||President Ram Nath Kovind arrived in Patna Wednesday afternoon on his three-day visit during which he will grace the centenary celebrations of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building on Thursday.He was welcomed at the Jai Prakash Narayan Airport in Patna by Governor Phagu Chouhan, chief minister Nitish Kumar, Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, Bihar Legislative Council chairman Avadhesh Narayan Singh, deputy CMs Renu Devi and Tarkishore Prasad, leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and several other ministers. He will stay at the Raj Bhawan and will leave on Friday.On Thursday, the President will attend the centenary celebrations of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building, which hosted the inaugural session of the joint Bihar and Orissa Provincial Council on February 7, 1921, and address the members of the Bihar Legislature. All the legislators, including former MLAs and members of Parliament, have been invited for the function.Later in the day, Kovind will visit the sacred Takht Harmandir Sahib, the birth site of Guru Gobind Singh, and the revered Mahavir Mandir. Kovind was the Governor of Bihar before getting elevated to the country’s top position in 2017. The Bihar assembly building, which is an iconic structure designed by AN Millwood and was called the Council Chamber in the beginning, has been exquisitely decorated for the event. The present-day legislature has its genesis in the December 12, 1911, decision of British emperor George V regarding the creation of a separate province combining Bihar and Orissa, with Patna as its headquarters, and it was notified on March 22, 1912. Later, an independent building and secretariat for the Provincial Legislative Council was built in 1920.After reviewing the preparations with the high-level committee, Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha said the celebrations would be a memorable event. The President will also lay the foundation of “Shatabdi Stambh” (centenary column), to be built by the building construction department to showcase the history of Bihar, and plant a sapling of Bodhi tree.Soon after being sworn in as the President, Kovind had visited the state to launch Bihar’s third phase of agriculture roadmap. Later, he also visited the state for the convocation ceremonies at Rajendra Agriculture University (Pusa) and NIT Patna and the international Dharma-Dhamma conference at Rajgir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/president-lands-on-3-day-visit-to-bihar-to-grace-assembly-centenary-celebrations-today-101634745802187.html
20-10-2021||Other||5 MPs elected on forged caste certificates: Manjhi||Former Bihar chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi on Wednesday alleged that five members of Parliament, including a union minister, were elected to the Lok Sabha from seats reserved for the scheduled castes on the basis of forged caste certificates and demanded a probe. Addressing the national executive meeting of his party Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) in New Delhi on Wednesday, Manjhi, whose party is a constituent of the ruling National Democratic Alliance in Bihar, alleged that Union minister S P Singh Baghel and Jaisiddeshwar Shivacharya Mahaswamiji (both BJP MPs), Congress MP Mohammad Sadique, Trinamool MP Aparupa Poddar and Independent MP Navneet Ravi Rana represent seats reserved for SCs after contesting on the basis of forged certificates. Manjhi claimed 15-20 per cent of quota benefits for Dalits in jobs and even local body polls are usurped by others on the basis of forged caste certificates. “The trend should stop,” he said. According to PTI, though there was no immediate reaction from these parliamentarians to his allegations, most of them in the past have denied the charge. However, Baghel’s aides have said his caste is notified as an SC in Uttar Pradesh from where he has been elected. The Bombay High Court had cancelled Rana’s caste certificate but she got relief from the Supreme Court which had in June stayed the judgment. This is not the first time Manjhi has taken a line that has embarrassed ally BJP. In May this year, he had questioned the use of PM’s photo on Covid vaccination certificates. The tweet, though, was later deleted. The HAM (S) president also demanded a common schooling system for everyone and a separate electoral roll for Dalits. “Common schooling for children from different strata of society will bring equality. Reservations will then not be needed if the review of such an education brings out positive outcomes in 10 years,” he suggested and announced dissolution of all organisational bodies of the party. Talking to media persons later, Manjhi was also critical of peace efforts initiated by the government in Kashmir. “The Union government may be making efforts to usher in peace in Kashmir but results are not visible, “he said while referring to killings of migrants from Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-mps-elected-on-forged-caste-certificates-manjhi-101634745742126.html
20-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Drive against spurious liquor smuggling intensified, vigil enhanced on highways||PRAYAGRAJ: Apart from crackdown on hooch and arresting bootleggers operating in remote areas and wetlands of rivers in rural areas of Prayagraj, the district police have launched an intense vehicle checking drive against smuggling of spurious liquor on highways and alternate routes that may be used by the liquor smugglers during the festival season. Superintendent of police (SP), Crime, Ashutosh Mishra said that cops of all police stations, especially, in rural areas had been asked to remain alert during the festive season as liquor smugglers might try to take advantage of this period. “Cops are keeping strict vigil on highways and launching routine checking drives, besides patrolling on alternate routes, which may be used by smugglers to enter the district, have been increased, he said. Police had recently arrested two persons who were involved in smuggling and supply of spurious country liquor to country liquor shops in trans-Ganga area.On Tuesday, a team of Handia police laid a trap near Bhiti crossing and intercepted an SUV after a chase. At least 15 cartons, containing 656 bottles of illegal country liquor along with 90 corks, 80 QR codes, were recovered from the vehicle. Three persons in the SUV were arrested and they were identified as Santosh Yadav of Jaunpur, Dilip Jaiswal of Handia area and Vijay Kumar of Mirzapur district. Questioning from them revealed that they were involved in smuggling of illegal liquor to country liquor shops in the region. The illegal liquor was sold in bottles of branded liquor which poses health and life risk to consumers. On September 4, Special Task Force had also arrested two persons with DCM carrying illicit English liquor smuggled from another state. The smugglers informed that they used to supply the smuggled liquor in the region as it was less costly than brands sold here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-drive-against-spurious-liquor-smuggling-intensified-vigil-enhanced-on-highways-101634745202027.html
20-10-2021||Other||Lucknow: Anti-terrorism squad busts inter-state gang of arms suppliers, one arrested||Lucknow Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday claimed to have busted an inter-state gang of firearms supplier and arrested a key member of the gang from Kanpur. However, one of his accomplices managed to escape. The ATS recovered six 32 bore pistols, 12 magazines and 20 cartridges from his possession, said senior police officials. The ATS and other agencies, including Special Task Force, have been directed to keep a vigil on movement of firearms suppliers to curb use of illegal firearms ahead of the upcoming assembly elections early next year, they said. A press note released by UP ATS stated that the arrested man was identified as Abhishek Pal, 23, a resident of Amethi, while the identity of one who escaped was ascertained as Anil Kumar Maurya. A senior ATS official said the arrest was made from Babupurwa bus stop after getting a tip off about movement of firearms suppliers from Madhya Pradesh to Kanpur. The official said the preliminary investigation revealed that the arrested accused had brought the firearms from some place in Madhya Pradesh and had reached Kanpur to deliver it to some unknown people. He said that the arrested accused was being interrogated about other people associated with the gang and purchasers of the illegal firearms. During interrogation, the accused also revealed names of some more people associated with supply of illegal firearms but denied divulging details about them as it would hinder their further operation. The officer said that some more arrests and recovery was likely very soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-anti-terrorism-squad-busts-inter-state-gang-of-arms-suppliers-one-arrested-101634744604185.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||90% cases filed by NCB are fake, alleges Nawab Malik; PIL to follow||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief spokesperson Nawab Malik on Wednesday continued his attack on the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) stating that most of the cases filed by the investigative agency were “fake” and “victims” were considering filing a public interest litigation (PIL). Malik spoke to reporters shortly after the Special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court rejected the bail plea of Aryan Khan on grounds that there was prima facie evidence which indicated that the 23-year-old was indulging in “illicit drug activities on a regular basis”. Malik on Wednesday claimed that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in opposition in Maharashtra, was in connivance with NCB officials to defame the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Malik added that he was working on collecting evidence which he would disclose next week. “Ninety per cent of the cases filed by the NCB in the last one year are fake. It is going to be established one day before the court of law. I am personally collecting evidence on fake cases. A few advocates will be filing a PIL on behalf of the victims,” he said. “I will also come out with evidence on how they tried to defame the MVA government in the last one year,” Malik, who is the state’s Minority development minister, said. The NCP leader, who has held several press conferences since October 6 — three days after Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, and seven others were arrested following an NCB raid on a holiday cruise ship scheduled to travel to Goa — also said that the case against Khan was fake, as the seizure pictures of contraband circulated by the NCB was from taken at the office of NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede and not on the spot. The NCB was making charges based on WhatsApp chats and not by conducting urine and blood tests. “Earlier, the officials used to collect urine and blood samples of those detained from rave parties and cases used to be filed on the basis of their positive reports. In contrast, the NCB in the last one year has accused everyone as a consumer but did not take their blood and urine samples. Instead the agency is using their WhatsApp chats to make allegations and delay bail,” Malik said. Malik’s son-in-law, Sameer Khan was arrested by the NCB for alleged drug possession in January. Sameer Khan is now out on bail. On Wednesday Malik said that a similar strategy was adopted against Sameer Khan. “NCB said they have financing proof of ₹5 lakh as WhatsApp chats held between his two sons-in-law but when the charge sheet was filed there was no mention of the WhatsApp chat. It means they wanted to create trouble and ensure the bail plea of the accused is rejected,” Malik added. “There is a complaint filed at Versova police in April by a person saying a few people tried to extort money in the name of Sameer Wankhede,” Malik said. The BJP responded to Malik’s allegations stating that the NCP is hampering the anti-drug movement. Keshav Upadhye, party spokesperson said, “Is NCP supporting the anti-drug movement or are they against it? We have been raising this question since day one. Making allegations every now and then against the enforcement agency will not only hamper the movement but will also affect its morale?” Upadhye said. “Aryan Khan’s bail was denied by the court and Malik can also move the court if he is not satisfied with the court’s decision,” Upadhye added. “I am doing my job and whatever will come, will answer to the honorable court,” NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said. (With inputs from Manish Pathak)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/90-cases-filed-by-ncb-are-fake-alleges-nawab-malik-pil-to-follow-101634744601979.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party, SBSP become allies for 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls||The Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), a former BJP ally-turned-rival, have become allies for the 2022 UP assembly polls.Both the Samajwadi Party and the SBSP announced the alliance on Wednesday. Before the announcement, SBSP president Om Prakash Rajbhar, a former minister in the Yogi Adityanath government, and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav met at the Samajwadi Party state headquarters in Lucknow. SBSP chief general secretary Arvind Rajbhar was also present at the meeting that finalised the alliance for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.Om Prakash Rajbhar, in a tweet in Hindi, said: “The BJP will be wiped out this time. The Samajwadi Party and the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party have come together. The days of the BJP government, which betrayed all sections along with Dalits, backward, and minorities, are numbered.”Om Prakash Rajbhar and Akhilesh Yadav were in talks, intermittently, for more than a year. Simultaneously, the SBSP chief had also been working on other alliances and frequently met AIMIM chief Assaduddin Owaisi and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia (PSP-L) chief Shivpal Yadav (Akhilesh’s uncle).Om Prakash Rajbhar had founded the SBSP in 2002. His party contested all the Lok Sabha and assembly elections (both in eastern UP and in some constituencies of Bihar) since then. The SBSP has its support base among the Rajbhar and a few other backward class communities in eastern UP and the bordering areas of Bihar.The SBSP had its first electoral success when Rajbhar had allied with the BJP ahead of the 2017 UP assembly polls. The SBSP had won four seats then and the BJP government inducted Om Prakash Rajbhar as the minister for backward classes and disabled welfare. However, the relationship soured soon after Rajbhar’s frequent statements against the Yogi and Modi governments. He had been demanding “better treatment” of Rajbhars and also the inclusion of the community in the list of scheduled castes. In 2019, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had dismissed Om Prakash Rajbhar from the state cabinet after he accused the government of not doing enough for the backward castes.The Yogi government also dismissed seven members of SBSP, including Rajbhar’s son Arvind Rajbhar, from their posts in various UP government committees.The Samajwadi Party confirmed the alliance through a statement in which the Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said: “This is the beginning of the end of the oppressive rule of the BJP...the founder of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party, Shri Omprakash Rajbhar, has always been fighting for the poor, farmers, labourers, downtrodden and backward classes. SBSP has always talked about social justice, whether it is reservation based on population and economic status, implementation of the report of the social justice committee, technical education in primary schools, domestic electricity bill waiver, 50% reservation for women, free treatment to the poor, employment to the unemployed…etc.”Chaudhary further said: “There are 18-22% Rajbhar voters in Purvanchal with SBSP. The party influences more than 150 seats of eastern UP. There is deep penetration in the assembly seats of Varanasi, Devipatan, Gorakhpur, Azamgarh divisions of the state. SBSP also has a stronghold on sub-castes like Bansi, Aarkh, Arkvanshi, Kharwar, Kashyap, Pal, Prajapati, Bind, Banjara, Bari, Biar, Vishwakarma, Nai and Paswan.”While Om Prakash Rajbhar had been interacting with Owaisi or Shivpal, he also had met UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh in August, triggering speculation that SBSP and BJP would ally again.After the meeting with Swatantra Dev Singh, Om Prakash Rajbhar had said: “In politics, anything can happen. In politics, there are no permanent friends or enemies.”Om Prakash Rajbhar had also formed a Bhagidari Morcha for smaller anti-BJP parties to ally.Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had been saying that his party would not ally with any big political parties and would strike strategic alliances with small, regional anti-BJP parties. He had been also saying that with its allies, SP will win 400 seats in 2022 polls. Polls are likely to be held early next year for the 403 seats in the Uttar Pradesh assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/samajwadi-party-sbsp-become-allies-for-2022-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-101634744542082.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Take stern action against illegal construction, dumping of debris: Uddhav Thackeray||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday directed the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to take stern action against illegal constructions in the city. He assured that the government is with BMC and no pressure to protect such constructions will be tolerated. He further directed the civic body to adopt a transparent procedure to complete the tender process for repair of roads in the city and do not provide any chance to anyone to raise suspicion.“BMC should start action against illegal construction on a war footing. No illegal construction will be tolerated in the city. The ward officers should dutifully take prompt action against them. Do not give in before any pressure as we (state government) are with you,” Thackeray told senior officials.The directions were given in a meeting called by the chief minister to review cases of communicable diseases such as malaria, dengue, and other issues. They assume significance considering the BMC elections scheduled early next year.The chief minister further said, “Complete the tender process for road repair works in Mumbai systematically and transparently. The repair work of potholes on the roads should be completed on priority and set a time limit for it.”He said that they want to make the city beautiful with high-quality facilities. Ensure that the work of roads, sidewalks, dividers, gardens are completed by the given deadline and look beautiful and tidy as well.Thackeray also directed the civic body to take action against those found dumping debris along eastern and western express highways. “It has also been observed that debris is being dumped along the eastern and western express highways. Install CCTV cameras there and take immediate action against those who are involved. You have done well during the Covid pandemic. We have to make Mumbai a role model for the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/take-stern-action-against-illegal-construction-dumping-of-debris-uddhav-thackeray-101634743881902.html
20-10-2021||Pune||One killed, two injured as tanker rams into tractor in Hadapsar||One of the three men travelling in a tractor was killed in a hit-and-run by a tanker driver in Hadapsar on Monday night.The deceased man was identified as Rama Vitthal Adey (28), a resident of Sanketvihar in Kalepadal area of Hadapsar while the injured man was identified as Rahul Sanjay Kumbhar (24), also a resident of the same area.The incident happened around 11:05pm as the tanker driver failed to stop at the accident spot and fled leaving the three injured in front of a restaurant located in the Handewadi area located along the Mantarwadi road. The complainant and Kumbhar are grievously injured while Adey succumbed to his injuries.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Akshay Shinde (24), a resident of the same area as the two others. Shinde was the third person in the tractor and is also injured in the accident.The tanker was rash driving and came speeding towards the tractor and hit it from behind throwing all three men off the tractor, according to the police.A case under sections 279, 337, 304 (a) of the Indian penal code along with section sections 184, 132 (1) (C), 119/177 of the Motor vehicle act was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/one-killed-two-injured-as-tanker-rams-into-tractor-in-hadapsar-101634743221900.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Parents unhappy about delay in education department’s fee waiver notification||PUNE: The education department on Wednesday issued a notification that the government resolution (GR) dated August 12 about the 15% fee waiver for the academic year 2021-22 should be strictly implemented. While parents have been waiting for the implementation of the fee waiver first announced in the GR issued by the state government on August 12, members of the schools’ association said that it is not mandatory for all schools to give the waiver.D G Jagtap, director of the secondary and higher secondary education department, issued the notification. “All officials are directed to implement the fee waiver for schools and educational institutions in their respective area as per the GR issued by the state government,” he said.As per the GR issued on August 12, parents who have paid the full fee should either get a reimbursement or the excess amount should be adjusted in the next year. Parents can also file complaints with the divisional fee regulatory authority in case schools do not comply.Parents are unhappy about the delay in issuing the notification. Jayshree Deshpande, Pune division president of the All India Parents, Students and Teachers Association, said, “The education department has delayed the notification for schools which is causing a lot of distress to parents. Due to the pandemic, parents have lost their jobs and fee waiver is important for many families. However, the delay reflects that officials are not taking the parents’ grievances seriously. Due to partial or non-payment of fees, many schools are denying online education to students, leading to learning loss for them.”Meanwhile, the schools’ association said that the matter is in court and no action can be taken against schools that are not implementing the fee waiver.Rajendra Singh, working president of Independent English School Association (IESA), Maharashtra, stressed that it is not compulsory for all schools to give the waiver. “We as an association and our members have approached the court in this regard. As of now, no coercive action can be taken against schools that are not giving the 15% fee waiver for this academic year. As the matter is in court, whatever the judgment of the honourable high court will be accepted by us. Meanwhile, these letters will not be applicable to us as the matter is subjudice,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-unhappy-about-delay-in-education-department-s-fee-waiver-notification-101634742742026.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC to come up with safe school zones to make roads and footpaths in Mumbai children-friendly||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has launched a plan to create a safe school zone in the city, to make roads and footpaths outside schools safe for children. As part of this plan, the BMC aims to create child-friendly and walkable school zones in Mumbai. This includes testing design solutions that make roads walkable, barrier-free, safer, and more vibrant for all road users, especially children.On Wednesday, as part of its pilot project, the BMC launched ‘Safe School Zone’ at Byculla’s Mirza Ghalib Road. This road is home to two schools, namely Christ Church School and St Agnes High School. The BMC in partnership with Mumbai Traffic Police (MTP) and World Resources Institute (WRI) launched this project as schools across the country reopen after a year and a half to make way for safer, vibrant, walkable child-friendly streets in Mumbai.According to WRI, between 2017 and 19, a 500-meter area around Christ Church recorded 23 crashes and three fatalities. This also included two children who suffered serious injuries while on their way back home and one student’s death. Of the 2,610 school campuses in Mumbai, 28% have witnessed more than three fatalities within a 500-meter walking radius between 2017 and 19.Owing to such incidents, the design solutions of (Safe School Zone) will include demarcation of the school zone using signages, road markings, providing designated areas for walking and waiting, multi-utility zones including pick-up and drop-off zones, child-friendly spaces with playful elements and a vibrant pedestrian crossing. The pilot project using low-cost material will aid in undertaking feedback from the neighborhood, before making it permanent on-ground.According to BMC officials, going further based on the response and the success at Byculla more such zones will be created in the city. The criteria for selection will be based on the vulnerability of the road to accidents etc. Manish Valanju, assistant commissioner, E-ward, under which Byculla falls, said, “We will assess the trial, incorporate feedback from all stakeholders, including traffic police, school management and local community and prepare a plan for permanent implementation.”Rais Shaikh, local corporator from the Samajwadi Party (SP), said, “While we work hard to provide quality education to students and improve infrastructure inside schools, it is also important to look at safer access to schools. In Mumbai, even if the school is at a walking distance, many parents/guardians take their vehicle out as it’s not safe for children to walk on these roads. This pilot project will help implement it further around other schools in the city.”Further, this project is similar to the lines of junction improvement undertaken by the BMC along with MTP and WRI. In October 2019, WRI India had conducted a workshop with students at Christ Church School to understand what they would like to see around their school. This included a walk around their school to understand what they like/dislike and visualization exercises where students were asked to add elements of their choice on the street. WRI India also conducted stakeholder consultations and surveys to understand the mode of commute, time spent by children in commute and the challenges they faced.Meanwhile, Rohit Tak, Manager, Sustainable Cities and Transport, WRI India, said, “Almost 57% of the parents had said that the streets around their school precinct are not safe for children owing to several reasons, including lack of quality footpaths and vehicular conflicts.”Tak added, “Children are more prone to risks compared to adults given their smaller size, cognitive development and perception of risk. Our plan looks at a safer, child-friendly street that will make their school-going journey comfortable and enjoyable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-come-up-with-safe-school-zones-to-make-roads-and-footpaths-in-mumbai-childrenfriendly-101634742381881.html
20-10-2021||Pune||App kicks off ‘free parking’ era for Pune’s Tulshibaug shoppers||The next time you plan to go shopping to the Tulshibaug area, you can enjoy “free parking”, courtesy the Tulshibaug traders’ association. A mobile application will keep commuters abreast of parking slots available. The app was launched on Tuesday by mayor Murlidhar Mohol. The free parking lot, in the lane where the Tambdi Jogeshwari temple is, has a capacity of 250 two-wheelers and 15 four-wheelers. With Diwali approaching, and shop timings now extended till 11pm, the rush at Tulshibaug and at places like Laxmi road is only going to increase.Nitin Pandit, president, Tulshibaug traders’ association said, “When people come shopping to Tulshibaug or any other market area, the first thing they are worried about is parking. So, we started the free service. Those citizens who come to Tulshibaug can park their vehicles at this parking lot. They can also book parking slots as per the time they are coming on the mobile application called ‘Parking Hub.”“The parking charges are ₹10 per hour and if they are shopping at Tulshibaug shops, parking charges will be reimbursed by shop owners,” he added.Talks are on with traders on Laxmi road, Appa Balwant chowk, and Raviwar peth to start a similar operation.Neeru Adlakha, a resident of Dhanori area said, “Recently I went to Tulshibaug and Laxmi road and was unable to find space to park my car. I had to go all the way towards Shaniwarwada to park. If we can book the parking slot in advance it is beneficial.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/app-kicks-off-free-parking-era-for-pune-s-tulshibaug-shoppers-101634741541889.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government lifts Covid-19 night curfew||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday announced that it will lift the Covid-19 night curfew due to the fall in the number of new cases in the state. The Uttar Pradesh government continued to impose night restriction from 11pm to 6am due to the pandemic but has now lifted the curfew.“On directions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Corona curfew between 11 PM to 6 AM) is being lifted in the state,” Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary Awanish Kumar told reporters. He also said that the order was issued to all the officers concerned.Uttar Pradesh reported 11 fresh cases on Wednesday. The state currently has 112 active cases. More than 1.6 million people have so far recovered from Covid-19.India on Wednesday reported a drop in the number of active cases. India currently has 178,098 active cases, the lowest number of cases recorded in 229 days. The nation recorded 14,623 new coronavirus cases and 197 deaths. India reported 452,651 deaths due to Covid-19 since the beginning of the pandemic. Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi were among the states and Union Territories which reported a large number of deaths.The daily rise in Covid-19 infection remained below 30,000 for 26 days in a row and cases remained below 50,000 for 115 consecutive days. The recovery rate in the country rose to 98.15%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-government-lifts-covid-19-night-curfew-101634741330254.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Kongao police of Bhiwandi arrest five for robbing, attacking Thane man on road at midnight||Kongao police, Bhiwandi, arrested five accused for robbing a 27-year-old man on the night of October 12 while he was on the way home with his girlfriend. They attacked him with a wooden stick and fled with their expensive mobile phones, gold chain and ring worth ₹83,000. The victim suffered a serious head injury and is taking treatment in a private hospital.Police said that the complainant, Darshil Gudhka of Pachpakhadi, Thane, was returning home from Dongrali Road to Thane in his Ritz car at around midnight. Suddenly, three accused came in front of the car and stopped the vehicle near the railway track of Dongrali Road area. The accused started banging on the road, opened the door and snatched his i-phone and chain. The complainant tried to resist but one of them hit his head with a wooden stick and fled the spot. The complainant took the help of a friend and family, reached the hospital and informed the police. Kongao police station senior police inspector, Ganpatrao Pingle, said, “The area where the incident occurred didn’t have CCTV cameras and they wore the masks, therefore it was difficult to find the accused. We created three teams of officials and alerted all sources in the various areas and checked the technical details of the mobile phones and CCTV footage in other areas, through which the team came to know about the three accused. We arrested them and during interrogation, they confessed to the crime.”Pingle added, “During interrogation, they revealed information about two more accused who helped by selling gold chains and mobile phones. We have recovered gold jewellery, mobile phones and bikes worth ₹1.33 lakh used in the crime. The accused have previous cases of robbery registered against them in different police stations in the city.”The accused who robbed the complainant have been identified as Abdul Shaikh, 24, Umar Mansuri, 24, Nihal Shaikh, 23, all residents of Kalyan while Akash Kandhare, 24, and Salman Shaikh, 27, of Mumbra helped in selling the stolen valuables.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kongao-police-of-bhiwandi-arrest-five-for-robbing-attacking-thane-man-on-road-at-midnight-101634741181759.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Staff of international airline booked for robbing items belonging to Pune passenger||The Yerawada Police have booked unidentified staffers of an international airline for robbing clothes, perfumes, gift articles, chocolates and toys worth Rs1.40 lakh from two bags belonging to a woman passenger from Pune, who flew to San Francisco from Mumbai. The theft is alleged to have happened between September 16 and October 3, officials said on Wednesday. The FIR was lodged on Tuesday by Gauri Girish Shingote, a 45-year-old a resident of Tridalnagar in Yerawada. According to police, the passenger landed in Mumbai and came home to Pune. The two bags were brought to her home from Mumbai by airline staffers later. Upon delivery, they took her signature on the acknowledgement receipt and left. The passenger opened the bags and found the articles missing and immediately informed the police and lodged an FIR, police said. “When she opened the bags, the complainant found all the mentioned articles stolen and lodged a complaint with us. The employee of airline had come to her residence to deliver the bag,” said inspector Yunus Shaikh. The police have invoked IPC 406 ( criminal breach of trust ) against the accused. “A copy of the FIR has been given to the complainant which she has submitted to the airline company for claim purposes. There is a policy wherein the company compensates those who report loss or theft of their personal baggage. The airline authorities have asked for an English translation of the FIR copy,” said Shaikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/staff-of-international-airline-booked-for-robbing-items-belonging-to-pune-passenger-101634740881779.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri: Police recover third vehicle allegedly present in convoy of Ashish Mishra||The Lakhimpur Kheri police on Tuesday evening recovered the third vehicle that was said to be present in the convoy of Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni, when violence broke out after a jeep allegedly mowed down four farmers near Banbirpur village under the Tikunia police station limits on October 3, police officials said on Wednesday.The officials said three vehicles were present in the convoy of the minister’s son and two of them— a jeep and a SUV— were torched by a mob while the third vehicle had been missing after the incident. The Union minister and his son have repeatedly denied the involvement of Ashish Mishra or his presence at the site of the incident.An official said the third four-wheeler was seized and its forensic examination was being conducted. He said the vehicle that had been recovered now was said to be owned by a local politician, but its registration was in the name of an NRI from whom the politician had purchased it a few months before. He said the vehicle owner has been summoned so that he can be questioned about the incident and the presence of his vehicle at the spot.“Other than the local politician, eight other people have been summoned to record their statements in connection with the incident,” the official said.So far, the police have arrested 10 accused, including Ashish Mishra and his two alleged accomplices Luv Kush and Ashish Pandey, in connection with the first FIR registered for the violence that erupted after mowing down of the four farmers. Ashish Mishra was named in this FIR lodged by a farmer Jagjeet Singh while the names of the other accused surfaced during investigation.The police also initiated investigation in the second FIR registered by local BJP corporator Sumit Jaiswal in connection with the killing of four other persons, including two BJP workers, a journalist and a driver, in the violence that erupted after the vehicle in the convoy of the minister’s son allegedly mowed down the four farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-police-recover-third-vehicle-allegedly-present-in-convoy-of-ashish-mishra-101634740821960.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Elder sibling arrested in Hadapsar for killing 23-year-old over financial woes||PUNE A 28-year-old man from Hadapsar was arrested for killing his younger sibling over differences related to family finances on Monday night.The deceased man has been identified as Pradeep alias Babu Shivaji Gouri (23), while the accused arrested is identified as Manoj Gauri (28), according to the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by one of their cousins of the family, Nitin Bansode (32), also a resident of Hadapsar.The fight between the two siblings regarding money was long-standing and they had been in physical fights on Sunday (October 17) as well, according to the complaint in the case.The complainant told the police that it was because of the rage caused by this fight that the elder sibling hit the younger one in the chest and his neck using a table fan. The internal injuries caused by the attack claimed Pradeep’s life, according to the police.As the younger sibling collapsed he was rushed to the nearest hospital but was declared dead on arrival. The hospital informed the police about the death and a case was registered against the man who was later arrested, produced in court, and remanded to police custody.A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian penal code at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/elder-sibling-arrested-in-hadapsar-for-killing-23-year-old-over-financial-woes-101634740641851.html
20-10-2021||Pune||PMC to handover 10 acres to Smart City for Balewadi multimodal hub||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will handover 10 acres to Pune Smart City to develop a multimodal hub at Balewadi. Smart city director Ravindra Dhangekar said, “The proposal of the multimodal hub at Balewadi is with the general body for approval.” Congress party leader Aba Bagul said, “The ruling party (BJP) was to clear the proposal, but the general body got adjourned. Congress will oppose this proposal and demand that instead of handing over land, the PMC should develop the multimodal hub on its own.” The multimodal hub is where the metro, bus service and other modes of transport are integrated and operate to and from. Ample space is provided for commercial activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-handover-10-acres-to-smart-city-for-balewadi-multimodal-hub-101634740461690.html
20-10-2021||Pune||PMC to issue notices to contractors regarding salaries of contractual staff||PUNE The additional municipal commissioner has instructed officials to issue notices to the contractors who are not paying salaries to contractual staff working with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).At least, 3,000 employees are working on a contract basis with the municipal corporation in various departments. Most of the security guards work on contract and have not received salaries.Ravindra Binwade, additional municipal commissioner, said, “Employees working on contract are not getting salaries from contractors though the municipal corporation is paying them regularly. By considering the festive season, employees are facing a lot of issues. On this background, we have issued notices to the contractors and instructed them to give due salaries immediately.”Employees working with the PMC water department at the Vadgaon water treatment plant visited the municipal corporation headquarters on Wednesday and expressed anger about not getting salaries.Recently, Prashant Jagtap, president, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), and spokesman Pradip Deshmukh meet the officials and demanded to hand over the salaries of security guards and employees working with citizens facility centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-issue-notices-to-contractors-regarding-salaries-of-contractual-staff-101634740221905.html
20-10-2021||Pune||PMC goes easy on fines for no masks; action will start again,say officials||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has stepped away from fining people for not wearing a mask in public. The wearing of a mask remains a key anti-Covid norm to keep the infection at bay.Between October 9-19, 73 people were fined by the PMC for not wearing a mask . The total fines collected is Rs36,500.October 4 is the day ₹7,000 in fines was collected from 14 offenders by the PMC –the highest single-day collection in the month.With places of religious worship reopening from October 7 and the festive season already here, Laxmi road, Kumthekar road and other core areas of the city are jam packed. PMC inspector and even police officials are not to be seen. “Since Navratri started, we have seen few PMC officials standing at Phadatare chowk . Few people arewearing masks and many are wearing it on the chin, not bothering to cover the mouth and nose. We tell them to wear it before entering our shop,” said a worker at a store called Swamini creation, at Phadatare chowk, requesting anonymity.A senior PMC official, also requesting anonymity, said,”Action will be increased at all the crowded places as we approach Diwali. Our officials will continue taking action at specific areas. Many people have developed the habit of wearing mask so fine collection has dropped nowadays.”Prashant Hiremat, a daily commuter from Appa Balwant chowk said, “Earlier, traffic police used to stop people who rode a vehicle without a mask. Now this action has stopped.”A senior police official from the commissioner’s office said,”Action is taken against people flouting Covid norms. More action will be taken in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-goes-easy-on-fines-for-no-masks-action-will-start-again-say-officials-101634739921537.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Sanpada police register case after man loses Rs99K to online fraud||The Sanpada police have registered a case after some unidentified people cheated a 45-year-old man online on the pretext of renting his house.According to the police, the complainant who runs a chemist shop has a house in Ghatkopar. He had wanted to rent it out and had put up an advertisement on a property website last month. Within a few days, he received a call from one Sanjay Singh, who introduced himself as an Indian Army personnel from Pune. That person said that he had been transferred to Mumbai and hence needed a house. He also wanted to pay ₹1 lakh as a security deposit on the same day.“That man said that he uses special technology and if anyone transfers an amount to his account, the sender will receive double that amount within a few minutes. Thus, he asked the complainant to send ₹1 lakh to his account and assured that the complainant would receive ₹2 lakh. He also asked the complainant to try it once by sending ₹5 first. The complainant sent ₹5 to his account and immediately received ₹10 from the other’s account. After that he sent ₹25,000 thrice and ₹24,000 once, but did not receive anything back from the other account,” said a police officer from Sanpada police station.When the complainant called that person, he said that he would receive the money after some time. The complainant, however, found something suspicious and informed the police about it. The police have registered a case under Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code and section 66Dof the IT Act against the unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sanpada-police-register-case-after-man-loses-rs99k-to-online-fraud-101634739741657.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Amusement parks in Pune to reopen on October 22||PUNE A day after the state government’s order, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Wednesday, issued its order allowing eateries and restaurants in the city to remain open till midnight and establishments such as shops and markets are allowed to function till 11pm The PMC also allowed amusement parks to restart operations from October 22, he day theatres and auditoriums in the city are also reopening. According to the PMC order signed by commissioner Vikram Kumar, only “dry” joy rides have been allowed in amusement parks, while water rides are still shut. On Tuesday, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte issued an order, applicable for the entire state, extending the operational hours of eateries, restaurants and other establishments ahead of the festive season. As per the state order, eateries and restaurants are to remain open till midnight and establishments such as shops and markets are allowed to function till 11 pm. In Pune restaurants were allowed to operate till 11pm and shops till 10 pm.Business establishments in Pune have welcomed this move, and hoteliers said that the restaurant would remain open for dine-in till midnight. The new rules issued by PMC are also applicable to the Pune and Khadki Cantonment boards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/amusement-parks-in-pune-to-reopen-on-october-22-101634739321570.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP says open for alliance with parties that put 'national interest' first, calls Amarinder Singh ‘patriotic’||A day after former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s announcement on floating his own party, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday reciprocated to Singh’s offer for a "seat-sharing agreement" and said that the party is ready to join hands with anyone who prioritises national interest.BJP general secretary and in-charge of its Punjab unit Dushyant Gautam made the remarks, however, also said that nothing has yet been finalised. “Our main agenda is nationalism and keeping the nation first. All those parties who want to form alliances with us on this agenda are welcome,” news agency PTI quoted Gautam as saying earlier in the day.The BJP leader also said that Singh’s stance on the issues of national security should be praised. “He (Amarinder Singh) was a soldier. He knows about the threats to the country and how to secure it is” Gautam further said. “He is patriotic. And whenever it was a matter of national security and security at the borders, we have appreciated his stand,” he added.Also read | Capt Amarinder hand in glove with BJP, backstabbed Congress: Randhawa, PargatEarlier on Tuesday, Amarinder Singh, who recently quit as the chief minister of Punjab, said that he would soon launch a new political outfit and also said that he was open for a seat-sharing agreement with the BJP for the upcoming state assembly polls, conditional that the ongoing farmers’ issue is resolved in their interest.Regarding Singh’s condition about the farmers issue, Gautam said that his party was committed to it. “He talked about farmers' issues. We are committed to it and are working for the welfare of farmers. When the time comes, both will sit together and discuss farmers' issues,” he said. But the Punjab BJP in-charge also said that nothing yet regarding alliance with Singh’s proposed party has been finalised as it is yet to be announced. “Amarinder Singh still needs to form his party and put forward his views,” he said.Meanwhile, several state Congress leaders, including deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and state Congress in-charge Harish Rawat have all criticised Singh for his announcement and his comments regarding the agreement with the BJP.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-says-open-for-alliance-with-parties-that-put-national-interest-first-calls-amarinder-singh-patriotic-101634738314930.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||PM Narendra Modi inaugurates Kushinagar international airport in Uttar Pradesh||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated the Kushinagar international airport, the third international airport in Uttar Pradesh. Addressing a gathering on the occasion, he said the Central government has approved 900 new air routes under the UDAN (Ude Desh ka Aam Nagrik) scheme of which 350 have already become operational while more than 50 new airports, or those which were not in service earlier, have become operational.“The government is also working on preparing more than 200 airports, heliports and water ports for seaplanes in the next four years.”He also said the Kushinagar international airport will provide better connectivity to Buddhist sites in both Uttar Pradesh and Bihar for domestic and foreign travellers because of its strategic location near Lord Buddha’s birthplace Lumbini, besides Kapilvastu, Sarnath, where he gave his first sermon, and Bodh Gaya, where Buddha got enlightenment. Describing Kushinagar international airport as a tribute to the devotion of Buddhists across the world, PM said that the region had been witness to the entire journey of Lord Buddha from enlightenment to Mahaparinirvana and with the opening of the airport today (Wednesday), it was getting connected directly to the world.He pointed out that the goal behind all these steps is to provide better connectivity to people living in the remotest corners. PM said that many more middle-class people were able to avail of flight services today than in the past due to the steps taken by the government.The prime minister also said the process of setting up eight new flying academies at five airports has also been started to train the youth in the aviation sector.On the policy front, PM Narendra Modi Modi said that allowing defence airspace for travel by civilians has reduced both distance and time between destinations considerably.“The recently launched drone policy is going to bring life-changing transformation in the fields ranging from agriculture to health, to disaster management to defence,” he said.PM Narendra Modi said that the recently launched PM Gatishakti - National Master Plan will not only improve governance, but also ensure that all modes of transport such as road, rail, air support each other and increase each other’s capacity.“In Uttar Pradesh, eight or nine new airports have been opened prior to the opening of Kushinagar airport. Work is in progress on the Jewar International Airport. Apart from that, airport projects are going on in Ayodhya, Aligarh, Azamgarh, Chitrakoot, Moradabad and Shravasti,” the PM further remarked.The prime minister also welcomed the maiden Sri Lankan Airlines flight carrying scores of Buddhist monks and dignitaries from the island nation as it touched down at the airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pmnarendra-modi-inaugurates-kushinagar-international-airport-in-uttar-pradesh-101634737341610.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Pune-Mumbai expressway: One injured, 4 vehicles damaged in separate accidents||PUNE One person was injured and four vehicles were damaged in two separate accidents on the Pune-Mumbai expressway on Wednesday.Five accidents have taken place on the expressway in the last three days.An accident occurred at Khopoli exit at 6.30 am when a mini goods carrier hit a stationary container truck, damaging the rare end of the tempo.“Traffic movement was slowed down while we managed to keep vehicles moving from one lane. Damage occurred to both the trucks while one cleaner was injured,” said Dombe, police sub-inspector, Khandala police station.“The driver could not control the mini goods carrier causing an accident,” said an official from Khopoli police station.Another accident occurred near demolished Amrutanjan bridge at 3.30 am where a truck collided with a trolley truck. The collision caused a traffic jam for half an hour as a truck filled with construction material fell on the two lanes going towards Mumbai after the crash.In the last three days, four accidents have occurred at the Khopoli exit and one near the demolished Amrutanjan bridge at Khandala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punemumbai-expressway-one-injured-4-vehicles-damaged-in-separate-accidents-101634737221541.html
20-10-2021||Other||Punjab minister Ashu warns officials against corruption in paddy procurement||Chandigarh Punjab food and supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu on Friday said corrupt practices in the ongoing paddy procurement and lifting season would not be tolerated. “Those found indulging in such malpractices will not be spared,” the minister said, adding he had directed all officials to ensure strict compliance with milling norms. Referring to arrest of Punjab State Warehouse Corporation inspector Munish Kumar by the vigilance bureau on a complaint from Patiala resident John Gupta, the minister said that procurement and lifting of paddy will be a smooth process without any corruption of any kind. Those found guilty would not be spared at any cost, he added. He added complaints of any inconvenience to farmers and arthiyas would be taken up on priority and officials found guilty would be punished. The minister also instructed the vigilance wing of the food supplies department to speed up its checking on illegal practices, if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-minister-ashu-warns-officials-against-corruption-in-paddy-procurement-101634736621614.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Double engine BJP government scripted turnaround in Uttar Pradesh: PM Modi in Kushinagar||Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the double engine Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh (UP) has brought a turnaround in the state within four-and-a-half years.In contrast, the previous Samajwadi Party government had blocked development and welfare schemes launched by the central government, he said.PM Modi was addressing a public meeting on Barwa farm ground in Kushinagar district of eastern Uttar Pradesh after inaugurating the international airport there and laying the foundation of a government medical college, besides 12 development schemes.The people of Kushinagar were waiting for an international airport and a medical college for long, he said.Invoking Gautam Buddha and Maharishi Valmiki, Modi said the development projects have been launched on an auspicious day when Buddhists are observing Abhidhamma Day and people are celebrating the birth anniversary of Valmiki who compiled the Ramayana.As he welcomed the people in the local dialect Bhojpuri, the crowd responded with slogans.A network of airports, roads, hospitals, investment in tourism and hospitality sectors and industrialisation would change the scenario in the backward areas of east UP soon, giving employment opportunities to the youths, the prime minister said.With the medical college, people residing in the area will get protection from encephalitis, he said.The BJP government was working to fulfil the aspirations of the people and the confidence of the deprived people will increase when they have basic facilities like house, power supply, cooking gas, toilets and direct drinking water supply to their home, he said.People know that the central and the state governments are aware of their aspirations, he said.Attacking the previous Samajwadi Party government, Modi said it was not concerned with the development and welfare of the people of Uttar Pradesh. The Samajwadi Party did not follow the ideals of socialist ideologue Ram Manohar Lohia but promoted scams and mafias.The previous government also worked for the promotion of a family, he alleged.While the launch of development and welfare schemes was a challenge in Uttar Pradesh under the previous regime, the BJP government kick-started projects with ease, he said. UP leads in Covid vaccination as well as in the fight against TB and malnutrition, he said, adding that women benefitted from the launch of welfare schemes.During the Covid pandemic, a free ration scheme was launched, he said.The rule of law was established in UP under the Yogi Adityanath government and the mafia, which had grabbed the land and property of the poor under the patronage of the previous regime, had been demolished now.Fear has been instilled among mafia, he said, adding that the BJP government is committed to taking UP to new heights of development.Modi said the double engine government had credited ₹80,000 crore into the accounts of the farmers for procurement of agriculture products and ₹27,000 crore under the PM Kisan Nidhi Samman scheme.The sugarcane farmers are getting highest rate of the cane in UP and Yogi government has credited ₹1.50 lakh crore into the account of the cane farmers after procuring sugarcane, he said.With the construction of roads and revival of sugarmills, the farmers can sell their crops with ease, the prime minister said. Stating that promotion of bio-fuel and ethanol will benefit farmers, he said the BJP government is working for the welfare of small farmers.Noting that UP has given the maximum prime ministers to the country, he said the history of the state cannot be limited to seven decades.It has a glorious history and legacy, and is the land of Lord Ram, Krishna, Tirthankars, Tulsidas, Kabir and Ravidas, he said.Holy places are located at short distances across the state and gurudwaras in Agra and Pilibhit are revered by all.The legacy and tradition of UP should be promoted, he said.Greeting the people ahead of the coming festivals of Diwali and Chhath Puja, Modi said, “I will urge the people to be vocal for local. The purchase of items from local people will not only promote local products but also add to the income of local craftsmen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/double-engine-bjp-government-scripted-turnaround-in-uttar-pradesh-pm-modi-in-kushinagar-101634736261477.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bracing for winter, Northern Railways trains drivers in navigating through fog||With winter at doorstep, Northern Railways has started fog-safety trainings for its drivers with a view to prevent rail accidents. The drivers are being trained in operating the fog-safety device, which is a GPS-controlled device. Ludhiana station director Tarun Kumar said, “We want to ensure the safety of passengers and hence are providing special training to train drivers. These workshops are open for drivers from any district and state. Drivers from Ludhiana, Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ambala division and Firozpur Division participate in these sessions.” “It is really difficult to run the trains when visibility is poor due to dense fog. But the fog-safety device will alert drivers of the next signal well in advance and make navigation easier.” The officer said drivers are being trained to ply the train at a certain speed. “They should not miss any signal and thus the speed of the train should be adjusted accordingly,” stated Kumar. Another railway officer said the device also helps run trains at a decent speed amid fog. “Usually, trains get delayed due to thick fog which creates hassles for passengers. The device has been fed with all railway routes. The drivers just need to fill the route to be followed by the train and the device will give sound alerts before each signal. Thus, drivers don’t need to move the trains at a very low speed; they can run it at a moderate speed using the alerts from the device,” said an official.According to officials, no train accident has been reported in recent years, but these workshops are being organised as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bracing-for-winter-northern-railways-trains-drivers-in-navigating-through-fog-101634732901351.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||AUCT seeks support for unaided college teachers of Punjab, Chandigarh||A nine-member delegation of Association of Unaided College Teachers (AUCT, Punjab and Chandigarh) met higher education minister Pargat Singh and higher education secretary Krishan Kumar at Punjab Bhavan, Chandigarh, on Wednesday. They demanded deletion of Clause-6 of the Service Security Act to bring unaided college teachers under protection of law and convert unaided posts in colleges into aided ones.Professor Tarun Ghai, AUCT spokesperson and newly elected member of Punjab University Senate from teachers’ constituency, said they requested the minister to take up their demands in the forthcoming cabinet meeting, and subsequently in the legislative assembly discussions.He added the minister assured the delegation that the 4,000 unaided college teachers of Punjab will soon enjoy the protection of Service Security Act along with their aided colleagues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/auct-seeks-support-for-unaided-college-teachers-of-punjab-chandigarh-101634730321115.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||10 missing as boat capsizes in Ghaghara river near UP's Lakhimpur Kheri||At least 10 people went missing after a boat capsized in the Ghaghara river near Mirzapur village of Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district on Wednesday. "10 people went missing after a boat capsized in Ghaghara river. Officers were present on the spot. Divers are searching for missing persons," said a local police official who witnessed the incident.Taking cognisance of the incident, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to expedite the process with the help of the disaster management team, rescue and relief work.The Uttar Pradesh chief minister has also directed the district administration officials to immediately reach the spot and conduct rescue and relief operations, a statement from the chief minister's office read.The police are yet to ascertain if there are any casualties in the incident as the relief work is underway. Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/10-missing-as-boat-capsizes-in-ghaghara-river-near-up-s-lakhimpur-kheri-101634727083343.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi briefly detained by UP police, now en route to meet kin of man who died in police custody||Hours after detaining Priyanka Gandhi, the Uttar Pradesh police on Wednesday evening allowed her to meet the family members of a sanitation worker who died in police custody on Tuesday. The Lucknow police allowed her and Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu, senior leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam to visit the family.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Wednesday was detained while she was on her way to Agra to meet the kin of a man who died in police custody. A video shared by news agency ANI showed police officials and Congress workers involved in a commotion with the latter shouting chants against the Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. She was taken to Police Lines in Lucknow, Congress leaders familiar with the developments told HT.The police officials did not allow the Congress leader earlier claiming that she does not have the permission to meet the kin of the deceased. Police also imposed Section 144 in the area. They cited Agra district magistrate’s orders which barred politicians from entering the area as a reason behind stopping Priyanka Gandhi at the Lucknow-Agra Expressway.“The moment I try to visit any place other than the party office, then they try to stop me. It is also causing inconvenience to the public,” Priyanka Gandhi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. She also said she did not understand the fuss behind her visiting the family of the man. “They say I cannot go to Agra. They stop me wherever I go. Should I keep sitting in restaurants because it is politically convenient for them? I want to meet them, what is the big deal?,” Priyanka said.Arun, a sanitation worker, was accused of stealing ₹25 lakh from the warehouse of the police station on Saturday night. Police officials say that Arun admitted to conducting the theft and they also recovered ₹15 lakh during the raid from his house before he suddenly fell ill and died. Six police personnel, including the station house officer, were suspended by the additional director general (ADG) of Agra zone, news agency PTI reported.Arun belonged to the Valmiki community and the community leaders demanded a fair probe into the incident. The police said that appropriate action will be taken after the post-mortem report arrives.(with inputs from Umesh Raghuvanshi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-gandhi-detained-by-up-police-101634728652458.html
20-10-2021||Dehradun||As Uttarakhand rain deaths rise to 50, Oppn hammers BJP govt for ‘inaction’||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) faced stinging attacks from the Opposition that blamed the Pushkar Singh Dhami government for not taking enough steps to minimise the loss of lives after the weather department’s forecast of heavy rainfall.At least 50 people, most of them in Nainital district, have died after heavy rain on October 18 and 19 triggered a flash flood and landslides, resulting in dozens of deaths.“The government should have taken the warning more seriously and made more efforts to save the lives of people. But they did little,” Uttarakhand Congress president Ganesh Godiyal said on Wednesday.On Sunday, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Dehradun centre put out an alert for heavy to very heavy rainfall from October 17 to 19. On October 18, it issued a red alert that forecast heavy to very heavy rainfall in Nainital, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar, Champawat and some other districts. Following the warning, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami had directed the authorities concerned to remain on alert mode and appealed to people not to take Char Dham yatra.Also Read: ‘My friends died in their sleep’: Uttarakhand rain fury leaves trail of despairA cloud burst in Ramgarh block on Monday morning, October 18, followed by incessant rain through the day led to heavy damage in Ramgarh as well as Okhladanda blocks in Nainital district, where the popular lake town was also inundated.“Now after people have died, the chief minister is conducting aerial surveys and visiting affected areas. Had the government’s response been more prompt, so many people wouldn’t have lost their lives in the rain-related indents in the state,’ Godiyal alleged.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Sanjay Bhatt asked why such a large number of people lost their lives since the IMD did warn about the heavy rainfall. “We want to ask the government that when they knew about the situation in advance, why so many people lost their lives? Who is responsible for the deaths of so many people? The state government seems to have learnt no lessons from the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy”, he said.The BJP hit back, accusing the opposition of trying to politicise the response to the rainfall.This is not the time for politics, said Uttarakhand BJP president Madan Kaushik.“Both these parties should in fact come forward and cooperate with the government in helping people in the affected areas. It is sad that they are indulging in politics over this at this juncture. People of the state will not forget this,” Kaushik said. Kaushik said chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami is making all possible efforts to help people and save precious lives.“He is visiting all affected areas and taking stock of the situation. He has already announced compensation to the kin of those who died in the rain-related incidents. Under his leadership, all rescue agencies and police are conducting rescue and relief operations in the affected areas. Nearly 1500 people have been rescued and provided help in the affected areas because of the prompt action of all concerned”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/congress-aap-blames-dhami-govt-for-50-rain-deaths-bjp-says-no-time-for-politics-101634727860968.html
20-10-2021||Bangalore||Muslim marriage is a contract, not sacrament unlike Hindu marriage: Karnataka HC||The Karnataka high court has observed that the Muslim marriage is a “contract with many shades of meaning, not a sacrament unlike a Hindu marriage” adding, that “such a marriage dissolved by divorce per se does not annihilate all the duties and obligations of parties by lock, stock and barrel”.The bench made the remarks in an order dated October 7 while hearing a PIL filed by Ezazur Rehman (52) in Bengaluru. Rehman was seeking quashing of an order passed by the First Additional Principal Judge of Family Court on August 12, 2011, which held that the plaintiff is entitled to monthly maintenance at the rate of ₹3,000 from the date of the suit till the death of the plaintiff or till she gets remarried or till the death of the defendant.Rehman had divorced his wife Saira Banu by uttering Talaq on November 25, 1991, months after the marriage with a 'Mehr' of ₹5,000. After the divorce, Rehman then contracted another marriage and became the father of a child. Banu then filed a civil suit for maintenance on August 24, 2002.The plea was, however, dismissed by Justice Krishna S Dixit who said, "'marriage is a contract' has many shades of meaning; It is not a sacrament unlike a Hindu marriage, is true."Elaborating further, Justice Dixit said, “Such a marriage dissolved by divorce, per se does not annihilate all the duties and obligations of parties by lock, stock and barrel.”The Judge said the marriage amongst Muslims begins with the contract and graduates to the status as it ordinarily does in any other community. "This very status gives rise to certain justiciable obligations. They are ex contractu," the court said.The court said a Muslim ex-wife has a right to maintenance subject to satisfying certain conditions, is indisputable.In law, new obligations too may arise, of them being the circumstantial duty of a person to provide sustenance to his ex-wife who is affected by divorce. Quoting verses from Surah Al Bakra in Qur'an, Justice Dixit said a pious Muslim owes a moral and religious duty to provide subsistence to his destitute ex-wife."Ordinarily, the right of an ex-wife to maintenance does not extend beyond 'Iddat'. I should hasten to add that Islamic jurisprudence has not treated this as a thumb rule ever, although there is some juristic opinion in variance," Justice Dixit observed. "This norm has to be subject to the rider that the amount paid to the ex-wife, be it in the form of 'Mehr' or be it a sum qualified on the basis of 'mehr', or otherwise, is not an inadequate or illusory sum," the judge noted.He also pointed out that 'Mehr' is fixed inadequately and bride lacks equal bargaining power inter alia because of economic and gender-related factors.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/muslim-marriage-is-a-contract-not-sacrament-unlike-hindu-marriage-karnataka-hc-101634722052665.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Childhood memories come rolling back with marbles||While decluttering our attic, my mom showed me a container full of marbles, asking me if they were of any use or should she chuck them away into the dustbin. Spreading them all over the floor elicited a wide smile on my face and I was reminded how during our childhood, my elder sibling and I would vie for garnering them. We played different games related to marbles, including ‘Kalli Jotta’ in which one made a blind guess if the number of marbles in the opponent’s tightly clenched fist was odd or even. The game, ‘Nishana’, was equally popular, more about hitting the aimed marble standing behind a marked line. However, nothing compared the thrill of indulging in ‘Pill Goli’, which children of all ages enjoyed. The player would sit down on the heels keeping the thumb on the ground with an upright outstretched palm. Having closed one eye, the player would bend the middle finger, holding one marble backwards with the aid of the index finger of the other hand to send the marble rolling along the ground. Taking turns, players would repeatedly squat to flick their respective marbles to shoot the opponent’s marbles off the way and rise again only to reach them right into the middle of a desired hole. Making a ‘pill/khutti (hole)’ in the earth was not everyone’s cup of tea. We had a specialist kid, Pintu, who was a master at digging a perfect hole, employing the sharp edge of a screwdriver; whose depth should neither be too deep nor too shallow, mouth not too wide nor too constricted. Our hard-won marbles would go clinking down the redundant transparent plastic jars, serving the dual purpose of keeping a close watch on their count besides making our peers envious of their ever-rising level. Losing our marbles even if we lost a single marble came as no surprise. Untimely rain failed to pour cold water on our spirited fervour thanks to an indoor game devised indigenously. By the flick of our fingers with a sudden, quick, and vigorous twist, we set our respective marbles to spin round and round on the floor to check whose marble turned for a longer time, using a stopwatch. Our full control on the game often caused our little minds to reflect as to why marbles couldn’t be India’s national game with an overt wish to win the coveted World Cup for our country. Over time, my sibling began using a bigger carry bag to accommodate more marbles at one place. Jealous, I failed to restrain myself from secretly lifting a few of his collection. The effectiveness of this rewarding short-cut egged me on, and I continued with the immoral practice until my sceptic brother once caught me unawares. Consequently, he kept half of his treasure-trove under lock and key, and the rest meant for playing remained before his eyes as a rule. One day, he came roaring, waving aloft a scintillating milky-white marble, nicknamed Chittu. He had just won that deemed ‘Kohinoor’ for its contrastingly appealing shade among other dark-coloured glass balls. The permission to play with his highly prized possession for a fixed time was granted only after I secretly completed his homework. Having spotted the same Kohinoor after ages as my hands drew back the scattered marbles, I was consumed with nostalgia, charming me into sending the picture of ‘Chittu’ to my brother’s phone. A quick reply from his side proved that the whirligig of time had detached his close association with his most treasured possession. His reply was, “What is it? In meeting, talk later.” unsharma3116@gmail.com The writer is a freelance contributor based in Una||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/childhood-memories-come-rolling-back-with-marbles-101634726000786.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM announces compensation of ₹50,000 per hectare for crop damage||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his government will ensure compensation to farmers in the Capital who suffered losses because of crop damage this year. He added that the government fixed the rate of compensation at ₹50,000 per hectare.“Recently, I met groups of farmers who told me that they suffered losses because of crop damage caused by unseasonal rainfall this year. I want to tell farmers in Delhi that they need not be distressed. The Aam Aadmi Party government will continue to help farmers,” Kejriwal said during a video press briefing, adding that the Aam Aadmi Party set up the initiative when it came to power in the national capital in 2015.He said that suffering farmers, like previous years, will continue to get ₹50,000 per hectare as compensation for crop damage: “...This is the highest amount compared to all states, which pay ₹8,000 – ₹10,000. We will also make sure that the money is disbursed within one-and-a-half months or so. This year too, I have issued directions to ensure farmers who have suffered losses because of crop damage will get compensation of ₹50,000 per hectare.”Kejriwal added that district officials have started assessing losses. “... the survey will be completed within two weeks and the money disbursed to eligible farmers within one-and-a-half months after that,” he said.Government data shows that Delhi has around 29,000 acres of crop fields and around 21,000 farmers.Farmers, however, said that despite the initiative, most of them did not receive any compensation for crop loss since 2015.“Farmers in the city last received compensation for crop damage in 2015. However, only those who owned less than two hectares of land were compensated. This year, the government has not stated any such condition yet. We hope more farmers manage to get the compensation. Several farmlands flooded during the monsoon between 2016 and 2020, damaging crops, but farmers did not receive any money. The process is often very messy,” said Rajesh Shokeen, a farmer from Dichaon-Kalan village in the southwestern periphery in Delhi.Dinesh Rana, a farmer from Palla village in the northwestern periphery of Delhi, said, “This year, there has been significant crop damage because of excess and unseasonal rainfall. Farmers are in immense distress. However, we hope that the government streamlines the process of compensating us and we don’t have to run from pillar to post for compensation.”Earlier this year, the government commissioned a separate study to assess the grievances of farmers in the city and record concerns revolving around minimum support price, input costs, yield, crop loss, etc. The findings of the study, however, are yet to be published.Paras Tyagi, co-founder, Centre for Youth Culture, Law and Environment, a Delhi-based public policy group that works primarily on villages, said, “In Delhi, there are almost no subsidies for farmers. So, input cost is very high compared to several other states. Considering input costs, ₹50,000 per hectare is too little a compensation amount. Secondly, there are loopholes in the system because of which a large number of genuine farmers are often excluded from such schemes. That should not happen. Also, no farmer in the city has received any compensation under government schemes since 2015. So there is a lack of trust too. The government has to invest in making the system better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-rs-50-000-per-hectare-for-crop-damage-to-delhi-farmers-101634719580095.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local train: Students under 18 years can commute using local trains from today||Students under the age of 18 years and not eligible for vaccination can travel on Mumbai local trains from Wednesday (October 20). The orders to this effect were issued on October 8 by the state government.The decision will be a relief for college and school students as they will have an additional convenience of local trains to attend physical classes. According to reports, students will only need to produce Aadhaar and school ID cards to railway officials for the verification process. The physical sessions for classes 5 to 12 resumed in the state on October 4 after being shut for more than one-and-a-half years due to the pandemic.The city’s suburban railway network has been witnessing a rise in the number of passengers due to easing of restrictions and reopening of schools. The WR currently has nearly 2.5 million passengers travelling by local trains daily on an average as opposed to nearly 2 million in August, September and starting of October. The CR currently sees 3 million passengers daily passengers on an average, compared to 2.5 million in August, September and in the beginning of October, railway officials said.Mumbai local train services resumed for fully vaccinated passengers in August, after a hiatus of four months. Passengers were restricted from commuting in local trains in the first week of April after the second wave of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-students-under-18-years-can-commute-using-local-trains-from-today-101634716023549.html
20-10-2021||Indore||Congress MLA's son accused of rape absconding, cops question brother||Indore Police on Tuesday questioned the younger son of Madhya Pradesh Congress MLA Murli Morwal in connection with an alleged rape case against his elder brother. Morwal's elder son, accused in the case, has been absconding for more than six months.Karan Morwal has been on the run since April 2 to evade arrest, said the police. The case against him was registered by a woman leader who alleged that Morwal raped her under the pretext of marriage."Many attempts have been made to arrest Karan Morwal who is an accused in the rape case of a woman worker of Congress party in Indore, but we could not find him," Jyoti Sharma, in charge of Mahila Police Station, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The police said they have raided several places in search of the accused, including his residence, farmhouse and other places after receiving a tip-off, but Karan could not be traced. "So we brought his younger brother (Shivam) for interrogation as he might know his brother's whereabouts," said Sharma.A reward money of ₹15,000 has been announced for anyone who provides information of the whereabouts of the accused. "We have also increased the reward money for providing information on the accused from ₹5,000 to ₹15,000," she added.The Congress MLA also arrived at the police station and held talks with the officials on the matter. Sharma said that the MLA has assured officials that he will ensure that his son presents himself before the police soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/congress-mla-s-son-accused-of-rape-absconding-cops-question-brother-101634712287539.html
20-10-2021||Kolkata||‘We were first…’: TMC says Congress 'emulating' it by reserving 40% tickets for women||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) said on Wednesday that the Congress was trying to “emulate” the Mamata Banerjee-led party after the latter announced a day ago that 40 per cent of its total tickets for the upcoming assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh will be reserved for women. In a Twitter post, West Bengal's ruling party also recalled that it was the first in the country to give 40 per cent tickets to female candidates in a Lok Sabha election, doing so in 2019.Also Read | Congress to reserve 40% tickets in UP assembly election for women: Priyanka Gandhi“Under the visionary leadership of @MamataOfficial, AITC has shown the way to ensure increased participation of women in politics, in this country. We're the first to give 40 per cent seats to women in LS elections. Amid such dire times, @INCIndia is understandably trying to emulate and one can only hope that is genuine and not just tokenism. If they are to be taken seriously, they must give the same per cent of seats to women in states other than UP as well,” the TMC's official Twitter handle said. Amid such dire times, @INCIndia is understandably trying to emulate and one can only hope that this is genuine and not tokenism. If they are to be taken seriously, they must give 40% seats to women in states other than UP as well. (2/2)Two years ago, the party fielded women in 17 out of the total 42 parliamentary seats in the eastern state. Eventually, TMC candidates were victorious on 22 seats, while candidates from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won on 18 seats, while the remaining two were won by the Congress. Mahua Moitra, Mimi Chakraborty, Nusrat Jahan, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Mala Roy, Satabdi Roy, among others, represent the Trinamool in the lower house.Also Read | Trinamool Congress declares 40% reservation for women candidatesAdditionally, Banerjee herself is the only woman chief minister in the country at present.On Tuesday, Congress general secretary for Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, announced during a press conference in Lucknow that 40 per cent of the party's total candidates for the state assembly polls will be women. Explaining that the decision was taken to ensure safety of women in the state, she said that applications in this regard will be accepted till November 15.Also Read | Will Congress’s 40% reservation in UP be a game changer for women in politics?UP is likely to vote in February-March 2022, As the most populous state, it has 403 legislative assembly seats, the highest in the country. If the Congress contests across all the constituencies, it would have fielded 161 female candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/emulating-us-tmc-s-reminder-to-congress-on-40-tickets-to-women-101634712901294.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Centre trying to bifurcate society, alleges former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar||Former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday alleged that the BJP-led Centre is trying to "bifurcate society" and create a "deep state" in Punjab.Referring to a news article hinting at a conspiracy in the Singhu border killing to end the farmers' protest, Jakhar took to Twitter and said, "Modi government dealing through shady characters! Thus, the proclaimed nationalists are not just demeaning themselves but also the institution of 'Government of India'."Speaking on the recent killings at Lakhimpur Kheri and murder at Singhu border, Jakhar said, "These are all totally independent separate incidents, but when you look at it from this angle--a cop who is a cat, who is a tout of the agencies, gives rise to the apprehensions of what we call the deep state. There is a definite attempt to bifurcate the society, to create divisions and sub-divisions within the community also."The leader said that through his tweet, he wanted to raise the concern of the presence of a 'dismissed cop' in the picture shown in the news clipping he shared and raised doubts over his involvement in the issue.Alleging conspiracy of the BJP-led government, Jakhar said, "Minister of State's (Home Affairs) statement on the day his son was involved in the killing of the innocent farmers is very indicative, he said 'Khalistan is behind that', what information did he have? The idea was to segregate and identify people."He also appealed to the BJP to withdraw the Central farm laws which he termed 'black laws'. "Negotiation must be started with the farmers," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-trying-to-bifurcate-society-alleges-former-punjab-congress-chief-sunil-jakhar-101634712230257.html
20-10-2021||Patna||Minor dead, 40 hospitalised after suspected food poisoning in Bihar||A minor died and at least 40 others including children were hospitalised due to suspected case of food poisoning at a shradh function in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district on Tuesday evening. Those who fell sick complained of loose motions, vomiting and other symptoms of food poisoning before they were attended to by local quacks, who failed to contain the situation. As the situation worsened, the civil surgeon sent two doctors and paramedical staff along with two ambulances to the village. The patients were treated in the open area outside the local primary health care (PHC) centre due to the increasing numbers of the infected. A 10-year-old boy died on way to Kejriwal Hospital from the PHC. At least nine minors were admitted to Kejriwal hospital, and 20 others were undergoing treatment at the primary health centre at Saraiya for stomach pain, dizziness and vomiting. A health department team led by civil surgeon Vinay Kumar Sharma visited the village on Wednesday to investigate the cause behind the mass illness but the food samples served at the feast had already been disposed off, leaving no scope for inspection. Also Read: Kovind to arrive in Patna for Bihar assembly centenary celebrations“The food was served during the death anniversary of a local resident on Tuesday afternoon and the symptoms of sickness such as vomiting started surfacing by late evening,” said Dr D C Sharma, in-charge of Saraiya PHC. He surmised that the patients might have consumed stale food . The civil surgeon said all the affected persons were stable and recovering. Medical camps have been set up at Rupauli village and door-to-door visits are being done to treat anyone with similar symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/minor-dead-40-hospitalised-after-suspected-food-poisoning-in-bihar-101634711719376.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Petrol price rises to ₹112.11 a litre, diesel at ₹102.89 in Mumbai||The petrol price crossed ₹112 in Mumbai on Wednesday. At an all-time high, a litre of petrol was priced at Rs.112.11 in the city and that of diesel at ₹102.89. Their prices were increased by 34 paise and 37 paise on Wednesday. The fuel prices remained stable for two days. On Tuesday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹111.77 while that of diesel at ₹102.59.In Thane, a litre of petrol crossed ₹112 mark as well on Wednesday and was priced at ₹112.24. A litre of diesel was available at ₹103.02.Fuel prices surged in other cities as well. A litre of petrol crossed ₹106 in the national capital Delhi and was priced at ₹106.19 while diesel was available at ₹94.92 a litre.Also Read: Priyanka Gandhi hits out at govt over rising fuel pricesIn Hyderabad, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹110.46 while diesel was available at ₹103.56. In Chennai, a litre of petrol sold for Rs.103.31 and one litre of diesel was priced ₹99.26.In Maharashtra’s Parbhani, a litre of petrol was priced at ₹114.64 on Wednesday while diesel was available at ₹104.43 in Amravati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-price-rises-to-rs-112-11-a-litre-in-mumbai-101634706138574.html
20-10-2021||Jaipur||Woman murdered, feet chopped off for her silver anklets||Unidentified assailants slit a 55-year-old woman’s throat and chopped off her feet for her silver anklets on Tuesday while she was grazing her cattle at Jamwaramgarh near Jaipur, a police officer said.Police superintendent (Jaipur rural) Shankar Dutt Sharma said the woman suffered deep wounds on her head and neck from some sharp-edged weapon. Her severed feet were found near her body. “This seems to be a case of loot as the silver anklets that she had been wearing were apparently taken away by the killers,” said Sharma. He added they have lodged a murder case and started an investigation. Over 300 policemen were looking for the killers.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party state chief Satish Poonia hit out at the Congress government over the murder. “A case of ruthless murder of a woman has come to light in Khatepura village. Congress leaders Priyanka and Rahul Gandhi should take out time from Twitter politics and come to Rajasthan and take care of the atrocities on sisters and daughters. They should seek a reply from the CM (chief minister) over the deteriorating law and order condition,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/woman-murdered-feet-chopped-off-for-her-silver-anklets-101634704278313.html
20-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand rain: Over 45 dead; Amit Shah to take stock of situation today||The death toll in rain-related incidents in Uttarakhand over the past two days has risen to 46. Uttarakhand has been witnessing heavy rains for the past two days, leading to chaos and disaster across the state. Over 300 people were rescued by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from flood-affected areas of Uttarakhand. Union home minister Amit Shah will today visit the state to take stock of the situation and hold review meetings. He will also conduct an aerial survey in Uttarakhand on Thursday."The number of casualties in the Kumaon region alone has crossed 40," DIG Nilesh Anand Bharne told PTI on Tuesday. Of 46 deaths, 28 were killed in Nanital, six in Almora, two each in Champawat and US Nagar, and one in Bageshwar during the last 24 hours. The remaining deaths took place on October 17 and 18 in the state, said officials. Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said that water level has reduced in the Kumaon region, but routes have not been opened yet. "It will take time...Police, SDRF, NDRF teams are working on the relief operations; thousands of people have been evacuated," he was quoted as saying by ANI.Chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Tuesday undertook an aerial survey of the rain-hit areas in the state to assess the damages caused due to rain. He later announced a compensation of ₹4 lakh each to the next of kin of those killed in rain-related incidents across the state over the last two days.At least seven people have died since last night due to heavy rains and landslides in Almora, reported ANI. Four people died in Raapad village after a house was hit by a landslide last night, according to Uttarakhand PIB. However, it could not be confirmed if these deaths are already a part of the said death toll.After witnessing incessant rain over the past two days, the state is likely to stay dry for the rest of the week, according to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The weather department said that a fresh western disturbance is also very likely to affect Western Himalayan Region from October 22 and cause scattered to fairly widespread rain/snow over Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad on October 22 with isolated heavy rainfall on October 23.Meanwhile, Char Dham Yatra, which was halted due to heavy rain in the region, will resume from today, informed Uttarakhand police chief. The pilgrimage was suspended for three days, from October 17 to 19, amid warnings of heavy to very rainfall in the hill state during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-rain-over-40-dead-imd-forecasts-dry-weather-for-rest-of-the-week-101634700574899.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police bust ‘sex tourism’ racket, 2 arrested from airport||The crime branch of Mumbai Police on Tuesday busted a sex tourism racket and arrested two people, news agency ANI reported. The police also rescued two victims.The police laid a trap at Mumbai airport with police officials acting as customers after being tipped off about a woman running the sex tourism racket with a partner. The woman, according to the police, was arrested in the year 2020 under The Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, reported ANI.A trip to Goa was organised and two girls were finalised by the accused, as per the release."Trap was laid at the airport where the three girls met an officer and others who acted as decoy customers. Money and air ticket were exchanged, on a signal received from them, the team apprehended the three women," the police said in a press note."On questioning them, officials learnt about the main accused who had entered departure gate and got herself the boarding pass," the police note further said.The main accused was apprehended with the help of CISF and airport police. She was taken into custody for enquiry, where she confessed her crime. Later, she was presented before a court that granted one day of police custody.The victims were sent to shelter home, the police said in its release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-bust-sex-tourism-racket-2-arrested-from-airport-101634699276617.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality to start deteriorating again from today: IMD||After a brief respite provided by clean air, Delhi’s air quality is expected to start deteriorating again from Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast said. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show at 7am on Wednesday, the average air quality index (AQI) in the city was 167, categorised in the moderate zone, a big jump from the overall AQI of 69 (satisfactory), recorded on Tuesday. Weather scientists said that after the brief spell of heavy and widespread rain in Delhi on Monday, the wind patterns have changed to northwest again and it is likely to start bringing stubble fire smoke from parts of Punjab and Haryana. On Monday, after the intense rainfall, the AQI fell to 46, which was the cleanest air Delhi recorded in the month of October since 2015, when the national capital started recording AQI. Also Read | Delhiwale: Meet the Nila Gumbad“From today, the air quality will start deteriorating again. Temperatures are also expected to start falling this week,” said a senior IMD official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-to-start-deteriorating-again-101634697677525.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Scientists at CDRI Lucknow develop anti-viral drug to treat dengue: All you need to know||Scientists at Lucknow-based Central Drug Research Institute (CSIR-CDRI) claim to have developed a medicine to treat dengue, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan has reported. According to the report, a Mumbai-based pharmaceutical major has received permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to conduct human testing of the drug. Trials will be conducted in 20 cities across the country.Here's all you need to know:(1.) Derived from plants, the medicine, called AQCH, is anti-viral in nature. It was tested successfully in labs and on mice.(2.) Trials will be conducted at one medical college in each of the following cities: Kanpur, Lucknow, Agra, Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Aurangabad, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Mangalore, Belgaum, Chennai, Jaipur, Chandigarh, Visakahapatnam, Cuttack, Khurda and Nathdwara.(3.) Kanpur's Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Memorial (GSVM) Medical College, Lucknow's King George's Medical University (KGMU) and Agra-based Sarojini Naidu (SN) Medical College will host the exercise in Uttar Pradesh. At each centre, a total of 100 patients will receive this treatment.(4.) A dengue patient should be at least 18 years of age to be eligible for trials. Additionally, infection in the patient should have been confirmed 48 hours before the testing.(5.) The patient will be kept in hospital for eight days, during which he will be administered the drug for seven days. He will be kept under observation for 17 days after being given the medicine.(6.) It is pertinent to note that there is no specific medicine for the treatment of dengue. Patients are treated on the basis of symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/scientists-at-cdri-lucknow-develop-drug-to-treat-dengue-all-you-need-to-know-101634694265329.html
20-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Zila Parishad and Panchayat Samiti polls: First phase of voting today||Polling for the first phase of zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections in Rajasthan's Alwar and Dholpur districts will be held today, the State Election Commission (SEC) said on Tuesday.In the first phase, 683 candidates are in the fray for 153 wards of seven panchayat samitis. As many as 1,263 polling stations have been set up for the elections, State Election Commissioner P S Mehra said.Over 9.41 lakh voters will be able to exercise their franchise in the two districts. Of these, 4.98 lakh are men and 4.43 lakh are women, he said.The SEC and district administrations have completed all preparations to conduct free, fair and peaceful voting in accordance with COVID-19 guidelines, he added.The zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections in Alwar and Dholpur will be conducted in three phases. Voting for the second and third phases will be held on October 23 and October 26, respectively.The counting of votes will be done at the district headquarters on October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-zila-parishad-and-panchayat-samiti-polls-first-phase-of-voting-today-101634691723940.html
20-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand rain: Char Dham Yatra to resume today||The Char Dham Yatra in Uttarakhand, which was halted due to incessant rain in the region, will resume on Wednesday, as informed by the state police a day ago. The pilgrimage was suspended for three days, from October 17 to 19, amid warnings of heavy to very rainfall in the hill state during this period.Also Read | After IMD warning, Uttarakhand CM appeals to halt Char Dham yatra for next 3 days   “Garwhal is almost under control, and the pilgrimage has resumed there. Except its last stretch, Badrinath has been opened, and the Char Dham Yatra will be completely revived tomorrow,” Director General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar told news agency ANI after a review meeting with chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami in Nainital. Also Read | Climate crisis, land-use change ruining ecology: Experts on Uttarakhand flash flood"The worst-affected regions are in the Kumaon areas of the state, which include Nainital, Haldwani, Udham Singh Nagar, and Champawat," Kumar further said, adding that though the water level in Kumaon has come down, routes have not been opened yet, which, he said, will take time.Also Read | ‘My friends died in their sleep’: Uttarakhand rain fury leaves trail of despair“Agencies such as the Uttarakhand Police and Disaster Response Force--State and National--are on the job, and thousands have been evacuated,” the senior officer said.The resumption of the yatra takes place at a time when at least 34 people have lost their lives while five are missing due to rain-related incidents in the state, CM Pushkar Dhami said. At least 18 fatalities were reported from the Nainital district alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-rain-char-dham-yatra-to-resume-today-101634689642545.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||34 more down with dengue, Ludhiana caseload mounts to 473||Rising dengue cases continue to haunt Ludhiana residents as 34 more infections have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours. As per the health department, the total number of confirmed dengue cases in the district on Tuesday was 473, while 1,906 suspected patients have been registered till now.While three suspected dengue deaths have been reported in the district as of now, no confirmed dengue death was witnessed this season, health department officials said. Cap on price of dengue testFor reviewing the preparedness to deal with rising cases, Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr SP Singh convened a meeting with the representatives of private hospitals in the district on Tuesday. During the meeting, Dr Singh restricted the private hospitals from charging more than ₹600 for a dengue test as per the guidelines issued by the state government. He said that the tests are being done free of cost at government hospitals.The health department, he said, is conducting a survey regarding dengue cases in the district and asked the private hospitals to immediately inform the health department if any suspected case is detected by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/34-more-down-with-dengue-ludhiana-caseload-mounts-to-473-101634686035374.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||LED streetlights: Ludhiana MC directs company to expedite repair works||Fearing criticism over non-functional streetlights ahead of Diwali, Ludhiana municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal convened a meeting with Tata company officials and MC staff concerned at the civic body’s Zone-D office on Tuesday.With residents in different parts of the city raising hue and cry over defunct streetlights, Tata company officials have been directed to expedite repair works and staff of the municipal corporation (MC) has been instructed to monitor the working of the firm. Councillors Mamta Ashu and Sunny Bhalla were also present in the meeting. Complaints regarding the non-functional streetlights have been pouring in from Haibowal, Model Gram, Model Town Extension, Field Ganj, and Kidwai Naar among other areas.Earlier in September, a warning was also issued to the company to improve its functioning during a meeting conducted by AK Sinha, principal secretary of the local bodies department. Sabharwal said that Tata company has been asked to depute the maintenance staff in all wards to resolve the complaints at the earliest. “Hydraulic machines have been provided to the maintenance staff in all four zones for repairing the streetlights. If the company officials fail to resolve the complaints, then action will be taken against them as per the norms. Also, action will be taken against the MC staff concerned,” he added. SEs instructed to check defunct lightsMunicipal commissioner Sabharwal said that superintending engineers (SE) of all four zones have also been directed to move in the field and check non-functional streetlight points. Complaints regarding such points should be submitted with the company, so that those can be repaired and residents do not face any problem, he added. Release salaries by November 2: MC chiefSabharwal also directed the MC officials concerned to release the salaries of employees by November 2, so that they can celebrate the festival of Diwali with their families. Usually, the civic body credits the salaries after the first week of the month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/led-streetlights-ludhiana-mc-directs-company-to-expedite-repair-works-101634685855263.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Alleging corruption, BJP protests against closed-door meeting of Ludhiana Improvement Trust||Lambasting Raman Balasubramaniam, the chairperson of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT), for not making the agenda of the trust meeting public and allegedly indulging in corrupt practices during the ‘closed-door’ meeting held on Tuesday, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged a protest outside the LIT office. The agitation took place at the same time when the chairperson and LIT trustees were participating in the meeting inside the office at Feroze Gandhi market. The protesters, led by district secretary Lucky Chopra and Ghumar Mandi mandal president Sandeep Wadhwa, alleged that on one hand, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had been making tall claims of running a transparent government, but on the other, LIT has even restricted the entry of public in the office. Closed-door meetings are being held to benefit the close aides by bending the rules, they alleged. “It has been learnt that during the meeting held on Tuesday, LIT has approved cases for allotment of plots under locally displaced persons (LDP) category by bending the rules. Further proceedings of properties auctioned in the past are approved during the meeting. The chairperson had been involved in corrupt practices in the past and the state government should take action against him,” Chopra said. “Neither mediapersons were not allowed to enter the building nor the agenda was made public, which raises questions over the functioning of the chairperson and the LIT at large,” he added, while demanding the agenda to be made public. Meanwhile, Balasubramaniam said that the agenda of the meeting was sent to the trustees on October 14 and none of them complained about not receiving the same. “BJP leaders are levelling baseless allegations. The LIT cannot release each and every information as we have to keep secrecy in some of the issues as per the norms. The BJP leaders are raising hue and cry as I have tightened the noose around the property mafia in the LIT. No resolution or decision has been approved by moving against the norms. As far as the LDP cases are concerned, in few of the cases the court has recommended allotment of plots to residents while some have been recommended by the government. The final decision regarding the LDP cases has to be taken by the state government only,” he added. As per the information, around 23 resolutions were discussed during the trust meeting held on Tuesday, out of which at least seven were regarding the LDP cases. In LDP cases, the trust has to allot alternative plots to residents after their land is acquired by LIT for some project. Trustees Anil Parti, Vicky Gypsy, and Vijay Gaba along with LIT executive officer Kuljit Kaur were among the participants of the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/alleging-corruption-bjp-protests-against-closed-door-meeting-of-ludhiana-improvement-trust-101634685317169.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Man found dead in Chandigarh’s Maloya was murdered: Police||The 35-year-old man found dead in Maloya on Sunday was murdered and dumped there, police said on Tuesday.A passer-by had alerted the police after finding the victim, Sunil, a resident of Maloya, dead in a naked state near Rana Nursery in Maloya. The body was sent for autopsy, which revealed multiple injuries on the body, including the head and face, indicating he was beaten to death. The post-mortem report also indicated that the victim was drunk when he was assaulted. A case of murder has been registered on the complaint of his brother, Anil Kumar. He said Sunil was an alcoholic and had borrowed money from several people. Police said Sunil was married and had two children, but was staying separately. Further probe is underway to nab the attackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-found-dead-in-chandigarh-s-maloya-was-murdered-police-101634684891804.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali man ends life: Wife booked for abetment on daughter’s complaint||Over a year after a 32-year-old man died by suicide, police have booked his wife for abetment to suicide on the complaint of their 12-year-old daughter. The deceased had jumped off the roof of his house in Kharar on September 22, 2020, following which his minor daughter lodged a complaint with the SSP, alleging that her mother was responsible for his death. An inquiry was marked to the Kharar DSP and the woman was booked for abetment to suicide. She remains at large.In her statement to the police, the girl had stated that their parents got married in 2009 and since then her mother had been harassing her father over petty issues. Upset over this, he ended his life. “We have booked the wife of the deceased under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code and will arrest her soon,” said Ashok Kumar, station house officer, Kharar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-man-ends-life-wife-booked-for-abetment-on-daughter-s-complaint-101634684890180.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn enhances dearness allowance by up to 25%||The Chandigarh administration on Tuesday notified revision in dearness allowance (DA) for its employees and pensioners.In the case of employees working on pre-revised pay scale of the Fifth Punjab Pay Commission, it has been increased from current 164% of the basic pay to 189% with effect from July 1, a hike of 25%.For employees working on the revised pay scale as per the Sixth Punjab Pay Commission, it has been increased from 17% of the basic pay to 28% with effect from July 1.The new notification will also be applicable to employees of aided schools and colleges, as well as deputationists from Punjab. DA is the cost of living adjustment allowance paid to mitigate the impact of inflation on employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-enhances-dearness-allowance-by-up-to-25-101634684888008.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||CHB e-auction: Only 16% of 191 properties find takers||Only 16% of 191 properties on offer could be auctioned in the latest e-auction by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB). Up for grabs were 132 leasehold commercial properties, 31 leasehold residential properties and 28 freehold residential properties. But only 32 could be auctioned in the exercise completed on Tuesday. Most of the commercial properties were in Manimajra and Sector 61. Some were also available in Sectors 38 West, 40-A, 49 and 51-A. These included small, big and service booths. The auction process was initiated in September. In the case of 132 commercial properties on leasehold, 19 were auctioned for ₹8.56 crore against a reserve price of ₹7.05 crore. Among these eight each are in Manimajra and Sector 51, two in Sector 38 West, and one in Sector 49. The highest bid was ₹51.5 lakh for a property in Sector 51-A, against a reserve price of ₹44.2 lakh. As of 31 leasehold residential properties, only four could be auctioned. These fetched the board ₹1.86 crore against a reserve price of ₹1.82 crore. The top seller was a high-income group flat in Sector 45 that was priced at ₹96.68 lakh and went for ₹98.11 lakh.In the category of freehold properties, 28 were available, but only nine could be auctioned for ₹5.86 crore against a reserve price of ₹5.66 crore. These are mainly in Sectors 51 and 63. A medium-income group property in Sector 51, with a price tag of ₹90 lakh, got the highest bid of ₹95.15 lakh. An official said total reserved price for sold units was ₹14.54 crore and their sale brought in ₹16.29 crore. “The total highest bids are 12.04% above the total reserve prices. Specifically, the highest bids for commercial units were 21.40% higher than the average reserve prices,” the official said. Earlier set as October 8, the last date for bids was extended in view of the festive season. Also, with a 10 to 20% cut and change in the computation method, the reserve price was also brought down by 10% to 50%. But despite that, CHB did not find many takers. The low demand is mainly being attributed to high reserve price compared to the properties’ location and also most properties being leasehold. Details of successful highest bidders have been uploaded on the CHB website. They are required to pay 25% of the total amount by October 27 to avoid forfeiture of security deposit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chb-e-auction-only-16-of-191-properties-find-takers-101634684830572.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s day temperature rises by 7.8 degrees||After dropping to 24°C on Monday, the maximum temperature returned to normal after rising to 31.8°C on Tuesday.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), it likely to increase by 1-2 degrees more in the coming days.“With the skies clearing up after the rain on Sunday and Monday, the temperature went up on Tuesday. Though cold winds were blowing due to the snowfall in Himachal Pradesh, the temperature will rise further in the next few days,” said an IMD official.Meanwhile, the minimum temperature decreased from 21.6°C on Monday to 17°C on Tuesday, also normal. Over the next three days, highs and lows of 33°C and 18°C are expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-day-temperature-rises-by-7-8-degrees-101634684828836.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali admn detects eight farm fires in 19 days||Amid consistent spike in farm fires in Punjab, only eight stubble burning instances have been found in Mohali district since the beginning of October, according to the district administration.A fine of ₹2,500 each has been imposed on two of the violators and a red entry has been made in the land record of another.A red entry makes the violator ineligible for any government facility or loan from any institution. If the farm fire is on less than 2 acres, a challan of ₹2,500 is issued. In case of 2 to 5 acres, the fine is ₹5,000 and ₹15,000 if the area is above 5 acres. In 2020, 35 farmers were fined to the tune of ₹90,000 for the offence and 54 FIRs were lodged. While one case was registered under Section 39 of the AIR (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, another 53 were under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code. In 2019, ₹2.55 lakh in fine were collected from 82 farmers and seven were booked.Deputy commissioner Isha Kalia said, “The district administration has deployed rapid response teams and village-level nodal officers to monitor stubble burning. We got information about 29 cases, but no fire was found at 16 sites. Stubble burning was confirmed at eight sites and five areas have yet to be checked.”She said among the eight instances, two farmers in Dera Bassi and Kharar were fined ₹2,500 each, and a red entry had been made in the land record of one farmer.Around 25,800 hectares of land is under paddy cultivation in Mohali and is expected to result in 1.29 lakh quintals of crop residue. The rapid response teams have been trained to use the ATR mobile app to share action taken on the spot. Response time is fixed and every official is also supposed to update action taken within the stipulated period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-admn-detects-eight-farm-fires-in-19-days-101634684827404.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Admn sets ball rolling for Chandigarh MC polls, reserves 16 of 35 wards||The process for the Chandigarh municipal corporation elections, scheduled in December, kicked off on Tuesday with the UT administration announcing reservation of wards. Of the 35 wards in the city, 16 have been reserved for three categories – nine for women (general), four for Scheduled Caste (SC) and three for SC (women) candidates. The remaining 19 will be open for the general category candidates. In the last elections held in 2016, the number of wards was 26, with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) winning from 20, the Congress from five, while one seat went to the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Since then, UT merged 13 villages with MC, increasing the number of wards from 26 to 35. Till December 2020, only nine of the 22 villages in the city were under the civic body’s ambit. Among the wards reserved for SC candidates, including those for SC women, are ward numbers 7, 16, 19, 24, 26, 28 and 31.Ward numbers 1, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 18, 22 and 23 have been reserved for women (general) category candidates, and the remaining 2, 3, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 20, 21, 25, 27, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34 and 35 are for candidates from the general category. The election will be held on the basis of the 2011 census. The draw of lots was held at the UT State Guest House by the state election department in the presence of nominees of political parties. Equations set to changeAs areas of most wards have been changed due to increase in number of wards and re-carving of boundaries, many candidates will have to opt for areas other than those represented by them previously. In the BJP, among those affected by the reservation are former mayor Rajesh Kalia, who was sitting councillor from Maloya (ward number 28), but now the seat has gone to an SC woman candidate. Devinder Singh Babla, Congress’ leader of opposition in the MC House, will also have to consider his options, as his area (Sectors 27, 28 and 29) got reserved for a woman. Code of conduct likely in November second weekOfficials said the code of conduct is likely to come in force in November’s second week, following which the nomination process will commence. The election process is to be concluded by December 31, the date of expiry of the current term of MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/admn-sets-ball-rolling-for-chandigarh-mc-polls-reserves-16-of-35-wards-101634684826257.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana lads rewrite history, bag U-19 cricket title after 19 years||It was exactly two years ago when the young Nishant Sindhu led Haryana to the Vijay Merchant U-16 Trophy title win. As the pandemic raged on and no cricket was played last season, Sindhu, like hundreds of young aspiring cricketers in India, was left disappointed.As he led Haryana to another national title win on Monday, this time in the prestigious Under-19 Vinoo Mankad Trophy finals at Narendra Modi Stadium in Ahmedabad, Sindhu and his teammates only vindicated the belief and hard work being put in by the Haryana Cricket Association.Haryana beat Maharashtra by six wickets in the finals to cap off a campaign where the team didn’t lose a single game – both in the league stage and the knockouts. Incidentally, the last time Haryana had won the Under-19 title was way back in 2002-03. “It was disappointing to lose out on good cricket opportunities last season due to the pandemic. We would talk among ourselves and keep encouraging each other. The players were also hungry to do well knowing the U-19 World Cup is going to take place next year,” said 17-year-old Sindhu, son of a former state-level boxer from Rohtak.A left-hander, he scored 299 runs and took 12 wickets for Haryana in the tournament.Gruelling one-month camp did the trickHCA had organised a tough month-long camp in Faridabad where about 50 players from various parts of Haryana were invited. “Since it was the season’s first tournament, HCA planned the preparations and the players went through high-intensity training during the camp. They even travelled to nearby districts to play practice matches. They had to undergo two fitness tests, 2km run and sprint repeat within stipulated time, twice. By the end of the camp, all were match-fit. Then a pool of six-seven qualified coaches, including first-class cricketers Pankaj Thakur, Vijay Yadav, Sonu Rathee, Gaurav Vashisht and Vishal Sahni, were given charge of the camp. HCA asked a dietician to plan their menus during their stay. HCA wanted the team to clinch the title,” said former Haryana Ranji Trophy cricketer and now senior coach Ashwini Kumar.Haryana beat Uttarakhand, Baroda, Kerala and West Bengal in the league stage in Hyderabad. They won against top-team Vidarbha in the quarter-finals and then beat Rajasthan in the semi-finals at Ahmedabad. HCA went all out to motivate playersA few months ago, HCA also came to the rescue of the players whose parents lost jobs or faced pay cut due to the pandemic, just to make sure the cricketers did not suffer. A message was sent out to smaller districts like Panchkula, Rohtak and Bhiwani to ask the players to start training in batches after the second lockdown ended.“HCA has progressed immensely under former HCA secretary and ex-BCCI treasurer Anirudh Choudhary. He takes personal interest in all teams. The way he planned the camp for our U-19 team speaks a lot. We knew the same bunch which won us the Vijay Merchant Trophy two seasons ago, was with us for the Vinoo Mankad Trophy, so we fine-tuned their skills like that,” added Kumar.The Haryana U-19 team coach and former Ranji Trophy cricketer Pankaj Thakur also heaped praises on the players.“The players were pumped up ahead of the camp. They just wanted to play cricket, get match-fit and compete in the tournament for the title. Then I had to tell them about the importance of doing well in the tournament and also keep them calm at the same time as they were experiencing the bubble for the first time. I spoke to coaches of other state coaches also. We had the longest preparatory camp with set goals,” said the coach, who felt beating Vidarbha in the low-scoring quarter-finals was the best performance of the team. Batting first, Haryana scored 171 runs and thereafter bowled out Vidarbha at 164.The road aheadA Challenger Trophy for U-19 will be organised soon by the BCCI, along with some exposure tours abroad in the coming months, to provide India U-19 players enough opportunities ahead of the World Cup.“They play the Cooch Behar Trophy from November 16. HCA has planned another intensive camp beginning in four-five days as a run-up to the tournament. The Haryana team would like to carry the momentum forward and leave no stone unturned to win the Cooch Behar Trophy,” said Kumar, who has also coached the Haryana senior men’s team in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-lads-rewrite-history-bag-u-19-cricket-title-after-19-years-101634684822499.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala private schools demand pending dues under Rule 134A||The private schools in Ambala are demanding their pending dues for teaching poor students under Rule 134A of the Haryana School Education Rules or else they will deny admissions to them, in protest.Also asking for an increase in compensation, a delegation representing Haryana Progressive Schools Conference (HPSC) and the Integrated Private School Welfare Society (IPSWS) met the district education officer on Monday to hand over a memorandum in the name of education minister Kanwar Pal.Saurabh Kapoor, president, IPSWS, said: “We are requesting the government to stop admissions for the session 2021-22, clear our dues, and then invite applications next year. If our demands are not met, schools will have to deny admission to such students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-private-schools-demand-pending-dues-under-rule-134a-101634684821088.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bid to withdraw ₹1.2 crore from Chandigarh MC account using forged cheques||The police have booked an unidentified person who tried to withdraw ₹1.2 crore from the account of Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) through forged cheques.The case was registered on the complaint of MC chief accountant officer, Virender Singh Thakur. He reported that an unidentified person had presented two forged cheques at Bank of Baroda, Sector 37, and tried to withdraw an amount of ₹98 lakh and ₹22 lakh through these cheques on October 18, 2021.The forgery of cheques was detected after the manager got suspicious. On checking, it also came to fore that an amount of ₹28.51 lakh had already been withdrawn from Bank of Baroda, Sector 37, on October 11, with the help of a forged cheque.A case of cheating and forgery was registered under Sections 419, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the Indian Penal Code. The police are now trying to trace the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bid-to-withdraw-1-2-crore-from-chandigarh-mc-account-using-forged-cheques-101634684819746.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rally of Himalayas: Chandigarh’s Harvinder claims top spot||Chandigarh rallyist Harvinder Bhola gelled well with navigator Chirag Thakur to emerge victorious in the Rally of Himalayas Championship organised by Himalayan X-Treme Motorsports Club in Manali from October 7 to 10. The duo bagged the overall winners’ title at the championship that saw participation of as many as 100 top rallyists from all over the country. Driving a Maruti Grand Vitara, Harvinder, along with his navigator, covered 500km in four days. The four stages covered challenging terrains of Manali, Hamta Pass, Kuzum Pass, Kaza and Losar, in Kullu and Spiti valleys.“The rally covered the most difficult terrains for racing. Kaza is well known for its rough terrain and high-altitude problems. Making it even more challenging were the ice patches on roads, and narrow and sharp turns,” said Harvinder. “A Himalayan rally has always been synonymous with adventure, uncertainty and extreme conditions. But this time it went one notch higher with the new gruelling route, which challenged the abilities of rallyists,” said Chirag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rally-of-himalayas-chandigarh-s-harvinder-claims-top-spot-101634684818725.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dera Bassi: 70 new cases surface in fifth diarrhoea outbreak in two months||As many as 70 diarrhoea cases have been reported at Gulabgarh road in the past two days, making it the fifth outbreak in the Dera Bassi sub-division in the past two months.Dera Bassi MC, however, claimed that there was a sewage leakage, which has been plugged and now the water supply is normal.Contaminated supply is a common cause of cholera, a bacterial disease that causes severe diarrhoea and dehydration. The infection is often mild or without symptoms, but can sometimes be severe and life-threatening.Senior medical officer, Dera Bassi, Sangeeta Jain said, “For the past two days, our teams are visiting the affected area and a medical camp has been set up. We are urging people to drink boiled water and chlorine tablets have been distributed. Now the situation is under control.”In the past two months, around 900 people have been infected and two have died due to three outbreaks at Baltana, Peermuchalla village and Sukhna Colony near Dhakoli, all in Zirakpur, which falls under the Dera Bassi sub-division of the Mohali district.Dera Bassi municipal council’s executive officer Jagjit Singh said, “We stopped the normal supply and water was supplied through tankers. There was some leakage of sewage, which has been plugged. Now, fresh supply has been restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-bassi-70-new-cases-surface-in-fifth-diarrhoea-outbreak-in-two-months-101634684817525.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||As cases dip in Chandigarh, 3 mini Covid care centres to be closed||As fresh Covid-19 cases are gradually ebbing away in Chandigarh and the tricity, the UT health department on Tuesday decided to close the three mini Covid care centres from November 1.Earlier in June this year, the health department had temporarily closed the three centres, being run at Sports Complex in Sectors 8, 34 and 43, and had kept them on standby mode till September 30. The centres were being run by Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti, Kandhari Beverages Private Limited, and United Sikhs, respectively.“The UT administration appreciates the great noble gesture of six organisations who contributed towards the management of the second wave by running six mini Covid care centres in Chandigarh with oxygenated beds. The centres were operated by the organisations in a highly professional manner with qualified doctors and nurses. They also provided food, medicines and other services to Covid patients without any charges from the administration,” said Yashpal Garg, UT health secretary.Garg added, “Due to sharp reduction in the number of Covid patients, it has been decided to close the centres at Sports Complex in Sectors 8, 34 and 43, from November 1. The organisations are requested to vacate the premises and hand it over to the director (sports), UT.”The other three mini Covid care centres, being run by Sri Guru Granth Sahib Sewa Society, Competent Foundation and Bharat Vikas Parishad, and Be Sure Buddy Private Limited, were also asked to either close the centre permanently or to continue with temporary closure till December 31 this year.“Considering the possibility of a third wave, the three organisations were given two options—closure of the centres and vacation of the premises, or to continue with the temporary closure of the centres and retaining the given premises, with own security arrangements for the items and installations, up to December 31,” Garg said, adding that the administration would request the organisations to go with temporary closure. “However, the three organisations can decide and inform the administration in the next three days,” he said.Seven test positive in tricityAs many as seven people tested positive for Covid-19 in the tricity on Tuesday, lower than nine the day before.Panchkula once again reported no case, the 10th time this month, while Chandigarh and Mohali logged four and three cases, respectively.No life was lost to the virus for the 14th day in row.However, tricity’s active cases increased from 68 to 70 in the past 24 hours. Mohali still has 35 infected patients, Chandigarh 25 and Panchkula 10.The latest cases in the UT surfaced in Sectors 8 and 21, while those in Mohali came from Dera Bassi, Kharar and Mohali city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-cases-dip-in-chandigarh-3-mini-covid-care-centres-to-be-closed-101634684815913.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two more succumb to dengue in Mohali||Mohali district reported two more suspected dengue deaths on Tuesday, taking its toll this year to 14.Of the total, 12 deaths have been reported in just 19 days of October and two in September. Chandigarh and Panchkula have not reported any fatality owing to the infection so far.Meanwhile, 71 more tricity residents were found infected with dengue on Tuesday, as compared to 110 on Monday. Chandigarh led with 29 cases, followed by Mohali with 26 and Panchkula with 16.With this, Mohali’s tally this year has reached 1,648, Chandigarh’s total stands at 448 and Panchkula’s at 351.Among these, 31 dengue infections have also surfaced at National Institute of Nursing Education (NINE) at PGIMER, Chandigarh, since September 28. “On checking, no stagnant water was found on NINE campus. Also, the grass is being cut regularly and students have been using mosquito-repellent creams regularly. The spraying in the hostel rooms, washrooms and kitchen areas was done four times in a month and fogging was also done at NINE hostel and college by the municipal corporation,” the PGIMER authorities said in a press note.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-more-succumb-to-dengue-in-mohali-101634684759128.html
20-10-2021||Other||29-year-old biker killed in Landran hit-and-run mishap||A rashly driver car claimed the life of 29-year-old motorcyclist in yet another hit-and-run accident in Mohali district.The deceased, Rajan Singh, was a resident of Friends Colony, Rajpura, Patiala district.According to information, Rajan and his cousin Manoj were commuting on a motorcycle from Kharar to Rajpura around 3.15pm. As they reached Landran, a recklessly driven car hit their two-wheeler and dragged it for a few metres, until a road divider brought the car to a halt.Leaving Rajan and his cousin injured, the car driver sped away. The injured were taken to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where Rajan was declared brought dead, while Manoj is under treatment.Investigating officer Sanjay Kumar said the unidentified car driver had been booked under Sections 304-A (causing death due to negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code. “We have traced the car’s registration number and will nab the driver soon. The body has been handed over to the family members after autopsy,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/29yearold-biker-killed-in-landran-hit-and-run-mishap-101634684758015.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man caught with 280kg ganja awarded 20-year jail||Reiterating that drug trafficking must be dealt with a heavy hand, a local court on Tuesday awarded 20-year jail to a 37-year-old man caught with 280kg ganja and a country made pistol in 2019.The court of additional district and sessions judge Anshu Shukla also imposed a fine of ₹2.25 lakh on the convict, Mintu, a resident of Bapu Dham Colony, Sector 26, Chandigarh. “Drug trafficking, trade and consumption has assumed alarming proportions and has a crippling effect on the wellbeing of society. Drug use weakens the morale, physique and character of the youth and ultimately, the growth of the nation. The courts must endeavour for a drug-free society and drug trafficking must be dealt with heavy hands... Measure of punishment in such cases cannot depend upon the social status or family background of the accused,” said the order. Mintu was booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act in 2019 after he was nabbed from a check post.A police team on patrolling duty in view of the General Elections in 2019 had caught him following a tip-off near the Kishangarh roundabout. Mintu was driving a Toyota Innova, from which 14 sacks containing 280kg ganja and a country made pistol with five live cartridges were recovered. His pleas of being the father of four children, sole breadwinner and first-time offender failed to get leniency from the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-caught-with-280kg-ganja-awarded-20-year-jail-101634684756961.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Air India penalised for not refunding ticket upgrade fee to Panchkula resident||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed Air India to refund the economy-to-business upgrade fee to a Panchkula resident.Apart from the upgrade fee of ₹38,508, along with 9% interest, the airline has also been told to pay the complainant ₹5,000 as compensation for causing mental agony and harassment, and ₹5,000 as litigation cost. In his complaint, Pankaj Kumar Mahajan, a resident of Sector 6, Panchkula, had said that he had booked tickets for an Air India flight to travel from Delhi to Colombo, Sri Lanka, on February 16, 2019. After his ticket was confirmed, he was allowed to upgrade the economy class seats to business class on payment of upgrade price. He said as per norms of the airline, the seat’s upgrade status was required to be notified via email within one to three days, but no later than four hours before the flight’s departure. Also, if the seats are not upgraded, the fee will be refunded within five days from the flight departure. So, he applied for the upgrade on February 13, 2019, and paid ₹38,508 for it. But he was not provided an upgrade and the airline also failed to refund the money. Contesting the complaint, Air India said the business class seats in the flight on February 16, 2019, were fully booked. Thus, Mahajan could not be accommodated instantly. He had initially checked into economy class seats and was told if any business class seat falls vacant, he will be informed at the boarding gate and be accommodated, and if not, he will be duly compensated as per rules. The consumer commission held that the airline had failed to prove by way of any documentary evidence that they upgraded the seats one hour before the flight’s departure and also rejected the refund on false and frivolous grounds.“The complainant was therefore constrained to file the consumer complaint, causing undue harassment to him and practicing of the unfair trade practice on the part of airlines,” the commission held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/air-india-penalised-for-not-refunding-ticket-upgrade-fee-to-panchkula-resident-101634684755742.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Matchmaker, son booked for trying to kill groom’s father||A day before the wedding of his son, an elderly man was assaulted allegedly by a matchmaker, her son, two relatives and three others following a dispute over dance during ‘Jago’ ceremony at Jattpura village, police said on Tuesday. The accused also vandalised two cars parked outside the victim’s house before fleeing. Hathur police have registered a case against the accused, including Harinder Kaur, the matchmaker from Jattpura village, her son Sukhpreet Singh, two relatives Gurpreet Singh alias Reetu and Gurpreet’s father Amrik Singh. Three accomplices of the accused are yet to be identified, the police said. The case was lodged by Gurjant Singh, son of victim Jora Singh. Gurjant in his statement mentioned that his wedding was scheduled for October 14. “On October 13, there was a Jago ceremony and all women relatives were celebrating by dancing. In the meantime, one of the accused, Sukhpreet Singh, turned up there. He held the hand of my cousin and forced her to dance with him,” Gurjant told the police. He added that when he objected, the accused left the spot after threatening him. Gurjant said that later in the night, the accused barged into their house with sticks and iron rods in their hands. “They thrashed my father with an intention to kill him and also vandalised two cars. They again threatened us before leaving the spot,” he added. We rushed my father to a hospital, where his condition is still stated to be serious, Gurjant said.ASI Rachhpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the first information report (FIR) has been registered under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 294 (obscene acts), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 458 (lurking house trespass or housebreaking by night after preparation for hurt, assault, or wrongful restraint), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused. A hunt is on to nab them, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-matchmaker-son-booked-for-trying-to-kill-groom-s-father-101634684395026.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: STF detects ‘benami’ properties of drug cartel members||Investigating a drug cartel, the special task force (STF) found ‘benami’ properties of smugglers in the city which were bought using the drug money. The STF has identified six such properties and initiated a process to attach them with the case. During questioning, cartel kingpin Harminder Singh Randhawa alias Romi Randhawa admitted that he had purchased properties in Ludhiana and other cities for the members of his gang. He had also bought vehicles for them and promised to bear all expenses of weddings in their family. The accused also told the STF that they had recruited the members by luring them with cash and properties. Though he had not transferred the properties in the name of the members of his racket, he had allowed them to stay there.Harminder Singh Randhawa has been extradited from Thailand, where he had been hiding for the past many years. Inspector Harbans Singh, incharge of Ludhiana STF, said that one of the main accused in the drug haul case, Tanvir Bedi, is hiding in Australia. “Process is already on for his extradition. A lookout circular has already been issued against him. We are also trying to issue a red-corner notice against him,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-stf-detects-benami-properties-of-drug-cartel-members-101634684155127.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Centre must reverse decision on BSF’s jurisdiction: Sukhbir to PM||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene and rescind the decision to expand the Border Security Force’s (BSF’s) jurisdiction over vast swathes of Punjab along with the three farm laws. During a roadshow in the district, the Akali Dal chief said that he had written to the Prime Minister on this issue and pointed out the urgent need to review the central directive extending the jurisdiction of the BSF to over 50km along the barbed wire fence with Pakistan. Taking a dig at Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for “surrendering the rights” of the state to the Centre, Sukhbir asked him to clarify as to why he had agreed to the proposal during his meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah on October 5. “The CM is only busy in getting photographs clicked these days. All attempts were being made to befool the people by laying various foundation stones. These foundation stones will remain stones only as no work will be undertaken on any of the projects in the next two months before imposition of the model code of conduct,” he added. Sukhbir also asked Channi to “get his act together” and ensure timely supply of DAP fertilisers to farmers. “My father Parkash Singh Badal during his term as Punjab CM used to make arrangements for procurement of the fertilisers two months in advance,” he said, adding that the Congress was only interested in fighting for the “top jobs” and had left the farmers at the “mercy of corporates”. The SAD chief asked Channi not to indulge in a “sham” by calling an investment summit after winding up the Punjab Invest department. “No investment was done in Punjab in last nearly five years and none is going to happen in the next two months,” he said, while suggesting the CM to take steps to control the spread of dengue in Punjab. Sukhbir said that the Centre should tell why the law and order situation in Jammu and Kashmir was being allowed to deteriorate. “J&K was turned into a union territory and it was the Centre’s responsibility to maintain law and order as well as ensure the security of members of the minority community,” he added. Earlier, the SAD president addressed members from various sections of society at the residence of party leader Gurdeep Gosha along with former minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal. ‘State needs a leader with ideas’ Sukhbir also spoke on how Ludhiana benefitted by the construction of two bypasses besides expansion of Ferozepur Road during the previous SAD regime. “Give me five years and you will see a different Punjab. Trade and industry needs a leader who has a vision because it is the future of the state. You don’t need money, you need plans,” he said. Sukhbir’s roadshow that started from Samrala Road took three hours to reach Fieldganj. He was also accompanied by local party candidate Pritpal Singh Pali. He paid obeisance at Guru Ravidas mandir and Gurdwara Baba Bachittar Singh. Sukhbir also participated in a ‘Shobha Yatra’ held at Daresi ground to celebrate Pargat Diwas of Bhagwan Valmiki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-must-reverse-decision-on-bsf-s-jurisdiction-sukhbir-to-pm-101634683855085.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||‘Foreign-funded terror module’ busted in Punjab, Sangrur man held with arms||Punjab Police on Tuesday claimed to have busted a foreign-funded terror module and arrested a 34-year-old man from Sangrur district’s Lehra Gaga sub-division with arms and ammunition on the basis of intelligence inputs. Senior police officials said the suspect, Lakhveer Singh, alias Lakha (34), a mason, was arrested from near a brick kiln in Lehra on Monday. In a press release, director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota said the suspect was motivated by pro-Khalistan elements based abroad to carry out target killings besides executing attacks on religious places of various sects in the state. “Investigation revealed that various digital platforms were being used for financial transactions for carrying out the terror module. The accused allegedly received three installments of ₹1.48 lakh deposited in his account at New Delhi, Moga and Khanna,” he added. While tracing these transactions, the police claimed to have identified two persons — one from Vancouver, Canada, and the other from Poland — as the masterminds and funders of the module.Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Swapan Sharma said one Sukhjit Singh, alias Sukhi of Moonak provided Lakhveer a country-made pistol and ammunition. “Sukhjit, who is absconding, is involved in smuggling of illegal arms from Uttar Pradesh,” Sharma said.Superintendent of police (detective) Karanveer Singh said the investigations are being conducted by a special investigation team.A case was registered against the accused under Sections 124-A (sedition through words, signs, visual representation, or otherwise), 153-A (punishment for wanton vilification or attacks on religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 (bring or take out of India arms or ammunition of any class or description) Arms Act at Lehra police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/foreignfunded-terror-module-busted-in-punjab-sangrur-man-held-with-arms-101634676054305.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||5 districts record two-thirds of Punjab’s total dengue count||The dengue outbreak in Punjab is concentrated in Bathinda, Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Pathankot as 65% of the total cases in the state so far have been reported in these five districts.Such is the situation that the case count in some of the districts is nearly four-fold of the last year’s figure. Hoshiarpur registered the maximum spurt as cases (till October 18) reached 1,112 as compared to a total of 298 last year. Bathinda is leading the overall tally as the district reached 1,479 cases till Monday as compared 576 on the corresponding date last year. The state registered 9,047 cases of dengue against last year’s 8,435 cases. Ludhiana, Punjab’s industrial hub, is the only large district in the state that registered less count this year with 410 cases against last year’s 1,355. The district topped the list in 2020 with 1,355 cases of dengue. Moga and Mansa are other districts where the caseload is low at 16 and 34. Chief secretary holds emergency meetingChief secretary Anirudh Tewari on Tuesday chaired an emergency meeting of various department heads in view of the rising cases of dengue. The local bodies, and the panchayati raj departments were asked to focus on fogging for which the finance department has been asked to purchase machines from emergency funds, it is learnt. On Monday, deputy chief minister OP Soni, who holds the health portfolio, had also chaired a meeting. Director (health and family welfare) Dr Andesh Kang refused to admit that the situation was going out of hand. She said, “The government is making out all efforts manage the outbreak. The good part is that cases have started decreasing in the past few days.” She dismissed reports of a new breed of mosquito as the reason behind the spurt in dengue cases. “Nothing of that sort has been found in our studies so far. A longer spell of rain and humidity are also the reason behind breeding of mosquitoes this year,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-districts-record-two-thirds-of-punjab-s-total-dengue-count-101634675815565.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress govt in Punjab unable to deliver on pre-poll promises: Akali MP Harsimrat Badal||Former Union minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Tuesday said that the Congress government in Punjab was incapable of delivering on its pre-poll promises and people of the state should not rely on it.Addressing a gathering at an event organised by former minister and Akali Dal leader Anil Joshi in Amritsar, Kaur said instead of doing its own work as promised before coming to power, the Congress government has stopped all the development work and various welfare schemes launched by the last government led by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). She said only two months have remained for the start of the election and the people should not expect any employment or development from the incumbent government, which is currently busy in its infighting. “They promised development but failed, they promised better infrastructure but failed. They promised safety of citizens but we are seeing rise in crimes every single day. They (Congress) have failed the people of Punjab on every front,” she claimed.Joshi said the Congress government is riddled with corruption from top to bottom and the only thing they have achieved in the last five years is undoing all the good work the Akali Dal had done. “From the ministers to the ration depot holders, everyone associated with this government has betrayed your mandate,” he told the gathering.The SAD also released its election manifesto at the event. The manifesto promises of not accepting the controversial farm laws introduced by the central government, 1 lakh government jobs for the youth and 10 lakh new private sector jobs, 50 percent reservation for women in colleges and universities, and ensuring cheaper electricity for consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-govt-in-punjab-unable-to-deliver-on-pre-poll-promises-akali-mp-harsimrat-badal-101634675517418.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||2015 police firing: Special public prosecutor RS Bains appears in Faridkot trial court for first time, accused oppose appointment||The Punjab government’s newly appointed special public prosecutor in the 2015 Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing incidents, advocate Rajwinder Singh Bains, on Tuesday appeared in a trial court at Faridkot for the first time in connection with the cases. But the accused cops — both serving and retired — moved an application opposing Bains’ appointment, saying he cannot lead the prosecution having represented the complainants in the Punjab and Haryana high court in the firing cases. In another petition, referring to the high court’s order staying investigations in cases pending against former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini till February 2022, they asked the court to stay proceedings against all the accused till then. Six accused including, suspended inspector general of police Paramraj Singh Umranangal, former SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma, SP Bikramjit Singh and inspector Amarjit Singh appeared in the court on Tuesday. Additional district and sessions judge Harbans Singh Lekhi adjourned for hearing till October 29. Former Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma’s counsel HS Saini said they challenged Banis’ appointment as it was the prosecution’s job to assist the court in a neutral manner. Bains was the counsel of Sukhraj Singh, son of Bhagwan Krishan Singh who was killed in the Behbal Kalan firing on October 14, 2015, and Ajit Singh, who was injured in the Kotkapura incident. ‘Claims of suspects not sustainable’Advocate Bains said the opposition of the accused to his appointment as special public prosecutor was not sustainable and they must show provision in the law on this. “Since they don’t have any valid point to make, they are filling these applications to waste time. We will file a reply and argue on the basis of facts on the next date,” he added.So far, designated government district lawyers have been appearing in the trial courts in the firing cases.In the Behbal Kalan case, challans have been presented and are pending trial. The prosecution supplied 1000-page documents to the accused following the directions of the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-police-firing-special-public-prosecutor-rs-bains-appears-in-faridkot-trial-court-for-first-time-accused-oppose-appointment-101634675094299.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu border episode: Bhim Army chief meets Tarn Taran man’s family, seeks CBI probe into lynching||Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad on Monday visited the family of Lakhbir Singh, who was brutally hacked to death at the Singhu border protest site in Delhi, at Tarn Taran district’s Cheema Kalan village and demanded an impartial probe by the CBI into the lynching episode. The chief of the Bhim Army, a scheduled caste (SC) rights organisation, who gave ₹5,000 in cash to Lakhbir’s sister Raj Kaur and assured her more financial aid, said the victim could not have desecrated the Guru Granth Sahib.Speaking to mediapersons, Azad sought a compensation of ₹1 crore to the victim’s dependents from the government. “We are with the family which has nowhere to go. The Punjab chief minister should provide government job to a member of the family,” he said. When contacted, Raj Kaur said, “I am upset and don’t want to speak on the matter right now.” Also, Lakhbir’s 37-year-old wife Jaspreet Kaur, who along with her three daughters has been living at her parental home in Amritsar district, refused to talk over phone. Jaspreet’s brother Sukhchain Singh, a carpenter, said, “My sister has three daughters but no income source. They struggle to make both ends meet. She has to do labour work in the farms.”“With the death of my brother-in-law, my sister has lost her only hope for the future. In such a situation, the government should award her compensation so that the family faces lesser hardships. We are not raising the demand for compensation fearing reprisal,” he added.The family, which belongs to the Majhabi Sikh community, has also won the support of other SC organisations and BJP leaders who say the victims’ dependants should be compensated.Sukhchain said, “Many persons have approached and contacted us assuring all kind of help. Yesterday, members of two organisations—one of the SC community and the other a Sikh outfit — visited us and saying they would surely help my sister.”On Monday, senior BJP leader and the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) chairman Vijay Sampla wrote a letter to acting Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, requesting him that the bhog of Lakhbir be performed as per the Sikh rehat maryada (code of conduct). It has not been proved yet that the victim committed sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singhu-border-episode-bhim-army-chief-meets-tarn-taran-man-s-family-seeks-cbi-probe-into-lynching-101634674734097.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||90% patients survive when breast cancer is detected at an early stage: Experts||As part of Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Mohandai Oswal Cancer Hospital organised an event on Tuesday where survivors of the disease participated. They shared their experience starting from the day when they were diagnosed till their treatment. Deputy director, District Bureau of Employment and Enterprises, Minakshi Sharma, was the chief guest on the occasion. Dr Nishant Batta, consultant, surgical oncologist, said that the number of breast cancer cases have been rising at an alarming rate across the globe and is one of the most common forms of cancer among women. He said that early and adequate diagnosis can lead to effective treatment. He added that annual mammography screening for women above 40 years of age is recommended and is currently the best available method to detect breast cancer. Further, he stated that about 90% patients survive when breast cancer is detected at the early stage. Thus, it is important for women to do a self examination regularly and consult a doctor if changes are noticed. The participants were also apprised of some common symptoms including painless lump in the breast or armpit, change in breast shape, dimpling in the breast skin, abnormal nipple discharge and nipple retraction or ulceration.Sharma appreciated the doctors and staff for hosting the informative session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/90-patients-survive-when-breast-cancer-is-detected-at-the-early-experts-101634674134409.html
20-10-2021||Other||Sangrur farmers remove uneven slabs acting as road dividers||Sangrur Hundreds of farmers removed uneven slabs acting as road dividers on the Sunam-Patiala road on Tuesday. With the ‘dividers’ designed and placed in a poor and shoddy manner, these had become a major cause of accidents. Farmers assembled from Sunam, Dirba and Sangrur near the Sajuma village and used JCB to remove the divider. Ran Singh Chatha, district secretary, BKU (Sidhupur), said, “The poorly-designed so-called divider was in fact a road safety hazard. Despite requests, the government did not act.” Sunam tehsildar Kuldeep Singh admitted that the divider was a safety issued, but said the farmers peacefully did the job.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sangrur-farmers-remove-uneven-slabs-acting-as-road-dividers-101634673956872.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Encroachments, makeshift stalls on roadsides banned||Ahead of the festive season, joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian extended the ban on encroachments on roads, setting up rehris, placing products outside shops and makeshifts stalls on roadsides on Tuesday. According to the orders the encroachments cause traffic problems and mishaps. The orders will remain in force for the next two months. The other orders issued are:Ban on sale and storage of plastic kite stringSale and storage of plastic kite string has been banned under Section 144 of CrPC, terming it dangerous for humans and animals. The JCP said violators will face stern police action. ‘Keep record of buyers of military print clothes’The JCP also issued directed shopkeepers to keep record of those buying army print clothes and uniforms. He said anti-social elements can misuse them to commit crimes. The shopkeepers have been ordered to keep pictures, identification proof and mobile numbers of the buyers and submit the record with police stations concerned. Ban on sale of substandard helmetsThe sale of substandard helmets have been banned and sellers have been ordered to sell only those which have ISI marks.Ban on carrying sand in uncovered vehiclesCarrying sand in uncovered vehicles has been banned as it inconveniences commuters. He ordered those carrying sand in their vehicles to cover it with tarpaulin.Get police verification of tenants, domestic helpsAfter repeated incidents of robberies and burglaries by domestic helps, Elanchezhian ordered the police verification of employees and domestic helps. He also ordered the police verification of tenants. The JCP said that violators will face legal action.Ban on VIP tags on vehiclesThe ban on police, army and other VIP tags on vehicles without any authority has been extended. According to the police, anti-social elements and criminals can take advantage of such tags and threaten law and order.No tinted glasses in vehiclesThe ban on the tinted glasses on vehicles has also been extended.He said that vehicles with tinted windows may be used to commit crimes.Ban on drinking on public placesElanchezhian also banned drinking on roadsides and outside liquor vends. ‘Keep record of guests’The JCP directed owners of hotels and inns to keep record of guests. They have been directed to keep a scanned copy of photo identity cards of the guests.He also extended a ban on modified auto-carts in the city. He said that such vehicles are plying without number plates and become difficult to trace in case of mishaps.The JCP has also banned modification of silencers of Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycles..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-encroachments-makeshift-stalls-on-roadsides-banned-101634673954495.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Vehicular access to Sinhgad fort: Rs50/bike, Rs100/car||PUNE The historic Sinhgad Fort reopened for tourists after six months, on October 12. Earlier, two-wheelers were charged ₹20 and four-wheelers paid Rs50 for vehicular access to the fort. As of October 19, vehicle fees have been revised with charges for two-wheelers nowRs50 and for a four-wheeler, Rs100. According to the Forest Department, on an average 203 vehicles pass through the check post set up enroute to the fort, which includes at least 140 two-wheelers, 40 four-wheelers and 20 passenger vehicles. Rahul Patil, deputy forest conservator Pune, said, “We have started the ‘My Sinhgad, My Responsibility’ initiative. Those who visit to the fort should keep the sanctity of the fort. Devotees and tourists should co-operate to enhance the biodiversity of the fort.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vehicular-access-to-sinhgad-fort-rs50-bike-rs100car-101634673894080.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Centre has assured supply of 10 DAP rakes to Punjab: Nabha||Punjab agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha on Tuesday said the central government has assured to supply 10 rakes of DAP (diammonium phosphate), five rakes of NPK (complex fertiliser) and two of SSP (single super phosphate) to the state within three to four days. Nabha, who met Union minister for chemicals and fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya regarding the DAP shortage, said the central minister also assured adequate supply of urea to the state in November and December. The assurance was given after Nabha, who called upon Mandaviya in Delhi, informed the latter that of the total requirement of 5.5 lakh MT of DAP for rabi crop, 4.8 lakh MT was required during October and November for timely sowing of wheat crop. Nabha said the state had 0.74 lakh MT opening stock of DAP on October 1 as compared to 3.63 lakh MT last year and the central government had allocated only 1.97 lakh MT against demand of 2.75 lakh MT during October 2021. “The state has demanded an additional allocation of 1.5 lakh MT of DAP to the state for October 2021 and expedite the supply, he said. He said the Union minister attributed the DAP shortage to non-availability of fertilisers in the international market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centre-has-assured-supply-of-10-dap-rakes-to-punjab-nabha-101634673595266.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Uprooting of invasive plant species to begin at Taljai tekdi in Pune on Oct 21||PUNE: The yellow flowers commonly found on the roadside and on hill slopes may paint a pretty picture but the reality is far from it. According to botanists and environmentalists, these Cosmos flowers (Cosmos Sulphurous) are a slow killer of native plants and shrubs.So much so that Dr Sachin Punekar, biologist from the Agarkar Research institute, has started an initiative called MABI (Movement against Biological Invasion) to promote the conservation of native flora in the face of this mushrooming challenge. The campaign will kick-off from Taljai tekdi at 7.30am on October 21 with a Cosmos uprooting drive to help preserve the rich biodiversity on the tekdi.Punekar said, “MABI is a movement against any type of biological invasion but currently, the city is seeing an onslaught of pretty yellow-orange coloured flowers across hills and hill slopes. Cosmos is an invasive alien species of plant, an obnoxious weed that has come here from various sources. It has created a challenge for native biodiversity because of its prolific growth and has wiped out indigenous species of plants and disrupted the local food chain upon which a number of insects and animals are directly dependent for their food and shelter.”According to environmentalists and nature lovers, it is unfortunate that the rampant growth of this invasive species of plant was not addressed earlier but they feel that a dedicated movement might help rein in the invasion that has spread to grasslands and scrublands.Punekar said, “With the help of various partners and stakeholders, nature lovers, environmentalists, we want to sensitise everyone about the ill effects of this species. There are a large number of these plants growing rampantly in the wild and on the tekdis creating problems for livestock and herbivores who are losing out on fodder which is dwindling day by day.”Punekar, along with stakeholders such as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), will uproot the Cosmos plants mechanically and stop them from spreading further, making room for local species to grow in good time.Mangesh Dighe, environment officer, PMC said, “Yellow Cosmos is a native plant of Mexico and is commonly seen along highways but has now spread to the hills and plains of the city. The Cosmos flowers are very attractive and we often see people taking photos of them but they are slowly killing local plant species. Hence we appeal to citizens to come in large numbers to the Taljai tekdi to help uproot these biologically invasive plants and maintain local plants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/uprooting-of-invasive-plant-species-to-begin-at-taljai-tekdi-in-pune-on-oct-21-101634673593995.html
20-10-2021||Other||Min temp in Pune stays below 20 deg C||PUNE With the monsoon gone, four of six weather stations in Pune reported a drop in temperature on Tuesday. Pashan reported the lowest minimum temperature in the city at 18.7 degrees Celsius, as per India Meteorological Department (IMD).Shivajinagar reported 19 degrees Celsius, Lohegaon reported 19.6 degrees Celsius and Lavale reported 19.9 degrees Celsius. Chinchwad on Tuesday reported 21.4 degrees Celsius and Magarpatta reported 22.1 degrees Celsius. Shivajinagar reported a maximum temperature of 30.7 degrees Celsius, 1.1 degrees Celsuis cooler than the forecast normal. Lohegaon reported 31.1 degrees Celsius. As per the weather department, Pashan reported 29.8 degrees Celsius, Lavale reported 30.7 degrees Celsius, Chinchwad reported 31.3 degrees Celsius and Magarpatta reported 32 degrees Celsius on Tuesday.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that there was some moisture incursion from Vidarbha because of which there was cloudy weather in the city which resulted in drop in day temperature on Tuesday.“However, the day temperature is likely to see a rise in the city limits with mercury touching 36 degrees Celsius in the next few days. October heat is likely to be experienced in the city in the next few days” said Kashyapi.He added that for the next few days the minimum temperature will be around 19 degrees Celsius in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/min-temp-in-pune-stays-below-20-deg-c-101634673295021.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police arrests vehicle lifter, three others||The CIA staff-1 of Ludhiana police arrested a 28-year-old vehicle lifter on Monday. The accused has been identified as Saurav Kapoor alias Kaku, 28, of Joginder Nagar of Haibowal. Based on information provided by him, two scrap dealers and a cycle repair shop owner were also nabbed for buying stolen vehicles from him. They are Ramesh Singh, 30, of Mahavir Jain Colony; Narinder Singh, 24, of New Raghbir Park, Jassian Road and Ganga Prasad alias Ganga Ram, 31, of Green Enclave, Chuharpur Road.Ten stolen vehicles, including eight scooters and two motorcycles, have been recovered from them.Inspector Harminder Singh, in-charge at CIA staff-1, said they arrested Saurav near Bhuriwala Gurdwara in Haibowal following a tip-off. He added that the others who have been arrested used to buy stolen vehicles from him and sell them after installing fake number plates.The inspector said that Saurav is a drug addict and used to steal vehicles to fund his habit. He had committed thefts in Feroze Gandhi Market, Rakh Bagh, Mall Road and Dandi Swami Chowk. He is a matric pass and his family had gotten him admitted him to a drug de-addiction centre earlier. But, after his release, he started consuming drugs again.A case under Sections 379, 411, 473 and 34 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Haibowal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-arrest-vehicle-lifter-three-others-101634673238507.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to fill 1,158 posts in govt colleges within 45 days: Pargat||Chandigarh The Punjab higher education department has decided to make recruitment to 1,158 posts in government colleges within 45 days. The recruitment will be carried out by Punjabi University, Patiala, and Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, by forming selection committees, said higher education and languages minister Pargat Singh on Tuesday after a meeting with representatives of university and college teachers. Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organisations (PFUCTO) delegation included federation president Dr HS Kingra, general secretary Dr Jagwant Singh, PUTA president Dr Mrituanjya Kumar and GCTA president Dr BS Tohra. Higher education secretary Krishan Kumar and other department officials were also present. Teachers’ body suspends agitation After the meeting, PFUCTO decided to suspend its agitation and the minister also visited the Punjab University campus and offered juice to the fasting teachers. The minister said that recruitment process of 1,091 posts of teaching cadre and 67 posts of librarian in government colleges would be done on the basis of written test with no interview marks. The department has decided to form a selection committee under the chairmanship of vice chancellors, he said. In order to mitigate hardship being faced by the part-time, guest faculty and contractual teachers working in government colleges, it has been decided to relax the upper age limit for these candidates and gave weightage of one mark per year subject to maximum five marks in respect of experience gained by them, according to an official release. Later, PFUCTO said the implementation of 7th UGC pay-scales and withdrawal of the decision of delinking of teachers’ pay-scales from UGC pay-scales were also discussed. “The minister fully agreed with the legitimate demands of teachers and assured the delegation to follow them up with the chief minister,” it said in a statement. The delegation was also assured that the process of regularisation of teachers working on 1,925-aided posts would be simplified soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-fill-1-158-posts-in-govt-colleges-within-45-days-pargat-101634673237308.html
20-10-2021||Other||GNDU, NDA sign MoU to ensure boarded out cadets continue studying with losing year||Amritsar Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the National Defence Academy (NDA), Khadakwasla, Pune, to ensure that cadets who get boarded out midway through their three-year training at the NDA can continue their studies without losing an academic year. Vice-chancellor professor Jaspal Singh Sandhu said, “The MoU marks the beginning of a new era of cooperation between GNDU and the NDA. The objective of this agreement is to provide the migration to the boarded out cadets of NDA to continue their studies at GNDU. These cadets can complete their qualification by way of lateral entry into courses at the university, including BA/Bsc/BSc (computer science) and B.Tech /BBA/B Com.” Lieutenant general Asit Mistry Commandant, NDA, said, “The NDA decided to sign MoUs with reputed universities in consultation with the Headquarters Integrated Defence Staff (HQ-IDS), so as to remove the fear of uncertainty and academic loss in the minds of young and capable aspirants.” The GNDU has appointed Preet Mohinder Singh Bedi as the in-charge to coordinate with the NDA, also allowing the boarded out NDA cadets to get the admission in even semester of corresponding course in GNDU.The NDA authorities say around 6,000 cadets have passed out from the academy over the past 10 years, with 2.3% (around 138 cadets) withdrawing for a variety of reasons. “Over the last 10 years, nearly half of the boarded out cadets did so for medical reasons. Further among these, 30% were medical disorders such as fits etc which surfaced during training. Others were due to injuries or ailments sustained during training. About 4% were due to inability to meet academic standards and the rest were due to discipline or lack of officer-like qualities and inability to meet the standards of outdoor training,” an NDA official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gndu-nda-sign-mou-to-ensure-boarded-out-cadets-continue-studying-with-losing-year-101634673235613.html
20-10-2021||Pune||World Osteoporosis Day: Rise in cases among senior citizens||PUNE: Being confined to indoor spaces due to the pandemic has impacted the movement and overall wellbeing of senior citizens making them more dependent on caregivers. On the occasion of World Osteoporosis Day on October 20, doctors have advised senior citizens to remain active even while staying indoors and maintain bone health. Osteoporosis is a condition in which bones become weak and brittle.About Osteoporosis, Dr Tushar Deore, consultant-spine specialist at Jupiter hospital, Pune, said that senior citizens haven’t stepped out much due to fear of infection during the pandemic. “With pre-existing conditions like hypertension, diabetes and arthritis, many senior citizens may face mobility issues due to Osteoporosis. Because of lack of movement, overall physiology goes down, more so in the geriatric population. Limited functionality also makes them more dependent on physical activity. Hence, geriatric patients should try to engage in yoga activities through online platforms. There are plenty of online and television programmes that focus on light movement exercises at home to improve physiology,” Dr Deore said.He advised increasing the intake of proteins, minerals, vitamins, green leafy vegetables and fruits that provide calcium along with light movement exercises. For those who eat non-vegetarian food, it is easier to get these through their food, Dr Deore said. The younger population too is facing a lot of calcium deficiency, he added.“There is an increase of almost 75% in backaches and muscle dysfunction among the young population. This is primarily due to bad posture while working from home,” said Dr Deore.Sharing similar views, Dr Nitin Bhagali, Pune-based orthopaedist said that along with Osteoporosis, senior citizens are also suffering from Osteomalacia. “In simple language, Osteomalacia is soft bones. In Osteomalacia, the bones are weakened and can break due to the lack of vitamin D. Senior citizens are reporting more cases of Osteoporosis and Osteomalacia,” Dr Bhagali said. Many are reporting loss of bone mass due to the lack of vitamin D, he added.“Many senior citizens are suffering from backaches while changing position. Everyone should maintain their bone mass, as the loss of bone mass starts in the early 20s. It increases among women who are going through menopause and men show problems post the age of 70. To maintain bone mass, diet and exercise are a must,” said Dr Bhagali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/world-osteoporosis-day-rise-in-cases-among-senior-citizens-101634673234436.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||PAU: Three month training for farm workers concludes||A three-month training course organised by the skill development centre of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) for 22 promoted farm workers of different departments concluded on Monday. It was organised under the guidance of director of extension education Jaskaran Singh Mahal. Course director and associate director of the skill development centre, Kuldeep Singh, stated that the course was organised to hone the skill of the field workers.Course coordinator Rupinder Kaur said that the participants were educated on various aspects of agriculture including crop production, horticulture, vegetables and their insect-pest- disease management; agricultural engineering, cattle rearing, bee-keeping and mushroom cultivation.The chief guest of the concluding session was additional director, communication, Tejinder Singh Riar. He exhorted the participants to take full advantage of the skills and propel the university to greater heights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-three-month-training-for-farm-workers-concludes-101634673002396.html
20-10-2021||Pune||MSRTC to increase buses, routes for Diwali rush this year||PUNE Soon the rush of passengers travelling for the Diwali vacations, returning to hometowns and villages will begin. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) Pune division has decided to increase the number of buses and routes to handle the extra rush of passengers. Though the division is currently running losses due to a low passenger count, it has planned to increase routes for Diwali this year.How many more buses and routes has not yet been revealed.“As Pune city has a large number of working people and students coming from outside they travel back to their hometowns for festival celebrations. So we have decided to increase number of buses and routes around 10 days before the festival starts,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune divisional controller.“It will include various routes like Kolhapur, Satara, Aurangabad, Sangali, Nagpur, Panjim and others. There is heavy rush during the Diwali festival and following Covid norms passenger are allowed to enter in the buses. Our appeal to passengers is to follow all the safety protocols given by state government strictly for their own safety,” he added.Over the last one year due to the pandemic there has been a considerable drop in the number of passengers travelling by MSRTC buses. Also for several months the bus service was closed due to the statewide lockdown.Welcoming this decision, Rohan Nalawade said, “I am basically from Solapur and work here in a bank. Every year I travel to my village for Diwali. Only MSRTC bus goes to our village and there is no other alternative, so it’s good that they are increasing the number of buses for the festive season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-to-increase-buses-routes-for-diwali-rush-this-year-101634672995309.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC to build 1,500-room serai for devotees visiting Golden Temple||AMRITSAR The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Tuesday decided to build a 1,500-room serai (inn) for devotees visiting the Golden Temple. The decision was taken during the apex gurdware body’s executive committee meeting presided over by its chief Bibi Jagir Kaur. The new serai would be constructed at the location of Hansli near Gheo Mandi Chowk on the way to the Golden Temple.Talking to media after the meeting, Kaur said the “kar sewa” (voluntary service) of the new serai, which will begin from November 1, has been entrusted to Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuriwale.“A parking lot would be constructed on the ground floor of the five-storied serai, besides a store for ration offered by the sangat for Sri Guru Ramdas Ji Langar. Moreover, the old building of Sri Guru Ramdas School near Gurdwara Sri Ramsar Sahib would also be repaired,” said the SGPC chief.The executive committee also condemned remarks by Sikh preacher Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale on Harmandar Sahib. “No preacher has the right to speak against the historical shrines of the Sikh community. The sentiments of the sangat have been hurt by the remarks of Dhadrianwale linking Sri Harmandar Sahib with the incident at Singhu border. Sri Harmandar Sahib is a common place where people of all faiths visit with devotion,” said Kaur.Condemning the Singhu lynching, the SGPC chief demanded an impartial inquiry into the incident. She condemned the incident at Lakhimpur Kheri and pledged to stand with the families of the victim farmers.The SGPC also approved a 3% increase in the dearness allowance (DA) of the SGPC employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-to-build-1-500-room-serai-for-devotees-visiting-golden-temple-101634672994186.html
20-10-2021||Pune||2 accidents on Pune-Mumbai eway leaves four injured||PUNE Two separate accidents near the Khopoli exit on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway left four people injured and five vehicles damaged on Tuesday.Around 7:30 am, a Mumbai-bound sleeper bus collided with the rear-end of a truck, injuring two bus passengers and the driver.Also near the Khopoli exit, two trucks and a mini goods’ carrier collided with each other causing injury to one person.“In the first accident, the front portion of the bus got heavily damaged. The sudden jerk to the vehicle caused injury to the driver and two passengers. However injuries were not major. In the second incident two trucks and the mini collided with one truck hitting the barricade and mini turning turtle. Another truck also hit the barricade,” said an official from Khopoli police station, adding, “Driver of the van got injured.” The road near the Khopoli exit is being repaired causing traffic to slow down.These accidents followed Monday’s accident where three people were killed and six injured near Borghat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2-accidents-on-pune-mumbai-eway-leaves-four-injured-101634672814612.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Four clerks of Jaitu MC arrested for property tax embezzlement||The vigilance bureau on Tuesday arrested four clerks of the Jaitu municipal council in Faridkot district for property tax embezzlement. The accused, Davinder Kumar, Ram Chand, Ramesh Kumar and Gurinderpal Singh, have been charged with criminal breach of trust by a public servant, and criminal conspiracy in the first information report. Deputy superintendent of police Raj Kumar Sama said a number of pages from the property tax record files for 2013-14 were found missing during the departmental inspection, after which a complaint was forwarded to the state vigilance. “Investigation revealed that the accused collected the property tax from residents but did not deposit it to the state exchequer and destroyed the record. We are questioning them to get further details,” he added. A case was registered under Section 409 and 120B of Indian Penal Code and 13(2) (criminal misconduct by public servant) of the Prevention of Corruption Act at the Vigilance Bureau police station, Ferozepur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-clerks-of-jaitu-mc-arrested-for-property-tax-embezzlement-101634672756322.html
20-10-2021||Other||Man ends life in Amritsar police lock-up||Amritsar A 31-year-old man hung himself to death in the lock-up of the D-Division police station in Amritsar on Tuesday. The victim, of Phoollan Wala Chowk, had been arrested by the City Police on Monday for the abetment to suicide of his wife. D-division SHO inspector Harinder Singh, said, “On October 17, the victim’s wife committed suicide at his house. Her family accused her husband of abetment to suicide and we booked her.” “The man was arrested on Monday and was provided a bed-sheet but he used it to hang himself from the iron grill of the lock-up. About 5.30am on Tuesday, we saw his body hanging from the grill. ADCP Harjeet Singh Dhaliwal and the area magistrate Amanpreet Kaur rushed to the spot soon after getting the information, only to find him dead.”The victim’s brother claimed that the couple was going through marital issues, relating to interference of his wife’s family in their personal matters. In the cross-complaint, the wife’s family has accused the man of arassing her for poor scores in IELTS test. The SHO added, “Before committing suicide, the man wrote a note on the lock-up wall, accusing his wife of an affair with another man. Police have booked this alleged lover, the wife’s brother and others under Section 306 (abetment to suicide) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-ends-life-in-amritsar-police-lockup-101634672753874.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Extended BSF jurisdiction will create fear psychosis in state: Rana Gurjeet||Technical education and horticulture minister Rana Gurjeet Singh on Tuesday said the extension of BSF jurisdiction from 15km to 50km from the International Border is yet another jolt to Punjab. He said if the Centre remains adamant to implement the decision despite state’s protest, it should compensate the border state with a special economic package. Addressing a press conference, Rana Gurjeet said the decision to increase the jurisdiction of the BSF has created fear psychosis among residents and a sense of insecurity in investors. “How will an investor go to the 25,000 sq km border belt (out of a total of 50,000), which is under the jurisdiction of the BSF?” he questioned. Rana said if the Centre was adamant in implementing the decision, it should make the agriculture sector sustainable in the border belt with liberal incentives. The Centre should come forward with liberalised and incentivised schemes. He suggested that 90% subsidies should be given to the farmers of the border area under the central schemes for drip irrigation system. “There is a dire need to reconsider the jurisdiction issue in concurrence with the state and grant special incentives on a par with north-eastern states,” he said, adding that the first step in this direction should be to constitute a Western Border States Advisory Council having chief ministers/governor of the states as members under the chairmanship of Union home minister on the pattern of North East Council to deliberate the issue of creating of a dedicated corpus fund pooled through a mandatory contribution from all the Union ministries in the Union budget. The minister said he would request chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to convene a one-day session of the Vidhan Sabha to pass a resolution and to take up the matter with the Union government to reconsider the BSF jurisdiction decision and lead a delegation of all the stakeholders for a meeting with the Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/extended-bsf-jurisdiction-will-create-fear-psychosis-in-state-rana-gurjeet-101634672575073.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Biker sans mask hurls shoe at traffic policeman for slapping fine in Pune||PUNE: A biker was arrested for throwing a shoe at a policeman after the latter fined him for riding his two-wheeler without wearing a mask at Dehu road in Pimpri-Chinchwad Sunday night. The incident took place at around 8.30pm in the Talwade gaonthan area. The arrested man was identified as Vishal Lahanu Dhokale, 29, a resident of Yevalewadi, Haveli, Pune, and a native of Parner, Ahmednagar.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Narayan Mahadev Suryavanshi, 30, who is posted at the Talwade traffic division of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police. Dhokale was riding his Honda two-wheeler registered in Ahmednagar without wearing a mask, and was headed from Nigdi towards Talwade chowk where Suryavanshi is posted. When Suryavanshi slapped a fine of Rs200 on Dhokale, the latter started abusing Suryavanshi saying that the police are harassing citizens for a mere Rs100 to Rs200. Dhokale continued to resist wearing a mask and threatened Suryavanshi, according to the complaint.A case under sections 353, 269, 188, 504, and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with section 51(b) of the Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulation Act, 2020 was registered at Dehu road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/biker-sans-mask-hurls-shoe-at-traffic-policeman-for-slapping-fine-in-pune-101634672395007.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Randhawa alleges deep-rooted conspiracy behind Singhu lynching||Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa on Tuesday said the state government will get to the bottom of the lynching incident at Singhu border and expose the conspirators. Alleging a deep-rooted conspiracy to defame the farmers’ stir, Randhawa, who is also the home minister, said that in view of the recent disclosures about one of the Nihang leaders having already been in touch with the central government, agriculture minister NS Tomar in particular, the lynching incident had taken an entirely different turn. “The same Nihang leader is now defending the main accused for the killing,” he said in a statement. Lakhbir Singh, who belonged to Cheema Kalan village of Tarn Taran, was lynched at the farmers’ protest site at Singhu last week for alleged sacrilege. “We need to find out as who lured Lakhbir to Singhu border and who paid for his travel as he could not even afford his meals,” Randhawa said. The minister said he had instructed the local administration to find out under what circumstances he was taken away from his home to Singhu border. “The Nihang leader will also need to explain as in what capacity he had met Tomar and whether he was mandated to do so by the farmers’ organisations spearheading the campaign against three black farm laws,” he said without naming him. Randhawa said that given the important place, the Nihang leader was camping at and staging dharna at Singhu border, it was mandatory on his part to keep the farmers’ unions informed and updated about his meetings with the Union minister. “This has raised doubts and suspicion in the minds of people which will need to be cleared and the Punjab government will do everything to reach to the root of the conspiracy and expose and punish the culprits,” he said. Soni demands fair probe JALANDHAR: Punjab deputy chief minister OP Soni has demanded a comprehensive and fair probe into the Singhu lynching episode. Soni was in Jalandhar on Tuesday to take part in the “shobha yatra” of Valmiki. Addressing the media, Soni condemned the lynching and said a thorough probe should be done to unveil the entire conspiracy behind the incident. He also said the Centre must repeal the three farm laws to resolve the issue. Jakhar alleges role of agenciesChandigarh: Former Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Tuesday alleged that there could be a role of agencies in the murder of a person at Singhu border. “There is certainly something more than what meets the eye,” he said, adding, “Incidents of recent months point towards a concerted bid to paint the farmers struggle as one of particular community and create divisions between Sikhs and Nihangs”. In a statement, Jakhar demanded a thorough investigation into events leading to the death at Singhu border. Making it clear that presence of Nihangs at Delhi borders was by no means harmful for the protests, he said rather it is a deterrent against BJP attempts to evict protesting farmers from Delhi borders against their wishes. “If you look at the recent events through the prism of agencies, first a Haryana SDM publicly ordering his men to break heads of farmers, then Haryana chief minister asking people to pick up sticks followed by mowing down of farmers at Lakhimpur Kheri and then Singhu incident and now the increase of BSF jurisdiction to 50 KMs, are steps of a well thought out plot against Punjab,” he claimed, adding that the trail points to a well orchestrated strategy to derail the farmer agitations as well as defame Sikhs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/randhawa-alleges-deep-rooted-conspiracy-behind-singhu-lynching-101634672393892.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||FBI to investigate attack on Sikh man’s restaurant in New Mexico||The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has been roped in to investigate last year’s attack on a popular Indian restaurant in Santa Fe, capital of the southern US state of New Mexico.In June 2020, unidentified vandals damaged the kitchen, dining room, storage area and spray-painted walls of the premises of the “India Palace” with the words “Trump 2020” and racist remarks directed at the restaurant’s Sikh owner, causing damage to the tune of $100,000 ( ₹75 lakh), media reports said.The restaurant was purchased in 2013 by Baljit Singh, and run by his son Baljot, according to Santafenewmexican.com. Santa Fe police had labelled the incident as a hate crime directed towards the Indian community in the vicinity. However, more than 16 months later, they are yet to press charges. Last week, the FBI said that they were determined to bring to justice the culprits behind the attack on the India Palace restaurant.“This crime has attracted considerable local and national attention,” special agent in-charge Raul Bujanda of Albuquerque FBI division said.“I want to thank the Santa Fe Police Department for all the work they have done on this case. We are determined to find whoever is responsible for what happened at the India Palace and bring them to justice,” he added.“The Santa Fe Police Department is grateful for all of the assistance we’ve received from the FBI throughout the course of this investigation,” deputy chief Paul Joye said.“We are committed to continuing our work with the FBI, to ensure that the person or persons responsible for this vandalism are brought to justice,” he said.Based upon information gathered during the investigation, the Santa Fe Police have not ruled out that persons associated with the restaurant may have been involved in the damage that occurred, the FBI said in a news release.The India Palace attack has been widely condemned across the US, and it had come amid a wave of racial attacks and protests in the country last year, following the death of George Floyd, a Black man who died in police custody in Minneapolis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fbi-to-investigate-attack-on-sikh-man-s-restaurant-in-new-mexico-101634672154108.html
20-10-2021||Pune||17-year-old booked for trying to molest 8-year-old during family fracas in Pune||PUNE A 17-year-old boy has been booked for trying to undress and molest an 8-year-old girl in Bhosari area, while their parents were involved in a fight.The minor boy, his mother and another woman from his family were booked for assaulting and molesting the child as well as her mother.The family of three of the complainants had gone out for the evening on Sunday and returned around 11:30pm and found the CCTV they had installed near their house broken.“The complainant family and the other family have multiple cross-complaints in the past and have non-cognisable cases registered. The complainants had installed the camera for their safety and their neighbours, the accused, allege that the camera was installed to capture them and invade their privacy. They have had multiple fight about this in the past. When they found the camera broken, they suspected their neighbours,” said sub-inspector Rajashree Pavra of MIDC Bhosari police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 354, 323, 504, 506, 427, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7 and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at MIDC Bhosari police station against the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/17yearold-booked-for-trying-to-molest-8-year-old-during-family-fracas-in-pune-101634672093872.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Canadian cabinet minister Sohi elected Edmonton mayor||Indo-Canadians will lead the two largest cities in the province of Alberta as Amarjeet Sohi and Jyoti Gondek were elected as mayors of Edmonton and Calgary, respectively.A former city bus driver, Sohi served in the City Council before he ran for the Liberal Party from the riding of Edmonton Mill Woods in the 2015 national elections. After narrowly defeating then minister of state Tim Uppal of the Conservative Party, Sohi was appointed cabinet minister by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Over the next four years, he handled the portfolios of natural resources, and then infrastructure and communities. Sohi, who was born in what is now the Malerkotla district of Punjab, had lost to Uppal in 2019 and thereafter set his sights on the mayoral elections. He defeated his closest rival Mike Nickel on Monday night in mayoral polls that are traditionally not held along party lines. Outgoing mayor Don Iveson congratulated Sohi on his victory, saying, “I’ve had the pleasure of working with mayor-elect Sohi during his time as city councillor, and have always appreciated and been inspired by how hard he has worked for our community. I have no doubt Edmonton will thrive under his leadership.” Another mayor of Indian origin is completing his term leading the city of Calgary, also in Alberta. Naheed Nenshi, the first Muslim to be elected mayor of a major Canadian city when he achieved that feat in 2010, has chosen not to run again. The new mayor in the city also has roots in India as Jyoti Gondek was elected on Monday night. She was born in the UK to Punjabi parents, originally from India, and the family emigrated to Canada when she was aged four.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/excanadian-cabinet-minister-sohi-elected-edmonton-mayor-101634671916103.html
20-10-2021||Other||Cong govt in Punjab should implement, rather than talk: AAP||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday accused the ruling Congress of running away from the long-pending burning issues of the state. AAP Kisan Wing head and MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan the Congress leaders and the state government should fix a date for implementation of their agenda and promises instead repeatedly talking about these. “Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is behaving as if the government of the last four-and-a-half-years was not of the Congress, but only of Capt Amarinder Singh. Similarly, (Punjab Congress chief) Navjot Sidhu is writing letters as if he is not the president of the ruling party but is a leader of the opposition party,” he told reporters at a press conference. Sandhawan also demanded that a session of the state assembly should be called immediately for time-bound resolution of all the pending issues. AAP legislators Kulwant Singh Pandori, Manjit Singh Bilaspur and Amarjit Singh Sandoa were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-govt-in-punjab-should-implement-rather-than-talk-aap-101634671855052.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Two minors are among three held for murder of 23-year-old in Pune||PUNE: Two minors are among three held for the murder of a 23-year-old man during a drunken fight in Upper Indiranagar, Pune.The deceased man was identified as Mandar Jogdand (23), a resident of Sane Guruji Vasahat near Ambil odha in Pune.Jogdand had been in a fight with one of the accused and had verbally abused him, according to the complaint.The deceased man was drinking with one of the accused near Saritanagari society when the accused called his friends, who are co-accused in the case, to the spot.The four men then collectively used sharp weapons to attack Jogdand and the injuries killed him on the spot, according to the police. He was rushed to a hospital but declared dead on arrival.“We have apprehended two minors and arested one adult named Sahil Bharat Ijgaj (22), who works in a battery shop. One of the accused was sitting and drinking with Jogdand and he remembered some old fight and started a new one which then turned violent,” said assistant inspector Yuvraj Patil of Dattawadi police station who is investigating the case.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Shubham Adsul (23) a resident of Upper Indiranagar in Pune.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7(1) of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Dattawadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-minors-are-among-three-held-for-murder-of-23-year-old-in-pune-101634671853887.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ranjit Singh murder verdict: 19-year-long fight for justice was full of challenges, say kin||Nearly 30 minutes before his murder on the evening of July 10, 2002, Ranjit had made a call to his brother-in-law Prabhu Dayal and asked him to make a plan to take their families to Haridwar for a tour, but in less than an hour Dayal got another call that Ranjit has been admitted at a hospital as he sustained a bullet injury.Dayal rushed to hospital along with his wife and found Ranjit dead with four bullet injuries each on his forehead, neck, ear and inside his mouth. “On June 26, Ranjit came to my house on the birthday of my son and I told him about a letter written to the prime minister by some sadhvis from Punjab, who accused the dera head of rape. But he did not agree with me and even asked me not to disclose this to anybody,” recalls Dayal, adding that Ranjit was getting threats but he did not disclose this to anybody.He said the fight was full of challenges for the family but Ranjit’s father Joginder Singh did not care about anything and it was only because of his commitment and efforts that a common man has won against the all powerful self-styled godman. “We used to go to courts regularly and my father in law would always ask me how long it would take. Even he got threats and offers to withdraw the complaint but they could not change his mind and he relentlessly fought this case for almost 14 years until his death in July 2016,” he said.“Even, the dera head had hired several big lawyers, even advocates used to come from the Supreme Court and people used to say that we cannot win against him. But we knew that the truth will prevail someday,” he added.“Ranjit was not only my brother-in-law but he was also a friend. Though it took 19 years, but now his soul can now rest in peace,” he said. When asked what if the dera head challenges his life imprisonment in the higher court, Dayal said they will continue the fight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ranjit-singh-murder-verdict-19-year-long-fight-for-justice-was-full-of-challenges-says-kin-101634671674567.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||At its social justice meet, BJP woos Dalit Pasis in UP||Top leaders of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday played out to Pasi subcaste among Dalits in UP in its second caste outreach meeting which the party has named social justice meets. The BJP had started off these meets by holding a meeting of Prajapatis, the Other Backward Caste (OBC) community, recently. In the absence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who was in Kushinagar to take stock of PM Narendra Modi’s visit for the inauguration of the Kushinagar airport on Wednesday, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev hit out at the opposition parties accusing them of running a ‘family trust’. Targeting the Congress, which has been focusing on “soft Hindutva” in the run-up to the 2022 UP polls, the BJP chief said, “The Congress refused the existence of Lord Rama, coined words like Hindu terror and got the revered Shankaracharya arrested.” Pitching the BJP as a party with honest leadership, he said, “The Congress and the other opposition parties have looted the country. In contrast, the country today has a Prime Minister who used to sell tea and whose family members never sat on a government vehicle but who promised government scheme for houses for the poor.” UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya hailed the contribution of Pasi community country’s freedom struggle. “The Pasi rulers made life hell for the British. This community has been given full respect by the BJP unlike the Congress and other opposition parties which have only flattered to deceive them,” he said. Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma cautioned against powers who, he claimed, were out to divide the masses. The BJP leaders also recalled how BJP regimes have always taken up tasks for promoting the community. Union minister Bhanu Pratap Verma, national chief of the party’s scheduled caste wing Lal Singh Arya, BJP’s state general secretary Priyanka Rawat, scheduled caste wing chief Ramchandra Kannaujia, UP minister Suresh Pasi among others were also present in the meeting held in Lucknow.To woo Dalits, specially Jatavs, the BJP has already got Baby Rani Maurya, its national vice president, to hold rallies across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/at-its-social-justice-meet-bjp-woos-dalit-pasis-in-up-101634671613766.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Bar Metro, SPVs in Pune fail to deliver on proposed civic plans||PUNE: Despite mounting criticism of the existing special purpose vehicles (SPVs) that they are not serving the purpose for which they were formed, one more SPV – this time for riverfront development – has been added to the current list.The central and state governments decided to establish SPVs for special or dedicated projects mainly to avoid political interference and accelerate these projects. For instance, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has formed SPVs, including the Pune Smart City Development Corporation, PMPML, SRA, Maha Metro and now Riverfront Development. Except the Maha Metro however, none of the other SPVs are doing justice to the purpose for which they were formed. For instance, the PMPML is a loss-making enterprise and has been unable to provide satisfactory service to commuters apart from being dependent on both the PMC and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). Similarly, the SRA which is a separate authority for the redevelopment of slums has not delivered a single major project in the last five years. If anything, there is further proliferation of slums in the city.Voicing his dissatisfaction, BJP leader and standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “It was a good policy to start SPVs. The intention behind it was good but sadly, it is also true that the SPVs’ performance has not been satisfactory. It all depends on the administrative officer. Actually, there should be a performance audit of the officers. Though we establish SPVs, the rest of the staff is the same, working with the same mentality.”Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and former standing committee chairman Vishal Tambe said, “It is true that it is time to review the SPVs in the city. They are neither answerable to the citizens nor the elected members. Even corruption hasn’t been contained.”Congress leader Arvind Shinde said, “The policy of forming SPVs was adopted to avoid political interference. We gave the SPVs enough time but there has been no decrease in corruption. Rather, I can confidently say that the SPVs are helping hide the corruption of administrative officials. The projects too are not being executed in the given time frame. It is my demand that all SPVs be dissolved and that the previous system be followed to bring all proposals under the umbrella of the general body.”SPVs in PMCSmart city - Pune City Smart Development Corporation LimitedPMPML - Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal LimitedSRA - Slum Rehabilitation AuthorityMetro - Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation LimitedEducation boardSPV for riverfront development||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bar-metro-spvs-in-pune-fail-to-deliver-on-proposed-civic-plans-101634671553902.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Aligarh DM takes stock of crop damage, orders actual assessment||Agra District magistrate of Aligarh Selva Kumari J took stock of extensive damage caused to crops by of untimely rain on Sunday and Monday. She directed officials from the revenue and agriculture departments to make an actual assessment of crop damage so that compensation may be granted to affected farmers in Aligarh division at the earliest. To note, freak rain and high velocity winds had flattened crops in the region on Sunday and Monday and farmers demanded timely compensation. The DM also came across water-logged farms during her visit. She interacted with the farmers and was told by the district agriculture officer Ram Pravesh Verma that paddy, sown in 85,000 hectares in Aligarh district, was the worst affected. Farmers opting cultivating mustard too were worried because of losses. “Teams of revenue and agriculture departments are coordinating to assess the losses in compliance with directions from the district magistrate. Toll free numbers are being issued and mobile numbers of team members have also been circulated. Affected farmers can contact through these numbers,”said district agriculture officer Ram Pravesh Verma. “We had a good crop of paddy this time. The paddy crop in my 60 bigha field was ready to be harvested but heavy rain and high velocity wind spoiled the crop,” said Bhawani Singh, a farmer while interacting with the DM Aligarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aligarh-dm-takes-stock-of-crop-damage-orders-actual-assessment-101634671373927.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers suffering due to government negligence: Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday alleged that the farmers in the state were suffering because of the delay, negligence and mismanagement in food grains procurement by the BJP-JJP government .“Their harvested crop is getting drenched in the rain and the government is a mute spectator. Lakhs of quintals of paddy got soaked in two days of rain,” Hooda said in a statement. Attacking the government, the leader of the opposition said the government neither arranged tarpaulin covers for the crop in the mandis nor were the crops lifted on time. “There was a deliberate delay in starting the procurement by the government and now the lifting and payment were being delayed. Farmers have not even been given compensation for the crops damaged due to bad weather for the last several seasons, ” Hooda said. He also opposed the closure of livestock insurance by the state government and said he had inspired farmers to get livestock insurance during the Congress rule. “Farmers were given the benefit of insurance at only ₹100 but the government has now handed over cattle insurance to private companies and the farmers are now being charged ₹3,000. The government should get the livestock insured as before and give full compensation to the cattle owners in case of any loss,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-suffering-due-to-government-negligence-hooda-101634671314860.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Supplementary exam results for Class 10, Class 12 out on Oct 20||PUNE Supplementary exam results for Class 10 and Class 12 of the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) will be released on October 20 at 1pm on the official website of www.mahresult.nic.in . Board officials noted that the supplementary examination was conducted for Class 10 between September 22 and October 8, and for Class 12, it was conducted between September 16 and October 12.Ashok Bhosale, secretary of MSBSHSE said that for verification of marks and a photocopy of the answer sheets, students can apply from October 21 onwards. “For both, students have to fill the online forms on the official website of the board. Students will have to pay online for the same. Students applying for the first time in 2021 under the class improvement scheme, will have two more chances,” said Bhosale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/supplementary-exam-results-for-class-10-class-12-out-on-oct-20-101634671313621.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Youths tonsured in Yamunanagar village for trying to steal LPG cylinder||A panchayat in Yamunanagar’s Devdhar village of Chhachhrauli block tonsured the heads of at least two youths after they were allegedly caught stealing an LPG cylinder last week. In the videos that have gone viral now, villagers can be seen shaving off their heads using a trimmer as one of them resists and starts apologising, only to be gripped tightly by the people around.Sarpanch Uma Devi’s father-in-law Surender Kumar said, “They’ve been caught for theft earlier as well. Recently, they were caught again by villagers when they were trying to steal a cylinder. The villagers started demanding an action against them, as we’ve no hope from the administration and the panchayat decided to do so. We wanted to teach them a lesson.” When pointed out that what they did was against the law, Kumar accepted that they shouldn’t have taken the law into their hands. “I know we’ve done wrong but villagers have no hope from the police. They are drug addicts and the whole village was angry with them,” he added. Superintendent of police Kamaldeep Goyal said he will verify the details and inform accordingly. However, he didn’t respond to calls and messages later.Pratap Nagar SHO sub-inspector Prithvi Singh said, “We’ve not received any complaint . If there is any, we will initiate necessary action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/youths-tonsured-in-yamunanagar-village-for-trying-to-steal-lpg-cylinder-101634671133701.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Labour minister okays increase of bed capacity at ESIC hospital in Pune: Misal||PUNE Bhupendra Yadav, minister for labour and employment, has given his nod to increase the bed capacity of the ESIC hospital in Bibwewadi from 120 to 500 beds.Madhuri Misal, MLA from Parvati met minister Yadav on Tuesday over the increase in capacity of the ESIC (Employees State Insurance Corporation) hospital.Misal said, “Minister agreed to increase of the bed capacity in Pune. Pune city has only Sasson hospital which is run by the state government. Considering the city’s population, it is needs to increase the capacity of the existing hospitals.”Misal said, “For the last 10 years, I am following this.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/labour-minister-okays-increase-of-bed-capacity-at-esic-hospital-in-pune-misal-101634671014034.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana sees 42% rise in dengue cases so far this year||A steady increase in the number of dengue, a mosquito-borne viral infection, is keeping the health authorities in Haryana on their toes. According to the health department data, more than 2,400 cases of the vector-borne disease were reported till October 18 this year as compared to 1,377 in 2020, 1,207 in 2019 and 1,936 in 2018. The districts of Panchkula (315 cases), Sirsa (264), Gurugram (180), Nuh (175), Faridabad (169) Sonepat (163) and Fatehabad (156) are the worst affected, according to the health department statistics. State health minister Anil Vij, who held a review of the prevalence of vector-borne disease on Monday, said though there have been no deaths so far due to dengue, efforts have to be made to reduce the number of cases. The health minister said 60% of patients have tested positive for dengue. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said provision of free-of-cost single donor platelets has been made for dengue patients admitted in government hospitals. Previously, a sum of ₹8,500 per unit of single donor platelet was being charged in government hospitals. He said 27 dengue testing labs were functional for free of cost testing of dengue. Private hospitals and labs have also been restricted to charge a maximum of ₹600 for the dengue test. As per reports from Karnal, the vector-borne disease was spreading as fresh cases are being reported from both urban and rural areas of the state every day. This despite the health department officials conducting door-to-door inspections and serving notices to owners of the properties where dengue larvae was found. Kaithal district, officials said, has reported 10 new cases in the past 24 hours. The number of dengue patients has reached to 132 in the district and 91 cases have been reported from Kaithal city alone. The number of patients in Kurukshetra has increased to 82, followed by 53 in Panipat and 49 in Karnal. However, the officials claimed that there was no shortage of platelets and separate wards for the dengue patients have been created in the civil hospitals. “There is no specific reason behind the number of dengue cases reported in the district. The anti-larvae detection teams have been on alert but the situation was under control as a separate ward has been created for the dengue patients and instructions for the availability of platelets as per government instructions have been issued,” Kaithal deputy commissioner Pradeep Dahiya said. He said that notices have been served to 1,218 households where the larvae were detected during the inspections. He said that guidelines have been issued to the officials over the availability of the platelets as private hospitals cannot charge more than ₹8,500 for platelets and it will be provided free of cost in government hospitals. Following a surge in the cases, the demand for platelets has also increased in the past couple of days and even testing was being conducted. The doctors claimed that special wards have been created for the dengue patients in the civil hospitals and platelets were being given free of cost at government hospitals. Even instructions have been issued to the private blood banks to provide the platelets as per the fixed prices. As many as 193 cases of dengue were reported in Sonepat , 75 in Rohtak and 55 in Jhajjar. Dr Sanjay Dahiya, chief medical officer of Jhajjar, said all the patients were stable. “The surge in cases of dengue is late this year as compared to previous years due to delayed monsoon and sporadic heavy showers followed by dry spells,” he added. Dr Anvita Kaushik, Sonepat’s nodal officer for malaria and dengue, said they have reported as many as 193 cases of dengue against last year’s 15. A 16-bedded ward has been set-up at civil hospital for dengue patients,” she added. Rohtak deputy civil surgeon (malaria) Dr Anupma Mittal said they have served nearly 4,800 notices to the owners of the premises where mosquito larvae were detected. “We have also told the people that we would impose a fine of ₹200 to ₹3,000 if larvae are found again on their premises. The health department has established a special micro plan to detect mosquito larvae in the district,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-sees-42-rise-in-dengue-cases-so-far-this-year-101634670715087.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Cong, Sena protest rising fuel prices in Pune||PUNE: The Congress and Shiv Sena on Tuesday held a protest against the hike in fuel prices and blamed the government for allowing “affordable fuel for air travel”, but keeping it costly for the common man. The Shiv Sena also raised the issue of potholes in the city.Both parties held agitations at different places in the city. Shiv Sena took out a rally on a bullock cart at Alka Talkies chowk.Congress party held its agitaion at the Seven Loves chowk. Congress city unit president Ramesh Bagwe said, “The festival season is going on and prices are skyrocketing. The petrol, diesel prices crossed Rs100 per litre. LPG cylinders are also costly. Government is recovering money from the common man.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cong-sena-protest-rising-fuel-prices-in-pune-101634670594346.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Meet the Nila Gumbad||It’s 24 karat gold—the kalash , or the finial, at the top of the Humayun’s Tomb. The gilded metal glistens in sunshine. Just some steps away is a much smaller tomb. Its dome is dotted with wild grass. But it too is as intense as its celebrity counterpart. The effect is caused by the dome’s enigmatic blue, which is neither shiny, nor pale. The shade appears fragile, and one fears it might wash out during the rains, or under the harsh sunshine.The Nila Gumbad, or the blue dome, stands at the far-east of the Humayun tomb complex. It isn’t visited by as many sightseers as the Mughal emperor’s mausoleum, but it is the oldest edifice in the compound, which is a UNESCO world heritage site.In the beginning there was just this Nila Gumbad. It stood on an island, surrounded on all sides by the river Yamuna. The tomb was built by Humayun 500 years ago in the memory of… this fact is lost to history. The grave inside is also lost to the vagaries of time. Humayun died in 1556, and his grand tomb, commissioned a decade later by son Akbar, eventually shifted the attention away from Nila Gumbad. Centuries passed. The Yamuna drifted away. Railway tracks came up beside the Nila Gumbad, followed by a railway station. Some decades ago, a slum of 400 jhuggis grew about the blue dome. At long last, the tomb was restored to its original self early this year—it was brought within the Humayun Tomb complex in December 2019. The dome originally contained 1,50,000 blue Timurid brick tiles, out of which 20,000 had disappeared. The conservation project—executed by Aga Khan Trust for Culture in partnership with the Archaeological Survey of India—included compensating for these missing tiles. The new tiles were handmade in the style of the original. Many of the original tiles have lost their glaze, but they have been retained because of their antiquity. The young tiles seamlessly trickle into their duller old ancestors, as if trying to resuscitate a vanishing pattern.Meanwhile, the ground around the tomb perseveres with the dome’s haunting ambiance. It is dense with trees; some of the branches are laced with gigantic cobwebs. The arcaded wall towards the west of the tomb is particularly picturesque—it has to be the remnants of a mosque, for the niches are undoubtedly the Mecca-facing mihrabs.Within the tomb, the stone chamber lies steeped in a cooling darkness; the daylight streams in reluctantly through the stone screens. This afternoon it is raining heavily. The blue dome has condescended to shelter a stray dog (called Whitey by the guards). He is sitting inside, waiting for the rain to end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-meet-the-nila-gumbad-101634670414379.html
20-10-2021||Other||Agnihotri hits back at Jai Ram over ‘helpless candidate’ remark against Pratibha||Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri on Tuesday hit back at Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur over his ‘helpless candidate’ remark against Congress nominee from Mandi parliamentary constituency, Pratibha Singh.Addressing election rallies at Nirman and Anni of Kullu district, Agnihotri said Pratibha is not helpless but a strong candidate.“The CM should not make the mistake of thinking that she is alone and weak. He should respect women and should not make rude comments against a woman leader from an Opposition party,” he said.Agnihotri said Pratibha belongs to the family that led the Congress government in this state for decades and built Himachal as a modern state.“Former CM Virbhadra Singh is no longer with us but we still have his blessings and affection in the form of Pratibha Singh,” he said.The leader of Opposition asked the CM to list his achievements in the last four years. He said it was Congress which started the subsidised ration scheme when inflation rose in state.However, the scheme is now slowly becoming a bane for people in state as prices of commodities provided under it are soaring high. He said today the prices of cooking gas cylinder have crossed the ₹1,000-mark and petrol prices have gone past ₹103.He said the figures of unemployment are staggering under the BJP regime. He alleged that during the Congress regime, youth of state will get jobs but in BJP regime jobs are being given to non-native people.Taking a jibe at the CM, Agnihotri said these days, he is flying more in the helicopter and doesn’t step on the ground.“This is the reason that he neither has any idea of the condition of the roads nor of the problems faced by the common man,” he alleged.Agnihotri said neither the BJP nor the CM has any right to seek votes. He accused the Jai Ram-led government of pushing the state into a debt trap.He urged people to pay homage to former chief minister Virbhadra and make Pratibha Singh win with huge votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agnihotri-hits-back-at-jai-ram-over-helpless-candidate-remark-against-pratibha-101634670474287.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Students demand those with first dose of vaccine be allowed on campus in Pune||PUNE For Satish Manjare, a second-year commerce student it is difficult situation. He is not able to attend the college as he has not taken both the Covid vaccination doses. Colleges in the state will reopen from Wednesday, October 20, but entry is still restricted to students who have taken both doses of the vaccine.Student groups have asked that students who have taken one dose of the vaccine be allowed on campus.“I have from Jalna to attend my college. When I went to college two days ago for my I-card, I was told that I can’t attend lectures as I have not taken both the vaccine doses,” said Manjare.Last week state technical and higher education minister announced the state-wide reopening of colleges from October 20. “There are thousands of students, especially from the rural parts, who has not yet taken the vaccine. This number is large and the gap between first and second dose for Covishield vaccine is 84 days. So if a student has taken the first dose then s/he will have to wait for 2.5 months for the next dose and cannot attend college. Our demand is that the state government change this criteria and allow students who have taken a single dose of the vaccine,” said Kuldeep Ambekar, president of Helping Hand organisation.A college principal, speaking anonymously said, “Daily, hundreds of students are sent back from college and told that they cannot attend lectures just because they have not been fully vaccinated with both doses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-demand-those-with-first-dose-of-vaccine-be-allowed-on-campus-in-pune-101634670353785.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||AAP asks for India-Pak match to be called off||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday called for India’s opening T20 World Cup fixture against Pakistan to be cancelled in light of the recent killing of civilians by terrorists in Kashmir.India and Pakistan’s match for the T20 World Cup is scheduled for October 24.“The recent attacks in Kashmir and the killing of civilians should be condemned by all parties. Over the past few days we have been witnessing repeated attacks on citizens of India. We are of the opinion that the match between India and Pakistan should not take place,” said Atishi, AAP spokesperson and Kalkaji MLA, on the sidelines of a press conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-asks-for-india-pak-match-to-be-called-off-101634670184440.html
20-10-2021||Other||Varanasi: Multiple political meetings, rallies in next 10 days to woo east UP voters||VARANASI With an eye on upcoming state assembly elections and reaching out to voters, several political parties would be organising multiple political meetings, including rally, yatra and mahapanchayat, in next 10 days across the eastern Uttar Pradesh. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will take out a yatra in Varanasi on October 21 while the ruling BJP’s rally is scheduled for October 25, besides Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha will hold a mahapanchayat in Mau on October 27. State unit AAP spokesperson Mukesh Singh said that on October 21, the party would take out a yatra in Varanasi, and senior AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjai Singh would lead the same. A large number of AAP workers would participate in the yatra, he said. According to Kashi region BJP spokesperson Navratan Rathi, on October 25, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a rally in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi and around 2 lakh people would attend the rally, for which BJP workers are making all preparations. Meanwhile, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP)-led Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha will hold OBC and Dalit Mahapanchayat in Mau on October 27. SBSP state unit vice president Shashipratap Singh claimed that over one lakh people would participate in the mahapanchayat. He said that all the allies of SBSP-led Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha would also attend the mega event. Singh said that SBSP chief Ompraksh Rajbhar would make a prominent announcement regarding the upcoming assembly elections. Similarly, Samajwadi Party is also doing meetings in various districts and has already asked its workers to focus on strengthening booths. Congress Party has already held a mega rally in Varanasi on October 10. Political analyst Prof Kaushal Kishore Mishra said, “With each passing day, political temperature in the entire state will shoot up as political parties have started organising rallies to show their strength.” “Like the state assembly election 2017, eastern UP will remain in focus in the upcoming assembly polls too, and Varanasi will be its focal point. With political meetings and rallies being held here, Varanasi has become a political hub which is getting vibrant day-by-day,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/varanasi-multiple-political-meetings-rallies-in-next-10-days-to-woo-east-up-voters-101634670235452.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Kushinagar airport: Akhilesh attacks BJP for ‘calling SP’s work its own’||Lucknow: On the eve of the Kushinagar international airport’s scheduled inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav gave credit to the previous SP government for the airport and attacked the BJP government “for calling SP government’s work as its own.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the Kushinagar international airport (physically from Kushinagar) on Wednesday in the presence of many international dignitaries, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Governor Anandiben Patel. In a tweet with pictures of the inside and outside of the terminal building, Akhilesh said: “The tourism and economic activities will get a boost after the ‘Kushinagar airport’ initiated by the SP government becomes operational. The BJP should take inspiration from the public interest works of the SP government instead of merely making a record of inaugurating the SP government’s projects”. He hashtagged the tweet “SaPa ka kaam janata ke naam (SP’s works dedicated to people”. Later, in a statement, SP state spokesperson and former minister in Akhilesh cabinet Rajendra Chaudhary said: “The previous SP government--for the development and prosperity of the state--took several decisions and paved the way for the state’s prosperity. The then chief minister Akhilesh Yadav in 2016 had sanctioned ₹207 crore for the airport and the Bhumi Pujan (a ceremony for the project’s start) was held on April 3, 2016.” He said that once the airport became operational, it would boost tourism and economic activities in the entire eastern UP region and added: “The BJP government in its entire tenure did not do even one public welfare development work and in the last four and a half years only re-laid foundation stones of the project for which the foundation was laid by the SP government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kushinagar-airport-akhilesh-attacks-bjp-for-calling-sp-s-work-its-own-101634670233866.html
20-10-2021||Other||Himachal govt not paying heed to fruit growers: SKM||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), a conglomerate of different farm unions, has expressed it anguish over the government not paying heed to the 13-point charter of demands submitted to the government two months back.“We had submitted a memorandum to the government regarding the 13-point demands, but till now, the government called us for talks,” said Harish Chauhan, convener of SKM.“The government is undermining the fruit growers in state. In the past, the fruit growers have played an instrumental role in ousting two governments. It’s been two months since we submitted a memorandum. And there was a tremendous response to the bandh call given by the farmers’ unions, two months ago,” he said.“Farmers are protesting at Delhi borders and have held 11 rounds of talk with the government. So far, there is no response from the Himachal government to our call,” he added.The Morcha launched a statewide protest when apple prices crashed in September causing heavy losses to farmers. “Government is treating farmers as if they don’t have voting rights,” he said, adding that SKM is appealing to people to vote for those who work in the interest of the apple economy.Himachal Kisan Sabha state president Dr Kuldeep Tanwar said even the four-lane affected have joined the United Kisan Manch. He said the demand of four-times compensation of the four-lane affected will be raised through the forum.He accused the BJP candidate from Mandi parliamentary constituency of playing with the interests of the four-lane affected. The BJP had promised four-times compensation to the four-lane affected in the 2017 assembly elections, but four years have passed. Till now the Jai Ram government has not been able to take any decision in this direction, he added.“Not just this, but the provision of resettlement in the Land Acquisition Act was also not implemented. So, the four-lane affected will express their displeasure in the fury rally to be held in Mandi on October 22,” he said.SKM co-convenor Sanjay Chauhan said it was decided in the meeting held on Tuesday that farmers will be made aware through various means in all bypoll areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-govt-not-paying-heed-to-fruit-growers-skm-101634670056003.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Shots fired during clash at wedding, four hurt||At least four persons sustained injuries following a violent scuffle during a high-profile wedding at Siddhartha Resort on Pakhowal Road on Monday night. The incident is said to be the outcome of a dispute that erupted on the dance floor. The accused, who were possessing guns, opened fire on each other and left at least four persons from both the groups injured. The victims have been identified as Manpreet Singh Mani of Baba Than Singh Chowk, Sarbjot Singh Mangi, Sarbjit Singh Lucky of one group and Simran Bindra of another group. The victims are admitted to different hospitals. On being informed, Sadar police reached the spot and initiated investigation. The police have booked Lovish Oberoi, Bony Oberoi, Simran Bindra, Gurpreet Bindra, Gurpreet Billa, Sukhwinder Singh, Gifty and 10 others, who are yet to be identified. Lovish and Bony are relatives of a local Shiromani Akali Dal leader. Both the groups nurse old rivalry against each other, it has been learnt. The accused had gathered at the wedding of the nephew of Jaspal Singh Shehzada, president of Akalgarh market, Chaura Bazaar. The accused and victims are traders of Akalgarh market. According to eyewitnesses, men belonging to both the groups were dancing when they indulged in a spat wherein they accused each other of pushing them. They exchanged punches and kicks, the guests said. The situation turned ugly when the accused flashed guns and shot at each other. Following the brawl, guests ran out of the marriage palace. Sadar station house officer (SHO) Jagdev Singh said that a first information report (FIR) under sections 307, 323, 506, 148, and 149 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered against the accused following the complaint of Jaspreet Singh, brother of victim Manpreet Singh. A hunt is on to arrest them, he added. The SHO said that the police have procured the footage of CCTV cameras and also asked the families to provide video recordings of the event. Despite the orders issued by the police commissioner against carrying weapons inside the marriage palaces, no one checked the accused while entering the wedding destination. An action against the marriage palace is also expected for allowing weapons inside the venue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-shots-fired-during-clash-at-wedding-four-hurt-101634670053663.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya’s Ram Mandir: Security, lighting, sound system discussed||The Ram Mandir construction committee on Tuesday discussed wireless lighting and sound system, security and iconography at the Ram Mandir complex in Ayodhya.Presiding over the meeting, the committee’s chairman Nripendra Misra discussed with Ashish Sompura, the architect of the temple, iconography (carving of images). Under it, various images of gods and goddesses will be carved on pillars inside and outside the temple complex. “During the meeting, lighting system at the Ram Mandir complex on ordinary days and on festive occasions was discussed,” Champat Rai, general secretary of Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, told media persons after the meeting. “Experts deliberated on how to make lighting system wireless like the wireless sound system which is in use nowadays,” Rai said. “As part of the construction work of Ram Mandir, images of gods and goddesses will be carved on pillars inside the Ram Mandir and rest of the temple complex. We discussed the issue with iconography expert Ashish Sompura,” he added. During the meeting, several aspects related with Ram Mandir’s security were also discussed. “On security aspect of Ram Mandir, it was decided to make optimum use of the latest technology and less use of man power,” Rai said. Engineers of Larsen and Toubro, Tata Consultancy and other experts were also present at the meeting. 
20-10-2021||Pune||Union minister Ramdas Athawale says India should not play Pakistan in T20 World Cup||Pune Union Minister Ramdas Athawale slammed Pakistan for a spurt in terror activities in Jammu and Kashmir, including targeted killings of migrant labourers, and said India must not play a match with Pakistan in the T-20 world cup. Athawale, leader of the Republican Party of India, which is an ally of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), said the country should have an “aar paar ki ladaai” with its neighbour to set things right. Athawale, while speaking in Pune on Tuesday said India should not play its scheduled T20 World Cup match against Pakistan on October 24, in order to teach the latter a lesson. ‘The neighbouring country has not learnt lessons. If Pakistan does not stop its activities in the (J&K) valley, then there has to be an ‘aar paar ki ladaai’ (all out war to settle things once and for all). In J&K, attacks are taking place on migrant labourers, local Kashmiri Pandits are being targeted. It is Pakistan’s ploy to not allow development in the valley,’’ Athawale said while responding to a question on latest spate of violence in the valley. In the past fortnight, as many as 11 civilians including five labourers from outside Kashmir have been killed by terrorists in Jammu & Kashmir, prompting migrant workers leave the valley. The latest round of targeted attacks prompted reactions from some quarters with BJP leaders such Subramanian Swamy questioning if there was any urgency to hold the India-Pakistan fixture. When asked if the two countries should play cricket match and whether he will convey his opinion to BCCI office bearers, Athawale said, “I am personally of the opinion that India should not play against Pakistan. I will express this to BCCI secretary Jayesh Shah.” The minister then went on to add that this is also his party’s stand. According to the union minister, attempts are being made by terrorists to spread fear in the valley among the workers who are coming to the Valley from UP and Bihar. ‘’By resorting to such militant attacks, there is an attempt to spread fear among the workers who are coming to the Valley from UP and Bihar. But the Centre will not fall prey to such tactics and a strategy is being formed to end militancy. There is need to conduct another surgical strike against Pakistan, which needs to vacate PoK and stop terror activities,’’ the minister added. Meanwhile the minister also expressed unhappiness over e rising prices of petrol and diesel, and demanded that both the state government and the central government withdraw some taxes on the fuel. Athawale was in the city and interacted with media on Tuesday, when he spoke on various national and state- level issues. Speaking about rising fuel prices, Athawale said, “It is true that the common man is suffering a lot due to increasing fuel prices. I will raise this issue in the next cabinet meeting and also brief the prime minister about how the common man is suffering.” Athwale said both state and central government should take some burden and bring down the taxes on fuel. On talks about an alliance between the BJP and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) in Maharashtra, Athwale said, “If the BJP takes the MNS, it will have a negative impact on the BJP. MNS leader Raj Thackeray took a stand against north Indians. RPI is with the BJP. As a party, we are not in favour of an alliance with the MNS.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/union-minister-ramdas-athawale-says-india-should-not-play-pakistan-in-t20-world-cup-101634669994356.html
20-10-2021||Chandigarh||Waiver on water bills likely to deepen Ludhiana MC’s financial crisis||The Punjab government’s attempt to woo voters ahead of 2022 assembly elections by waiving pending water bills is expected to further deepen the financial crisis of the fund-starved municipal corporation (MC). The civic body is yet to receive around ₹250 crore as outstanding water-sewer charges. While officials are tight-lipped over the announcement, they fear that the authorities might even struggle to pay salaries and take up routine work if the government continues to announce waivers. Penalty and interest waiver for property tax and water-sewer charges had already been announced earlier. The officials added that the outstanding amount might be more than ₹250 crore, as many cases pertaining to water-sewer tariff are under dispute. As per the announcement made by chief minister Charanjit Channi, water tariff for domestic consumers has also been reduced to ₹50 per month from upto ₹300 per month for different categories. This will further reduce the MC’s revenue. An MC official, requesting anonymity, said the government is announcing freebies to woo voters, but the crisis at the ground level is deepening. Senior officials have been pushing the authorities to expedite recovery of dues so that salaries can be paid on time and development projects can be taken up, but the government has waived off the dues in one go. Citing the norms set by World Bank to seek loan for the 24x7 water supply project, the MC had recently hiked the tariff by upto 60% for different categories. But now, the authorities have announced a waiver just for political gain, said the official, while adding that this will also encourage wastage and careless behaviour among residents. Municipal commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal said that the decision has been taken at state level and the government must have considered all aspects. He added that the government has not yet issued a notification, so there can be no comments on the matter yet. Confusion over waiver on sewer charges As the civic body has been issuing combined bills for water-sewer charges in the city, there is also confusion over whether the sewer charges will also be waived off or not. The MC officials stated that the situation will be clear only after the state government issues notification. The MC officials stated that this is also an injustice towards those paying taxes on time, as no benefit has been extended to them. Earlier too, the government had announced penalty and interest waiver for property tax and water-sewer user charges defaulters, but no incentive was announced for good taxpayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/waiver-on-water-bills-likely-to-deepen-ludhiana-mc-s-financial-crisis-101634669933523.html
20-10-2021||Other||Shahjahanpur killing: HC lawyers to abstain from work today||Lucknow: The Awadh Bar Association (ABA) of the Lucknow high court on Tuesday decided to abstain from work on Wednesday in response to the work boycott call given by the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh, in protest against killing of a lawyer inside a court room in Shahjahanpur. In an executive committee meeting convened virtually, the Awadh Bar Association demanded to put in place adequate security measures in all district courts across the state. Rakesh Chaudhary, president of the ABA, presided over the meeting. “We have decided to abstain from work on Wednesday in response to the work boycott call given by the Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh. Killing of a lawyer inside of court room in Shahjahanpur is a serious issue,” said Chaudhary. “Adequate security measures must be put in place in all district courts across the state and the government must implement Advocates’ Protection Act,” said Amrendra Nath Tripathi, general secretary, ABA. The Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh has given a work boycott call on Wednesday in protest against the killing of lawyer Bhupendra Singh inside the district court complex in Shahjahanpur. The incident took place on Monday. The council also demanded ₹50 lakh compensation and a government job for the kin of the deceased. ‘DFMD a showpiece at district court’ The Door Frame Metal Detector (DFMD) installed at the entrance of the Lucknow district court (gate number three) is just a showpiece, said lawyers. “Cops deployed at gate number three at district court never check anyone. Now, there will be checking just for a few days after the Shahjahanpur incident and as the issue subsides, security personnel will again become careless,” said Rohit Kant, lawyer, district court. UP Special Security Force? The Uttar Pradesh Special Security Force (UPSSF), a dedicated unit for security at district courts across the state, is yet to be constituted. This proposal, passed after the sensational killing of a double murder accused in a courtroom in Bijnor district before the chief judicial magistrate on December 17, 2019, remains on paper. Past incidents June 12, 2019: Murder of first-ever woman president of UP Bar Council, Darvesh Yadav, took place inside the district court campus, Agra. Feb 28, 2019: Advocate Jagnarayan Yadav, 63, was shot dead inside the district court campus, Basti. Feb 13, 2020: Two groups of lawyers clashed on court campus in Lucknow. In the incident, one group used crude bombs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shahjahanpur-killing-hc-lawyers-to-abstain-from-work-today-101634669634871.html
20-10-2021||Other||Fake marksheet case: BJP MLA from Ayodhya’s Gosaiganj sent to jail||The MP/MLA court in Ayodhya has sent BJP MLA from Gosaiganj assembly constituency in the district Indra Pratap Tewari to jail for five years. The pronouncement came in a 29-year-old case relating to submission of a fake marksheet to get admission in the third year of a graduation course even after failing in the second year. Tewari has now approached the Lucknow high court to seek bail.Puja Singh, special judge of the MP/MLA court, awarded on Monday the jail term to Tewari and also imposed a fine of ₹8,000.Tewari was elected MLA from BJP in 2017 assembly poll from Gosaiganj constituency in Ayodhya.The case was lodged against Tewari in 1992 by the then principal of Saket Degree College of Ayodhya Yaduvansh Ram Tripathi at the Ram Janmabhoomi police station. During the proceedings of the case, Tripathi died. According to the FIR, Tewari failed in BSc second year in 1990 but used a fake marksheet to get admission in third year.Along with the BJP MLA, former president of Saket PG College students’ union in Ayodhya Phooolchand Yadav was also awarded a five-year jail term. Yadav is accused of using a fake marksheet in 1986 for securing admission in BSc second year even after failing in the first year.Similarly, one Kripanidhan Tewari used a fake marksheet in 1989 to get admission in LLB second year after failing the first year. The court imposed a fine of ₹8,000 each on all three, who were students of Saket Post Graduate Degree College. After the court’s decision, Tewari could lose membership of the Vidhan Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-marksheet-case-bjp-mla-from-ayodhya-s-gosaiganj-sent-to-jail-101634669633575.html
20-10-2021||Other||Congress expels state secy for six years over ‘anti-party activities’||The Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) on Tuesday expelled its state secretary and leader from Fatehpur assembly segment Chetan Chambial from the party for six years over ‘anti-party activities’.Chambial was seeking ticket from Fatehpur assembly segment which is going to polls on October 30. However, Congress chose Bhawani Singh Pathania, son for former minister Sujan Singh Pathania whose death necessitated the election.Viplove Thakur, former MP and chairperson of the state disciplinary committee of Himachal Congress had recommended action against Chambial on complaint by Bhawani Singh Pathania.It was alleged that Chambial was working against the Indian National Congress’ official nominee and thus was indulging in ‘anti-party activities’.Acting on the recommendation, state Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore expelled Chambial from primary membership of the party for six years with immediate effect, said HPCC general secretary (organisation) Rajneesh Kimta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-expels-state-secy-for-six-years-over-anti-party-activities-101634669573766.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Khadi is the brand of a self-reliant India: Yogi||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said khadi was earlier a brand of the freedom movement, but now it’s the brand of a “self-reliant India” having an important role to play in strengthening the rural economy.“Vocal for Local” should be encouraged to achieve the Prime Minister’s goal of a “self-reliant India”, he said while inaugurating the Khadi Mahotsav and Silk Expo-2021 here. The exhibition, organised by the Uttar Pradesh Khadi and Village Industries Board and the Department of Silk to promote Khadi as part of the Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav, will continue till October 30. On the occasion, the CM presented cheques, loan sanction certificates and state level awards to the beneficiaries of Pandit Deen Dayal Khadi Marketing Development Assistance Scheme, Mukhyamantri Gramodyog Rozgar Yojana and Pradhan Mantri Rozgar Nirman Karyakram. He also distributed Deen Dayal Upadhyay Silk Productivity Awards. “In 2017, the unemployment rate in the state was 17-18 %. Today, it has come down to just 0.5%, which shows that the schemes launched by the state government are working effectively,” said Adityanath. He said that the Khadi and Village Industries Board, in collaboration with the state government, had provided self-employment to unemployed youth in rural areas under the Mukhyamantri Gramodyog Rozgar Yojana.Addressing the function, the Yogi Adityanath said this was an occasion to celebrate khadi, which was a symbol of swadeshi, samman (honour the local) and swavalamban (self reliance). During the epidemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave the mantra of “self-reliant India”. And without achieving the goal of self-reliance, no country and any society could move ahead with their lives with dignity, he said.“If rural women participate in the production of khadi after domestic work, they will get sources of income, become self-reliant and their family will be happy. This will help in realizing the concept of Gram Swaraj,” emphasized the CM.He said , “The use of solar charkha instead of manual charkha is proving to be helpful in increasing the income of workers. A new dimension has been given to the traditional enterprise (khadi) in the state by linking it with technology.”The chief minister said that the central and state governments were making efforts to create more employment. As a result, over 1,86,000 people were employed in various schemes during the last four years while about 50,000 more unemployed people would be provided jobs.Under the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Khadi Marketing Development Assistance Scheme, claims of ₹33.37 crore had been paid to 307 Khadi institutes from financial year 2017-18 to 2021-21 and ₹9.52 crore bonus was paid to 1.61 lakh people working in khadi institutions, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/khadi-is-the-brand-of-a-self-reliant-india-yogi-101634669454787.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 367 new Covid cases, 3 deaths||Pune: As of Tuesday, Pune district has reported 367 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.12 million have recovered, 19,902 deaths and 7,741 are active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. Pune also saw over 28,000 doses vaccinated on the day. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 180 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 363,705 and the death toll stood at 6,862 as two more deaths were reported on the day. Pune city reported 123 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 519,817 and the death toll stood at 9,190 as one more death was reported on the day. PCMC reported 64 new cases and the progressive count went up to 267,953 and the toll stood at 3,501 as no more deaths were reported. Pune also saw 28,702 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Tuesday and in total 11,585,449. Of which 7,599,997 are first doses and 3,985,452 are second doses. A total of 563 sites saw vaccination of which 374 were government centres and 189 were private.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-367-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-101634669333658.html
20-10-2021||Lucknow||Non-Yadav OBCs dominate new Samajwadi Party state executive committee||The Samajwadi Party reconstituted its state executive committee on Tuesday. In a shift from its traditional Yadav-Muslim domination, 40 per cent members of the new committee are non-Yadav OBCs (other backward classes) with good representation of Brahmins and Dalits. The state executive had been in suspended animation for the last five years after party president Akhilesh Yadav dissolved the previous executive committee after the 2017 UP assembly elections debacle. The state unit had the state president in the form of Naresh Uttam Patel (a non-Yadav OBC) and Akhilesh named him the party’s state unit president again.The 72-member committee has over 40% OBCs, 10 Brahmins, 11 Muslims, more than six Dalits (including three former Bahujan Samaj Party leaders), five women and within this there is a balanced representation of all the regions of the state. The committee has only seven Yadavs.The non-Yadav OBCs in the committee include members from Nishad, Kashyap, Kurmi, Bind, Pal, Maurya, Kushwaha, Prajapati, Saini, Sahu, and Gurjar communities. “The committee has a representation of all communities”, said Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary.The committee indicates the party’s shift for the 2022 electoral battle keeping in sync with all the rival parties’ attempts to please all communities other than their traditional vote banks.“This also indicates that the party’s ticket distribution for the 2022 polls too would follow a similar pattern as that of the executive committee,” said a senior SP MLA. The party is likely to start announcing lists of candidates from next month onwards.A political analyst and former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University said: “Quite a logical strategy. The party knows that its traditional vote bank Yadavs and Muslims would, by and large, stay with it. And such measures are needed to attract other communities. All parties are racing to attract all communities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nonyadav-obcs-dominate-new-samajwadi-party-state-executive-committee-101634669154985.html
20-10-2021||Pune||1 in 10 Pune residents report comorbidity: PMC data||PUNE During the second wave of Covid-19, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) conducted a door-to- door drive to record non-communicable diseases, as those with comorbidities were found to be more vulnerable to the Covid infection. As per the data collected by the PMC based on oral submissions by citizens, the civic body has reported that one in every 10 Pune residents has reported a comorbidity. The most common comorbidities reported are diabetes and high blood pressure. As per the data collected by the PMC, an estimated population of 4 million lives in the city and 402,343 reported a comorbidity, of which, 140,926 reported diabetes and 179,030 reported high blood pressure. At least 63,000 reported both diabetes and high blood pressure. The district health office had reported that 74.7% of the people who were reported dead due to the Covid infection had associated risk factors. Until August, a total of 8,800 deaths were reported due to Covid-19.Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer PMC said, “The survey of non-communicable diseases is a national programme which was not undertaken, but now we are implementing the scheme across the city and are reporting non-communicable diseases because these diseases like diabetes, obesity, high blood pressure, cancer or Aids are silent killers and have a higher death rates than even Covid-19. However, because of the pandemic we have become health conscious and so now the civic body is conducting a detailed survey again, to report every non-communicable disease so that we can prepare for the same. The city has an estimated population of 4 million and so as per our reports now we know that 10% of the city is comorbid, which is common for a metro city, the numbers in reality could be higher as these are just reported numbers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1-in-10-pune-residents-report-comorbidity-pmc-data-101634669093678.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Gangster Suresh Pujari nabbed in Philippines||Gangster Suresh Pujari, wanted in multiple extortion and firing cases in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai, has been arrested in the Philippines last week, said a senior Mumbai police officer on Tuesday.Pujari had been on the run for past 14 years and in 2015, the Interpol issued a Red Corner Notice against him.According to police officials, Suresh Pujari was initially associated with underworld don Chhota Rajan and Ravi Pujari gangs, but in 2011 he formed his own gang. “Even after forming a separate gang Suresh Pujari and Ravi Pujari stayed in touch and helped each other, whenever required for making extortion calls etc.,” said a crime branch official.Pujari changed his name and was moving around using aliases like Suresh Puri and Satish Pai, said the officer. He returned to Mumbai in 2013 and left the country in three days on a fake passport, the officer added. He has seven extortion cases registered against him in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gangster-suresh-pujari-nabbed-in-philippines-101634668876033.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Woman stabbed to death in south Delhi’s Bindapur||A 22-year-old woman was stabbed to death allegedly by a former friend early Tuesday. The police said that the man is yet to be caught.According to the police, the incident took place on Matiala Road in southwest Delhi’s Bindapur area. They identified the deceased woman as one Dolly Babba and said that they suspect Babbar had been in a relationship with the suspect, Ankit Gaba, who was allegedly forcing her to get back with him. However, the police said, she refused to even talk to him. The police said that the victim, who worked as a freelancer with several event management companies, left home around 12am on Tuesday and told her family that she was going to a friend’s place to celebrate her birthday. Around 2am, someone saw three men beating her and called the police. The police found her bleeding heavily and unconscious. They took her to a hospital where she was declared dead on arrival. The police tracked down CCTV camera footage of the incident, showing three men at the spot. One of them stabbed her multiple times. The police said that the neighbours told them that it was Gaba who attacked her.The woman’s family has alleged that Gaba, who is the main suspect, reached out to her several times but she turned him down.A senior police officer said that they are conducting raids to arrest all three men. They said that more CCTV cameras are being scanned around the area to ascertain where the suspects fled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-stabbed-to-death-in-south-delhi-s-bindapur-101634668913582.html
20-10-2021||Pune||Dine-in till midnight, shops till 11pm in Pune: biz owners welcome state orders||PUNE With the state government issuing a fresh order, extending the hours of operations for restaurants and shops, Pune business establishments have welcomed the move.On Tuesday, chief secretary Sitaram Kunte issued the order, applicable for the entire state, extending operational hours of eateries, restaurants and other establishments, ahead of the festive season. As per the new order, eateries and restaurants can remain open till midnight. Establishments such as shops and markets are allowed to function till 11pm. In Pune, currently restaurants are allowed to operate till 11pm and shops shut at 10pm. Ganesh Shetty, president of Pune hoteliers’ association, said, “The order issued by the chief secretary mentions that it would be applicable with immediate effect. Hence, restaurants would remain open for dine-in till midnight from Tuesday. It is an order for the state so, I assume that it would be applicable all over the state.”Till the time of going to press, the Pune Municipal Corporation had not yet issued the order formalising the new timings for the city. Calls to municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao went unanswered. Traders and shop owners also welcomed the extension of the timings. “Ahead of Diwali, many people are stepping out of their homes to go shopping. So, in this season, shop owners usually keep shops open till late. This decision would help customers and shop owners as well. However, an official order from the PMC would have to be issued applying these timings in the city,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary Federation of Traders Association of Pune (FTAP)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dinein-till-midnight-shops-till-11pm-in-pune-biz-owners-welcome-state-orders-101634668795368.html
20-10-2021||Patna||Rat attack hits ticket services at rly station||A rodent attack on a ticketing facility at Phesar railway station in Bihar’s Aurangabad district disrupted booking and reservation services for eight hours on Tuesday. The rats chewed through computer wires, bringing the Railways’ online booking system to a halt.Many important trains pass through the station of East Central Railway, which is used by a large number of commuters. After railway staff found the wires cut in the morning, alternate arrangements had to be made for passengers who had to board trains without tickets.“In view of the problem, a makeshift arrangement was made at the next railway station at Anugrah Narayan stop, where trains stopped for 10 extra minutes to enable passengers to purchase tickets,” said Phesar station master Manish Kumar.Passengers with disabilities and heavy luggage faced difficulties due to the disruption. “I had difficulty in climbing the steep stairs and crossing the foot over bridge to go to the counter at Anugrah Narayan station to buy a ticket.” said Ram Balak Kushwaha, who is physically challenged.The problem was solved, and ticket counter was functional, said Mohammad Iqbal, public relations officer of the Deendayal Upadhyay rail division.Rats were in the news in Bihar a few months ago, when the state’s water resources minister blamed them for floods. “Corn is kept by the local people next to the dam. Due to this, rats easily damage it by making holes in the dam,” Jha said while inspecting breached embankments in Bhagalpur in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rat-attack-hits-ticket-services-at-rly-station-101634668673739.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Rain impact lasts for 2nd straight day as air in Delhi bucks October trend||A day after the record-breaking downpour across the city, the air quality index (AQI) in Delhi remained below the 100-mark on Tuesday, according to data from the central pollution watchdog.Delhi’s average AQI (at 4pm) on Tuesday rose marginally to 69, categorised as “satisfactory” by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The AQI in Delhi was 46 on Monday — giving the city the cleanest October air in at least six years (for which the agency maintains pollution data). It was also the first “good” air day in Delhi in 413 days, a stretch going back to August 31 last year, when the AQI was 41.
20-10-2021||Other||Kushinagar Airport: Foreign tourists to increase by 20%; East UP workers in SE Asia to land closer home||The long wait for the people of Kushinagar for international flights connecting the region with the world will be over when Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurates the international airport on Wednesday.Earlier, Buddhist pilgrims from Sri Lanka and South East Asia, as well as East UP natives working in South East Asian countries had to land at Kolkata and Delhi airports. With the opening of the airport, travellers will be able to visit East UP as well as the Buddhist spots – Kushinagar, Shravasti, Kapilvastu, Lumbini, Sarnath, Vaishali, Rajgir, Kesariya and Sankisa – with ease and in lesser time.Along with giving a boost to tourism, the international airport is likely to give a fillip to the development to Eastern Uttar Pradesh.The Prime Minister will inaugurate the international airport spread over 589 acres worth ₹260 crore. The event will mark the start of the three-day International Buddhist Conclave at Kushinagar. Later, the Prime Minister will address a public meeting near Narayanpur village located on Kushinagar-Ramkola Road. He will also lay the foundation of 500-bed Government Medical College worth ₹281.45 crore. The academic session in the medical college will commence in 2022 with admission on 100 MBBS seats.The PM will also lay the foundation stone of 12 development projects worth ₹180.66 crore. A state government spokesperson said that the inflow of international tourists is expected to increase by 20% due to the location of the airport near Buddhist sites located on the border of East Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.To send a message to the international community the central government has invited foreign dignitaries for the inauguration of the airport. The maiden international flight from Sri Lanka – carrying sports minister Namal Rajapaksa with a 125-member delegation including prominent Buddhist monks from the country – will land at the airport on Wednesday, in time for the inauguration. Monks, ambassadors and diplomats of many countries will witness it.Giving the details of the airport a state government spokesperson said that the eight-storied state of the art Air Traffic Control (ATC) tower has become fully operational. The airport has a capacity of eight flights – 4 arrivals and 4 departures – per hour. The airport will be equipped with a facility of night landing soon. The passenger terminal building constructed over 3,600 sq metres will have a capacity of 300 passengers.Anil Kumar Gupta, president, India- Nepal Friendship Society, said that the international airport will boost tourism between India and Nepal. Among the four sacred Buddhist spots (Lumbini, Bodh Gaya, Sarnath, Kushinagar) Lumbni is located 140 km from Kushinagar, in Nepal.Sagar Adhikari, president, Nepal Tour and Travel and Sanjay Bajimaye, president, Society of Tour and Travel echoed his views.Pankaj Kumar Singh, general manager, operations, INPAC group of Hotels, Kushinagar, said that the airport will boost tourism in East UP. Earlier, tourists avoided visiting Kushinagar as much time was wasted in travelling.The international airport will also pave the way for investment in the region, opening the door to entrepreneurs from Buddhist countries.CP Shrestha, president, Siddharth Hotel Association, Rupendhi, said that once the airport becomes operational it will boost employment and economy in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kushinagar-airport-foreign-tourists-to-increase-by-20-east-up-workers-in-se-asia-to-land-closer-home-101634668616674.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||₹300-cr fraud case: Niira Radia and sister to be questioned||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they have summoned corporate lobbyist Niira Radia and her sister Karuna Menon in connection with allegations that a dummy company was set up to siphon off a ₹300 crore from a Yes Bank loan. The notices were sent by the economic offences wing (EOW) on October 18 (Monday), a day after the EOW announced the arrest of Yateesh Wahaal, Satish Kumar Narula, and Rahul Singh Yadav in the case. Police said Wahaal and Narula are directors of Nayati Health Care and Research NCR Pvt Ltd, which Radia allegedly floated. Yadav is the proprietor of the dummy firm named Ahluwalia Construction that was used to siphon off the bank loan. The arrests were made following investigation into a case of criminal breach of trust, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy that was registered on November 4, 2020. The three accused have been booked for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. Police learnt Radia allegedly floated the firm during the questioning of the three. “We learnt about her (Radia’s) links with the company after the arrest. Apart from Radia, the link of her sister Karuna Menon with the company also emerged during the investigation. We issued summons to Radia and Menon on October 18, asking them to join the investigation within three days of receiving the notices. More beneficiaries of the siphoned off money are being identified. They will also be asked to join the probe,” said additional commissioner of police (EOW) RK Singh. Singh said they received a complaint from one Sharma against Narayani Investment Pvt Ltd, holding company of Nayati Health Care and Research NCR Pvt Ltd, and its promoters and directors namely Niira Radia, her sister Karuna Menon, Yateen Wahaal, Satish Kumar Narula and others. In his complaint, Sharma told police he was the company’s vice-chairperson and executive director. Singh said that the company was earlier known as OSL Healthcare Private Limited (OSLHPL) and was incorporated to build and run a hospital in Gurugram. “Also, a MOU (memorandum of understanding) was signed between VIMHANS and OSLHPL for operating and managing VIMHANS’ IPD, OPD, Emergency and Diagnostic Services and VIMHANS was to provide its state-of-the-art medical super speciality services for psychiatry and allied services to OSLHPL,” said Singh. He added Sharma was also promised of ₹30 lakh monthly as his fees for his services. “...during the completion of Gurugram Hospital, OSL Healthcare Pvt Ltd faced a certain financial problem and majority shareholders/Directors sold their shares (51%) to M/s Narayani Investment Pvt Ltd, the holding company of M/s Nayati Healthcare & Research NCR Pvt Ltd at the consideration of ₹99 Crores. Once the alleged persons/company entered into the shoes of the majority shareholder, they took all the major decisions. It is alleged that the company took a loan of ₹312 crore from YES Bank for the development of Gurugram Hospital, but the money was not used for the said purpose and misappropriated by the alleged company/persons.” Police said the arrested persons did not pay Sharma his fee and on the basis of his complaint, the EOW filed a case in November 2020. Singh cited the investigation and added they found that after the loan, the arrested people transferred ₹208 to a bank account in the name of Yadav’s Ahluwalia construction. “During the verification, we found that the account was opened by Rahul Singh Yadav with a view to divert or siphon off the loan amount as it was a dummy account. The investigation revealed that the said transfer of ₹208 crore was authorised by arrested persons Yateesh Wahal and SK Narula as directors and authorised signatories of the loan account of the alleged company,” said Singh. He added the dummy bank account was opened to deceive the bank. HT has reached out to Radia for her response. The copy will be updated when she responds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/300cr-fraud-case-niira-radia-and-sister-to-be-questioned-101634668613789.html
20-10-2021||Other||Brig Thakur accuses Congress of levelling baseless allegations against him||Upset over the accusations levelled by Congress, BJP nominee from Mandi parliamentary constituency Brigadier (retd) Khushal Thakur said the Opposition leaders have stooped so low that they are accusing him of bungling funds. “I am a soldier and a son of Himachal. If I have earned anything in life, it is honesty and that is my biggest asset,” said Thakur, while addressing election meetings at Basan and Balichowki in Saraj assembly constituency. The Kargil war veteran said people of Mandi will give an apt reply to the Congress for playing such “cheap politics”. Speaking on the occasion, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur asked what Virbhadra did for his constituency despite being a six-term chief minister. “If we go to Rohru, many areas still remain inaccessible and one has to walk for kilometres,” the CM said. “The work which could not be done by Virbhadra Singh for Rohru despite being the CM, the BJP did in four years,” he added. The CM said during the Kargil War, 527 soldiers were martyred. “However, Congress says it was not a war but just a minor infiltration. It is a great insult to the soldiers who laid down their lives for the sake of the nation,” said the CM. He said Congress says the soldiers should not enter politics. In today’s era, honest people are required in politics and no one can be as honest as a soldier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/brig-thakur-accuses-congress-of-levelling-baseless-allegations-against-him-101634668555540.html
20-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Elderly woman shot dead, daughter critically injured in Najafgarh||A 62-year-old woman was shot dead, while her daughter was shot and critically wounded allegedly by a lone gunman in the main bazaar of Dwarka’s Najafgarh on Tuesday. Police said they suspect a monetary dispute to be motive for the killing and a hunt is on to arrest the shooter, who is suspected to be a relative of the women.Police identified the dead woman as Kailash, who lived with her family in Najafgarh. She was shot twice, while her daughter Vandana (32) was shot six times. “Her condition is critical and she is undergoing treatment,” a senior officer said, asking not to be named.According to police, the incident was reported around 8.30am on Tuesday from the main bazaar in Haibatpura, Najafgarh. Quoting witnesses, police said Kailash and Vandana were at their shoe shop when Rajiv Gulati (37), Vandana’s cousin, reached the shop, opened fire at the two and fled the spot. Hearing the commotion and the gunshots, others in the market rushed to the shop and found the mother and daughter lying in a pool of blood. They were rushed to a hospital for treatment and the police were informed.“During investigation, we found that since it was a bit early in the morning, the other shops were closed when Gulati allegedly shot the two women,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Chaudhary said further probe revealed that there was a monetary dispute between the Gulati and Kailash. “We came to know that Gulati had taken ₹2.5 lakh as loan from Kailash. We are verifying this information,” the officer said. “Frequent arguments broke out between Gulati and Kailash as she kept asking him to return her money, and he refused. We are verifying this as well,” the officer added. According to the police, they have launched the manhunt to nab Gulati. “We came to know that the accused also has a shoe shop in the area. We are scanning CCTV footage to get further leads in the case,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-elderly-woman-shot-dead-daughter-critically-injured-in-najafgarh-101634668373623.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Devendra Fadnavis: Amit Shah assured sugar mills won’t face action for paying above FRP||Former Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday said that Union cooperation minister Amit Shah has assured them that no cooperative sugar mill in the state will have to face action by the income tax (I-T) department over providing fair and remunerative price (FRP) more than what is declared by the Centre. Fadnavis said that the cooperative sugar mills have been receiving I-T notices for paying increased FRP for over a decade and that Shah has assured to resolve the problem at the request of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders.Fadnavis and other BJP leaders met Shah to discuss the issues related to the cooperative sector in New Delhi on Tuesday.“We requested him [Shah] for a permanent solution as for the past 15-20 years, cooperative sugar mills have been facing issues after receiving I-T notices for paying more than the declared FRP… Every year they get I-T notices, resulting at the beginning of the seizure process, which has to be stayed. We requested Amit Shah saheb to resolve the issue once and for all by coming up with a permanent solution. The Union cooperation minister promised us a positive decision, which will come as a big relief for the sugar mills,” Fadnavis told reporters in New Delhi after the meeting.The Centre announces FRP, the minimum price that sugar mills have to pay to cane growers every year before the start of the sugarcane crushing season.The leader of opposition also defended the action by the central investigation agencies against various sugar mills in the state in the backdrop of I-T raids conducted against multiple sugar mills linked to deputy CM Ajit Pawar. The Nationalist Congress Party leadership has alleged that they have been targeted to bring the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in trouble.Fadnavis said the central agencies will take action where misappropriation of funds, corruption or black money is involved. In many cases, action was taken on court’s directives, he said. “If there’s a case wherein action by agencies is found to be taken against someone innocent, one can say Centre is doing it to put pressure on them. But when I-T department comes up with details on how ₹184 crore was generated to buy properties, then the picture is clear. The agencies are doing their work properly. The Centre has no such policy [to put pressure on anyone] and it doesn’t discriminate [among people].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/devendra-fadnavis-amit-shah-assured-sugar-mills-won-t-face-action-for-paying-above-frp-101634668254752.html
20-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress spokesman Sachin Sawant asks party to relieve him of post||Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant has requested state president Nana Patole to relieve him from his official position and hand him a new responsibility. Though Sawant said that he wants a new role as he has been working as the party spokesperson for a decade now, party insiders have said that the request was made after he was overlooked for the appointment as Congress’ chief spokesperson.Sawant has also removed ‘spokesperson’ from his bio on his Twitter handle.On Tuesday, Patole had allotted responsibilities to the newly-appointed body of the Maharashtra unit. He appointed Atul Londhe as the chief spokesperson. It is believed that Sawant has been hurt by the decision.Sawant was not available for a comment. Patole, too, did not respond to calls and text message.“Sachin Sawant was expecting that he would be appointed as the chief spokesperson of the state unit and got upset after being ignored for the position and because the post went to someone who is junior to him in the party,” said a Congress leader, on the condition of anonymity.Sawant is considered as one of the most active voices of Congress against the opposition parties for the past 10 years. He is also credited for exposing the various aspects of the Chikki scam and the alleged irregularities in the Jalyukt Shivar Abhiyan in the previous Devendra Fadnavis-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Maharashtra and for taking the opposition leaders head on. Recently, he had disclosed the report of a committee of medical experts that had allegedly found that all the ventilators provided under the PM Cares Fund were non-functional. The committee was appointed by the Government Medical College, Aurangabad, after ventilators that they had received were found to be in non-working condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-spokesman-sachin-sawant-asks-party-to-relieve-him-of-post-101634668253467.html
