21-10-2021||Pune||338 fresh Covid cases, 12 deaths in Pune district||PUNE State authorities reported a total of 12 deaths in Pune district on Wednesday. A total of 338 fresh Covid positive cases werereported in 24 hours. Five deaths were reported from Pune rural and no deaths were reported from Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. As per state officials, seven deaths were reported from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 520,019 Covid cases and 9,197 deaths as of Thursday. PCMC has reported 268,105 cases so far and a total of 3,501 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural reported 364,087total cases so far and 6,868 deaths due to Covid. In the Pune district, there are a total of 1,152,211Covid cases. Of this, 1,125,525 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 19,915 deaths in the district. At present, there are 6,771 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 2,968 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra, taking the total to 6,430,394 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 97.46%.Across Maharashtra, 1,573 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 39 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.12%.Currently 201,162 people are in home quarantine and 1,007 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/338-fresh-covid-cases-12-deaths-in-pune-district-101634840491715.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Custodial death: After Priyanka visit, Mayawati rushes team to Agra||LUCKNOW: Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati rushed a party delegation to Agra where a dalit sanitation worker died in police custody on the intervening night of Tuesday-Wednesday. The move by Mayawati, who slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government over the custodial death of the dalit youth, came a day after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra visited the victim’s family amid high drama that also included a brief detention at the police lines. “The custodial death of a sanitation worker in Agra is most saddening. A party delegation led by Gayacharan Dinkar would visit Agra, meet the victim’s kin and also interact with officials to get justice in the case,” Mayawati tweeted. Mayawati also referred to the recent killing of a Kanpur trader in Gorakhpur and said that the Gorakhpur and Agra incidents had put the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in the dock. “The BJP government is in the dock and BSP demands that the government must bring about necessary changes in the policing system,” she tweeted. Earlier on Wednesday, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi managed to meet the dalit victim’s family after a nearly three-hour stand-off with the police. According to SSP Agra Muniraj G, the accused dalit sanitation worker had admitted to his involvement in the theft of ₹25 lakh from the police ‘maalkhana’ (store) and his health deteriorated during recovery of a sum of ₹15 lakh from his house in Agra. The victim’s family has contradicted the police claim. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said that no one would be allowed to take law and order into their hands. The BJP is projecting Baby Rani Maurya, a Jatav dalit like Mayawati, as its own home-grown Jatav face ahead of the 2022 UP polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/custodial-death-after-priyanka-visit-mayawati-rushes-team-to-agra-101634839770065.html
21-10-2021||Delhi||34-year-old stages robbery to dupe employer of ₹5 lakh, 2 arrested||New Delhi: The city police on Thursday said they had arrested a 34-year-old man and his cousin for allegedly cooking up a fake robbery claim near Burari flyover in north Delhi’s Wazirabad to steal ₹5 lakh belonging to his employer on Monday evening.Police said the suspects, Deepak and Aslam, both having previous criminal records, allegedly planned the fake robbery as they wanted funds to start a business of a packaged water plant. They were arrested on Wednesday and ₹4.92 lakh of the money was recovered from them. Police said the money belonged to Rajeev Bansal, a businessman from northeast Delhi’s Seelampur, who has also been booked for not conducting a police verification of his employee.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Sagar Singh Kalsi said that on Monday, Wazirabad police station received information regarding a robbery near Burari flyover. The complainant, Deepak, alleged that two persons on a bike robbed him of his mobile phone and ₹5 lakh while he was riding his scooter to Bansal’s office in Seelampur. Deepak told the police that the robbers had thrown red chilli powder in his eyes.“Our team visited the spot but did not find any traces of red chilli powder. We questioned Deepak and found discrepancies in his statements. After collecting enough evidence, we confronted Deepak. He broke down and confessed to making up the robbery story. His interrogation led to the arrest of his cousin Aslam and the recovery of ₹4.92 lakh,” added DCP Kalsi.A senior police officer associated with the probe said that Deepak was working with Bansal “for the last six years”.“He was previously involved in two similar cases of breach of trust and theft. It has come to our notice that his employer had not got Deepak’s police verification done, despite verification of tenants and servants (employees) being mandatory in Delhi. We have booked the employer under Indian Penal Code’s section 188 for defying the police order,” said a senior police officer, associated with the probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/34yearold-stages-robbery-to-dupe-employer-of-5-lakh-2-arrested-101634839649882.html
21-10-2021||Delhi||DDA to allow public events at 25 parks, but no weddings or political functions||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has allowed events to be organised in nearly 25 parks that are well-maintained by the land owning agency.A senior DDA official said on condition of anonymity, “The idea is to encourage people to use the facilities. Currently, footfall at these parks is negligible, but with this initiative, we hope that citizens’ engagement will increase now. We have prepared a policy in this regard.”According to the policy, these parks can be booked for cultural, art and school events, but no political function or wedding ceremony will be allowed. The agency has divided the parks in two categories— open park spaces and parks with amphitheatres and boat clubs on their premises. The 25 parks are located in Hauz Khas, Asita-Yamuna riverfront, Sanjay Lake, Astha Kunj in Nehru Place, Swarn Jayanti Park in Rohini, two district parks in Dwarka, and Coronation Park in North Delhi, among others.The DDA official further said, “The idea is to allow the public to use the parks in an organised manner. Any individual, organisations, residents’ body or institution may book the park. All parks are about two to three acres in size.”Of the 25 parks, six have facilities such as an amphitheatre and are located in Malviya Nagar, Mayur Vihar, Vasant Vihar, among other areas. The capacity of amphitheatres is between 150-750, the official said.DDA already has over 100 open spaces across the city which can be booked for weddings or political events. “Cooking will not be allowed inside the park. Only ready-to-eat food will be permitted. The park can be booked for six to 12 hours and the events can be organised between 6am and 8pm during winter and 5am and 9pm in summer,” said the official.A DDA official said the aim of the policy is not to earn revenue, therefore the booking charges are nominal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-to-allow-public-events-at-25-parks-but-no-weddings-or-political-functions-101634839472604.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees a dip in morning temperature||With the withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from the past two weeks and with winter approaching, mornings in Mumbai have been getting perceptibly cooler. The minimum temperature at the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) monitoring station in Santacruz on Thursday was recorded at 22.8 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal. This is also down from 23.4 degrees Celsius recorded on Wednesday, 24 degrees Celsius on Tuesday and 25.8 degrees Celsius on Monday.“There are strong landward winds coming from the sea towards the evening which are bringing the temperature down. The relative humidity has also reduced sharply as there are no rains anymore. When the air is humid it can hold heat better than dry air,” said a meteorologist with IMD’s regional forecasting centre. As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, the minimum temperature (which is recorded at 5.30am every day) is likely to hover around 23 and 24 degrees Celsius over the next week.The absence of rain has also had implications for air quality in the city. Mumbai recorded ‘moderate’ air quality on Thursday, with an air quality index (AQI) value of 106 as per the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily air quality index bulletin. Particulate matter (PM) 2.5, ozone and PM10 were identified as the primary pollutants in the city, with presence of ozone indicating the presence of sunlight during the day. As per the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), run by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, and the earth sciences ministry, PM10 in Mumbai was recorded at 101ug/m3 (above the safe level of 60ug/m3), while PM2.5 was recorded at 50ug/m3, within the permissible daily average.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-a-dip-in-morning-temperature-101634839471125.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow PGI starts two new facilities for haemophilia, leukaemia patients||The Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) director Prof RK Dhiman inaugurated two new facilities - haemophilia Physiotherapy Unit and a new ward for Peripherally Inserted Central Cannula (PICC) Line Care Centre for painless chemotherapy of leukaemia patients in the department of haematology on Thursday.In 2019, the department started a project ‘Strategies towards comprehensive haemophilia care services’ in Uttar Pradesh for improving the haemophilia treatment facilities in the state-funded by National Health Mission (NHM). Under this project, eight physiotherapy centres have been established in different medical colleges of the state and the centre inaugurated today is a part of this project. Two physiotherapists have been posted by the National Health Mission for the Haemophilia Physiotherapy unit.SGPGIMS chief medical superintendent Prof Gaurav Agarwal, Dr AB Singh, deputy general manager, Blood Cell, NHM, UP and Vinay Manchanda, secretary, haemophilia Society, Lucknow, Prof Rajesh Kashyap, HOD, haematology were present on the occasion. Speaking on the occasion, Prof Agarwal said haemophilia is a congenital bleeding disorder and affects males. The affected persons have spontaneous bleeding into their joints or muscles or from injury sites. Infusion of clotting factors is the only treatment for these patients. These patients also suffer from physical disabilities due to repeated episodes of bleeding into their joints. These patients require regular physiotherapy, and this centre would be very helpful for such patients.In addition, the department of Haematology has now set up a dedicated day-care facility for leukaemia patients undergoing chemotherapy to take care of their in-dwelling catheters (PICC Line) to reduce the risk of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-pgi-starts-two-new-facilities-for-haemophilia-leukaemia-patients-101634839469937.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||CM Yogi announces 25% increase in diet allowance for police personnel||Lucknow While paying tributes to police martyrs, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced 25 per cent hike in diet allowance for police personnel from constable to inspector rank and ₹2000 mobile SIM annual allowance for constable to sub-inspector ranks on the occasion of Police Smriti Diwas (Police Commemoration Day) at Reserve Police Lines in Mahanagar here on Thursday. The SIM card allowance is added in the salary structure for the first time. The CM said the mobile allowance would be for constables to sub-inspectors on field postings. He said police personnel as well as other staff in the police department, including class four employees, would benefit from the 25 per cent increase in diet allowance. In his address, the CM said the state government was deeply concerned about the welfare of police personnel and assured all help to the families of four police personnel who sacrificed their lives in different incidents in the past one year. He said the state police work needed to be appreciated during the pandemic outbreak. The cops on the streets did a wonderful job in containing the infection by enforcing the lockdown protocols strictly, during which several cops got infected and lost their lives. He said nearly ₹18.5 crore had been given to the dependents of 37 policemen who died due to corona. Besides, around ₹15 crore was spent to provide different facilities to police personnel in different districts and units as well as ₹20 crore being spent on their welfare. Yogi said the recruitment of 49568 constables was completed in the past one year while the approval for recruitment of around 26744 constables and 829 sub-inspectors had been to the Police Recruitment and Promotion Board. He said as many as 71 new police stations and 45 new police outposts were set up for better policing. Women help desk was set-up at every police station during the past one year. Earlier, , the chief minister took the salute of the parade held to remember the police martyrs. On this occasion, chief secretary RK Tewari, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi and director general of police Mukul Goel were also present. Police Commemoration Day The Police Commemoration Day is observed every year on October 21 to pay tributes to police martyrs. The trend was started to mark the supreme sacrifice of 10 personnel of Central Reserve Police Force, who laid down their lives while fighting with the Chinese army at India-China border in Laddakh on October 21, 1959. To mark the occasion, a condolence parade is organized every year on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cm-yogi-announces-25-increase-in-diet-allowance-for-police-personnel-101634839290555.html
21-10-2021||Pune||Drive to target housing societies to ensure maximum Covid vaccinations in Pune||PUNE With the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) claiming 100 per cent of beneficiaries in the 18-44-year age group have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, the next focus is housing societies –big and small – to ensure the maximum beneficiaries across age groups are vaccinated with at least one dose, if not both. The PMC, therefore, has decided start vaccination drives in housing societies, an announcement for which was made by the civic body on Wednesday. “Our target is to vaccinate 100 per cent of the population in the city with both doses. To reach maximum people, we have decided to undertake vaccination drives in housing societies. Earlier, such drives were carried out in slums,” said city mayor Murlidhar Mohol. The PMC claims to have also vaccinated bed-ridden beneficiaries across age groups. According to PMC immunization officer Dr Suryakant Deokar, this week, the PMC has been able to vaccinate even more than the estimated population in 18 to 45-year age group, 103% in total, given the floating population coming in from Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural parts of the district. The Pune civic body has been able to administer 4.94 million doses, of which 3,153,205 people received a first dose and 1,788,745 have taken both doses. The central government has estimated that Pune city’s population is 4,210,592. According to the civic body, members of housing soceities can directly contact the PMC ward offices, which will make provision for vaccination within society premises. Mohol said, “PMC has published the health officers’ numbers working with each regional ward office. The housing societies can contact the health officer and carry out the drive.” A PMC officer spaking on the condition of anonymity said that many still have to take second shot of the vaccine. However, civic officials observed that a significant population is hesitant to take the second dose and are not fully vaccinated even if they qualify after gap of 84 days for Covishield, and 28 days for Covaxin.The age group above 45 years is the most hesitant to take the second shot, possibly due to side effects after the first dose and the ebbing of the second Covid wave.Covid vaccinations in the city First dose Age group 18-44: 103% Age group 45-59: 84% Age group 60 and above: 79% Second doseAge group 18-44: 41% Age group 45-59: 71% Age group 60 and above: 65%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/drive-to-target-housing-societies-to-ensure-maximum-covid-vaccinations-in-pune-101634838990172.html
21-10-2021||Gurugram||Wazirabad sports complex will now include an int’l standard cycle track||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has proposed the construction of a 4.5-kilometre cycle track as part of a proposed sports complex at Wazirabad, located near sectors 52 and 53, officials said on Thursday. According to MCG chief engineer TL Sharma, the cycle track will be of international standard so that it can be accessed both by the public as well as athletes and also be used for sports competitions.Officials said that they are exploring the possibility of constructing a section of the cycle track as a velodrome, i.e., an indoor track made of wood, grass or concrete with an arena for spectators.“The cycle track will be built around the stadium complex. This will not only help athletes promote cycling but also provide an opportunity for residents of the city to cycle there for leisure purposes,” Sharma said.The cycle track is part of a ₹200-crore sports complex planned at Wazirabad, which will also have other facilities such as a hostel for players, swimming pool, shooting range, basketball court, and kabaddi court. Along with the cycle track, the plan is to develop the swimming pool on par with Olympic standards, where district, state and national events can be held.MCG officials said that a detailed project report (DPR) is currently being examined by the directorate of urban local bodies (ULB).The ₹200-crore project is the third time that the MCG has revised the project since June 2016, when Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced the construction of a sports stadium in Wazirabad.Until April 2019, a ₹130-crore archery range and multi-purpose indoor sports complex was to be developed at the site. However, following a meeting between the then Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) chief executive officer, V Umashankar, and former MCG commissioner, Yashpal Yadav, it was decided that a ₹20-crore recreational sports complex — on the lines of Azad Maidan and Shivaji Park in Mumbai, with a multi-purpose sports ground and basic indoor sports infrastructure — was more feasible.However, this plan was changed again in August last year to the ₹200-crore project.“The directorate of ULB will be checking technical details regarding the DNIT (detailed notice inviting tender) and DPR next week in Gurugram. We are anticipating to procure the final approval for the project from ULB next month, following which tenders will be floated to finalise a contractor for constructing the project,” Sharma said.According to officials, the MCG commissioner also apprised GMDA chief executive officer Sudhir Rajpal of the cycle track plan during a residents advisory council (RAC) meeting last month, for its inputs on the project. Since October 2020, the GMDA has constructed cycle tracks at several locations, such as Netaji Subash Marg, Old Delhi-Gurgaon Road and Hamilton Court Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wazirabad-sports-complex-will-now-include-an-int-l-standard-cycle-track-101634838633600.html
21-10-2021||Gurugram||Manesar: Sanitation staff calls off protest after assurances over salary payments||Sanitation workers of the Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) called off their protest on Thursday after assurances from officials that their salaries, including arrears, would be paid by November 3, the workers said. All 69 sanitation workers on the MCM’s payroll had been protesting since Tuesday, seeking payment of September salaries and arrears that cumulatively amount to ₹60 lakh.The sanitation workers’ union said that it will be meeting MCM officials next Tuesday to further discuss the matter and to seek assurances, in writing, of payment by November 3, failing which they will plan a full-scale strike.Rajesh Kumar, the district president of Haryana Sanitation Workers Union, said that the monthly salary of a sanitation worker in MCM amounts to around ₹16,000, after deductions.“Since the time of enrolment, sanitation workers have been paid only a monthly income of ₹8000-9,000, around half their salaries. However, the situation worsened this month, as workers are yet to receive any payment from MCM towards their September salaries, which prompted us to launch a full-scale strike,” Kumar said.Kumar said that on Tuesday and Wednesday, sanitation workers and the union representatives gathered outside the MCM office in Sector 2 of Manesar and raised slogans against the civic body, demanding payment of salaries.“Sanitation inspectors met with us earlier today (Thursday) assuring us that the salaries, including arrears, would be paid by November 3. We have called off the strike indefinitely, and want the assurances to be given in writing along with a commitment to procure gears for the workers,” Kumar said.MCM officials could not be reached for comment despite repeated attempts.According to Kumar, the MCM is yet to provide brooms, uniforms, boots, monthly stock of soaps and oils, among other such items that are given to sanitation workers across Haryana upon their enrolment, and the same is being procured by sanitation workers at their own cost.All 69 sanitation workers were enrolled with the MCM in February, two months after the civic body was formed. The protest by sanitation workers marked the first strike or protest against the MCM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/manesar-sanitation-staff-calls-off-protest-after-assurances-over-salary-payments-101634838632255.html
21-10-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad crime: Man, aide, held for triple murder of wife, relatives||Two persons were arrested in Faridabad for allegedly shooting dead one of the accused’s estranged wife, mother-in-law and a property dealer in Gothda Mohbtabad area, the police said on Thursday. A fourth person, the brother-in-law of the main accused, was also shot at but survived and is undergoing treatment, the police said.According to the police, the incident took place between 2am and 3am on Thursday, when the main accused, identified as Neeraj Chawla (35), is alleged to have committed the triple murder over suspicions that his wife was having an extramarital affair with the property dealer, who was a friend of his brother-in-law’s. Chawla and his aide, Lekhraj, were arrested from the NIT area in the afternoon by the DLF crime branch, the police said. The deceased were identified as Ayesha (30), Suman (50), and Rajan Sharma (35). The police said that Chawla’s wife had separated from him around a year ago. A statement released by the Faridabad police read, “In this incident, wife Ayesha, mother-in-law Suman and brother-in-law’s friend Rajan died on the spot and 26-year-old Gagan was seriously injured and is undergoing treatment. While undergoing treatment, Gagan gave his statement to the police that his brother-in-law had executed this murder by shooting with the help of others. On the basis of this statement, the police have registered a case under the Arms Act and sections of murder along with other relevant sections.”The police said that besides having problems with his wife, Chawla had loaned ₹10 lakh to Gagan, and was demanding the same, which was a source of friction between them. The police said that four shots were fired from countrymade guns in the crime. The police also rescued Chawla and Ayesha’s 12-year-old son from the scene of the crime and handed him over to his relatives.Gagan and his friend, Sharma, used to work as property dealers in Sector 56 after moving to Faridabad from Samalkha in Panipat. On Wednesday, Gagan and Sharma had returned from a temple at night, and Sharma stayed over at Gagan’s residence.Sube Singh, the spokesperson for the Faridabad police, said, “Three bodies were sent for a post-mortem examination. A motorcycle and two countrymade pistols were recovered from the site. The case is being investigated and the accused will be presented in court on Friday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-crime-man-aide-held-for-triple-murder-of-wife-relatives-101634838631051.html
21-10-2021||Gurugram||Master stormwater drain network to be revamped to prevent waterlogging||Thirty-five years since the construction of a master stormwater drain in the city, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has decided to renovate the existing infrastructure, which spans from Rezang La Chowk to Palam Vihar, to curb waterlogging ahead of the next monsoon season, officials said on Thursday.In this project, the Leg 1 of the master stormwater drain network will be renovated. Gurugram’s stormwater master drain network is divided into Leg 1, Leg 2 and Leg 3 or the Badshahpur drain, all of which finally flow into the Najafgarh drain.The authority will also carve out 12 rainwater harvesting pits along the drain, as part of the project. The renovation work for the drain is likely to start in the second half of November, before which citizens can share their opinions and comments about the project on GMDA’s website.The master stormwater drain starts from Sikanderpur and terminates in Najafgarh drain, passing through sectors 18, 19, Old Delhi Road, sectors 22, 23A, Palam Vihar, railway culvert number 47, Bajghera village and Sector 115. This drain was constructed with brick masonry walls and was covered with a slab approximately 35 years ago on the stretch between Old Delhi Road to railway culvert number 47.“Being old and gaseous effect of flowing regular sewage, slab and wall is collapsing upon itself due to its self-load and wall mortar joints are weakening at various spots in Sector 22 and Palam Vihar. Rapid urbanisation has resulted in increase of discharge in the drain in rainy season. The width of the drain is 4.25 metres before Old Delhi Road and thereafter, on downstream side, it reduces to 2.1 metres and 3.25 metres, which results in overflowing of the drain during heavy rainfall. Due to these issues, the drain will be reconstructed as a reinforced cement concrete box drain,” the executive engineer from the infrastructure-II division of GMDA, who is handling the project, said.He said that as all rainwater does not get drained out, 12 rainwater harvesting pits have also been proposed along the drain for conservation of stormwater overflow.The project cost is estimated to cost around ₹15 crore and will be taken up in two phases. As part of the first phase, a drain will be constructed from Rezang La Chowk to railway culvert number 47, while the second phase will consist of the construction of a drain from the Old Delhi Road culvert to Rezang La Chowk, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/master-stormwater-drain-network-to-be-revamped-to-prevent-waterlogging-101634838629826.html
21-10-2021||Gurugram||CM Manohar Lal Khattar to address Vikas rally in Sohna||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will address a “Vikas” rally at Sarmathla village in Sohna on Saturday, wherein residents are likely to present a charter of demands related to infrastructure upgrade of roads, schools and hospitals. The CM will also inaugurate a statue of Maharana Pratap during the rally.The main demands include the development of a helicopter hub in Sohna, as major roads, such as the Mumbai-Delhi Expressway, Sohna elevated road and KMP Expressway, make Sohna a strategic location. Other key demands include setting up a Mini Secretariat at Sohna and Tauru, a women’s university, construction of link roads, an amusement park, a sports stadium, and upgrade of around 20 schools in the area.Sanjay Singh, a member of the legislative assembly (MLA) from Sohna, who is organising the rally, said, “In the past two years, development works have slowed due to Covid-19 but now the situation is returning to normal. We are confident that once our demands are accepted by the CM, they would be implemented by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cm-manohar-lal-khattar-to-address-vikas-rally-in-sohna-101634838570777.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||UP energy minister calls to simplify process of online consumer services||Minister of energy and additional energy sources Shrikant Sharma has directed officials to provide exemption on electricity duty for industrial consumers.Reviewing the power supply with industrial and commercial consumers of Varanasi and Chandauli through video-conferencing from Shakti Bhawan, in Lucknow, Sharma also directed officials to simplify the process of online consumer services, on Thursday. He also heard suggestions by officials for improving power supply to consumers.The minister directed the directorate of power safety to clear the 250 pending cases in the next one month. He directed ACS Energy to regularly monitor progress. The energy minister said that consumers should be provided with necessary information by phone, if required.He directed all MDs of discoms to ensure that facilities are increased in the industrial areas of the state as per increasing load and demand. He said, “The chairman, UPPCL, should continuously monitor and review it regularly.”He said that consumers should not have to run around the department with complaints, rather officials should be performing aggressive patrolling of industrial and commercial areas to solve complaints. Under the Revamp Scheme, there will be extensive work in the field of infrastructure for improvement of power supply in industrial areas, Sharma said. He directed officials to increase the load of consumers as per demand at the earliest.The power minister also directed officials to inform consumers about shutdowns in advance so that they can plan work. He called for further progress of construction of new sub-stations in Jeevanathpur industrial area of Chandauli. He asked officials to take complaints received on 1912 seriously and to address them immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-energy-minister-calls-to-simplify-process-of-online-consumer-services-101634837969663.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC to take up major repairs, reconstruction of 14 bridges in western suburbs||Fourteen vehicular and pedestrian bridges in the western suburbs will be taken up for major repairs and reconstruction, owing to the structural defects identified during a recent audit. These bridges are located in Malad, Goregaon and Andheri, and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has floated bids worth ₹16.88 crore for the works.According to BMC officials, these 14 bridges in western suburbs were found to be vulnerable in an audit by Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) that was undertaken following the collapse of the Himalaya Bridge near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in south Mumbai in March 2019. A BMC official from the bridges department said, “Overall, there are 50 such small bridges that are being taken up for repairs and reconstruction in phases. We will also go ahead with similar works for the Bandra skywalk in the coming days.”While six of the bridges will undergo major repairs, eight will be demolished and rebuild. Of the 14, five are vehicular bridges – Malwani bridge (Malad), Hindustan Nallah Bridge (Charkop Road in Kandivli), the bridge connecting Lokhandwala and Laxmi Nagar (Andheri West) and the one crossing Mithi River on Andheri-Kurla Road.The document tendered by BMC stated, “Vehicular traffic in the construction area shall be regulated with the help of the traffic police authority. However, pedestrian movement in the area should not be affected during the entire construction period. Hence, before starting the work, barricading, signals, warning signals etc shall be provided, in order to not affect the pedestrian movement and utilities.”Further, the demolition work for a part of the Bandra skywalk is expected to start after Diwali, for which the bids were floated in August. BMC has decided to demolish and rebuild a part of the city’s first skywalk in Bandra (East) after a third-party auditor pointed out structural defects on the structure. Owing to this, traffic on the station road leading to Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) is expected to be affected. According to BMC officials, the stretch of the bridge between Bandra (East) station and Western Express Highway will be demolished and rebuilt at the cost of around ₹16.20 crore. In 2019 during monsoon, a portion of the skywalk had collapsed, injuring a woman. Apart from the Bandra skywalk, 23 remaining skywalks in the city are also due to undergo major repairs or demolition and reconstruction, as suggested by the VJTI audit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-to-take-up-major-repairs-reconstruction-of-14-bridges-in-western-suburbs-101634837849541.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||2 of 30 firecrackers found violating noise limit: MPCB test for Diwali in Mumbai||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), along with Mumbai-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) Awaaz Foundation, on Thursday carried out noise tests on 30 varieties of commercially available firecrackers at Chembur’s RCF Ground ahead of Diwali. Of these, crackers of two makes were found to violate the Supreme Court (SC)-recommended noise limit of 125 decibels (dB). Officials as well as members of Awaaz Foundation said an improvement was seen in the manufacturing standards of crackers, as this is the first instance where a majority of those tested complied with SC norms.However, despite this, MPCB officials have urged citizens to stay away from firecrackers during the upcoming festivities. “Even if the noise levels are complying with what SC has said, the order is quite dated and the scenario in which we test the crackers is very different from how people use them. Compliant noise levels are no indication of how much air pollution they will cause,” said a regional officer with the MPCB, who was present for the exercise.A total of 14 ‘green crackers’ – bearing the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) stamp of approval – and 16 non-green crackers were tested on Thursday. Of these, one variety of non-green cracker was found to have a noise level of 130 dB, which is more than permissible limit. A non-green cracker brand was also found to be in violation of SC norms as it touched 127dB. “The remaining ones were within 100 to 125 dB, which is compliant with SC rules,” said Dr VM Motghare, joint director (air quality), MPCB.Motghare also added that MPCB has taken samples of each variety of firecracker for a chemical analysis. “We will send them to an accredited laboratory so that we can see what ingredients are there and in how much quantity. This will give us some sense on whether the manufacturing standards have improved to make these crackers less polluting,” he said.Sumaira Abdulali, director of Awaaz Foundation, expressed concerns over the chemical composition in these firecrackers. “While the green crackers used in the exercise have declared ingredients on their covers, they do not say in what quantities. Besides, they still contain extremely toxic substances such as barium nitrate and potassium nitrate, which are extremely toxic. We need better regulations that force manufacturers to be more transparent about what is going into these fireworks,” she said.MPCB will be carrying out noise monitoring exercises in 128 locations across the state this festival season on November 4 and 6. Officials also said that they will begin carrying out air pollution monitoring using mobile air quality monitors between October 28 and November 18th, as per SC guidelines, and their reports will be submitted directly to the Apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-of-30-firecrackers-found-violating-noise-limit-mpcb-test-for-diwali-in-mumbai-101634837789717.html
21-10-2021||Noida||Black paint smeared on king Mihir Bhoj’s plaque in Noida, case registered||Police have registered a case against unidentified persons for allegedly smearing black paint on a plaque of ninth-century king Mihir Bhoj in Noida’s Mamoora village in Sector 66. The plaque bore the writing ‘Gurjar Samrat Mihir Bhoj’before it was defaced.Ravindra Bhati, national vice-president of Akhil Bhartiya Gurjar Parishad, said members of the Gurjar community installed the plaque at Lane Number 7 in Noida’s Sector 66 on October 11. “The locals found the board smeared with black paint on Thursday. The act has hurt the sentiments of the Gurjar community. Anti-social elements have done this to spread communal hatred,” he said.Bhati said that he has filed a complaint at Phase 3 police station and demanded action. “We have also called a maha panchayat at Mihir Bhoj Degree College in Dadri on October 31 to discuss the issue,” he said, adding that members of the Gurjar community will launch a campaign demanding actionif the suspects are not arrested.Some people also shared photos of the defaced board on social media, following which police launched an investigation. Virendra Singh, senior sub-inspector at Phase 3 police station, said a case has been registered against unknown persons under Section 153 (wantonly giving provocation, with intent to cause riot) of the Indian Penal Code. “The plaque has been restored to its original form. We have launched a search to arrest suspects involved in the case,” he said.Tensions have been brewing in Dadri since last month after chief minister Yogi Adityanath, on September 22, unveiled Mihir Bhoj’s statue at a college in Dadri, and some people allegedly removed the word ‘Gurjar’ from the plaque. The Gurjar community has been protesting against the removal of their caste’s name from the plaque installed below the statue. The community leaders maintain that the king belonged to the Gurjar community. The Rajput community has also claimed that the ninth-century king belonged to their caste. “They are distorting history without any basis. We cannot let it happen. We have called a panchayat on this issue to fight for justice,” said Prithivi Singh, national secretary of Akhil Bharatiya Kshatriya Mahasabha.On September 28, some people smeared black paint over Adityanath’s name and that of other BJP leaders on the plaque as a mark of protest. Ramchandra Verma, secretary of Gurjar Vidya Sabha, a trust which manages the Dadri college, filed a complaint against unknown persons after the incident and 150 people were booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/black-paint-smeared-on-king-mihir-bhoj-s-plaque-in-noida-case-registered-101634837549555.html
21-10-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man booked for killing 28-year-old interior designer, on the run||Police have booked a man for allegedly robbing and killing a 28-year-old interior designer in Paramount Golf Foreste Villas in Greater Noida’s Sector Zeta 1 on Wednesday evening, officials said on Thursday.The victim -- identified as Pinky Chauhan -- lived with her father Kalu Ram Chauhan, 55, mother Maya Devi, 52, and brother Vishal Chauhan, 25, in the Greater Noida house where the crime took place.The suspect -- Arjun (whose sister was married to the victim’s cousin last year), 30 -- allegedly slit the throat of Pinky, inflicted multiple wounds on her body, and escaped with her cellphone, ₹4 lakh cash and gold jewellery. Police have detained Arjun’s father (details not shared) in the case.According to Pappu Namberdar, Pinky’s maternal uncle, the victim’s father is in the transport business in Noida; and originally from Noida’s Chhalera village, the Chauhans had shifted to their new home in Greater Noida last year.On Wednesday afternoon, Pinky’s parents had gone out shopping, and her brother was in his office. “The family had planned a pooja and a havan on Thursday. When Pinky’s parents returned home around 9pm, the main door of the house was locked from inside and they knocked on the door several times but did not get any response from Pinky,” Namberdar said, adding that the victim’s parents thought that she was sleeping.“Her parents used another set of keys they were carrying to unlock the door, and on entering the house, found Pinky’s lying in a pool of blood, with multiple wounds on her neck and body. They immediately informed the police,” he said.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that a police team is investigating the matter. “We scanned CCTV footage from nearby areas and saw the suspect -- Arjun -- entering Pinky’s house that day. Since the door had an automatic lock, it got locked from inside after the suspect left... We conducted a search and recovered the victim’s cellphone and jewellery from Arjun’s house, and detained his father. His scooter, used in the crime, has also been recovered from his house. Prima facie, it appears that he committed the crime,” Chander said.According to the police, it seems that Arjun and Pinky were known to each other.A case has been registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder) at the Surajpur police station on Thursday.One of Pinky’s cousins, Gajendra Singh Chauhan, said that the family was not aware of Arjun and Pinky’s friendship. “Pinky has three uncles and one of her cousins got married to Arjun’s sister last year. They may have been acquaintances, but we are not aware of their friendship,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-booked-for-killing-28-year-old-interior-designer-on-the-run-101634837489394.html
21-10-2021||Pune||Covid: Pune reopening with caution ahead of Diwali||PUNE: Punekars are a happy lot now that everything is reopening ahead of Diwali but they must continue to take necessary precautions such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing among other safety measures. While multiplexes and auditoriums are scheduled to reopen from Friday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has already allowed restaurants and shops to remain open till 11pm ahead of the festival of lights.So much so that since the last few days, a heavy rush can be seen at major markets across the city such as Laxmi road, Raviwar peth, Bohara Aali market, Appa Balwant chowk and Tulshibaug market. With shops open through the evening till 11’o’clock in the night, people are flocking to these marketplaces after finishing their day jobs and household chores.Nitesh Chopada, secretary, Laxmi Road Ganpati Chowk Traders’ Association, said, “We are happy that slowly and with safety measures in place, the restrictions have been eased in Pune city. Giving a boost to the economy is also important and this is a crucial period for shop-owners and traders with Diwali just round the corner. Everyone is keen on recovering the losses of the last six to eight months.”Restaurants too are seeing more footfalls as they’ve been allowed to remain open for a longer duration. Bhushan Mane, owner of a restaurant on Sinhagad road, said, “This year, we have faced huge losses due to the lockdown and it is only now that things are opening up somewhat. It is good that the timings have been extended but it is time we return to the way things were before Covid.”About Pune city reopening, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “The restrictions are being eased as per the state government guidelines and people should understand their importance. Though public places are now open, Covid safety protocol such as wearing a face mask and maintaining social distancing among other measures needs to be maintained. Each person must look at fighting Covid as his/her responsibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-pune-reopening-with-caution-ahead-of-diwali-101634837430811.html
21-10-2021||Noida||UP govt may approve city’s heliport project in a month, says Noida authority CEO||The Noida authority on Thursday said that it may start the work on the heliport project in the city in the next three to four months, if everything goes according to the plan.The Uttar Pradesh government has asked the Noida authority to give required approvals for the project’s bid document at the earliest. The development came during a meeting which was held in Lucknow, and was attended by the officials of Noida and Uttar Pradesh governments.“The finance department in Lucknow will review the project, and we will then start tendering the process to rope in an agency for the development of the project. Hopefully, the process will be completed within a month,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer (CEO) of Noida authority.After the finance department reviews the bid document and the detailed project report of the heliport project, the Uttar Pradesh government will give a nod to the Noida authority to float a tender for the same. The city authority has decided to develop this aviation hub comprising a heliport on the public-private-partnership (PPP) model.“Since it is a PPP project, the finance department needs to review the project and then clear it,” Maheshwari added.After the tender is issued, the Noida authority will select one developer who will apply for the development of the project. The process of finalising the developer may take two to three months, provided at least three developers apply for the project during the tendering.The heliport project will have one helipad and four aprons which will be large enough to park 10 helicopters at a time. One hangar and one terminal building will be established, and the car parking will have a space to house at least 50 four wheelers.The agency interested in establishing the heliport will have to invest ₹43 crore according to the estimates provided by the Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES). The project cost includes passenger terminal building, air traffic control tower, hangar, earthwork, pavement work, cost of equipment and other supporting services, said the officials.Popular among VIPs, corporate houses, senior executives, foreign delegates and those dealing with medical emergencies, the catchment area will be broadened to connect the popular tourist towns within a 400-km distance, they added.The Noida authority hopes that this project will attract private players because of Jewar airport in Noida and Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) in Delhi; and several other big-ticket projects such as Film City, multi-modal logistics hub and international transport hub in Greater Noida are also scheduled to come up in Gautam Budh Nagar soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-govt-may-approve-city-s-heliport-project-in-a-month-says-noida-authority-ceo-101634837429252.html
21-10-2021||Other||Farmers dismantle structure at UP Gate, say stir against agri laws to continue||Farmers protesting near the UP Gate underpass on the Ghaziabad Delhi border dismantled a temporary structure on Thursday after the Supreme Court remarked during the day that farmers had the right to protest but roads cannot be blocked indefinitely. Farmer leaders clarified that dismantling the temporary structure did not mean they have withdrawn from the protest site and reiterated that their agitation against the three farm laws will continue. Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader and spokesperson from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha at the UP Gate protest site said, “We have dismantled the old tent near the UP Gate underpass to show that it is the barricades, which have been put in place by the police, that is blocking the highway. We were going to Delhi, but police put up barricades. So, we just camped there. After the tents were dismantled, there were rumours that the farmers are withdrawing from the protest site but that is not the case.” The tent referred to is one of the oldest temporary structure that was erected ever since farmers arrived at the UP Gate last November to press their demand for the rollback of the three farm laws. The structure was used as a centre to address the media and for holding farmer meetings. Farmers have also put up tents and dias on the Ghaziabad Delhi carriageway since last December, besides occupying the UP Gate underpass. “As regards the dais and tents on the carriageway, there is still enough space for commuters. There is no hindrance from our side. We will continue with our demand for a new law on the minimum support price and the rollback of the three farm laws,” said Bajwa. Rakesh Tikait, national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union also denied that farmers have blocked the highway. “It is not the farmers who have blocked the highway but the police, which has blocked the highway with barricades. We will go to the Parliament in Delhi.. We will sit in front of the house where the laws were made...” Tikait told reporters at UP-Gate.Following the dismantling of the temporary structure, there were speculations that the farmers were leaving the UP-Gate site. The Bharatiya Kisan Union tweeted that it is a rumour that the Ghazipur border (UP-Gate) is being vacated and it is totally baseless. “We are trying to show that it is the Delhi police which have blocked the road and not the farmers,” said the tweet. On Thursday, the Supreme Court said farmers had the right to protest, but roads cannot be blocked indefinitely.The court was hearing a petition filed by a Noida resident, urging that the protesters be removed from the roads of the National Capital Region as the agitation led to delays in daily commute.The court also granted three weeks’ time to the farmer unions to file their response and listed the next date of hearing on December 7.“Ultimately some solution has to be found. We are not averse to their right to protest even when a legal challenge is pending, but roads cannot be blocked,” the court said.Farmers have been camping along the borders of Delhi for about a year and the UP Gate was one of the important protest site. The site was heavily barricaded by the police after large scale violence broke out during the tractor parade taken out by the farmers from different borders to Delhi on the occasion of Republic Day this year. Many farmers’ leaders, including Tikait, were booked by the Delhi police and named in FIRs but the farmers maintained that it was “outsiders” who resorted to violence, not them.A response from the Delhi police in connection with Thursday’s development is awaited.“Ghaziabad police have not put up any barricades on the highway. As regards the dismantling of structure, the farmers have already tweeted about that,” said Abhay Kumar Mishra, circle officer of Indirapuram in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-dismantle-structure-at-up-gate-say-stir-against-agri-laws-to-continue-101634837369495.html
21-10-2021||Noida||G Noida: Man who shot self after killing woman who refused sexual advances dies||A 25-year-old man who had allegedly killed a 23-year-old woman after she refused his advances, and then shot himself on a busy road in Greater Noida’s Dadri on Tuesday, died in a hospital in Delhi on Wednesday night, police said on Thursday.The suspect -- identified as Bunty -- lived in Gautampuri colony, and the woman lived with her family in Railway Road colony -- both localities in Dadri.The woman’s father, a complainant in the case, said that the victim and her younger sister on Tuesday had gone to buy some medicines from a nearby market. “When they were returning home, Bunty reached there on a motorcycle and intercepted them. He then got into an argument with my elder daughter over some issue. He suddenly took out a pistol and shot her dead. He then fired another shot and injured himself,” he said.The complainant said his younger daughter raised an alarm and locals came to their rescue. A police team also reached the spot and took the injured victim and the suspect to a nearby hospital, where the woman was declared dead.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, had earlier said that the suspect and the victim were known to each other for some years. “They lived in the same colony till recently, and later they shifted to other places.”Pradeep Tripathi, station house officer (SHO), Dadri police station, said, “Bunty was later admitted to the district hospital in Noida, and then referred to a hospital in Delhi, where he died on Wednesday night.”“Primary investigation shows the woman had rejected his advances which led to the incident,” Tripathi had earlier said.A case was registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder) at the Dadri police station on Tuesday. “Since the victim and the suspect have died, the case will now be closed,” said Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/g-noida-man-who-shot-self-after-killing-woman-who-refused-sexual-advances-dies-101634837251363.html
21-10-2021||Other||Lakhimpur boat mishap leaves one dead, two missing||A woman died while two persons were reported missing when a boat overturned in Chauka River near Nauvapurwa village in Lakhimpur tehsil. Sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Lakhimpur Dr Arun Kumar Singh said, “15 other occupants of the boat were rescued.” Rescue teams and villagers rushed to the spot and rescued 15 people, however, an elderly woman dead, and two are missing. Meanwhile, the eight persons reported missing in the Taliaghat boat mishap on Wednesday evening could not be traced on Thursday. “On Thursday, a boat carrying 18 persons was crossing the Chauka River on their way to Nauvapurwa when it overturned,” SDM Singh said. According to official reports, two persons have been killed so far in boat-related accidents, one Sundar Lal (65) in Dhaurahra tehsil and an elderly woman in Lakhimpur tehsil. Kheri district magistrate Dr Arvind Kumar Chaurasiya said that three NDRF teams, one SDRF team, and two flood PAC teams with steamers and other rescue equipment have been deployed to locate and rescue the flood-hit people. DM said that the rescue teams have so far rescued 1222 people and taken them to safer places. DM said that a massive discharge of 5,33,000 cusec of water into Sharda River from the Banbasa barrage was the cause of the flood fury in several tehsils of the district. Also, the unprecedented heavy rains in October have worsened the situation. Kheri DM assured that the administration was engaged on war footing to rescue and provide relief, and hopefully, the situation would be normal soon. Meanwhile, with no fresh heavy discharge into Sharda and Ghaghra, the water level is reported to be receding. However, the river has left behind a trail of destruction. The Sharda eroded the Mailani-Bahraich railway track between Bhira-Pallia, following which north-east railways have suspended the train movement till Oct 31 on this route. In Pallia, Nighasan and Dhaurahra tehsil, several villages have been left marooned in floodwaters. Besides paddy crops being damaged by the floodwater, the villagers are also facing cattle fodder scarcity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lakhimpur-boat-mishap-leaves-one-dead-two-missing-101634837071053.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Appoint SIT to probe allegations against Anil Deshmukh, monitor probe, state tells HC||The state government on Thursday urged the Bombay high court (HC) to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) headed by a former judge to probe the allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against former home minister Anil Deshmukh and into the report of IPS officer Rashmi Shukla on political interference in transfer and posting of police personnel and monitor the probe.The state government argued that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) director Subodh Jaiswal was part of the Maharashtra Police force till last year and therefore an impartial and unbiased probe could not be expected, hence, an SIT should be constituted for an independent probe.The state government has filed a petition after CBI started issuing summons to chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey for inquiry in connection with the case. The state submitted that both Kunte and Pandey were top officers and could not be expected to depose against themselves.The division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal was also informed by senior counsel Darius Khambata, who represented the state government, that the investigation by the CBI in the April 21 first information report (FIR) could not be impartial due to various reasons.Referring to the summons being issued by CBI to Kunte and Pandey, Khambata said that it was surprising that the two were being called for questioning when they were not even part of the Police Establishment Board (PEB) while Singh and Jaiswal who was part of the PEB at the relevant time was not issued any summons.Khambata then referred to the scope and intent of the preliminary probe ordered by the HC on April 5 and submitted that the HC had clearly stated that for the probe to be impartial it should be done by a third party and hence directed the CBI to do so. Khambata then added that the CBI could not have done an impartial probe as the director was part of the Maharashtra police force and as he could also become part of the probe, there was no chance of him being questioned by his juniors. “Inherently and functionally there will be a bias if the head of an organisation is investigating a subject matter of probe,” said Khambata.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta opposed the petition and accused the state of trying to scuttle and delay the investigation though three previous attempts failed. “The state government has no role to play in the investigations but it is only trying to help the accused,” said Mehta, seeking a week to file a reply to the petition.Mehta added that if Pandey felt that he was a potential accused and could be affected by the probe he should file a separate petition rather than tagging himself with the petition filed by the state.However, senior advocate Navroz Seerwai for Pandey objected to the suggestion and said that Pandey and Jaiswal had a history of falling out, hence wanted to have a say in the petition filed by the state, against the CBI.The bench then permitted the CBI to file a reply within a week and posted the petition for hearing of the petition to Thursday, October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/appoint-sit-to-probe-allegations-against-anil-deshmukh-monitor-probe-state-tells-hc-101634837069276.html
21-10-2021||Pune||Lohegaon airport closure impacts footfall at Kolhapur, Shirdi airports||PUNE Passenger footfall has gone up at Shirdi and Kolhapur airports, with Lohegaon airport in Pune closed for 14 days. “Daily footfall is reaching 500 people and we have 12 flights operating from Kolhapur (six arrival and six departure). There is a slight impact of footfall due to Pune’s airport closure,” said Kamal Kumar Kataria, Kolhapur airport director.The official handle of Kolhapur airport tweeted: “KolhapurAirport is glad to share that KLH Apt is steadily moving towards normalcy. Today highest ever single day figure load post second wave at Kolhapur Airport - Total 592 PAXs (306ARR+286DEP) travelled on 10 flights”. Swapnil Kadam who travelled to Kolhapur to catch a flight said, “Tickets were not available from Mumbai to Chennai, but when I tried Kolhapur, I managed to get the a ticket.”“Although the journey cost increased, I managed to reach Chennai as per me schedule,” said Prassana Pawar, a resident of Balewadi.Deepak Kapoor, vice-chairman and MD of Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC) tweeted: “We got total 8 flights (4 arr n 4 dep) today at Shirdi Airport. All with no hitches. With the support of our esteemed passengers ann increasing vaccinations, we aim to aggressively pursue the target of 32 flights (16 arrivals and 16 deps) as achieved pre-Covid in Feb 2020”.Shirdi airport which faced visibility problems after starting on October 10, has been functioning since October 17.The airport is getting a huge crowd from Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad, people visiting the Shirdi Sai Baba.Ravi Gore from Hadapsar is another flyer who opted for Kolhapur instead of Mumbai, after his flight from Pune got cancelled.“I had a wedding to attend in Kolhapur and going back to Mumbai does not make a sense so I fly out from Kolhapur to Chennai. However, tickets rates were more than Mumbai.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lohegaon-airport-closure-impacts-footfall-at-kolhapur-shirdi-airports-101634837009282.html
21-10-2021||Noida||GB Nagar agri dept speeds up bio-decomposer distribution to curb stubble burning||The agriculture department in Gautam Budh Nagar has sped up distribution of bottles of bio-decomposers among the farmers to minimise stubble burning and curb air pollution in the district, officials said on Thursday.Officials said they have distributed 3,510 vials of bio-decomposers which can be mixed with water and spread over the stubble to decompose it.“We are planning to distribute more vials of bio-decomposers to suppress the stubble burning in the district. We are holding meetings with the farmers in different villages to encourage them to use these decomposers. Each vial of decomposer can be mixed with 200 litres of water to form a solution, which can then be sprayed over stubble covering at least one acre land. The solution turns stubble into manure within three to four weeks,” said Vinod Bhargav, deputy director (acting), agriculture department in Gautam Budh Nagar.Bhargav also said that farmers often burn stubble to meet up for a small window post-harvest, where they have to catch up for the winter crops. “Three major crops are cultivated after paddy. Of those three, mustard and potato are cut a little early, and wheat in November. Harvesting starts a little earlier in Gautam Budh Nagar because basmati rice is planted here. Due to this, most of the farmers get some time to use the decomposers,” Bhargav added.However, many farmers think otherwise and complain that often they do not get enough time to meet the “small window” between winter and summer crops as the decomposition process is slow.“Decomposers take almost one month to turn the stubble into manure. This is a very slow process, and everyone doesn’t always harvest early and cultivate late. Paddy is often harvested till late October and wheat cultivation begins around the first week of November,” said Umesh Kumar, a farmer based in Dadri.Meanwhile, the district agriculture department has imposed fine on seven farmers so far, for burning stubble in Jewar and Dadri.“Two incidents of stubble burning in Jewar and two in Dadri have been reported so far. A fine of ₹27,500 was imposed and a complaint was filed against the seven farmers,” Bhargav said.The agriculture department in Uttar Pradesh -- which is responsible for checking stubble burning across the state, and act against the violating farmers, said that a penalty of ₹2,500 is imposed against stubble burning in a farm up to two acres, ₹5,000 for four acres, and ₹15,000 for more than four acres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-agri-dept-speeds-up-bio-decomposer-distribution-to-curb-stubble-burning-101634836949378.html
21-10-2021||Other||Women must take up leadership roles, never imagined entering politics: Harsimrat||Ludhiana Calling for more women to take up leadership roles, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) Bathinda MP and former Union cabinet minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal pitched strongly for the fairer sex to take up decision-making roles as well during her visit to Ludhiana on Thursday. “We ought to have more women in leadership roles where they make policy decisions. The attitude of society towards women has not changed, despite that, women have done so well taking every hurdle as a challenge,” she said, at one of the five all-women programmes she attended. First, she interacted with middle-class women from Sukhmani Sahab Sewa Society, and then met doctors, businesswomen and entrepreneurs. A mock Parliament session had her as the chief guest next, followed by attendance at a Karwa Chauth fair organised by Laxmi Ladies Club. She also met around 100 businesswomen at a FICCIFLO (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Ladies Organisation) event. In a candid mood, Harsimrat spoke her heart out and recounted how she never imagined she could become a politician until 2009 Lok Sabha Polls. “I was doing Sewa at a gurdwara when news was dropped on to me by villagers that the party has announced me as its candidate for 2009 Lok Sabha polls from Bathinda. I never thought I will come this far. It has been a challenging, yet fruitful journey,” she said, giving all credit to her family for her achievements. Having been brought up in the liberal environs of Delhi, going to Loreto Convent School and then studying textile design at South Delhi Polytechnic for Women, she said before her marriage to Sukhbir Singh Badal in 1991, the understanding was that he would not enter politics. “Within two years, he did enter politics and I wanted to stop him. Look where we both are now and it has been a beautiful journey,” she said. ‘SAFETY, PATRIARCHAL SOCIETY A CHALLENGE’Safety of women, almost negligible representation of women in industry and politics, and patriarchal society were issues that businesswomen flagged as concerns. The women added that there were no women-centric schemes. Harsimrat assured them that if voted to power, she will assure women get adequate representation and rights. She added that she herself is a classic example of men never understanding women and their power.“In 2009, I went to villages in the state and was aghast to find that there were no toilets in many of these. Until a woman comes into decision-making and policy making, the struggle will continue,” she said. Taking a dig at the state-led Congress government and the former CM Amarinder Singh, she claimed that Amarinder did not even come out of his ‘Palace’. “What will he understand about problems of the public?” she questioned.On AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, she said, “Kejriwal was never visible all this time despite being in the opposition. Everyone knows the so called Mohalla clinics he boasts of in Delhi are in such poor shape,” she said. EX-PUNJAB MINISTER LOSES iPHONEFormer Punjab cabinet minister Maheshinder Singh Grewal reported that his iPhone was stolen by pickpockets during the event at Gurmail Medical Hall on the College Road, where Harsimrat was the chief guest. “It’s a serious lapse that pickpockets thrive at such a place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/women-must-take-up-leadership-roles-never-imagined-entering-politics-harsimrat-101634836890706.html
21-10-2021||Noida||Entry of heavy vehicles barred in Kaushambi township, state buses exempted||Now, heavy vehicles will not be allowed to ply in Kaushambi, barring the buses of the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC), as part of the comprehensive traffic management plan that has been chalked out for the township, keeping in line with the Supreme Court directives. In connection with the traffic plan, officials of the state transport utility have placed a request for 200 CNG buses with the headquarters. Kaushambi Apartment Residents’ Welfare Association (Karwa)--the apex body of Kaushambi RWAs--filed several petitions before the National Green Tribunal since 2015 and finally moved the Supreme Court in October 2020 for the resolution of several pollution-related issues affecting the township. The high rises in Kaushambi shelter about 20,000 residents. The township is just adjacent to Delhi’s Anand Vihar border. The ISBTs of Anand Vihar and Kaushambi are just opposite to the township; the Sahibabad Site IV Industrial area is also in the vicinity. The apex court, in its order on March 24, directed officials of both Uttar Pradesh and Delhi to take up a “unified approach” to solve pollution related issues. “Height barriers have been put up at two locations, which now bar entry of heavy vehicles on the Link Road leading from Dabur crossing to Maharajpur border (Kaushambi-Anand Vihar). We are also broadening one of our ISBT entry/exit gates, which hinders the traffic coming from Delhi. All this will help ease the traffic condition in the area,” said A K Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC. One of the height barriers has been put up at Dabur crossing while the other has been put up at the Saur Urja Marg behind the ISBT Kaushambi. “With the height barriers in place, no heavy vehicle will be able to ply from Dabur crossing. There are height barriers near the EDM Mall (another Ghaziabad-Delhi border area) and also near the ISBT Kaushambi, where vehicles from Delhi enter Ghaziabad. These height barriers will ensure Kaushambi remains out of bounds for heavy vehicles,” said V K Mittal, president of Karwa. “If heavy vehicles have to enter Ghaziabad, they can enter from UP Gate or Apsara Border (near Seemapuri). The different agencies are taking measures for construction of U-turns and even multi-level parking, which will help resolve pollution-related issues further,” said Mittal. With the height barriers in place, the state buses coming to Kaushambi are using the Saur Urja Marg for entering the ISBT Kaushambi from the rear gate. The Saur Urja Marg runs through the Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area, but several residential localities-- Kadkad Model, Jhandapur and Maharajpur--are situated adjacent to the road. “The traffic plan for Kaushambi has paved the way for movement of buses through our localities, posing a risk to residents. We will move the court with regard to this matter,” said Sushil Raghav, an environmentalist and a resident of Kadkad Model. The traffic management plan for Kaushambi details different measures, which are expected to free the township of pollution-related issues. One of the points highlighted in the plan is operation of CNG buses instead of diesel buses. Currently, the UPSRTC operates about 550 buses to different destinations from ISBT Kaushambi and another 50 buses from ISBT Anand Vihar across the border. “Of these 600 odd buses, we have about 125 buses which run on CNG. Since it is not advisable to convert diesel buses to CNG, we have placed a demand with our headquarters for 200 new CNG buses. Since it is a policy decision, it requires intervention from the state government,” said Singh. Officials familiar with the development said that funding would be a major issue in procuring the new CNG buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/entry-of-heavy-vehicles-barred-in-kaushambi-township-state-buses-exempted-101634836889407.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 70% of target population covered with first Covid-19 vaccine dose||Amid the country crossing the one billion mark for Covid-19 vaccine doses, Maharashtra has administered over 93 million doses till date. Maharashtra tops the charts, in terms of fully vaccinated population, although it holds the second position when it comes to total number of doses administered, after Uttar Pradesh.Of the targeted population of 91.5 million, 70% or 64,913,396 people, have been given the first dose, while 29,065,236 beneficiaries in the state are fully vaccinated in the state. The state has administered 93,978,623 doses till date, according to the data on Co-Win portal. On Thursday, the state administered 516,519 doses. Maharashtra’s public health minister Rajesh Tope said that covering the rest of the targeted population will be a challenge as they require counselling sessions to convince them for vaccination. To facilitated speedy vaccination, the state government is starting a drive to cover all college students in the age group of 18-25 by organising sessions on college campuses. The drive will be undertaken for 10 days, from October 25 to November 3.“We are proud to be a major contributor in the achievement of one-billion mark. We are lagging behind UP in overall inoculation because the northern state was provided with more doses on the basis of their population,’ the minister said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra recorded 1,573 fresh infections, pushing the count to 6,598,218 on Thursday. The tally of active cases further reduced to 24,292 as 2,968 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.It also saw 39 casualties and the total number of fatalities stood at 139,925. Pune reported the highest deaths of 12 people. Of them, five in the city and seven in the rural parts of the district.The gradual drop in the daily caseload over the past five months has enabled the state to relax Covid-19 pandemic curbs. Cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes are set to reopen in Maharashtra after six months with 50% capacity from Friday. From October 4, schools in urban areas were reopened for Class 8 to 12 and rural areas for classes 5 to 7. All religious places reopened on October 7. The state has also extended timings of all restaurants and eateries till 12am midnight and other establishments till 11 pm in the backdrop of the upcoming Diwali festival.However, there is a word of caution by the authorities, warning of a potential spike in cases after Diwali due to relaxations and festivals. “We have removed most of the curbs and now Diwali is approaching. People are coming out freely, meetings and gatherings are happening, they are also visiting religious places. In this backdrop to keep the spread under control, vaccination is the only solution,” the health minister said.He also informed that they have not found any new variant in the state as of now. “We have been sending positive samples for genome sequencing for detection of any new variant if any but no new variant has found as of now, which is a big sigh of relief for all of us. If we follow all the Covid protocols and speed up vaccination, then we will be in a situation where we can live with the virus,” he added.To cover over three million college students, the state is set to launch a drive named ‘Mission Yuva Swasth’. Under this drive, it has planned to organise vaccination sessions at most of the college campuses and cover all the students who are not vaccinated or partially vaccinated and are eligible for the second dose. The state health department has sought a list of colleges and educational institutions including private universities, autonomous institutes and medical colleges with vaccination details of the students and where vaccination sessions can be organized.Tope said that the department has assured them to provide the list in the next two-three days, based on which the entire drive will be planned and executed. “There are around 5,000 institutions, covering over 3.2 million to 3.3 million students, which come under higher and technical education department, that we are looking to cover till November 3,” he said.Mumbai reported 427 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 753,233 It also recorded five fatalities taking the toll to 16,197.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 123,700 samples and had a positivity rate of 1.27%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stands at 10.73%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-70-of-target-population-covered-with-first-covid-19-vaccine-dose-101634836832957.html
21-10-2021||Pune||Pune railway station platform ticket hiked to ₹30, temporarily||PUNE In a bid to avoid unwanted people at the Pune railway station premises during the Diwali festive period, the Pune railway division has decided to increase the platform ticket on a temporary basis from ₹10 to ₹30. This hike will be applicable between October 25 and November 10. Currently, there are Covid safety protocols and restrictions in place at the railway station. Only passengers with confirmed tickets are allowed to enter the railway station, while wearing a face mask and maintaining social distancing is also monitored by the railways. “It is a temporary hike e railways to avoid unwanted people and crowding on the railway platforms. So those who want to get into the Pune railway station for a drop or pick-up of any passenger needs to buy a platform ticket for ₹30 between October 25 and November 10,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. While passengers are unhappy with this decision, Ruchi Kher a regular passenger said, “I have to drop my grandparents to board a train to Delhi on November 1 from Pune railway station. So now we have to buy this hiked platform ticket which is not right. In fact railways should increase their crowd management arrangements.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-railway-station-platform-ticket-hiked-to-rs-30-temporarily-101634836769343.html
21-10-2021||Pune||Dacoits loot valuables worth ₹2.50 crore from Bank of Maharashtra in Shirur||PUNE Five dacoits robbed the Bank of Maharashtra branch at Pimparkhed in Shirur taluka of Pune district on Thursday where they looted jewellery and cash valued at over ₹2.5 crore. Since the incident took place in broad daylight, it was captured on social media and later the video went viral on different digital platforms.According to Pune rural SP Abhinav Deshmukh, there were between 10 and 15 customers inside the Bank of Maharashtra branch at Pimparkhed in Shirur taluka around 1.30 pm. Around that time, five suspects came to the bank in a four-wheeler. One of them stopped at the bank door to keep a watch while the other four threatened the manager, the cashier with a gun and took the locker keys from them. They then filled the gunny bag with cash and gold and within a few minutes fled in the car.“The robbery took place within five minutes. The alarm system was not activated. The lockers were opened with the keys taken from the cashier and manager. The five robbers were wearing masks and the place where the robbery took place is a remote area. They sped away in the four-wheeler and the police are tracing the car. There was not much security presence at the bank, ” Deshmukh said.The police reached the spot within a short interval. The vehicle from which the robbers came to the bank had the emblem of ‘Press’ written on it, eyewitnesses said. The vehicle sped away in the direction of Junnar.Police inspector Suresh Kumar Raut who was the first to reach the spot said, “We have been carrying out nakabandi operations on the borders of Pune and Ahmednagar districts as we suspect that the accused might slip out of the district. Also, information has been relayed across all the headquarters in the state and police stations of Ahmednagar and Pune. We have also appealed to the citizens to provide us with information. Besides, a sniffer dog squad was brought to the scene of the crime and special crack teams have been formed and deployed to hunt down the dacoits,” he said. Raut further added the police were also analysing the total value of the stolen valuables and cash during the robbery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dacoits-loot-valuables-worth-rs-2-50-crore-from-bank-of-maharashtra-in-shirur-101634836529176.html
21-10-2021||Pune||Water pipeline burst on Airport road near Nagpur Chawl||PUNE A water pipeline burst on Airport road near Nagpur Chawl on Thursday afternoon which created panic among the residents.The Bhama Askhed water project’s 800mm water pipeline is passing through this road. The pipeline burst near the post office at Nagpur Chawl and the area was flooded.Citizens contacted the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials who reached the spot in the evening and undertook pipeline repairing work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/water-pipeline-burst-on-airport-road-near-nagpur-chawl-101634836169101.html
21-10-2021||Pune||Public toilet on Katraj-Satara road is in a sorry state||PUNE A public toilet for women located near Morebaug bus stand on Katraj-Satara road in a sorry state and need of immediate repairs for the past eighteen months.According to the women commuters, it is becoming difficult and inconvenient for them during transit from the area.Post reopening of the city, the area has been witnessing a rise in commuting population especially the womenfolk who require the toilet facility daily.According to area residents, the toilet block located in ward number 40 has seen theft related to tube lights, bulbs, windows, basin while the commode has been destroyed by the vandals. The doors have also been uprooted from inside. The regional municipal office immediately lodged a complaint with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police, but no action has been reported. There is no caretaker for the block which has further ruined the toilet block structure.Aruna Kenjale, a social worker, said “ There are three toilets inside the main toilet block. Two of them are non-functional while the third one, which is a paid facility, has also closed since Covid-19 began.”“The women commuters and even our area residents are finding it difficult as the toilet block is in complete disarray. We have requested the PMC to appoint a caretaker and carry out complete repairs to the entire structure,” she said.Kanhayyalal Lakhanin, inchare, Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar ward office, said “ The present toilet block was built by the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited’s (PMPML’s) bus rapid transit (BRT) department for the women commuters. Since there is no place of residence, the caretakers are either not taking up the job or are going away to new jobs at places where they can stay. Some unidentified vandals destroyed the toilet and we repaired it. But it was vandalised again and currently, we have informed our seniors about this issue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/public-toilet-on-katraj-satara-road-is-in-a-sorry-state-101634836049060.html
21-10-2021||Other||Group clash averted; Cong leader runs for cover||Ludhiana A spat that could have turned ugly was averted after cops intervened outside the police commissioner’s office at the mini-secretariat on Wednesday about noon. Congress leader Gursimran Singh Mand, who was accompanying a right-wing Hindu leader Amit Arora, had to run for their lives after a faction of Sikh hardliners chased them after an argument. The hardliners, who were there to seek action against Arora for hurting the religious sentiments of Sikhs, also had Nihangs in their group. Arora is facing a case of hurting religious sentiments. While running for cover, Mand slipped and fell near the treasury office with his turban also being removed in the chaos. The cops deployed at the spot intervened before the scene could escalate. Sikh leader Taranjit Singh Nimana said deliberate attempts were made to hurt religious sentiments of Sikhs. “We went to the police commissioner’s office to seek early arrest of self-proclaimed Hindu leader Anil Arora for using objectionable language against the first Sikh Guru. Arora and Mand instigated us,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/group-clash-averted-cong-leader-runs-for-cover-101634835869199.html
21-10-2021||Pune||Balbharati-Paud link road: Members of expert committee allege PMC has violated HC directives||PUNE The members of the expert committee constituted by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on the proposed Balbharati-Paud link road have alleged that the civic body has violated directives of the high court (HC) by deciding to go ahead with the project. PMC had in 2019 appointed experts to carry out an environmental impact and traffic-related study. The road, originally proposed 34 years ago by the PMC, has been marked in the development plan and the standing committee has given its nod for the same. However, after opposition from environmentalists, the Bombay High Court had directed, the PMC to carry out scientific traffic study and environmental impact study for the Balbharati-Paud link road project. The PMC appointed two consultants for carrying out the respective studies and preparing a report for the proposed Balbharati road to identify and evaluate the need, utility, benefits and impacts of the road with cost-benefit analysis. The consultants carried out the studies and submitted the reports to the PMC in which they have recommended that the proposed road is needed and should be built. Prashant Inamdar, along with Major Gen Sudhir Jatar (Retd), were the two external members of the expert committee for the project. Both members objected to the PMC’s move and wrote a letter to Pune municipal commissioner as well as the state government. Inamdar said, “Decision to implement the Balbharati-Paud link road project by bypassing the expert committee members’ views is the violation of Bombay High Court’s direction. I and Maj Gen (retd) SCN Jatar were the independent members on the committee which was appointed by the PMC. We had given our comments but have not received a reply. Even the PMC officials did not comment.” The 2.1-kilometre road will be built between Kelewadi junction on Paud road till Balbharati office on Senapati Bapat road. While the earlier budget for the road, which will require flattening of the hill, was ₹24 crore in 2002, the PMC officials said, the cost needs to be revised now heavily. “This road means a permanent devastating impact of the Balbharti road project on hill. This road would be useful only for a small portion of the Law College road traffic and a major portion of existing traffic on Law College road would continue to use Law College road even if the new road gets constructed,” he said. Meanwhile, the PMC has already initiated the process for appointing a project management consultant for the project for pre-tender and post-tender activities. The consultant has submitted his report and asked the PMC to go ahead. The road project, first proposed in 1987, met with opposition from environmental activists who expressed a threat to the hills. Maj Gen Jatar (redt), had previously filed the public interest litigation (PIL), which the high court, later dismissed. While disposing of our public interest litigation, the high court asked PMC to conduct an environmental impact and a traffic-related study. Commuters travelling from Senapati Bapat road towards Paud road have to pass through Law college road, which often witnesses traffic chaos during peak hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/balbharatipaud-link-road-members-of-expert-committee-allege-pmc-has-violated-hc-directives-101634835629126.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Roster scam: Railway vigilance team visits Prayagraj Junction||A six-member vigilance team of Indian Railways (IR) probing the roster scam and other irregularities conducted inquiry at Prayagraj Junction railway station on Thursday. The probe is being carried out following a recent complaint sent to the Prime Minister’s Office, Union Ministry of Railways and Railway Vigilance officials in Delhi regarding some TTE’s withdrawing salary and allowances while sitting at home through fake signatures on the roster. A senior official of North Central Railways (NCR) requesting anonymity said the team took possession of the duty roster as well as checked the attendance of railway employees, including that of TTEs. The team conducted random checking at platform number 6 and recorded statements of about eight to ten TTEs and other railway employees, the official added.Three days ago, the vigilance team had seized some documents from Agra and Jhansi railway stations. After recording the statement there, the vigilance team arrived at Prayagraj Junction and conducted their probe on Wednesday and Thursday. After scrutinizing the documents, the team checked several trains. Along with checking the duty of railway workers, including TTE, the duty points of railway workers posted at the junction was also checked. Earlier on Tuesday also, the vigilance team had visited the station in connection with their probe of fake TTE. The team had recorded statements of three TTEs. PRO of Prayagraj division of NCR Amit Singh said the vigilance team had conducted an inquiry at the junction on Thursday and many employees were questioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/roster-scam-railway-vigilance-team-visits-prayagraj-junction-101634835088738.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Municipal Corporation serves notices on 40,000 houses for tax recovery||The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) has issued notices to around 40,000 houses for recovery of house tax, said officials. These houses haven’t paid taxes for the last five years and have pending dues of more than ₹50,000. Such house owners have been given 15 days to either deposit the tax or face attachment of properties, the official said.There are over 7 lakh houses within the municipal limits of which only 2.55 lakh houses have paid tax this year so far. The new house tax software has detected the non-tax paying houses for LMC in every zone.Additional municipal commissioner Pankaj Singh has directed the Lucknow Municipal Corporation tax inspectors to stick notice on the houses of defaulters.Most of the defaulters are in zone 6 that covers areas of old city like Chowk, Thakurganj, Dubagga, Chaupatian, Khadra etc.Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “Lucknow Municipal Corporation will continue to mount pressure on house tax defaulters. Everyone should understand that out of the tax amount collected the LMC carries out development works in the city. So they must pay their taxes on time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-municipal-corporation-serves-notices-on-40-000-houses-for-tax-recovery-101634834549203.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||SGPGIMS to relax RTPCR test requirement for fully vaccinated outpatients||The Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) is all set to relax the requirement of a mandatory negative RTPCR test report for outpatients if they are fully vaccinated against Covid.However, mandatory RTPCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test for patients and attendants before admission in wards will stay.“Those (OPD) patients and attendants who have taken both doses of vaccines will not be required to carry the RTPCR report from next week,” said professor Gaurav Agarwal, chief medical superintendent of SGPGIMS. The official announcement is expected next week.“After considering the views of experts from other super specialty institutes and our own experts, the institute will permit the entry of fully vaccinated patients in OPD without RTPCR report,” he said.Currently, SGPGIMS is the only hospital in Lucknow where even fully vaccinated patients and attendants need RTPCR report for consulting doctors, who watch patients from a distance.The institute officials say that unlike other hospitals, the patients at SGPGIMS come from far away states like West Bengal, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Nepal.So, considering the risk from patients from other states, there was a requirement for RTPCR test, they have pointed out.“We are also considering to give relaxation to local patients for RTPCR or TruNat test if they are not vaccinated,” Professor Gaurav Agarwal said.Nevertheless, all outpatients and their attendants are still supposed to maintain Covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing masks and maintaining social distance while visiting the OPD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sgpgims-to-relax-rtpcr-test-requirement-for-fully-vaccinated-outpatients-101634834308938.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||UP aims to reach vax coverage of 13 cr doses by end of week: CM||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday felicitated health workers and said that the defeat of the coronavirus was certain now as India had achieved the milestone of administering 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in the country. He visited a Covid vaccination centre set up at the Saraswati Shishu Mandir in Lucknow to meet health care workers and beneficiaries. The CM felicitated some of the beneficiaries who took the second dose of the vaccine and also health workers. Yogi Adityanath said the UP government was aiming to cross the landmark of administering over 13 crore doses of Covid vaccine by the end of the week.“Till date, Uttar Pradesh has administered 12.25 crore vaccine doses. Today, we will inoculate a lot of people and by this week, we will touch the landmark of 13 crore vaccination doses,” he said while addressing media.“India has conducted the fastest and the safest vaccination programme in the world. The entire nation is grateful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, under whose guidance, we have been able to achieve this landmark,” he added.The CM also expressed his sympathies for the families who lost their loved ones to Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-aims-to-reach-vax-coverage-of-13-cr-doses-by-end-of-week-cm-101634834128958.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Illegal phone tapping case: Do you intend to arraign Rashmi Shukla as accused, HC asks Mumbai Police||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked Mumbai Police to clarify whether it intends to arraign senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla and former commissioner of the state intelligence department (SID) as accused in the illegal phone tapping case registered by it, and also submit a report on the progress of the probe. Meanwhile, the state has not extended its statement of no coercive action including arrest against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, which it had made in May.A division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing Shukla’s petition which sought quashing of the first information report (FIR) lodged against her by the cyber cell of the Mumbai Police in March under the Official Secrets Act, 1923, was informed by senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani that the FIR was based on a complaint by the SID against unidentified persons for allegedly tapping phones and leaking confidential documents. Jethmalani submitted that while the FIR did not name Shukla as an accused, the state government was using it as a means of pressurising her.While referring to the affidavit filed by the state government in response to the petition, Jethmalani stressed that though the government reiterated that Shukla was not an accused in the case, they were acting arbitrarily and with a vendetta against her. Jethmalani further submitted that the FIR was an attempt by the state to derail the investigation in the Anil Deshmukh case and avoid judicial and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or Enforcement Directorate (ED) scrutiny of the documents that had been submitted by Shukla to her superior.The alleged tapping of phones had taken place when Shukla was heading the SID which came in for sharp criticism by the current ruling coalition wherein they have alleged that Shukla had tapped phones without proper permissions from the relevant authorities.Jethmalani submitted that Shukla had maintained secrecy and only did her duty as per the mandate given to her. While seeking quashing of the FIR, Jethmalani suggested that as the CBI was already investigating the corruption case it should be allowed to investigate the alleged phone tapping case as well and sought transfer of the probe from Mumbai Police to the central agency.However, senior advocate Darius Khambata appearing for the state government said that Shukla was not named in the FIR and as the Mumbai Police probe was only pertaining to data leak and not whether the phone tapping was authorised or not, hence the petition should be dismissed.After hearing the arguments, the bench sought to know from Mumbai Police whether it intended to arraign Shukla as an accused as it was not inclined to waste judicial time in hearing the petition. The bench then granted liberty to Shukla to approach the court if she was named as an accused, to which the state government assured that it would not take any coercive action against Shukla till the next hearing on Monday, October 25.Meanwhile, the state government did not continue its May 24 assurance that no coercive action, including arrest, would be taken against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh who is seeking quashing of an FIR lodged against him by Thane Police under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/illegal-phone-tapping-case-do-you-intend-to-arraign-rashmi-shukla-as-accused-hc-asks-mumbai-police-101634833588867.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||UP minister defends fuel price hike, says 95% people don’t need petrol||KANPUR UP minister for sports and youth welfare, Upendra Tiwari, dismissed criticism over the rising fuel prices, claiming that 95% people did not need diesel and petrol.“Today, there are just a handful of people who travel in four-wheel vehicles and use petrol. At present, 95% people don’t need petrol,” Tiwari told media persons at Vikas Bhavan in Orai (Jalaun). He was in the district to hold a review meeting with officials.He also argued that fuel prices had not really risen in real terms when the per capita income now was compared with that in 2014, referring to the year when a BJP-led government first came to power at the Centre.The minister’s remarks came when petrol prices had crossed ₹100 per litre in most parts of the country, and diesel hovered close to that mark.He claimed that the opposition didn’t have any real issue to attack the government.“You see the data before 2014. What is the per capita income after the formation of the Modi and the Yogi governments?” he said, referring to the BJP-led governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh. “Today, the per capita income is double,” he claimed. He also referred to free schooling and the coronavirus vaccination offered by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-minister-defends-fuel-price-hike-says-95-people-don-t-need-petrol-101634833468834.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||15% water cuts in Mumbai on October 26, 27, zero supply in some areas: BMC||The city’s water supply will be affected for 24-hour on October 26 and 27 owing to repair works proposed to be undertaken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) at its water pumping station at Bhandup and Pise Panjrapur Complexes.According to BMC officials, maintenance work is scheduled for the replacement of two 1,200mm diameter sluice valves at the 1910 MLD pumping station of Bhandup Complex and replacement work of Stage 3 pump set at Pise Panjrapur Complex will also be carried out. Apart from this, the BMC also plans to attend leakages on 1,800mm diameter water mains.Owing to this, on October 26 between 10am and 10pm there will be a 15% water cut in all of the city and suburbs.In addition to this, there are also works proposed to arrest leakages at Powai on October 26 and 27 from 10am to 10 next morning. It will result in a complete stoppage of the water supply in areas under K/East, S, G/North and H/East wards of the BMC.Chakala, Prakash Wadi, Ramkrishna Mandir Road, JB Nagar, Bagarkha Road, Kanti Nagar in K East ward, Dharavi Main Road, Ganesh Temple Road in G North and Bandra Terminal in H/East Ward would go without water supply.Meanwhile, owing to this, the BMC has appealed to citizens to cooperate by storing sufficient water stock in their house for October 26 an 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15-water-cuts-in-mumbai-on-october-26-27-zero-supply-in-some-areas-bmc-101634833348712.html
21-10-2021||Other||{Guru Ramdas Parkash Purb} Golden Temple sees largest footfall in 18 months||Amritsar The Golden Temple saw the largest footfall of devotees since the last week of March 2020 on Thursday, he eve of Parkash Purb (birth anniversary) of Amritsar’s founder and fourth Sikh master Guru Ramdas. For the past 18 months, as the Covid-19 pandemic ravaged the world, the holiest Sikh shrine had also seen a record dip in footfall. Golden Temple authorities claim a footfall of 1.5 lakh was seen on Thursday. Before the pandemic, 1 lakh devotees visited the holiest shrine shrine on weekdays, and 1.5 lakh on weekends and special occasions.With the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) making elaborate arrangements to mark the occasion, serpentine queues of devotees seeking darshan of sanctum sanctorum were seen. “We are seeing this great rush of devotees after a long time. As per our assessment, around 1.5 lakh devotees paid obeisance at the Sri Darbar Sahib and participated in the grand Nagar kirtan (religious procession) around the walled city with the old zeal and enthusiasm. The footfall will only increase on Friday and the weekend,” said Gurinder Singh, chief manager of Golden Temple, adding the flower decoration and lighting remained major draws that pulled in visitors. Before the pandemic struck, the average collection of offerings was around ₹23 lakh a day. Due to the lockdown in the first wave, the collection dipped to between ₹10,000 and ₹15,000 a day. However, the footfall did not see such a major dip during the second wave.The Nagar Kirtan began with ardas (prayers) from the Akal Takht amid the resonance of ‘Nagaras’, slogans of Sat Sri Akal and Narsinghas (a traditional trumpet). Punjab Police presented a guard of honour to the Sri Guru Granth Sahib at the plaza outside Sri Darbar Sahib. Flowers were also showered by an aircraft during the Nagar Kirtan. The sangat paid homage by serving langar, with the procession proceeding through the road connecting the old gates of Amritsar city, with the sangat receiving it at many places. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur greeted the sangat of the world and encouraged them to follow the teachings of the guru. “The life of Guru Ramdas Ji is a guide to humanity in all respects and his contribution to Sikh faith is incomparable. The Sangat must take inspiration from the teachings of the fourth Guru and inculcate a sense of humility, service and remembering God,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guru-ramdas-parkash-purb-golden-temple-sees-largest-footfall-in-18-months-101634833051640.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||BJP always engrossed in festival-like celebrations, even during calamity, says Akhilesh||LUCKNOW The BJP was always engrossed in “festival-like celebrations”, even during a calamity like the coronavirus pandemic that claimed several lives, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said on Thursday, as events were organised to mark 100 crore Covid vaccine doses in the country.“The public is suffering from inflation, corruption. The BJP will not mind celebrating these too...but this time people will celebrate in 2022 by bidding farewell to the BJP in Uttar Pradesh,” said Akhilesh in a statement issued by the party. He also said the BJP only knows politics of lies and deceit, and alleged that it had done nothing for the people, who were facing problems due to inflation and corruption.“The BJP is a strange party. Whatever may be the calamity and even in deaths, the BJP is always engrossed in festival-like celebrations. It’s a habit that even in a calamity, it finds the opportunity for celebrations,” Yadav said in a statement issued here.“The BJP celebrated record vaccinations. When people were dying due to the coronavirus, the BJP was celebrating with beating of ‘thalis’ (plates),” he said.The former UP chief minister said the Kushinagar international airport was his government’s plan, “but the BJP itself has started celebrating it by taking credit for it.”Similarly, the Purvanchal Expressway was given by the Samajwadi Party government to the state, but the BJP has no problem in “celebrating” this too, he added. “The truth is that the BJP only knows the politics of lies and deceit. In its entire tenure in Uttar Pradesh and at the Centre, it has not done anything in public interest,” alleged Akhilesh.“This time, people will celebrate in 2022 by bidding farewell to the BJP in UP. The Samajwadi Party will the form the government in UP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-always-engrossed-in-festival-like-celebrations-even-during-calamity-says-akhilesh-101634832869000.html
21-10-2021||Other||Bihar Assembly celebration: Kovind lauds Prohibition, recalls his ties to state||PATNAPresident Ram Nath Kovind Thursday said the centenary celebration of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building was a historic occasion for more than one reason, as it had also coincided with India crossing the 100-crore mark in Covid-19 vaccine jabs.“Bihar is known for scripting history and today history has been scripted,” he said, while speaking at the centenary celebrations of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building, which had hosted the inaugural session of the joint Bihar and Orissa Provincial Council on February 7, 1921.Responding to chief minister Nitish Kumar’s remarks about his old Bihar ties since his stint as Governor, from where he was straightaway elevated to the country’s top position, Kovind said visiting Bihar always felt like homecoming and that he felt proud on being referred to as Bihari, as after the first President Dr Rajendra Prasad and former President Zakir Hussain, he had got the responsibility to take the rich legacy forward and got a lot of love and respect from the people.“It is not just my ties as the Governor of Bihar, but also because of the Buddhist connection and the contributions I made for the Vipassana Centre. I am happy that Nitish Kumar, the longest serving CM of Bihar since independence, took it forward. Buddha got enlightenment here. Bihar is a land of knowledge and world’s first democracy. There have always been special blessings on me in the land of Buddha, Mahavir and Guru Gobind Singh,” he said.Conveying his greetings to the people in the festive season, he said how Chhath was now being worshipped from Nawada to New Jersey and from Begusarai to Boston. “This is a proof that the industrious people associated with the culture of Bihar have made their place on the world stage,” he said.Referring to the ban on sale and consumption of liquor in Bihar since 2016, the President cited Governor S P Sinha’s address to the Legislative Assembly of 1921, when the latter said there should be a definite policy to prohibit the production and sale of intoxicating substances or liquor.“In our Constitution, the duty of the State to improve public health is clearly mentioned under the ‘Directive Principles of State Policy’. This includes prohibition of consumption of liquor and substances injurious to health. By giving this a status of law, the Bihar assembly has taken a very good step in the interest of public health and society, especially in the favour of women from weaker sections,” Kovind said.He also laid the foundation stone for Shatabdi Smriti Stambh and planted a sapling of Mahabodhi Tree in the premises of Bihar Legislative Assembly on the occasion. “The enthusiastic presence of present as well as former members of Bihar legislature is a good example of the healthy parliamentary tradition developed in our country,” he added.The President also hailed the personalities from Bihar played in the Constituent Assembly — Dr Sachchidananda Sinha, Dr Rajendra Prasad, Anugrah Narayan Sinha, Shri Krishna Sinha, Maharaja Kameshwar Singh of Darbhanga, Shyam Nandan Sahay, Satyanarayan Sinha, Babu Jagjivan Ram, among others.Kovind also lauded the state’s resolves, cited by Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha in his address, to keep Bihar free of social problems. Earlier, Sinha thanked the President for sparing time for the function and narrated the rich legacy of the Bihar Legislature and the way it had evolved over the years. “It has been witness to landmark legislations and scholarly debates. Now it has adapted to the digital era with online questions & answers and webcasting,” the Speaker said.In his speech, CM Kumar said, “We consider the President as our very own and we are happy to find him in our midst. I want that all government employees should attend the Vipassana Centre, and the government will grant 15-day leave to them. I am confident the Speaker will also try to bring the Prime Minister to this centenary function,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-assembly-celebration-kovind-lauds-prohibition-recalls-his-ties-to-state-101634832568895.html
21-10-2021||Other||PU starts admission process for 22 PG vocational courses||PATNA: Patna University (PU) has commenced online process for taking admission in post-graduation vocational courses in the new academic session beginning from 2021, officials said on Thursday.As per notification issued by PU, applications have been invited in 22 post-graduation (PG) diploma and degree courses including master in personnel management and industrial relations, M.Ed, LLM, master in rural studies, master in business administration, social work, computer application, women studies, journalism and mass communication, library and information science. On the other hand, PG diploma programmes include clinical psychology, applied criminology, human resources and development and yoga sciences.The varsity has also invited applications for three undergraduate degree programmes including bachelor of library and information science, bachelor of fine arts and LLB.The last date of filling online application form in November 20.Anil Kumar, dean of students’ welfare, said, “Admission in PG vocational courses will be done through entrance exam, date of which will be announced next month. Appearing candidates are also eligible to fill admission form but they will have to submit their final marksheet before preparation of merit list.”“Soon we will start admission in PG regular courses. The varsity is likely to announce final results of UG regular courses by end of this week. Following the result announcement, admission process for MSc, MCom and MA will commence”, he added.PU takes admission in PG regular courses on the basis of marks obtained by the candidates in their bachelor’s degree instead of conducting entrance exam.UG spot round to begin on October 26PU is gearing up to fill vacant 787 seats in various undergraduate courses through spot round from October 26.Kumar said vacancy of seats will be displayed at respective colleges and candidates interested in admission can directly contact the college for their admission.Spot round will take place at Patna Science college on October 26, BN College on October 27, Patna College on October 28, Vanijya Mahavidyalaya on October 29 and Magadh Mahila College on October 30.PU has filled 3504 seats out of 4291 through three rounds of admission counselling conducted in September and early-October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pu-starts-admission-process-for-22-pg-vocational-courses-101634832508963.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Most cinema halls may not open on Day 1, may wait for Akshay Kumar starrer on Nov 5||Although allowed to reopen from Friday, most cinema hall owners are unlikely to open on day one, amid concerns over feasibility of business owing to crowding restrictions and fear among people. The Maharashtra government on October 13 issued guidelines to reopen cinema halls, theatres and auditoriums from October 22, by allowing them to operate at 50% of their capacity. The guidelines allow access only to people with Covid vaccination certificate or with Aarogya Setu app showing their ‘safe status’. Maharashtra has 532 multiplexes and 470 single-screen theatres. Of the 532, 259 multiplexes and 65 single-screen theatres are in Mumbai. Citing huge losses that the owners suffered during the pandemic while paying electricity charges, salary of employees and property tax, cinema owners’ associations have stated that the recovery could take time. Associations believe that complete reopening of cinemas will be possible when films with big stars are scheduled to be released. “Owners have been facing multiple challenges. They are paying a minimum electricity bill of ₹11,000 per week, salaries and property taxes. We are hopeful that the Maharashtra government will provide some relief. We are expecting cinemas to open completely on November 5 with an Akshay Kumar movie. Nearly 30% of the cinema halls are not likely to open at all due to the losses incurred,” said Nitin Datar, president, Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India. Cinema owners have to adhere to a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP). Associations, however, said sticking to the SOP would be difficult and crowding could be an issue outside the canteen area and near the booking offices. “The SOP will be difficult to follow as no food is allowed inside the cinema halls and people will have to step outside during the interval. This would result in crowding outside the canteen premises. Advance booking is difficult for single-screen theatres and can result in crowding. We should be given police protection,” added Datar. “We are ready to reopen cinema halls. A detailed discussion and a plan to implement coronavirus protocols have been devised by our managing director Arun Nahar. We have received 18 advance bookings for movies and will begin screenings from Friday. In order to ensure proper ventilation, windows in all our halls will be kept open. We will wait and watch,” said Manoj Desai, executive director, G7 Multiplex and Maratha Mandir Cinema. Mumbai also has commercial theatres which hold shows of Marathi plays. Of the 40 theatres, only four are expected to resume from tomorrow. “We are waiting for the Maharashtra government to allow viewers at 100% capacity,” said Mangesh Kadam, spokesperson, Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Natya Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-most-cinema-halls-may-not-open-on-day-1-may-wait-for-akshay-kumar-starrer-on-nov-5-101634832450247.html
21-10-2021||Ranchi||BSL calls off interview as locals protest recruitment of ‘outsiders’||The management of Bokaro Steel Limited (BSL) cancelled the final interview of shortlisted candidates for the post of attendant-cum-technician trainees after locals staged protest against the recruitment exercise on Thursday. The local youth, under the banner of the Displaced Apprentices Association (VAS), blocked the main gates of BSL headquarter, Human Resource Department (HRD) and SAIL Refractories Unit headquarters, obstructing the exercise to begin. The protesters claimed that majority of the candidates had come from Rajasthan and other states on receiving call for the interview by BSL management, after their selection in written examination.“The locals have given their land for establishing these plants. We have also completed the plant training (Apprentice). For the last few years, we have been demanding jobs from BSL management who had imparted us training on the assurance of jobs. However, despite repeated requests, we are not being provided jobs. We will not allow outsiders to get these jobs,” said Ahmed Hussain of VAS. Agitators scuffled with BSL security guards when they tried to stop the eligible candidates at SRU Headquarter, Sector 4, where the interview was to be held. Senior police officials arrived at the plant and brought the situation under control. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan, said the Thursday interview was cancelled due to the protest. “Today’s interview could not be held. The situation is being reviewed for further course of action,” he said. The development comes at a time when demand for giving priority to locals in all kinds of recruitments has been gaining ground across the state, with active support from political class. The Hemant Soren government recently made a law to reserve 75% jobs and monthly salary of up to ₹40,000 even in the private sector for locals. The state government has also tweaked the state employment policy for grade 3 and 4 jobs in the government sector, giving priority to locals. Sources said SAIL-BSL had come out with vacancies of 49 attendant-cum-technician trainees under the special recruitment drive. Over 100 candidates who were selected in the written examination had been called for an interview from October 21 to 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bsl-calls-off-interview-as-locals-protest-recruitment-of-outsiders-101634832448873.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||The story behind the Rs100 Ambulance story during Covid times in Navi Mumbai||Four years ago, when I had to rush my mother to a hospital, we were fleeced by an ambulance service. I had decided then that the ambulance service sector required reform, even if it meant at the hyperlocal level. The Covid-19 pandemic and my own infection this April was the push I needed to turn this thought into action. Dipping into my savings, I bought an ambulance for ₹16.5 lakh. This was not enough, of course. A wheelchair, oxygen cylinders and PPE kits, among other things had to be purchased. That was an additional expense of around ₹50,000. An experienced ambulance pilot joined a few days later. At the end of June 2021, combining the power of zero experience and maximum enthusiasm, I launched the ‘100 Rupees Ambulance’ service in Navi Mumbai. The premise was simple: charge ₹100 for a one-way trip to the hospital or back. At the time of writing, the service has completed 77 trips in three months, transporting more than 30 patients across Navi Mumbai. The experience so far has been both humbling and rewarding. One patient, who had to undergo a major surgery, was picked up at Ulwe and dropped at a hospital 28km away in Kalwa. He paid just ₹100. In these 77 trips the ‘100rsambulance’ has covered more than 1,800km; an average of around 23km per trip. The city has showered us with blessings, good wishes and priceless memories. I have had the fortune of accompanying patients on many occasions and felt their pain, and when they recovered, joined their celebrations. On most occasions, the families and the patients need only a firm hand holding them through the crisis, someone who was ready to listen and offer help. I am just glad that it was me and my team. One of my fondest memories involves a 22-year-old engineering student who was detected with cancer, and had to travel 14km each way from Ulwe to Sanpada for radiation therapy. His father was offered a discounted deal of ₹7,000 for a return trip by a local ambulance service. In short, he would have had to incur ₹91,000 for the 13-day treatment. Unable to afford this, his father decided to take him in a small cargo vehicle. Just before he did that, he wrote to us. I went to their house with the ambulance and chauffeur and ensured that his son was transported to the radiation facility at Sanpada. Instead of spending ₹91,000, the family paid just ₹2,600 for the 26 trips. I will never forget how the father, with tears in his eyes, held my hands in gratitude – an experience that left me speechless.Several individuals reached out to me extending financial and other support. I have politely refused. Many people ask me how I can afford to pay upward of ₹30,000 a month to run this service. My response? I am blessed with a great family – wife, daughter, mother and sister — who support me, and a job that pays me well. We have also been helping other ambulance services in the city sharing their numbers with patients for calls we cannot attend either due to being booked or due to our inability to provide services across cities. I have two learnings to share from this incredible journey. Don’t keep contemplating. Just do what you believe in and you will see that things fall in place. And the other being, don’t wait for others to help you. Help yourself first and then see how others rush to help you.The ‘100rsambulance’ currently operates only in Navi Mumbai, Monday to Saturday, 10 am to 10 pm. Call 9820770021 or visit www.100rsambulance.com. Social media: @100rsambulance on both Twitter and Instagram||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/the-story-behind-the-rs100-ambulance-story-during-covid-times-in-navi-mumbai-101634832208677.html
21-10-2021||Other||5 more from Bihar dead in Nainital landslide||BETTIAHFive more migrant workers from West Champaran have died in the October 18 landslide in Uttarakhand’s Nainital, taking the toll from the Bihar district in the tragedy to eight, officials said on Thursday.Dhiraj Singh Garbiyal, Nainital’s district magistrate (DM), confirmed the recovery of their bodies from Jutiya village in Ramgarh block of Nainital district.On October 19, bodies of three migrant workers from West Champaran were recovered at Mukteshwar near Nainital town. “As per information available with us, nine people from West Champaran were living in a house that collapsed. While identification of five bodies have been established, search for three others is underway,” said the DM, adding that one of the occupants, identified as Rajan Sah, survived the tragedy. “Efforts are on to send the bodies to their native villages. However, we are facing huge challenges owing to inundation in the area,” Garbiyal said. “Family members of some of the deceased have already reached Jutiya village. We are persuading them to cremate the bodies at the place of the incident as there is a risk of decomposition of bodies,” said an official who wished not to be identified. Meanwhile, Bihar’s tourism minister Narayan Prasad has written to Nainital DM, requesting to send the bodies of the deceased at the earliest. The five deceased have been identified as Dhodha Yadav (40), Sandeep Kumar (20), Ajay Kumar (19), Dhamu Mukhiya (35) and Anil Choudhary, all residents of villages in Bairiya block of West Champaran. “A sum of ₹4 lakh will be given to the next of kin of each of the deceased as compensation,” said the Nainital DM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-more-from-bihar-dead-in-nainital-landslide-101634832028731.html
21-10-2021||Other||Over 200 people taken ill after attending feast||PATNA: In an incident of suspected food poisoning, over 200 people fell ill after consuming fish and rice at a feast in Bihar’s Sheohar district on Wednesday, said officials. Subdivisional officer (SDO) Ishtiyaq Ali Ansari said villagers fell ill after eating fish curry and rice served at a feast organised by mukhia candidate of Tazpur panchayat. They complained of abdominal pain, diarrhoea and vomiting, said Ansari. The SDO said most of the affected persons are undergoing treatment at the district hospital. “There were over 500 people, including children in the party. We had fish, rice and sweets at the feast. As soon as we reached home, we developed diarrhoea and our condition deteriorated,” said Bindeshwar Das, 60, a resident of Tazpur. Another resident, Radheshyam Manjhi, said he started vomiting two hours after having the meal.District magistrate Sajjan Rajsekhar said, “Around 100 people were treated in the hospital for some kind of food contamination. The situation is under control now. No one is seriously ill. Suspecting a case of food poisoning, police have collected food samples to be sent for examination.” A nine-member medical team was sent to the village to assess the situation on Thursday. So far, no action has been taken against the mukhia aspirant, identified as Ajay Kumar Singh. This is the second major incident of people falling ill after consuming food at a feast in the last 24 hours. On October 19, a 10-year-old boy died and 40 others were hospitalized due to food poisoning in Muzaffarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-200-people-taken-ill-after-attending-feast-101634831849899.html
21-10-2021||Other||Thieves tow away HDFC ATM with ₹20 lakh in Patna||PATNAUnable to break an HDFC ATM in Patna, thieves uprooted it and fled with the machine on Wednesday/Thursday night, police said. The incident occurred at Ishapur locality, barely 200 metres from Phulwarisharif police station of Patna town. Footage obtained by police from a CCTV camera installed in a nearby house shows four to five persons alighting from a vehicle, a Scorpio, around 1.13 am and towing away the ATM at 1.38 am. The accused had destroyed the CCTV cameras inside the ATM, police said, adding that the machine, which worked till 11.17 pm, contained ₹20 lakh in cash. An eyewitness, Mohammad Arif, said the suspects had their faces covered with towels. He alleged that two special auxillary police jawans on a patrol car neither chased them nor opened fire. Ashok Mishra, superintendent of police (Patna West), said the bank administration did not inform the police about the incident even though the ATM security system might have raised an alarm on the bank`s internal network following tampering with the machine. Three suspects were detained for questioning, the SP said. “We have filed a complaint for theft of ₹20 lakh stolen and considerable damage to the ATM,” said Raju Kumar, regional representative of Finance Software System, which runs the kiosk. He said they were facing difficulties in getting footage of the CCTV camera installed at the kiosk to ascertain the identity of the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thieves-tow-away-hdfc-atm-with-rs-20-lakh-in-patna-101634831848688.html
21-10-2021||Patna||Few takers for first jab, Bihar may revise vaccination target||Bihar may have to revise its vaccination target when it got the first indication that there were few takers for the first jab during a mega vaccination camp on October 18. Second dose vaccine seekers (7,14,234) were almost double the first (3,61,987), as 10,76,221 shots were administered to beneficiaries at the mega camp on Monday. This was the first time that the trend of vaccination at a mega camp had reversed, with beneficiaries for the second dose far outnumbering the first, when 35% of the state’s target population is yet to take their first jab, said an official of the state health department. It is clearly an indication that either its estimated 73.44 million adult population is inflated, or a sizeable chunk has migrated outside the state. The state health department had initiated a door-to-door survey of households Tuesday to get an exact count of the vaccination target population in Bihar. The government hopes to collate the survey data by next week, he added. Interestingly, only 10% vaccines available in the state were used at Monday’s mega camp, as against an average 70%-80% utilisation at mega vaccination camps earlier. The state had administered the country’s highest 33,39,879 doses on September 17 and 30,40,836 doses on October 2, the officer quoted above said. “The high coverage of second dose as compared to the first, and low utilisation of vaccines at the mega camp are pointers to the fact that there are few takers for the first dose now, despite an estimated 35% adult population being completely unvaccinated,” said the officer. This, the officer said, pointed to two possibilities. “Either our adult target population of 73.44 million, derived by estimating the population based on Census 2011, is exaggerated, or there has been heavy outmigration from Bihar. In either case, we will have to revise our vaccination target. However, we want to be doubly sure before we do that,” the officer quoted above said. State’s nodal officer for vaccination and executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, Sanjay Kumar Singh, said the department would wait for the findings of the mega survey, before arriving at any decision. “We are getting a household survey done based on voter list of ongoing panchayat elections in the state, to trace and persuade the eligible adult population take their Covid-19 jab. This will give us a count of the adult people unvaccinated in the state,” said Sanjay Kumar Singh, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, and also the state’s nodal officer for vaccination. “We will leave no stone unturned to reach out to the last unvaccinated adult person to facilitate the jab. We are even sending our vaccinators and vaccination mobilisers to clusters where people are either hesitant or not fully unvaccinated, to convince them to take the shot,” added Singh. The state has no credible data on migration, making it difficult to estimate the exact number of Bihari migrants across India. There are, however, some estimates which show that nearly 50% of Bihari households are affected by migration. As per rough estimates, around 40 lakh migrants returned to Bihar in the midst of the national lockdown last year arising out of the pandemic and are expected to have gone back to work outside the state. Of these, 18 lakh benefitted directly as the state government transferred ₹1,000 as humanitarian relief into the bank account of every migrant who returned to the state or was stranded outside last year, said another officer who did not wished to be named. Bihar had done an audit of its Covid-19 deaths and revised it on June 9, adding 3,951 uncounted deaths since the outbreak of the pandemic in the state in March last year. The cumulative fatalities had then gone up to 9,375. The state’s Covid-19 toll was 9,661 as on Tuesday. India Thursday achieved a milestone, having administered 1 billion vaccination doses to beneficiaries. Bihar had administered 63.87 million doses, as of Thursday (7pm). The state’s second dose vaccination coverage is 15,655,172 as against 48,216,521 first dose achievement, as per the CoWIN portal. The state has set a target to vaccinate most of its target population by December 31. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/few-takers-for-first-jab-bihar-may-revise-vaccination-target-101634831790424.html
21-10-2021||Other||Bihar panchayat polls: Lack of power, infra hit biometric verification||PATNAThe biometric system introduced in the ongoing panchayat polls in Bihar for verification of voters has been hit by lack of power and electricity infrastructure at polling stations, creating obstructions in checking voters’ details electronically, say officials of the State Election Commission (SEC).On Wednesday, when the fourth phase of polls were held, the state poll panel directed district magistrates and other officials concerned to ensure that all polling stations have sockets and charging points fully functional so that polling staff do not face problems in charging their tabs for verifying voters, officials said.The issue, along with law and order incidents, was discussed by state election commissioner Dr Deepak Prasad at a recent review meeting DMs and senior police officers.“There have been complaints by polling officials about tabs getting discharged after six to seven hours on the polling day due to absence of charging points at many polling stations. This is causing problems for running the MIS (management information system). So, all DMs have been directed to coordinate with power department officials and put sockets and ensure power supply at all polling stations,” said a senior SEC official. SEC secretary Mukesh Kumar Sinha said DMs have been instructed to take necessary steps to address the issue. Sources said Broadcast Engineering Consultants India Limited ( BECIL), a public sector undertaking which is implementing the biometric system of voters’ verification, provides tabs to polling officials based on the number of polling stations in each phase. Like, in the fourth phase, there were 11,318 polling stations for which equal number of tabs were made available, officials said. “Tabs are given fully charged but due to heavy use of data, the battery gets drained and needs recharging,” said another SEC official. Total number of polling stations for the 11-phase panchayat polls is 1,13,891 while the total number polling station buildings is 73,736.‘No victory processions’The SEC has also directed DMs and senior police officers to put a blanket ban on victory processions by candidates after results for the fourth phase, which concluded yesterday, are announced. The directive says all winning candidates will have to give an undertaking that they would not organise any victory rally and in case of any incident, the candidate would be entirely responsible. Police have been asked to seize any arms, including licensed ones, brandished by candidates or their supporters. “Though the polls have been peaceful so far, there have been stray incidents of violence,” said the SEC secretary.Seven more rounds of polls are due in next two months to fill up a total 2.55 lakh posts in panchayats and local bodies. The poll end on December 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-panchayat-polls-lack-of-power-infra-hit-biometric-verification-101634831789038.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport’s T1 sees 94,000 passengers in a week; to shift operations of a few IndiGo domestic flights from T2 to T1||A week after Mumbai airport officials were forced to prepone the resumption of flight operations from the city’s Terminal 1 (T1) due to excessive footfalls at Terminal 2 (T2), it saw the movement of 94,716 passengers in seven days.In the first week of operations at T1, 46,187 passengers arrived and 48,529 passengers departed between October 13 and October 20. The terminal, which has four low-cost airlines operating, saw 730 flights being operated during the same week.Mumbai airport’s T1 had resumed operations from March 10, 2021, after remaining shut for nearly a year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, owing to the continuous decline in air travel, Covid-19 norms and dip in passenger footfall due to the second wave of the pandemic, CSMIA had reconsolidated all domestic passenger flights operating via terminal 2 (T2). However, due to increased travel demand and footfall of passengers at T2, airport officials re-commenced operations for GoAir, Air Asia, TruJet and Star Air from T1.Moreover, with the steady rise in the number of passengers choosing to travel by air and with the festive season around the corner, IndiGo flights too will start operating out of T1 from October 31. To further smoothen passenger transit, all IndiGo flights with subset series 6E 5200 to 6E 5399 will operate from T1.“The first week of T1 resuming operations saw passenger traffic with 57,382 passengers on weekdays and 37,334 weekends,” said the airport spokesperson.Airport officials said that New Delhi, Goa and Bengaluru destinations contributed to the highest passenger traffic of which 19%, 29% and 20% respectively (from T1) during the week.“CSMIA will be seeing an upward trajectory of IndiGo flights operating out of T1 from October 31st with subset series 6E 5200 to 6E 5399 (as on date), to further smoothen passenger transit,” the spokesperson added.CSMIA, the world’s busiest single crossover runway airport, saw 91,904 travellers transiting through the airport in a single day (October 17), a record since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the world.On the same day, over 15,960 passengers travelled through T1 with 7,690 departing passengers and 8,270 passengers arriving. “On this day, CSMIA’s Terminal 1 catered to a total of 114 domestic flights whereas T2 catered to a total of 494 flights of which 415 were domestic and 79 flights on international routes,” CSMIA spokesperson added.The last (pre-Covid) per day passenger record was seen in January 2020 when CSMIA handled a total of 138,999 passengers (domestic as well as international). Mumbai airport handled a total of 2,144,125 passengers and 17,292 flights (domestic and international passengers and flight included) in March 2020 after which the pandemic hit the sector and the country at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-s-t1-sees-94-000-passengers-in-a-week-to-shift-operations-of-a-few-indigo-domestic-flights-from-t2-to-t1-101634831728607.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||2 teenage boys feared drowned after going for a swim at Mumbra Retibunder||Two teenagers who had gone for a swim at Mumbra Retibunder with their friends are feared to have drowned in water. Despite the search operation going on every day since Tuesday from morning till evening, their bodies could not be found till evening.According to Mumbra police, the duo has been identified as Sagar Gaikwad (13) and Saksham Ingle (14). The police said that inquiries into the matter were initiated on Tuesday after their parents registered Missing Persons Reports, saying that they had left their residences on Monday but never returned. Both the boys stay in the same locality in Parsik, Mumbra.“We checked CCTV footage in and around their locality and saw them heading towards the Retibunder with two of their friends, Harshal Gade (14) and Shahbaz Sheikh (12). A further analysis of the footage showed that while Harshal and Shahbaz came back home in the evening, the other two did not,” an officer with the Mumbra Police said.The police then made inquiries with Harshal and Shahbaz, and after much coaxing, the two boys opened up and confessed that all four of them had gone for a swim at the Retibunder on Monday afternoon. During this time, Sagar and Saksham got swept away in the waves. Scared of how their parents might react, Harshal and Shahbaz ran back home and chose to keep the incident a secret, officers said.“Based on the information received from Harshal and Shahbaz, we immediately contacted the Thane Municipal Corporation and sought assistance for a search operation at Retibunder. Teams from the Regional Disaster Management Cell as well as the Thane Disaster Response Force were rushed to the spot,” the officer said.However, till late Thursday evening, there was no sign of Sagar and Saksham.Meanwhile, the body of an unidentified male in his 30s washed ashore at the Ganesh immersion point of the Retibunder on Thursday morning and was taken into custody by the Mumbra police. In another unrelated incident, one more dead body was also found in a brook in Narayan Nagar, Diva, and handed over to the Shil Diaghar police. Inquiries are under way to try and identify both the bodies, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-teenage-boys-feared-drowned-after-going-for-a-swim-at-mumbra-retibunder-101634830775798.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||KDMC chief tells civic officials to repair roads in Kalyan, Dombivli before Diwali||After numerous complaints recorded on the toll-free number for potholes in Kalyan-Dombivli, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) commissioner, Vijay Suryavanshi, has asked the civic officials to repair the roads before Diwali without delay. Suryavanshi has also asked the city engineer to blacklist the contractors failing to do the work on time or doing shoddy work.The toll free number was introduced by the civic body on October 8 following which a total of 296 complaints were raised from different parts of the city by the citizens. As per the civic body, some of the complaints also included roads belonging to the Public Works Department (PWD), Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) region.“There are several repeated complaints of a single road we received through the toll free number. When we sorted out all of them, we could figure out that there are complaints regarding 48 roads in Kalyan-Dombivli. We have informed the respective authority of the road also to take up the work immediately,” said Sapna Koli, city engineer, KDMC.The road near the Shreeram Chowk in Kalyan (E) that falls on the vital Pune Link Road has patches with potholes releasing dust throughout the day.“The condition of this road is the same every year. We have been complaining to the ward officer to repair it but nothing is permanent. Now, since it has stopped raining, dust is released in the air, making it suffocating as well as a distraction for motorists,” said Anand Patil, a 39-year-old motorist who takes the stretch.“We could actually begin the pothole repair work in Kalyan-Dombivli after October 15 since it stopped raining. The civic body chief has asked to focus on repairing all the major roads in the city. In case the contractor fails to do the work or there is shoddy work, he will be blacklisted,” added Koli.Meanwhile, the KDMC chief also asked to call for a meeting with the contractors in the coming days and appeal to them to increase the manpower in order to repair the roads with priority and no delay.The toll free number on which citizens can complain is 1800 233 0045.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kdmc-chief-tells-civic-officials-to-repair-roads-in-kalyan-dombivli-before-diwali-101634830049128.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Residential colleges in Mumbai in dilemma about reopening without hostel facilities||As attendance remained low on day two of reopening of campuses on Thursday, colleges are hoping for better numbers in the coming week. Institutes with residential facilities feel their students will only show up post Diwali holidays because at present, colleges are not allowed to make hostel facility available for students. “The government has suggested re-opening of campuses in a phased manner, so we are inviting outstation students only post Diwali break. Right now, we can’t open hostels for them at such short notice, it’ll be impossible for students to find alternative accommodation as well,” said TA Shiware, speaking for Wilson College and chairman of Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges. In the second week of October, minister for state higher and technical education Uday Samant announced reopening of colleges in a phased manner only for fully vaccinated students. In a statement made on October 13, Samant suggested that colleges should implement the physical reopening of campuses in a phased manner and should continue online classes for students who are not yet fully vaccinated. “City colleges are reopening as per government orders, but we will also have to reopen hostels. We have set up a committee to look into the possibility of reopening and suggest protocols. This committee will look into this and submit its recommendation based on all government regulations and protocols at the earliest,” said PK Shajahan, dean of academics, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS). Some city colleges, too, are chalking out a plan to ensure outstation students are not left without accommodation. “Without the government’s go-ahead, we cannot open hostels to students. For the time being, we are chalking out a plan to ensure that only final-year students are brought back to the campuses first, followed by first- and second-year students,” said the principal of a prominent city college, on condition of anonymity. He added the state government’s decision to reopen colleges at such short notice, despite promising to do so only post Diwali holidays, has upset college staff as well as students. “We will, however, have to follow government guidelines and bring back students in small batches,” he added. Most colleges wore a deserted look on day one of reopening. While undergraduate students are busy with exams, postgraduate students could not attend lectures either because they are not fully vaccinated or because they are currently attending lectures from different cities and states in the country. “Unless the government gives us permission, hostels cannot reopen at present. And without the back-up of hostels, students won’t attend colleges physically,” said Rajendra Shinde, principal of St Xavier’s College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/residential-colleges-in-mumbai-in-dilemma-about-reopening-without-hostel-facilities-101634829928450.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Deepotsav: 500 drones to draw Ramayan era scenes on Ayodhya skyline||For the first time, 500 drones will draw Ramayan era scenes on Ayodhya’s skyline during the Deepotsav celebrations that the Yogi Adityanath government will organise in the pilgrim town in November.The Deepotsav on the Diwali eve on November 3 will be the centre piece of the six-day celebrations starting on November 1 in Ayodhya. Apart from the drones, the other attractions will be 3-D holographic show, 3-D projection mapping and laser show at the majestic Ram Ki Paidi on the banks of the Saryu River. Mukesh Meshram, principal secretary, Tourism, was in Ayodhya on Thursday to review preparations for Deepotsav. The Ayodhya administration has set a target of lighting a minimum of 7.5 lakh diyas (earthen lamps) across Ayodhya. Most of them will be lit at Ram Ki Paidi, the venue of the main event. “Taking into account a margin of error, we have decided to light around 9 lakh diyas so that under any circumstances 7.5 diyas are illuminated,” said an official of the Ayodhya administration. A team from the Guinness Book of World Records will be in Ayodhya to judge the event. Around 12,000 volunteers, mostly students of Ram Manohar Lohia Awadh University, Ayodhya, have been engaged for making the lighting of the diyas successful. In 2020, the Ayodhya administration had created a new world record by lighting 6,06,569 diyas at Ram Ki Paidi ghat and other ghats of the Saryu. In 2019, the Ayodhya administration had lit 4,10,000 diyas, a record at the time. The Yogi Adityanath government has been celebrating Deepotsav in Ayodhya every year on the eve of Diwali since 2017. This Deepotsav will be the last one before the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections due early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/deepotsav-500-drones-to-draw-ramayan-era-scenes-on-ayodhya-skyline-101634829448368.html
21-10-2021||Pune||Pune-based school to face action over fee hike||PUNE After several complaints and allegations of fee hikes and denying online education by the parents, the deputy director of education on Thursday issued a notice to withdraw the registration of Aaryan World School, Warje. In an official letter, Audumbar Ukirde, deputy director of education, said that after several complaints from parents associations regarding various issues, the department has suggested taking further action in the matter. The education department conducted a separate audit of the school to look into the allegations.“Despite the orders of no fee hike, it was found in the investigation that for the academic year 2020-2021, there was a fee hike done by the school. And the Warje branch of Aaryan World School does not have an audit report as of yet and the work on the same is ongoing,” said Ukirde.The notice further added that despite several investigations at the school, the school staff failed to provide all necessary documents needed.“It was also found that for Class 9 and Class 10, the Warje branch of Aaryan World School does not have a Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) affiliation. And so appropriate action should be taken against the school,” said Ukirde.Speaking about the notice, Prashant Khande, National President for All India Parents Students And Teachers Association (AIPSTA) said that audit reports are a must for schools.“After several investigations by the education department and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) education department, it was found that the school does not have audit reports and has hiked the fee last year. There should be concrete action against such schools. Parents are facing a lot of issues because of schools overcharging fees,” said Khande.Sanjay Botre, a parent whose ward is enrolled in the school said that last year the school denied online education to the children.“Even this year, for almost two months, online education was stopped. The school wants to charge all the fees at one time instead of instalments. Many such problems have affected the students who are enrolled here,” said Botre.However, the school management has refuted all allegations made by parents and the education department. Milind Ladge, managing director, Aaryan World School refuted all allegations.“There are some parents with different motives who are behind the commotion. A few parents have not been able to pay the fee. We have submitted all documents related to the CBSE affiliation and we have received the non-objection certificate in 2017-2018 itself. With CBSE we are following up on the matter for some time now. Our legal team will look into this whole matter,” said Ladge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punebased-school-to-face-action-over-fee-hike-101634829148291.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh criticises Congress, questions Sidhu’s presence, alliance with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday responded to the criticism from the Congress party and asked them to stop talking about secularism pointing at the party’s alliance with the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra and the inclusion of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, who was previously with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).The remarks from Singh came a day after senior Congress leader Harish Rawat had criticised him for his announcement to float a new political party and his willingness for a seat-sharing agreement with the BJP.Directing his criticism at Rawat, Singh said,“Stop talking about secularism.” He also mentioned that the Congress took in Sidhu after he was with the BJP for 14 years. Further, he also mentioned a few other Congress leaders, such as Nana Patole, who was also previously with the BJP. He also noted that Pargat Singh, presently a cabinet minister, was also with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for four years.Also read | No harm for Congress: Rawat reacts to Captain's new party announcementEarlier on Tuesday, Singh had announced his party and said he is open to a seat sharing agreement with the BJP, if the farmers issue was resolved. Several Congress leaders had criticised the move, however, they also said that it would not impact their party.“And what are you doing with @ShivsenaComms in Maharashtra? Or are you saying @harishrawatcmuk Ji that it’s ok to join forces with so-called communal parties as long as it suits @INCIndia purpose. What’s this if not sheer political opportunism?,” Singh’s media advisor quoted him as saying, on Thursday evening.Further, Singh also dismissed allegations that he was helping the Akali Dal and asked “Is that why you think I’ve been fighting court cases against them for the last 10 years?.” He also said that he had won all elections for the Congress in Punjab since 2017.Also read | BJP says open for alliance with parties that put 'national interest' first, calls Amarinder Singh ‘patriotic’Continuing his tirade, Singh also commented that the Congress party has damaged its own interests in the state by not trusting him and giving the reins of the party’s state unit to Sidhu, whom he called was “unstable” and “only loyal to himself.”Last month, Singh had resigned from the state’s top post after a bitter year-long feud with Sidhu. Later, he also met with Union home minister Amit Shah after which there was buzz around his joining the BJP. However, with his announcement on Tuesday, Captain confirmed he was forming his own party, a move that has been criticised by many in the Congress camp. Notably, the BJP had reacted positively about the move and has hailed Singh as a "patriot."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-singh-criticises-congress-questions-sidhu-s-presence-alliance-with-shiv-sena-in-maharashtra-101634828343986.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Pocso case: 50-year-old gets 5-year jail term for sexually assaulting minor||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court has sentenced a 50-year-old city resident to five years imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 10-year-old girl. The court refused to show leniency to the convict observing that he was 48-year-old when at the time of the incident.The special Pocso judge Bharati Kale said such incidents curtail the liberty of the girl child and need to be curbed.According to the special public prosecutor, SS Joshi, the incident took place at around 4.30pm on August 15, 2018. The girl was playing in an open space when the accused dragged her to a nearby autorickshaw and sexually assaulted her. Her uncle had confronted the accused and later approached the police.Joshi had argued that the prosecution has duly proved its case. She pointed out that the girl had categorically deposed that the accused had committed a sexual assault upon her and she was seen with the accused by her maternal uncle. He added that there was no reason for her to falsely implicate the accused.The accused through his counsel Anil Jadhav argued that the victim’s uncle is a social worker and he was falsely implicated. There was a quarrel over the parking of vehicles between them and the prosecution had not examined any independent witness.The statement of the victim was recorded belatedly, said the defence lawyer and added that the friends of the victims who were playing with her are not examined. He also pointed out that there were contradictions and variations in the evidence of witnesses and therefore the accused was entitled to acquittal.The judge observed that in such cases, witnesses, especially young children are reluctant to come forward and give statements and therefore the defence taken by the accused that despite several children playing nobody had come ahead, cannot be accepted. Also, the accused claimed that there was a parking dispute, however, he could not bring on record any material supporting it. “I find it highly improbable that for the reason of the parking dispute, the future of a 10-year-girl will be put at stake,” said the court while rejecting his claim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pocso-case-50-year-old-gets-5-year-jail-term-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-101634828548768.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai records zero Covid deaths in last 22 days||Even as the number of daily Covid cases for the age group 50-60 years has been stable for the last month and a half, Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has not recorded any deaths in the last 22 days.Around 7,500 tests are being conducted daily by NMMC, of which 60% is done by RT-PCR and 40% antigen test. As of now, 19.70 lakh people in Navi Mumbai have undergone Covid tests. In order to find as many possible cases, around 31 contact tracing is done after finding one positive case.“Since August, the per-day Covid cases have come down to two digits and the death rate too dropped significantly. There was zero death reported on March 1 and after that in September, there were 12 days of zero deaths reported. Similarly in October, there were 10 days without any deaths reported and hence the mortality rate of Navi Mumbai has now gone down to 1.80%,” Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.Since March 2020, 1.80 lakh people have got infected with Covid, out of which 1.50 lakh have recovered. Thus, the recovery rate of Covid in Navi Mumbai is at 98%. The doubling rate of patients in the NMMC area currently is 1,773 days.“The targeted testing and testing centres at APMC market along with the 101 vaccination centres have jointly been of significance in tackling the virus,” Bangar added.Meanwhile, NMMC has also appealed to people to stay vigilant during the upcoming Diwali festival and maintain all Covid protocols while celebrating the festival so as to make sure that the cases do not increase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-records-zero-covid-deaths-in-last-22-days-101634828069736.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Pune land deal case: High court grants temporary protection from arrest to NCP’s Eknath Khadse||In a relief to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse, the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday granted him one week of protection from arrest in the money laundering case, registered by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the Pune land deal case.Khadse has approached HC for anticipatory bail after a special court had issued a process against him, his wife, son-in-law and two others last month, in light of the charge sheet filed by the ED.Khadse’s counsel, senior advocate Shirish Gupte, pointed out that the NCP leader had undergone numerous medical procedures and he should be granted interim protection from arrest so that he may apply for regular bail before the special court. Gupte also informed the single-judge bench of justice Nitin Sambre that the application was moved after the special judge had made observations against his client last month.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh for ED, however, objected to the application by Khadse and said that he should have applied for regular bail before approaching the HC. Gupte responded that there was no bar against filing an anticipatory bail application in HC.Justice Sambre granted Khadse protection from arrest for a week, to enable him to apply for regular bail. HC has restrained the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court from taking Khadse in custody and also directed it to decide his regular bail plea expeditiously.ED has also named Khadse’s wife Mandakini, son-in-law Girish Chaudhari and two others as accused in the money-laundering case. It is alleged that in 2016, Khadse misused his position as revenue minister to benefit his family in the land deal and caused a loss of crores of rupees to the state exchequer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pune-land-deal-case-high-court-grants-temporary-protection-from-arrest-to-ncp-s-eknath-khadse-101634827647975.html
21-10-2021||Other||Two booked for rape in Amritsar||Amritsar Rural district police have booked two persons for raping a 22-year-old woman in Amritsar, almost 50 days after a complaint was lodged with it on September 3. The accused are Akashdeep Singh and his uncle paternal uncle, Dilbagh Singh of Tarn Taran. Police say the case was registered after Attari deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and Chatiwind station house officer (SHO) conducted an investigation.“I met Akashdeep in 2018. We became friends. Later on, I was married in an Amritsar village. However, Akashdeep continued pursuing me to marry him. He made me divorce my husband. After this, Akashdeep took me in a hotel in Amritsar several time and made physical relations without my consent. Akashdeep, along with his uncle, promised to marry me, but after sometime, he broke his all ties with me,” the victim’s complaint says. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harwinder Kaur, who is investigating the case said the accused has been booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and raids were on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-booked-for-rape-in-amritsar-101634826988069.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri case: Four accused sent to three days’ police custody||The court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Chinta Ram remanded four accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri case in three days’ police custody on Thursday. These four accused, Sumit Jaiswal, Shishu Pal, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam and Nandan Singh Bisht, were arrested on October 18 evening in connection with the violence that erupted in the Tikunia area of Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3. Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in the violence.Senior prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav said, “The court accepted the application for three days’ police custody remand (PCR) of the accused Sumit Jaiswal, Shishu Pal, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam and Nandan Singh Bisht from October 22 to 25.”On October 19, these four accused were produced before the remand magistrate who sent them to 14 days’ judicial custody. Yadav also said, “The investigators moved a fresh application in the court for the police custody remand of Ashish Mishra alias Monu, Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti and Latif alias Kale for further interrogation.” Ashish Mishra, the son of Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni, is the main accused in the case.“The fresh application for the police custody remand of Ashish Mishra and the three others would be heard on Friday,” the SPO said.After the violence on October 3 claimed the lives of four farmers, a journalist, a driver and two BJP workers, two FIRs were lodged at the Tikunia police station. The first FIR by one Jagjeet Singh had intimated the police about the mowing down of four farmers, implicating Ashish Mishra and 15-20 others.The second FIR was by BJP ward member Sumit Jaiswal against unidentified people in connection with the killing of four others in alleged violence after the death of the four farmers.Police have arrested 10 people so far in connection with the killing of the four farmers.The bail application of Ashish Mishra was moved in the court of the district and sessions judge in Lakhimpur Kheri on Thursday, his lawyer Awadhesh Singh confirmed. District government counsel (DGC) Arvind Tripathi said, “The district and sessions judge scheduled the hearing on the bail application on October 28.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-case-four-accused-sent-to-three-days-police-custody-101634826808100.html
21-10-2021||Other||Road safety expert slams Punjab for poor enforcement of norms||Bathinda National Road Safety Council member, Kamaljeet Soi, on Thursday criticised the Punjab government for poor implementation of road safety measures. At a press conference in the city, Soi said the state has only five motor vehicle inspectors (MVIs) to administer about 5 lakh heavy vehicles.“Punjab reports nearly 5,000 road mishaps and almost half of them involve heavy vehicles. There is not enough manpower to check fitness certificates and to enforce the law against the erring motor drivers,” Soi said, at a function where he launched ‘Mission Safe Malwa’, a social initiative by his NGO Raahat - The Safe Community Foundation.Soi added that since police personnel lacked training in vehicle accident investigation, in most mishaps even the culprits were not identified. In a scathing attack on the transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Soi said the state government had a dismal record in strict enforcement of high-security registration plates (HSRP) for old vehicles.“Only 20% of vehicles in Punjab are fitted with tamper-proof HSRP. Warring should start focusing on streamlining the functioning of his department. In most organised crimes like drug peddling and liquor smuggling, notorious elements use vehicles with fake number plates,” said Soi, also a BJP leader from Ludhiana.“Such security features enable easy identification of vehicles in case of accidents. Considering the high prevalence of crimes in which vehicles are used, such aspects assume great relevance. Details of owners can be obtained even if the vehicles are burnt,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/road-safety-expert-slams-punjab-for-poor-enforcement-of-norms-101634826447970.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Raut asks BJP's Somaiya to demand probe into alleged ₹500cr civic body scam||Alleging a ₹500 crore scam in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut wrote to BJP leader Kirit Somaiya seeking his “influence” over Enforcement Directorate (ED) to start a probe in the matter. Raut on Thursday added that he has names of 100 BJP leaders involved in the various wrongdoings and said he will reveal them one at a time. Raut called Somaiya a “scam crusader” and said he has given him proof and documents related to the scam in the smart cities project in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Somaiya, meanwhile, asked if Raut’s letter meant his lack of trust in chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s leadership. He added that the economic offences wing (EOW) of the police has the right to probe the matter. Raut, who tweeted the letter on Wednesday said, “Sent [the] following letter to ‘Scam crusader’ @kiritsomaiya. it gives details of misappropriation of funds to the tune of ₹500 crore in the smart city project run by Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation ruled by the BJP. Hope he will use his influence on ED to start the investigation.”Over the past few months, Somaiya has been in the news for “exposing” alleged financial wrongdoings, land scams, unauthorised construction without clearances, where he has attacked the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders and family members. The attack from Sena Member of Parliament (MP) also comes days after he asked MVA ministers to launch a counterattack and respond to allegations levelled by political opponents in the state. In the two-page letter dated October 11, Raut said, “In the year 2018-2019, many tenders worth several hundred crores were floated for various projects under the Smart City Project. However, these tenders, their terms and conditions were prepared keeping in mind the interests of a few select companies, namely — Crystal Integrated Services Pvt., Ltd., and Arcus. Both these companies were awarded tenders worth more than Rs. 500 crores (sic).”Addressing a press conference, Somaiya said, “I am confused whether Sanjay Raut is commending my work or lamenting the lack of ability of Uddhav Thackeray. He should first clarify this. Besides that, they don’t have the courage to respond to the allegations against them in the past 23 months... Who has the authority to investigate this [alleged scam]? Uddhav Thackeray government has the right to probe this matter. This matter comes under EOW.”Keshav Upadhye, chief spokesperson, Maharashtra BJP, said, “Kirit ji always speaks with evidence against any particular case. Here these are mere allegations and it smells of political conspiracy. If he (Raut) has given evidence, then it will be looked into.”Raut further said that even 50% of the work on the project was not completed despite the deadline having passed. He added that it was a clear case of misappropriation of government funds and public money to the tune of ₹500 crores “only for the benefit of these two companies.” The PCMC goes to polls in February 2022 and the Sena is eyeing to get a foothold in the civic body. The Sena chief spokesperson said that he handing over all the documents, proof of the scam to Somaiya.Sena leader, while speaking to reporters in New Delhi, said, that the party has the understanding and wherewithal to approach the appropriate investigating agency. “I am a lawmaker and I know whom to approach. But he should know where the corruption originated and whom all were involved. Does it mean that one party’s corrupt practices are wrong, if another party does it then it is acceptable? I have names of 100 related to the BJP, this was the first. The remaining 99 too will come out with proof,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kirit-somaiya-a-scam-crusader-should-take-up-issue-of-500cr-scam-in-bjp-led-civic-body-sanjay-raut-101634826387902.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Ensure complete ban on stubble burning, UPPCB tells districts||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) on Thursday asked district authorities to ensure complete ban on residue burning by farmers to get rid of stubble after the Kharif harvest.“Stubble burning is a major contributor to air pollution during winters. The district administrations have been asked to reach out to farmers and motivate them against stubble burning. The authorities have also been asked to suggest alternatives means to manage stubble waste,” said Ajay Sharma, member secretary, UPPCB.District authorities were also directed to form committees comprising local officials and farmers to ensure management of stubble waste.As per the air quality index (AQI) data of the Central Pollution Control Board, the average AQI of UP cities from October to January in recent years has been above 300. An AQI above 300 is considered very poor, with long lasting effects on human health on prolonged exposure.Considering this, the state government even lodged FIRs and fined farmers found burning stubble in their farms.On other hand, farmers objected to these harsh measures.”The state government must suggest better alternatives to remove stubble or should rather procure the stubble from farmers, if it really wants to prevent stubble burning. Otherwise it seems that farmers are made to bear the burden of a problem, which is caused by everyone,” said Jaswant Singh, a farm leader of Shahjahanpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-complete-ban-on-stubble-burning-uppcb-tells-districts-101634826148044.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat visits Ram Janmabhoomi in Ayodhya||Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Thursday visited the Ram Janmabhoomi campus in Ayodhya and paid obeisance to Ram Lalla (infant Ram) at the makeshift Ram temple on the third and final day of his visit to the pilgrim town. The RSS chief also reviewed ongoing construction work of the upcoming Ram temple. He enquired about the foundation work, which has been completed, the Mirzapur and Karnataka stones that will be used for the plinth, besides asking about the other structures that will come up at the Ram Janmabhoomi, according to RSS office bearers. Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, accompanied Mohan Bhagwat on his visit to Ram Janmabhoomi and informed him about the other Ayodhya projects that are expected to come up. The Trust has set a deadline of December 2023 for opening of the sanctum sanctorum of the Ram temple for devotees. The RSS chief was also told about a proposal to make the Ram Janmabhoomi campus eco-friendly and the projects associated with it. Mohan Bhagwat, however, did not meet Mahant Nritya Gopal Das, chairman of the Trust, due to time constraints. The RSS chief left for Lucknow by road in the evening. He had reached Ayodhya on Tuesday (October 19) to attend the Akhil Bhartiya Abhyas Varg, an event of the RSS. This event is organised every fifth year to apprise and train RSS volunteers on how to propagate nationalism, Indian culture and promote Swadeshi. The event is being organised outside Nagpur after a long time when assembly polls are due in Uttar Pradesh early next year. The event started on October 18 and will end on Friday. Around 500 RSS volunteers from across the country are attending it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-visits-ram-janmabhoomi-in-ayodhya-101634825607964.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Dilapidated primary, secondary schools in Lucknow set to get facelift||LUCKNOW The district administration has decided to give a makeover to primary and secondary schools in Lucknow that are lying in a neglected condition. “Schools reflect the face of the city and hence we have decided to give a makeover to those in bad shape. Initially, 116 schools have been identified for the facelift that would be carried out under corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate. The facelift would include beautification, repair works, establishment of potable water facilities, electricity and construction of toilets. “The beautification will include whitewash and wall paintings that would give a colourful look to the schools,” said the DM while addressing a meeting on the rejuvenation of schools. Officials of the LDA, basic and secondary education departments and associated builders were present in the meeting. After going though the report submitted by the primary and secondary education departments, the administration shortlisted around 116 schools where work has to be carried out on priority, said officials.A few of the schools that will witness the makeover include Rajkiya Jubilee Inter College, Rajkiya Balika Inter College, Rajkiya Inter College, Hussainabad; Rajkiya Balika Inter College, Malihabad; Rajkiya Balika Inter College, Shringar Nagar; Rajkiya Inter College, Nishatganj; Rajkiya Kanya Inter College, Narhi; Rajkiya Balika Inter College, Vikas Nagar; Rajkiya Balika Inter College, Gomti Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dilapidated-primary-secondary-schools-in-lucknow-set-to-get-facelift-101634825548373.html
21-10-2021||Kolkata||29 researchers from Jadavpur University rank in Stanford's database||Twenty-nine scientists of Jadavpur University in Kolkata have found a place in the database compiled by Stanford University that ranks the top two per cent of scientists worldwide based on their research publications. An official of the Jadavpur University Teachers Association claimed the number of scientists from JU is the highest in the list among all the universities of the country. This was followed by BHU (24), University of Hyderabad (22), and University of Delhi (18). Across the country, 2,049 names from various universities and institutes have made it to the list. Jadavpur University Vice-Chancellor Prof Suranjan Das told PTI it was a matter of pride for the country and West Bengal in particular that so many teachers of the varsity have been included in the prestigious database. “Jadavpur University scientists have won this honour even though the university is not privileged to get adequate central funds. The Centre should consider how JU is pursuing scientific research with its limited financial resources, being a state university, and allocate more funds to it," Das said. The database, which has taken into consideration research publications up to 2020 end, includes the top two per cent of scientists of the world based on percentile score. Jadavpur University Pro-Vice Chancellor Prof Chiranjib Bhattacharya told PTI "it is a confirmation of the high academic standard of our faculty. Jadavpur University is in the same bracket as IIT Kharagpur and other leading institutions and our teachers and scientists are undertaking important works in the domain of scientific research which is acclaimed all over the world." As many as 114 scientists of Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore, have made it to the list, ranking it first among the higher educational institutes in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/29-researchers-from-jadavpur-university-rank-in-stanford-s-database-101634822911985.html
21-10-2021||Pune||MLA proposes ropeway between Taljai hill and Parvati||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Madhuri Misal has put forth a proposal to build a ropeway between Taljai hill and Parvati. She had submitted a proposal to the union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari.Recently, the union minister was in Pune for the groundbreaking ceremony of a flyover on Singhgad road. During the event, he appealed to submit proposals for ropeway at tourist places.As per Gadkari’s appeal, Misal meet him in Delhi recently and submitted the proposal for building a ropeway between Taljai hill and Parvati.Misal said, “Union minister has asked the administration to conduct a survey and submit a detailed proposal for the same.”Activists and citizens have opposed the proposed development at Taljai hill by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mla-proposes-ropeway-between-taljai-hill-and-parvati-101634824888109.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||According to TMC, only 30% in 18-44 years category given with first vaccination dose in Thane||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has fully vaccinated only 30% of its population in the 18-44 years age group while 76% have taken at least the first dose.Within this age group, there are around 14% who are yet to take the first dose and 70% who have to be fully vaccinated.TMC has increased its testing to 3,380 on Thursday. However, the number of positive cases detected on Thursday was only 32 . This is a drastic change from the usual under-2,500 tests that are conducted in the city. Moreover, since more than a month, the city has been witnessing around daily positive cases between 60 and 100 cases.Meanwhile, the neighbouring Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has vaccinated 100% of its population with the first dose.TMC has undertaken various drives like organising mass vaccination in areas with poor response, encouraging colleges to conduct vaccination drives, having women-only centres and also has four mobile vaccination facilities. Despite these efforts, there continues to be around 14% of its population in the 18-44 years age group who have not taken even a single shot of the anti-Covid vaccination.“Although preference is given to local residents in the vaccination centres within Thane city, there are many who have taken their jab elsewhere within Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Similarly, there could be many who have come from other areas to Thane to get inoculated. This makes it difficult to be accurate about getting 100% of the population vaccinated. However, a poor turnout at government vaccination centres that provide free doses also highlights the fact that there is only a handful of people yet to get jabbed,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.Till mid-August, only 34.57% had received the first dose of vaccine and 3.73% were fully vaccinated in the 18-44 years age group. Overall, 46.36% were vaccinated with at least the first dose in Thane city till mid-August. However, now we have 86.72% with at least the first dose of vaccine.“Almost 40% of the overall population have got vaccinated in September and October. This, when there has been continuous supply of vaccine doses and every day we managed to vaccinate between 8,000 and 10,000 beneficiaries,” added Vipin Sharma, TMC commissioner.As this is the most moving population, it is essential to vaccinate them at the earliest as this will help reduce the spread and impact of the virus, said the civic officials. With the number of cases stagnant, the third wave does not seem to be anywhere soon, TMC plans to take advantage of the situation and inoculate more and more people with at least the first dose of vaccination.“If more people get at least the first jab before the onset of the third wave, the impact of the wave would be less. Moreover, we have started the serosurvey in the city through which we work towards handling the third wave in a better manner. Meanwhile, we are trying to complete the entire vaccination schedule by March 2022. The only hurdle is the 84 days waiting period to get the second jab of Covishield. This is causing the delay in getting more people fully vaccinated,” said a senior civic official from TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/according-to-tmc-only-30-in-18-44-years-category-given-with-first-vaccination-dose-in-thane-101634824229973.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 68-year-old man run over by speeding vehicle, case filed||The Salem Tabri police on Thursday registered a case against an unidentified driver in a hit-and-run case in which a 68-year-old man from Kapurthala was mowed down by a speeding vehicle near a fuel station on the National Highway–44 on Tuesday. A case has been registered on the complaint of victim’s brother Gopal Singh of Kapurthala. He told the police that the incident took place on Tuesday when his brother Mahinder Singh was walking on the pavement of the highway. When he reached near the Doaba fuel station, a speeding vehicle mowed him down. The impact was such that his brother died on the spot. Investigating officer Satnam Singh said after conducting preliminary investigation and post-mortem examination, a case was registered against an unidentified person under Section 304- A of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-68-year-old-man-run-over-by-speeding-vehicle-case-filed-101634824227619.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Night life to make a comeback in Lucknow||The lifting of night curfew by the Uttar Pradesh government has surely brought cheer to the restaurants, lounges and discs in the state capital. Joints with the late night service licence are dubbing the move as a silver-lining and hoping to cash in on the peak business hours which they were losing due to the curfew. As the business is set to make a comeback the owners of discs and lounges are the happiest of the lot. “For us, the peak sale is post-midnight till 1 am. As we are back to full capacity following the Covid norms now, we are looking forward to 11-1 am business which we missed on since the last six-seven months. Pre-pandemic we used to have patrons till 2 am,” says Shahbaz Khan, manager operations at Vintage Machine. They are all set to introduce a new concept of audio–visual experience for Lucknowites for which they are bringing people from Kolkata. With the relaxation Boombox Lucknow has obtained permission to operate till 1 am. “I am sure once things settle; we will get permission till 2 am. Business community and corporate executives who work till late evenings get free only after 8 to 9 pm. During night curfew, we used to ban the entry by 10 so we can wind-up by allotted time. But now, people will get time to relax for longer time leading to better business. We are keeping our fingers crossed after braving two lockdowns and huge losses,” says its owner Gaurav Singh. Hotelier Vijay Singh Bhadauria who recently opened food services at Pitambara Lawns in Vikas Nagar adds, “Our launch has been on the right time so with our cloud kitchen, multi-cuisine restaurant and quick-service café we will get extended time to serve. Late evening and night turnout gives us the main business,” he adds. Food consultant and Chef Zulfiqar Hussain looks at the extended business hours as a blessing in disguise. “As it is everyone has suffered a lot. The expenses were full-on, but the business time was curtailed so we were losing on the sale. Now, the entire staff at Grill & Chill lounge and Pepperz food joint is excited to be back to full business. Hopefully the festival season and favourable weather will drive it further,” he says. With Diwali approaching and winter season ahead everyone is upbeat about sale prospect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/night-life-to-make-a-comeback-in-lucknow-101634823627843.html
21-10-2021||Pune||Pune artist duped of ₹80k in cyber fraud||PUNE A 54-year-old artist was duped for ₹80,000 by a person who offered work to him through social media.The artist from the Parvati Paytha area received an email from a woman who wished to commission a painting in May 2020. The woman sent a photograph for reference for the painting that she wished to commission.The woman then sent a photo of a cheque from a local cooperative bank and told the complainant that the physical copy is on its way to him. The cheque in the photo was made out to the complainant and was for a transfer of ₹1,28,500, according to the police.The complainant later received a call from a man who claimed to be a customs department official and told him that the cheque was stuck at customs clearance.The accused man then allegedly asked the complainant to make multiple online transactions in order to get clearance for the cheque. The artist claims to have paid a total of ₹80,000 before realising that he was being duped, according to the police.A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Information Technology Act was registered at the cyber police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-artist-duped-of-rs-80k-in-cyber-fraud-101634823447721.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Postmortem report shows sanitation worker died of heart attack: Agra police||The postmortem report has shown that heart attack is the cause of death of the sanitation worker, who had allegedly died in police custody, the Agra police said on Thursday.“In compliance with the norms laid down by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in such cases, the ‘panchnama’ was prepared by a magistrate. The postmortem was conducted by a panel of doctors and the report submitted has assigned myocardial infarction (heart attack) as the reason for death,” said Agra senior superintendent of police (SSP) Muniraj G. “Further investigation in the matter is underway,” the SSP added. People privy to the matter revealed that, according to the postmortem report, there were injury marks on the body but they were not of such a magnitude which could cause death. These injury marks, including blue marks on the hips and scratch on legs, may be recent or old, they said. The sanitation worker was arrested by the Agra police in connection with the alleged theft of ₹25 lakh from the warehouse of Jagdishpura police station in Agra on Sunday (October 17). Additional director general of police (Agra) Rajiv Krishna said, “Our officers are in contact with his family. They’re cooperating. Action will be taken if there was any negligence. The family has filed a complaint. They suspect he was beaten up by the police following which he died. FIR was registered and the matter will be probed.” The sanitation worker, Arun Valmiki, had allegedly died in police custody on Tuesday night.His health deteriorated when police took him along to his residence where ₹15 lakh cash was allegedly recovered in connection with investigation into the alleged theft. He was rushed to hospital but was declared “brought dead” by the doctors. “During questioning, he confessed to the crime. Police recovered ₹15 lakh from his home. During recovery, he fell ill. Police and his family rushed him to the hospital. The doctor declared him brought dead. FIR registered,” the Agra SSP had earlier said. (WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/postmortem-report-shows-sanitation-worker-died-of-heart-attack-agra-police-101634823207530.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Teachers in UP see red over order to collect plastic waste||LUCKNOW Teachers in Uttar Pradesh expressed ire against district authorities asking them to collect plastic waste from schools under the Swachh Bharat Mission and recite verses of the Valmiki Ramayan at a religious place during an event to mark Valmiki Jayanti on October 20. .On October 20, basic shiksha adhikari (BSA), Firozabad, Anjali Agarwal had asked block education officers (BEO) to ensure collection of plastic waste from primary schools under the Swachh Bharat Mission. Schools in each block of the district were asked to collect 100 kg plastic waste and deposit it at a designated panchayat bhawan.On the same day, 15 primary school teachers in Kasganj district of western UP were deployed for reciting verses of the Valmiki Ramayan during a programme organised to mark Valmiki Jayanti at the Sankat Mochan Dham in Salai. A science teacher, who was asked to recite the Valmiki Ramayan on the order of chief development officer (CDO), said:”The Valmiki Ramayan is in Sanskrit and I am a science teacher. I tried to do my best to read Sanskrit, but it was too difficult for me. Only three of four people were present at the venue. I don’t know what is the aim of organizing such a function.”Various teachers’ organizations expressed their discontent over the issue and took to social media platforms to criticise officials who ordered teachers to perform the said tasks.“If a teacher is made responsible for collection of plastic waste and read scriptures at an event being organised at a religious place, when will he get time to do his duty of teaching students,” asked Dinesh Chandra Sharma, president of UP Teachers’ Federation.Director general, school education, Anamika Singh said, “I have come to know about the orders issued regarding collection of plastic waste and have sought more information about the event.” Regarding the Ramayan issue, the officer said she would look into the matter.“District authorities, including chief development officer issue these orders, which are implemented by the BSAs. The district authorities must be asked why they issue such orders without specifying the departments for it,” said Satish Dwivedi, junior minister for basic education in UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/teachers-in-up-see-red-over-order-to-collect-plastic-waste-101634822547675.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls: BJP, Congress spar over choppers, deities||With the bypolls to one parliamentary segment and three assembly segments in the hill-state being seen as precursors to the general assembly elections due next year, the Congress and BJP are engaged in an intense battle of political one-upmanship involving choppers and deities. The Opposition has slammed chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur for using the state government’s chopper for travelling across the state. “Even if the CM has to go from one panchayat to the next, he uses a chopper. He is a high-flying leader, whose ear is not to the ground,” said leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri. Congress’ nominee from the Mandi parliamentary seat Pratibha Singh also took a dig at Thakur’s chopper use, saying, “The roads are full of potholes, which are not visible from the chopper.” Pratibha, the widow of six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh, is contesting polls for the fifth time. She has been elected to the Lok Sabha twice. The chief minister, however, said, “I am not the first CM who is using a chopper. Did Congress leaders use bullock carts to travel? The CM has to travel the length and breadth of the state. In fact, Congress leaders would use the state chopper for their personal use as well.”He was responding to questions at the Kangni Dhar helipad before flying to Fatehpur in a chopper hired by the BJP for the election campaign. On allegations of him not stepping out of the chopper, the CM said, “I have been travelling by road for the last eight days. I do not need the Congress’ permission to travel in a chopper.” “The state government’s chopper is used for relief and rescue during calamities in tribal regions. We delivered Covid vaccines to remote regions that are still inaccessible by road be it Dodra-Kwar in Rohru or Barabanghal in Kangra. The chopper is also used to ferry people from snowbound regions in winters when the roads are blocked.” Flak over stopping nazarana The government’s decision to stop nazarana, an honorarium paid to deities visiting the famous Kullu Dussehra has also drawn flak from the Opposition. There are 473 deities registered with Kullu Kardar Sangh, while the actual figure is around 600. During Dussehra around 281 deities congregate at the Dhalpur ground to participate in the historic Dussehra. The deities pay homage to the presiding deity Lord Raghunath and the district administration traditionally pays around ₹6,000 to ₹ 2 lakh to each deity visiting the Dussehra. However, this time the government has not paid any nazarana to the deities. Making the suspension of grants a poll issue, Agnihotri said, “Even the deities will not forgive the government this time.” “We had been assured that nazarana will be given to the deities after the elections are over. We are also demanding uniformity in grants” said says Jai Chand, head, Kardar Sangh Kullu district. “There were a lot of restrictions for Dussehra in Kullu, but that wasn’t the case for the Shivratri fair in Mandi. There was ban on business activities during Dussehra in Kullu “said Dhani Ram Chauhan, president, Pujari Kalyan Sangh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypolls-choppers-deities-in-the-eye-of-the-storm-101634821767500.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Nearly 84% in 18-44 years category get first vaccination dose in Kalyan, Dombivli||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has managed to give 83.83% of the listed beneficiaries their first vaccination dose while 32.23% has received both the doses in the 18-44 years age group.As per the KDMC records, 5.77 lakh of the listed population falls under this category. Out of these, 4.83 lakh have received their first dose and 1.86 lakh have received both the doses.In the 45-59 year category with 4.53 lakh listed population, KDMC has managed to partially vaccinate 46.15% while 29.27% are fully vaccinated. Comparatively, the vaccination done for the senior citizens, i.e. above 60 years, is low. Out of the total listed 3.02 lakh senior citizens, only 42.91% are given the first dose and 31.14% are fully vaccinated.In all, the civic body has so far managed to vaccinate 63.55% of its total listed 13.59 lakh population with the first dose and 32.77% with the second.In order to improve on vaccinating all the listed population , the civic body has emphasised on near-to-home service. KDMC teams are visiting areas and giving doses to those who have not taken any.“The crowd at the vaccination centres have reduced these days and we are now focussing on mobile vaccination and near-to-home vaccination service to get more people vaccinated. We are not only focusing on completing the first dose but simultaneously improving on fully vaccinating the beneficiaries,” said Ganesh Doiphode, in-charge of the vaccination drive in KDMC.Doiphode also claimed that the stock of vaccine received by the civic body has also improved since September with around 35,000-40,000 doses. Earlier, the civic body used to get around 15,000-20,000 doses only.“We are now expecting 80,000 doses of vaccine in a day or two. This will help us to do more vaccination through mobile service. I had placed a special demand for 80,000 doses this time so that we can cover as much of the population as possible in the coming days,” added Doiphode. In KDMC limits, the vaccination is carried out in 144 civic centres, 55 private hospitals, 95 near-to-home (mobile vaccination) and 49 workplace centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nearly-84-in-18-45-years-category-get-first-vaccination-dose-in-kalyan-dombivli-101634820807312.html
21-10-2021||Patna||‘From Begusarai to Boston’: President Kovind praises ‘industrious people’ of Bihar||PATNA: President Ram Nath Kovind Thursday said the centenary celebration of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building was a historic occasion for more than one reason, as it had also coincided with India crossing the 100-crore mark in Covid-19 vaccine jabs.“Bihar is known for scripting history and today history has been scripted,” he said at the centenary celebrations of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building, which had hosted the inaugural session of the joint Bihar and Orissa Provincial Council on February 7, 1921.Responding to chief minister Nitish Kumar’s remarks about his Bihar ties since his stint as Governor, from where he was elevated as President, Kovind said visiting Bihar always felt like a homecoming and that he felt proud to be referred to as Bihari. He added that after the first President Dr Rajendra Prasad and former President Zakir Hussain, he got the responsibility to take the rich legacy forward and got a lot of love and respect from the people.“It is not just my ties as the Bihar Governor, but also because of the Buddhist connection and the contributions I made for the Vipassana Centre. I am happy that Nitish Kumar, the longest-serving chief minister of Bihar since independence, took it forward. Buddha got enlightenment here. Bihar is a land of knowledge and the world’s first democracy. There have always been special blessings on me in the land of Buddha, Mahavir and Guru Gobind Singh,” he said.Conveying his greetings to the people in the festive season, he said how Chhath was now being worshipped from Nawada to New Jersey and from Begusarai to Boston. “This is proof that the industrious people associated with the culture of Bihar have made their place on the world stage,” he said.Referring to the ban on sale and consumption of liquor in Bihar since 2016, the President cited Governor SP Sinha’s address to the Legislative Assembly of 1921, when the latter said there should be a definite policy to prohibit the production and sale of intoxicating substances or liquor.“In our Constitution, the duty of the State to improve public health is clearly mentioned under the ‘Directive Principles of State Policy’. This includes the prohibition of the consumption of liquor and substances injurious to health. By giving this a status of law, the Bihar assembly has taken a very good step in the interest of public health and society, especially in the favour of women from weaker sections,” Kovind said.He also laid the foundation stone for Shatabdi Smriti Stambh and planted a sapling of Mahabodhi Tree in the premises of Bihar Legislative Assembly on the occasion. “The enthusiastic presence of present as well as former members of Bihar legislature is a good example of the healthy parliamentary tradition developed in our country,” he added.The President also hailed the personalities from Bihar played in the Constituent Assembly — Dr Sachchidananda Sinha, Dr Rajendra Prasad, Anugrah Narayan Sinha, Shri Krishna Sinha, Maharaja Kameshwar Singh of Darbhanga, Shyam Nandan Sahay, Satyanarayan Sinha, Babu Jagjivan Ram, among others.Kovind also lauded the state’s resolves, cited by Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha in his address, to keep Bihar free of social problems.Earlier, Sinha thanked the President for sparing time for the function and narrated the rich legacy of the Bihar Legislature and the way it had evolved over the years. “It has been witness to landmark legislation and scholarly debates. Now it has adapted to the digital era with online questions & answers and webcasting,” the Speaker said.In his speech, CM Kumar said, “We consider the President as our very own and we are happy to find him in our midst. I want that all government employees should attend the Vipassana Centre, and the government will grant 15-day leave to them. I am confident the Speaker will also try to bring the Prime Minister to this centenary function,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/from-begusarai-to-boston-president-kovind-praises-industrious-people-of-bihar-101634819727261.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Moonstruck on Karva Chauth: Celebrating love and longing||As the sun sets on the auspicious day of Karva Chauth, the wait for moonrise begins. This Sunday, sighting the moon will be the most awaited event in India. The first thing I look for in the newspaper on Karva Chauth is the weather column for the moonrise time. Somehow, sighting the moon, which is visible easily on other days, becomes elusive on this special day. Nature seems to test our devotion. All family members keep gazing at the sky and the most-awaited sentence of the day is, “Chand dikh gaya (There’s the moon!)”. Thanks to the tall buildings in cities, spotting the moon has become even more challenging nowadays. The sky-scraping apartments block the view and clouds play a vital role amid the hide and seek. To tide over the predicament, I make the house help climb on the water tank on our terrace to gain height and locate the moon. Often, I get mistaken by bulbs gleaming in the distance and break into a happy gig with a sparkle in the eyes only to realise that it’s a case of mistaken identity. The long wait on the terrace eventually yields a glimpse of the moon, shining in the dark sky. There is a sense of achievement as an electrifying wave of enthusiasm engulfs everyone breaking the fast. Pictures of the moon are shared on social media amid phone calls to exchange greetings and blessings. I love this concept of Karva Chauth as it rings in the festive spirit. We Indians celebrate our special occasions with gusto, breaking the monotony of our lives. The flavours and frolic of our vivid celebrations keep us charged up and devoted. The custom of applying mehndi in the run-up to Karva Chauth, for instance, is an added charm for the children also as the mehndi wala (henna artist) comes home to apply intricate designs to our hands. On a selfish note, to escape the food craving, I keep the lunch menu for others as simple as possible. Next, I keep myself occupied as it helps cross the hunger bridge. Every year, I recall special experiences of this special day. Once when I was staying in a hotel in Chennai for a night en route to Tirupati, I went to the hotel terrace to do the puja and was feeling awkward as I thought I would be alone up there. To my surprise, a bevy of beauties, who were also guests at the hotel, had gathered to celebrate Karva Chauth. They were aesthetically attired, waiting to see the moon. We chatted for a long time. It was an unforgettable experience and many of us became friends and are still in touch. Wives keep this fast affectionately and devotedly. The festival entitles a wife the extra edge to win and rule over her husband’s heart. A husband owes much to his wife for the fasts and prayers for his long life, so there should be a ritual of pampering the wife in return. It will give him an opportunity to express his love as well. This pious occasion definitely deepens the bond between couples. It is an expression of intense feelings of true love and care towards the spouse. Nothing can express the infinite love more than a devotedly kept fast for the spouse. And yes, for every woman, be it a late or early darshan, Chandramaji’s blessings are the most important. kirtibihani02@gmail.com The writer is a New Delhi-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moonstruck-on-karva-chauth-celebrating-love-and-longing-101634819667537.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Election expenditure reforms and level playing field||“Indian politicians start their legislative careers with a lie — the false spending returns they submit,” former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee once told a parliamentary committee. Lately, the intimidating role of money in the election outcome, quality of law makers and the resultant governance by the political executive have been worrying every thinking citizen. Also read: UP assembly polls: Priyanka promises phones, electric scooties for girl studentsThe ever-increasing electioneering expenditure disincentivises righteous people from participating in the process. It is believed that the expenditure incurred by candidates during assembly and parliamentary elections is manipulated and misstated. Nevertheless, such deceptions go unquestioned at individual, institutional and societal levels. The Election Commission of India (ECI) is well aware of the malpractices resorted to by the candidates to manoeuvre such expenditure within the limits set by it. Skyrocketing electoral expenses According to a report by the Centre for Media Studies in 2019, the maximum amount, roughly 33% of the total expense, was expended on campaigning and publicity. The second big spending head, about 25%, was distribution of money among voters. This report further stated that the political parties spent ₹60,000 crore in the last Lok Sabha elections. The report has called the 2019 general election the “most expensive election ever, anywhere”. The ruling parties spend more. While there is a limit on candidates to spend on their campaign, there is no such cap on political parties. Some suggestions are made to bring down this expenditure leading a real level playing field in true democratic spirit. Amend electoral bonds scheme The ruling party pockets most of the funds received through electoral bonds. These bonds introduced in 2018 and issued by the State Bank of India are purchased anonymously by donors in favour of an eligible political party (registered under Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, which have secured not less than 1% of the votes in the last general election to an assembly or Parliament). According to the latest data with the ECI, of the total bonds worth ₹3,435 crore sold in 2019-20, the ruling party at the Centre received about 74% and the other eligible political parties shared the rest. The existing scheme of electoral bonds creates an uneven playing field for political parties. Its very nature and functioning favour the ruling parties. The scheme lacks transparency, equity, fairness and a level playing field. It distorts the financial equilibrium among political parties. The scheme needs to be amended in a way that these bonds go to a common pool at the national level, and then distributed according to the vote share received by the eligible political parties in the last parliamentary and assembly elections. This will also snap the quid pro quo between the ruling dispensation and the donors, and thus remove the alleged influence by the donors on policy formulation, ensure genuine anonymity and create a level playing field with equitable sharing of political donations. Many are unaware that the cost of printing the electoral bonds and the bank commission charged by the SBI are borne by the government and not by the buyers. Why should the taxpayer bear these two charges? Let the donors who donate bonds worth crores of rupees, or the recipient bear these costs. Restrict number of election rallies Two leaders of the main political parties at the national level addressed more than 140 rallies each in the last Lok Sabha elections across the country. Such mega gatherings cost huge expenditure, become a potential threat to public health and disturb normal public life. There is a need to restrict the number of rallies each party can hold in each constituency and the state to bring down the election expenditure and ensure a level playing field. Access of political leaders to public may be increased through modern means of communication. A 1998 report of the Indrajit Gupta Committee on State Funding of Elections recommended partial state funding, mainly in kind. In addition to free TV and radio broadcast time on state-owned media, it recommended that private channels make available sufficient free air time to recognised national and other parties during elections. Rules need to be amended so that each TV and radio channel, whether government or private, mandatorily devote pre-determined time for campaigning and election debates to each political party free of cost. The print media be also mandated to publish political advertisements at DAVP rates. Filing online nominations A considerable amount is spent on filing nomination papers by organising a caravan of vehicles and making this event a show of strength. Taking advantage of modern technology, amend the rules to file nominations online. The oath can also be taken online with a video clip submitted to the returning officer for record. Include party expenditure In 1974, the Supreme Court ruled in the Kanwar Lal Gupta v. Amar Nath Chawla case that the party spending on behalf of a candidate should be included in calculating that candidate’s election expenses to determine whether the election expenditure limit had been violated. In response, Parliament amended the RPA in 1975 to nullify this judgment. Existing expenditure limits become meaningless if expenses incurred by a political party are not proportionately added to the expenditure of its each candidate. This amendment needs to be reversed. All political parties must come together to make the largest democracy on this planet the best democracy. sksandhu521@gmail.com The writer is a retired Punjab IAS officer. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/election-expenditure-reforms-and-level-playing-field-101634819008459.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||UP govt gives nod to organise Kartik Mela in Garhmukteshwar||MEERUT The district administration has started preparations for the Kartik Mela in Garhmukteshwar tehsil of UP’s Hapur district following the state government’s approval to organise the fair this year with all Covid protocols.The fair, which was cancelled last year due to the corona surge, will be organised on the riverbank from November 9 to 21 with the main Ganga Snan on November 18. Being a historic mela associated with the Mahabharat, lakhs of devotees from western UP and other parts of the country arrive here to take a dip in the Ganga. The mela is organised every year after Diwali. A tweet by the state’s home department shared that chief minister Yogi Adityanath had given approval to celebrate Kartik Mela at Garhmukteshwar in a grand way.Reviewing the preparations, district magistrate (Hapur) Anuj Singh convened a meeting with chief development officer Uday Singh, additional district magistrate Shraddha Shandilyayan and other officials on Wednesday. He directed officials to deploy a drone at the mela site to keep close vigil on the people’s activities and ensure their safety. He also directed officials to set up a Covid testing centre and a temporary hospital and ensure cleanliness, adequate barricading, illumination, sufficient boats, watch tower and round-the-clock availability of trained life guards and divers at the site.During the fair, the bank of Ganga turns into a “city of tents” as people from villages arrive with family and stay here in makeshift tents. They enjoy folk songs by various artistes along with different village sports like kabaddi, wrestling, kho-kho etc.The mela is also famous for its animal fair, which was once the biggest animal fair in Asia. President of Prajapati Samaj Kalyan Yuva Samiti Bhagwan Singh and general secretary Sriram handed over a charter of demands to the district administration and sough adequate facilities for the animal fair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-gives-nod-to-organise-kartik-mela-in-garhmukteshwar-101634818348261.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body’s Vishnudas Bhave auditorium in Vashi set for Friday reopening||Navi Mumbai’s popular drama destination, Vishnudas Bhave auditorium in Vashi is all set to raise its curtains again on Friday.The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), which owns it, has taken the decision following the orders of the State Government allowing opening of theatres and auditoriums.NMMC has undertaken cleaning and sanitising work of the stage and audience area on a war footing to ensure that dramas and cultural programmes can restart at the theatre.Following the first Covid wave, when the auditorium was shut, it was restarted earlier in January this year with a 50% occupancy limit. However, with Covid cases again rising, the auditorium was shut in April.Municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “With the state government permitting the opening of auditoriums and cases reducing in Navi Mumbai as well, we have decided to open the auditorium. We have advertised for applications from organisations and individuals for holding dramas, cultural programmes, musical shows and other entertainment events, meetings and conferences for the period October 22 to December 31.“Now, Vishnudas Bhave auditorium is set to welcome the patrons with 50% occupancy. All care is being taken to ensure Covid norms, social distancing, sanitisation, etc. We will ensure that residents enjoy a safe environment.”Welcoming the decision, Mohar Choudhary, a drama artiste, said, “The pandemic has affected us all and dramas will certainly help uplift the morale, quality of life and get people out of depression. We artistes simply cannot wait to go out and perform, and what better place than Vishnudas Bhave auditorium.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-s-vishnudas-bhave-auditorium-in-vashi-set-for-friday-reopening-101634818347010.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Gold worth Rs4.70L stolen from 73-year-old woman’s house in Vashi||The Vashi police, on Wednesday, registered an FIR after some unidentified people broke into a 73-year-old woman’s house and stole gold jewellery worth ₹4.70 lakh.According to the police, the complaint, Shakuntala Jadhav, owns a house at Vashi Sector 2 but stayed with her son in Ulwe. Her husband passed away a few years ago. She’d come to meet her friends in Vashi once or twice a week.“When she came to her house on Tuesday evening, she found that the lock on the main door was broken and gold jewellery was missing from a cupboard. She then approached us and we registered an FIR against the unidentified accused under Sections 454, 457, 380 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code,” said an officer of Vashi police station. “A few girls stay in another flat on the same floor as paying guests, but they pleaded ignorance about the incident. The building had CCTV cameras and we are now examining the footage. We hope to detect the case soon,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/gold-worth-rs4-70l-stolen-from-73-year-old-woman-s-house-in-vashi-101634816426377.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Ananya Pandey reaches NCB office after summons in cruise drug seizure case||MUMBAI: Actress Ananya Pandey on Thursday joined the investigation in the cruise drug seizure case in which the Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested 20 people including Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan. NCB summoned Ananya Pandey after a team of the agency officers searched her house on Thursday as the investigators reportedly came across WhatsApp chats exchanged between her and Aryan Khan. An NCB officer said the chats were “drugs related“.Ananya Pandey reached NCB office at 4.15 pm and was accompanied by her father Chunky Pandey.In Pics: Ananya Panday and Chunky Panday reach NCB office after raids at her homeAryan was arrested on October 3 following raid on a cruise ship anchored at International Cruise Terminal in Mumbai. The cruise was set to go to Goa when NCB conducted searches of the guests and arrested Aryan along with his friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha. The agency claimed to have found 6 grams of Charas in a plastic pouch concealed in Arbaaz’s shoe. Earlier, on Wednesday a special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court denied bail to Aryan, saying there was prima facie evidence that the 23-year-old son was indulging in “illicit drug activities” on a regular basis, and could commit a similar offence if released. The court also rejected bail pleas of Arbaaz, 26, and Dhamecha, 28. Aryan is presently lodged in Mumbai’s Arthur Road Central prison. His father Shah Rukh Khan on Thursday morning met him at the prison, first time since his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ananya-pandey-reaches-ncb-office-after-summons-in-cruise-drug-seizure-case-101634816006241.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: Priyanka promises smartphones, electric scooties for girl students||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday announced smartphones for Class 12 pass girls and electric scooties to those completing graduation as part of her party’s second promise to women ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.“I met some girl students on Wednesday. They told me they need smartphones to study and for security. I am happy that Uttar Pradesh Congress, in consultation with the election manifesto committee, has decided to give a smartphone to 12th pass girls and an electric scooty to those graduating following formation of Congress government,” said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in an announcement on social media on Thursday.This is the second political promise that Priyanka has made this week. On Tuesday, she announced that the Congress will give 40 per cent of the party tickets to women candidates in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.“These announcements will be part of the Congress’s poll manifesto to be released later,” said a Congress leader.Priyanka’s announcements are being considered her party’s attempts to reach out to women. Recently, she picked up a broom to clean a Valmiki temple in Lucknow. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) witnessed celebrations after the announcement about providing 40 per cent reservation for women in party tickets. It has decided to take the announcement about smartphones and electric scooties to the girl students to people across the state.“Please make sure to take these announcements to the people and post them on social media platforms,” said UPCC organisation secretary Anil Yadav in a communication to the party workers on Thursday.The Congress wants to focus more on the younger age groups as the party reaches out to the women voters.A picture of some young girls with the slogan “Ladki Hun, Lad Sakti Hun (I am a girl, I can fight)” formed the background when Priyanka Gandhi Vadra made the announcement about the distribution of 40 per cent party tickets to women in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls.A close scrutiny of the Election Commission of India’s data indicates that as on January 1, 2021 Uttar Pradesh had 145.85 million voters and 67.05 million of them were women. The data also indicates that the number of young voters was high. Out of 145.85 million voters in the state, about 2.19 million were in the 18 to 19 year age group, 36.55 million in the 20 to 29 year and 37.45 million in 30 to 39 year age groups.About a decade ago, the Samajwadi Party’s promises in the party’s manifesto for the 2012 assembly election had included the distribution of laptops and tablets to students who passed the class 12 and 10 exams, respectively. The BJP, in its UP election manifesto in 2017, also promised free laptops along with free data to college-going students. Reacting to Priyanka Gandhi’s announcement, UP BJP vice-president and MLC Vijay Bahadur Pathak said, “The Congress is making all such announcements in view of the 2022 assembly election. Everybody knows the Congress did not keep its promise of loan waiver in Madhya Pradesh. The people are also aware of what the Congress has done for women in states where the party is in power.” “Announcing freebies in elections has become a norm for the political parties in recent years. It’s better to promise something to young girls in the education sector than making announcements on caste or community lines that are not healthy. As far as the issue of giving 40 per cent Congress tickets to the women is concerned, this may not cut much ice unless the party addresses other serious issues like rising unemployment,” Professor Roop Rekha Verma, former vice chancellor of Lucknow University, said. Niharika Singh, a class 12 student, expressed happiness over the announcement. “Having an electric scooter will make it easy for us to travel to our college. The smartphone will also help in a great way, especially for attending online classes,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-priyanka-promises-smartphones-electric-scooties-for-girl-students-101634815706118.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation puts on hold installation of CCTV cameras in civic schools||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has put on hold its plan to install CCTV cameras in civic schools as it was unable to execute another bigger project in the past five years.The decision of installing CCTV cameras in the civic schools was taken in 2019 and a budget of ₹4.75Cr was also allocated for the same.A senior officer from the NMMC electrical department said, “In 2016, the civic body decided to install a total of 1,450 high-tech CCTV cameras across Navi Mumbai with a budget of ₹154Cr. We also roped in IIT, Bombay, and Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute for helping us at the planning stage. Five years on, we are still stuck in the tendering process. The bidders, who have shown interest, are presenting plans involving higher expenditures. Since this project has not seen any progress, the civic body has decided to put the project of installing CCTV cameras in civic schools on hold for now.”Sources from the education department said that NMMC runs a total of 70 schools, of which 53 are primary and 17 are secondary schools.The CCTV cameras in the school premises were a topic of discussion in the satellite city in 2018 after a minor girl was allegedly sexually assaulted inside her school premises in Vashi. The girl said that an unidentified person took her to a toilet by covering her mouth with a handkerchief and then assaulted her inside it. The police could not arrest anyone in that case.Vilashini Patil, a 41-year-old parent from Seawoods, said, “CCTV cameras have become essential for the safety of the kids inside the school premises. Almost all private schools in the city have installed such cameras and that has given their parents a sense of relief. NMMC should also install such cameras on the school premises soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-puts-on-hold-installation-of-cctv-cameras-in-civic-schools-101634814626139.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane police crack theft case using time-consuming investigation tool||In the absence of CCTV footage and eyewitnesses, the Thane Nagar police turned to a tedious and time-consuming tool of investigation called Dump Data Analysis to solve a theft case in their jurisdiction last week. The six-day long investigation led the police to three accused wanted not only in their own case but also in more than 50 other cases in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, officials said.According to the Thane Nagar police, Kandivali resident Rutu Nagaria (30) registered a complaint with them on October 14 about her laptop, cell phone and purse being stolen from her car while it was parked at Tembhi Naka the previous evening. Nagaria said in her complaint that the unidentified accused had smashed the rear window of her car while she was in a meeting and fled with her valuables.“There are no CCTV cameras covering the spot where the complainant’s car was parked, and we could not find any eye witnesses who might have noticed suspicious movements around the car either. With no other leads, we turned to Dump Data Analysis to see if it could yield any clues,” senior police inspector Ramrao Somvanshi, Thane Nagar police station, said.The investigating team obtained data about all cell phone numbers that had passed through the range of the cellular towers providing network to the spot where the car was parked and started going through them. All numbers that had stayed in the same range before and after the crime were eliminated on the assumption that the accused would not stay close to the scene of the crime after committing the theft.Next, the police started checking call records of all the remaining numbers to see if they had called each other, and using this method, isolated three numbers that were frequently in touch with each other before, after and on the day of the offence. Further analysis also confirmed that the three numbers were present in the same area multiple times over a large period of time, indicating that the owners of the numbers were frequently together.“We obtained details of these numbers including the names and addresses of their owners. Based on this information, we identified a house in Navi Mumbai and kept a watch on it for three days before we moved in and picked up the first suspect,” an officer who is part of the investigation said.The suspect, identified as Yusuf Sheikh (37), was brought to the police station and questioned and allegedly confessed to the offence. He also revealed the identities of his two accomplices, Shera Chauhan (39) and Kasim Qureshi (34), both residents of Mumbai. All the three accused were placed under arrest on Wednesday.The police also recovered two stolen laptops worth ₹3.5 lakh from the accused. However, they had already stripped Nagaria’s laptop and sold the parts, officers said.“Further inquiries have revealed that Sheikh has seven cases of a similar nature registered against him in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, while Chauhan has 37 cases and Qureshi, nine. We have informed the Mumbai and Navi Mumbai police about their arrest so that they can seek custody of the accused for inquiries in their cases,” Somvanshi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-police-crack-theft-case-using-time-consuming-investigation-tool-101634813366164.html
21-10-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: When “Korphadicha muramba” became a synonym to talk about STIs||On April 13, 1866, the newspaper “Jnanaprakash” expressed anguish over the youth in Pune “succumbing to the lure of sex-workers”. “We have known that several notable citizens of this city are regularly seen visiting sex-workers. Prostitution has long thrived here, but now we should think about the future of the younger generation. The youth of Pune have been seen patronizing the flesh trade. Due to this, sex workers from other towns and villages have now started operating here”, it wrote.This was one of the hundreds of articles and editorials published in the last few decades of the 19th century in various Marathi newspapers expressing concern about the flourishing prostitution in Pune. Social leaders like Gopal Hari Deshmukh alias Lokahitawadi, Mahadev Govind Ranade, Mahadev Moreshwar Kunte actively cautioned the youth against visiting sex workers. BG Tilak and GG Agarkar later campaigned against prostitution in their newspapers “Kesari” and “Maratha”. After the 1860s, when Marathi newspapers started printing advertisements, the majority of those featured medicines to treat venereal diseases, and sexually transmitted infections (STIs).Most of the articles published then condemned prostitution on moral grounds. The leaders wanted young men to “give up vices like liquor and visiting brothels, and commit their lives for their country”. A few articles though, mostly written by Tilak and Agarkar, wanted their readers to know about the dangers of venereal diseases and STIs. The newspapers chose not to, or could not, write about the health hazards openly. Owing to the constraints of those times, and the unease felt by the authors, this had to be hinted at obliquely. They instead, very cleverly, adapted a euphemism to talk about venereal diseases.The said euphemism was “Korphadicha muramba”, or Aloe vera jam. This jam was being used to treat STIs by the natives of Pune. So naturally, people having STIs would eat it a lot. Whenever the authors wanted to draw the attention of their readers towards the growing number of patients with STIs, they would simply mention that “more and more people are now eating Korphadicha muramba”. This usage made venereal diseases and STIs look less scandalous. It also saved the authors from any possible embarrassment whatsoever while writing about the topic. While Marathi newspapers were using Aloe vera jam as a euphemism for STIs, English newspapers published in Britain, and India had started using “Fish market” as a euphemism for brothels.Aloe vera had been used in India for several centuries to treat a variety of diseases and infections. It was an aperient and deemed highly beneficial to persons predisposed to apoplexy. The fresh juice from the leaves was said to be cathartic, cooling, and useful in fevers, spleen, and liver disease, enlarged lymphatic glands, and as an external applicant in certain eye diseases.Garcia de Orta, a Portuguese physician, accompanied Admiral Martin Alfonso de Souza to Goa in 1534. According to Garcia de Orta, the juice of Aloe vera at that time was used for medicinal purposes in South India. He gives the prescription for the use of the fresh plant – “aloe leaves sliced, 3 oz., salt, heat to boiling, strain, add 1 oz. of sugar; to be taken cold early in the morning”. This concoction was widely used as an aperient and emmenagogue.It is unclear how, when, and where the recipe of Aloe vera jam was developed. Many medieval manuals of Ayurveda talks about using Aloe vera to treat several maladies, but only a few mention the said jam.The recipe for Aloe vera jam could be found in “Soopashastra”, the first Marathi cookbook written by Ramchandra Sakharam Gupte, and published in 1875 by Shridhar Ravji Gondhalekar in Pune.Gupte instructs his readers to wash Aloe vera pulp carefully and put it on a clean cloth. One part pulp is then added to three parts sugar syrup, and the mixture is boiled on moderate heat till the jam thickens. According to Gupte, this jam was used to treat Syphilis.Sadly, the prevalence of venereal diseases was not limited to Pune city. The Cantonment areas were severely affected too. Even though the British Government had been trying to control the situation since the early 1820s, the efforts gained momentum only during the last decades of the 19th century.According to “The Bombay Gazette”, there were 2,556 admissions in 1867 from venereal diseases which gave a ratio of 212 per thousand European men. STIs amounted to 15% of “the entire sickness”. The number kept on increasing for the next three decades.Several measures were adopted to keep venereal diseases among European men in check. Sex workers were forbidden in the Poona and Kirkee Cantonment areas. Female workers were employed to “keep an eye on the sex workers”, and trace the women “who were carrying the disease”. A “lock hospital” was established, where patients were not allowed to go out, and visitors were strictly prohibited.The British doctors in India in the 19th century did not hesitate from using traditional native medicines and modes of treatment. Accordingly, they did not shy away from using Aloe vera to treat venereal diseases amongst the European population in India.Dr MD Joynt, Brigade-Surgeon, Poona, Prof GM Woodrow, College of Science, Poona, and Dr William Dymock, Surgeon-Major, Bombay, came together to formulate a mode of treatment for venereal diseases. Their treatment included fresh juice of Aloe vera and the famed Aloe vera jam.GM Woodrow, Professor at College of Science, Poona, mentions in “A Dictionary of the Economic Products of India” that in Poona roots of Abrus precatorius (rosary pea) were used to treat Gonorrhea. A quantity equal to a drachm (a unit of weight formerly used by apothecaries, equivalent to 60 grains or one-eighth of an ounce) in weight was pounded and the juice was mixed with sugar-candy. This was sold on the streets of Pune. This was also included in the treatment formulated in the Cantonment hospitals.As a medicine, the inspissated juice from the forms of the species of Aloe vera found in India was regarded as but little inferior to the imported Socotrine aloes. The Socotrine Aloes (Aloe Perryi) is very similar to the Barbados aloes but has a purplish hue on the stem and lower parts of the leaf. Aloe fruticosa (Ghritkumari in Hindi) has a woody stem and narrow recurved toothy leaves.All three species were planted in Poona and Kirkee Cantonment areas to get a regular supply of fresh pulp and juice.Aloe vera jam suddenly disappeared from Marathi newspapers at the onset of the 21st century. But it stayed in popular literature for a long time. Authors like Shantabai Nashikkar, Anandibai Shirke, YG Joshi, NH Apte mentioned the dish in their short stories and novels. A man eating the jam was understood by the readers to indulge in debauchery. They sympathized with his wife.Euphemisms abound in food terminology. We should all be grateful when it comes to culinary name-calling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-when-korphadicha-muramba-became-a-synonym-to-talk-about-stis-101634813306507.html
21-10-2021||Patna||President Kovind attends event to mark 100-yrs of Bihar Vidhan Sabha Bhavan||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday attended a function organised here to mark the centenary of Bihar Vidhan Sabha Bhavan, the sprawling building that accommodates the two houses of state legislature and has been a witness to many a historic legislative business and debate. On the occasion, Kovind planted a sapling of Bodhi tree and laid the foundation for a commemorative pillar. According to Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, the pillar would be around the same height as the imposing 100-year-old building and will be adorned on top with a metallic replica of the Bodhi Vriksh, the tree under which Gautam Buddha had attained enlightenment over two millennia ago. Later, the President addressed a symposium on the theme "debate in the legislature is at the root of parliamentary democracy". In his speech, Kovind fondly recalled his association with the state, his nearly two-year-long gubernatorial stint in Bihar before getting elected to the highest constitutional post. He paid glowing tributes to the contributions of Sachchidanand Sinha, the first president of the Constituent Assembly, in getting statehood for Bihar, formerly a part of the Calcutta presidency. The President also recalled that late Jagjivan Ram, the tallest Dalit leader of his generation who rose to the post of the deputy prime minister, had started his political career as a member of the Bihar legislative assembly. Earlier, in his address, Governor Phagu Chauhan expressed dismay over declining standards of debates in legislative bodies and frequent disruptions by agitated members. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who had famously supported Kovind’s candidature in presidential elections, said it was a matter of pride for Bihar that one of its former governors was now occupying the Rashtrapati Bhavan. "Although Dr Zakir Hussain had served as a governor of Bihar before getting elected as the President, he had been the vice president in between. But Kovind's achievement is rare in that he became the President straight away. Nonetheless, we have fond memories of him and always consider him to be a Bihari," said Kumar. Others who spoke on the occasion included assembly speaker and acting chairman of the legislative council Awadhesh Narayan Singh. Conspicuous by his absence was leader of the opposition Tejashwi Yadav who was slated to speak just before the chief minister. "I received and greeted the President upon his arrival at the airport on Wednesday. Because of commitments in Kusheshwar Asthan where assembly by-poll campaign is underway, I will not be able to attend the function at the Vidhan Sabha," Yadav said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/president-kovind-attends-event-to-mark-100-yrs-of-bihar-vidhan-sabha-bhavan-101634807650810.html
21-10-2021||Delhi||#CyberSecurity: When did you last change your password?||Online shopping for festivals is taking place in full swing, for many! And why not, for pre-Diwali is the time when one lets loose all restrictions on budget to enjoy the festivities. But, give it a pause and think and reply: When did you change your account password last? If the answer is taking a long time to come to you, then know that your accounts aren’t as secure as your believe them to be! Cyber crime cases have sure risen in the pandemic times. And recently, Gaurav Sharma, DCP (Southwest), Delhi Police, tweeted how important it is to change the passwords regularly, and not to use one’s mobile number or easy codes such as 0000, as your password. Sharma says, “The most important thing is whether you change your password or not, don’t, ever, share it with anyone! Many of us have the habit of delegating things... we give our card to someone and ask them to do a transaction on our behalf. That need to stop! When everything can be managed with a mobile phone, there’s no need to make a cash transaction. Senior citizens ask their servants to make these transactions for them, and this needs to stop too. To make it easier, you can make a set of 2-3 passwords that are interchangeable; so that if you forget one, you can check the second and third. One of them will click!”Why netizens avoid changing passwords frequently?Can’t remember!There is a lot of confusion when you change your password, says Sonali Kutariyar, a Noida-based banker. “It’s always difficult to remember a new password. In the bank, we need to change password just to mitigate risk of cyber fraud every two weeks. Like in our organisation, there is multi-factor authentication that leads to remembering many passwords at a same time, which creates chaos. So for personal things I tend to keep an easy password so that I remember it. But yes, if attackers crack a password, it’s easy for them to crack the next password because the person will keep almost similar passwords (in most cases),” she adds.Different combos are like Maths sum Shubhangi Jeswal, a dance teacher from Noida fails to wrap her head around all the mandates that a password demands on varied websites. “Most of the apps want specific passwords that include special characters, numbers, uppercase and lowercase and what not. Getting this combination right is at times like solving a Maths problem! It’s so tough to meet all these password requirements for every single app. And every time I try to make a new password, it takes several attempts to finally get it right. So now I’ve one password that I feel is strong, and works for everything,” she says.Autofill saves the day“When everything is fed in the phone, it gets so easy to use your accounts,” says Bhavna Bansal, an IT professional from Naraina, adding: “I keep same passwords for a lot of accounts because my memory isn’t that good to remember all different ones. And though I do want to organise my passwords as per the accounts like different for shopping and different for office or banking apps. But, I will have to do it manually, and if god forbid I don’t remember what I had put in, then it’s a whole process to get to get out of that game called — forgot password!”What do the experts say?‘Understand the consequences’It’s a human mentality to avoid change, says Dr Imran Noorani, consultant chief psychologist at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. He adds, “It has to do with not understanding how important the issue is. People have to understand the consequences. For any human mind, they do only that what they feel is important and will fetch them something. A person who has faced an issue will tell the others about the seriousness. Otherwise, changing passwords is an added burden for them. It becomes difficult for humans to adapt to change.”Safety vault password as 123456?KPS Malhotra, DCP (cyber, special cell), Delhi Police, says people must be very careful nowadays as everything is connected to your bank account. “Will you keep the password of your safety vault at home as 123456? No, right? So you also need to value your cyber safety and security. Most of the things today are linked to our banking credentials and other important information. Giving easy access to such information can lead to major troubles, both on the financial and personal fronts. Guard your cyber credentials well and be safe online and in life,” he says.Try holiday spot instead of DOBSuggesting how to create an easy yet effective password, Ankur Tripathi, an associate director with MNC, says that a combination of some rules need to be followed while making your password. He says, “It’s important to not use your date of birth, name, or a pattern like 123 or common passwords like 0000 or your phone number. It’s best to use a combination of uppercase characters, lower case characters and special characters with length of at least 10 characters. These characters could be anything but not your basic information. Like you can maybe put your favourite holiday spot like this: MAldives@666.” So now when you log into your account, do make it secure by ensuring that its password has been recently changed!Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cybersecurity-when-did-you-last-change-your-password-101634804137024.html
21-10-2021||Delhi||#DelhiWinter: Excessive rains make denizens feel cold spell!||The unexpected and heavy rainfall earlier this week has definitely led to a nip in the air. Though the days are still somewhat warm, the evenings are making a few shiver due to the cool breeze that started only after the rain spell. And that has made Twitter abuzz with talks of how winter is here! From pulling out some light winter wear to lugging along jackets or stoles, especially to their workplaces, denizens are indulging in it all to adjust to the instant weather change. “The weather has changed suddenly and it has become quite cold. It’s that kind of thand jahaan fan mein thand lagti hai aur nahi chalao toh garmi. Specially in the evenings, you do need a light jacket or something warm to cover the arms,” says Samridhi Verma, a teacher from Kalkaji Extension adding, “Of course it will only get cooler now. And keeping that in mind I’ve already unpacked my daughter’s and mine winter wear, and arranged it in our wardrobes. These will be required pretty soon now... Itni baarish hui ki thand ki lag gayi!” Well, if winter’s here then how can winter clothes be far behind! For some Delhiites, the rains given a kick start to their winter shopping. “My wife was after my life to order new clothes for Diwali. We got married recently, and this going to be our first Diwali together! But ab thand itni ho gayi hai toh she has told me ki winter ke kapde abhi hi cart mein daal dete hain! So yes, our winter shopping has officially begun,” says Shubhendra Kumar, an IT professional from Greater Kailash I.Some like Ashish Jain, an entrepreneur from Adarsh Nagar, have decided to carry a jacket to work, to protect himself from the cold. “I’ve to travel to Gurugram for work, and it has now started getting cold in the evenings, when I’m on my way back home. Since it rained in Delhi after Dussehra, I had to carry a jacket with me to battle the cold. The centralised AC in office was another reason that made me do this, nahi toh meri kulfi jam jaati,” says Jain. Some denizens are also struggling to not to fall sick due to the change in weather, and hence stocking up on vitamin C pills and kadha to boost their immunity. “Winter is my favourite, but we need to be careful when such kind of a weather change happens because this is also the time when a lot of people fall sick,” says Shivani Jaiswal, a dentist from Anand Lok, adding, “I’ve bought vitamin C tablets and other basic medicines for cold and cough. I’m also going to wear only full sleeves clothing from now on, especially when I step out in the evenings. And I’m not drinking anything cold, but a lot of tea. I don’t want to fall sick during the festival time!” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwinter-excessive-rains-make-denizens-feel-cold-spell-101634804007195.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder should explain why he stalled Maur blast probe: Randhawa||Keeping up his attack on Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who holds the home portfolio, on Thursday said the former chief minister should explain why he stalled the inquiry into the Maur bomb blast case that left seven people dead in January 2017. Also read: Farmers have right to protest, but roads can’t be blocked indefinitely: SCSpeaking to the media after presiding over a function at the Punjab Armed Police headquarters in Jalandhar on Police Commemoration Day, Randhawa said: “Capt Amarinder has been pitching the issue of national security in Punjab and making tall claims on busting terror modules, but he should first explain why the Maur blast probe was closed and why people don’t know the truth behind it. It’s a major failure of Capt Amarinder Singh, who was also the home minister.” The deputy CM claimed that the inquiry into the blast case was stopped rather than speeded up despite requests of party workers to direct the police to expedite the probe. “We are set to launch a re-investigation in the case. The culprits will be behind bars soon,” Randhawa said while referring to the internal threat from Dera Sacha Sauda in the 2022 assembly elections as the accused in the Maur blast case are still at large. Two probe teams yet accused at large Seven people, including three children, were killed and 13 others were injured in the blast at Maur Mandi in Bathinda district on January 31, 2017. The explosion had taken place close to an election campaign site of Congress candidate Harminder Singh Jassi days before the last assembly elections. In February this year, the Punjab government approved special provisions in its rules to provide government jobs to the kin of the children killed in the blast. The special investigation team, led by deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra, found Dera followers Gurtej Kala and Amrik Singh were supervisors of the workshop of the sect in Sirsa where the car used in the bombing was painted. The SIT probe pointed to the involvement of Dera Sacha Sauda but did not question its chief, Gurmeet Ram Rahim. The dera chief’s son is married to Jassi’s daughter. Later, the Punjab and Haryana high court dissolved the SIT and directed Punjab Police to form a new team to investigate the case. Another SIT led by senior IPS officer Ishwar Singh was formed in 2019 that filed a chargesheet in a Bathinda court, but the accused remain at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-amarinder-should-explain-why-he-stalled-maur-blast-probe-randhawa-101634800885951.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Covid's defeat is certain, says UP CM as India's vaccinations cross 100 crores||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said the defeat of the coronavirus is certain on the completion of the administration of 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses to the people of the country."A record 100 crore Covid vaccines have been provided in the country so far. It is a result of the efficient leadership of @narendramodi, the hard work of committed health workers and the participation of disciplined citizens. Corona's defeat is certain," said Adityanth in a tweet.In a landmark achievement, India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed 100 crore doses on Thursday.A total of 100 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far to eligible beneficiaries, as per the CoWIN portal at 9:47 am today.India's Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covids-defeat-is-certain-says-up-cm-as-india-s-vaccinations-cross-100-crores-101634797137564.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||Cruise ship drugs case: Bombay HC to hear Aryan Khan's bail plea on Oct 26||The Bombay high court will on October 26 hear the bail application of Aryan Khan, who was arrested after seizure of drugs on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast following a raid by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 2.Aryan, who is the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, moved the high court on Wednesday evening after a special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court rejected his bail application. Since his arrest, Khan's multiple bail applications have been rejected, first by sessions court and then by the NDPS court.Satish Maneshinde, who represented Aryan Khan initially, mentioned the bail plea before a single bench of Justice N W Sambre, and sought urgent hearing on Friday.Also Read| Only Aryan Khan has the details of...: 5 things court said while denying bailHowever, additional solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, sought time till next week.The NDPS special court, while rejecting Aryan's plea on Wednesday, observed that the 23-year-old was involved in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis" and had a nexus with drug peddlers and suppliers.On October 26, the Bombay high court will also hear the bail plea filed by Munmun Dhamecha, a co-accused in the drugs seizure case whose bail plea was also rejected by the special court on Wednesday.On the other hand, lawyers of Arbaaz Merchant, another co-accused in the case, told news agency ANI that they too will move the high court after rejection of bail by the NDPS special court.Also Read| Shah Rukh Khan visits Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail to meet son AryanEarlier on Thursday, Shah Rukh met his son Aryan, who is lodged at the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai. Khan spent almost 20 minutes with his son.Due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, visitors are not allowed to have any physical contact with inmates and hence Shah Rukh met Aryan through a glass wall and communicated with him using an intercom.Earlier, the accused in the facility were not allowed to have visitors due to the pandemic but the restrictions were relaxed from Thursday, jail authorities told news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-ship-drugs-case-bombay-hc-to-hear-aryan-khan-s-bail-plea-on-october-26-101634794439189.html
21-10-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19 cases, positivity rate shoot up after Durga puja in West Bengal||Fresh Covid-19 cases have shown an increasing trend in the past five days in West Bengal along with the positivity rate and experts are blaming it on the rampant violations of Covid-19 containment norms amid huge public gatherings during the Durga puja celebrations earlier this month. The night curfew from 11 pm to 5 am, which was lifted for 10 days during the Durga puja, will be reimposed from Thursday, a senior official of the state government said. On October 16, 443 new Covid cases were recorded but the number almost doubled over the last five days to reach 867 new cases on October 20. The puja ended on October 15. Similarly, the positivity rate rose from 1.6% on August 20 to 1.9% by September 20 and to 2.4% on October 20. “Even though the puja was held last week, the shopping spree and festivity started much earlier. During the puja days, there were huge gatherings outside pandals and people from Kolkata and its outskirts hit the streets in thousands. Covid-19 protocols were rampantly violated,” said Dr Manas Gumta, general secretary of the Association of Health Service Doctors in the state. Also Read: TMC says Congress emulating it by promising 40% tickets for women in UPDurga puja, the biggest festival in West Bengal, spanned over five days between October 11 and 15 this year, but the festivity started much earlier and continued till October 17. Even though barricades were put up to implement the Calcutta high court ‘s order banning the entry of visitors inside puja pandals, devotees were seen gathering unchecked in large numbers on the other side of the barricades at the pandals. In one instance, the police had to stop the entry of visitors at one pandal in Salt Lake. The pandal, which was built resembling the iconic Burj Khalifa, was a major crowd puller this year. The Eastern Railway too had to cancel around 13 pairs of trains to stop people from coming to Kolkata for pandal hopping on the puja days. “The next two weeks will be very crucial as [Covid-19] cases are expected to rise,” said Sukumar Mukherjee, member of the expert committee set up in 2020 to advice chief minister Mamata Banerjee on pandemic-related matters. The maximum number of Covid-19 cases were recorded on October 22 last year during the first wave of the infection when 4,157 people turned positive. October 22 was the first day of Durga Puja last year.The state registered the peak of the second wave on May 14 this year just after the assembly elections ended. The daily count had then shot up to 20,846. In both cases health experts blamed huge public gatherings without caring for safety norms. The state health department has now started to ramp up testing, which had dropped during the festive season. “The number of RT-PCR tests had dropped to almost half during the puja. We have started increasing it. The night curfew would be imposed again from Thursday. While 39,661 tests were done on October 1, the number of tests dropped to around 21,217 on October 15. On October 20 we conducted 35,673 tests and this will be increased further,” said a senior official of the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-cases-positivity-rate-shoot-up-after-durga-puja-in-west-bengal-101634795845094.html
21-10-2021||Bangalore||'No one should speak disrespectfully': Yediyurappa condemns K'taka BJP chief's 'drug addict' remark on Rahul Gandhi||Former Karnataka chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader BS Yediyurappa condemned the "drug peddler" and "drug addict" remarks made by state BJP state president against Rahul Gandhi stating that no one should speak so disrespectfully.While addressing a by-election campaign in Sindagi of Vijayapura district, Yediyurappa said the "statement made by BJP state president related to Rahul Gandhi is not correct, no one should speak disrespectfully."Kateel on Tuesday had told a gathering of BJP workers that "Rahul Gandhi says he will become president. Tell me what is Rahul Gandhi? Rahul Gandhi is a drug addict and drug peddler. I do not say this, it has appeared in news reports. They are unable to run the Congress party. Those who cannot run a party, how can they run this country?"Further, attacking Congress leader HD Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah for criticising RSS during the election campaign, Yediyurappa said: "Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah are unnecessarily dragging the RSS name into the election campaign but they will gain nothing by bringing RSS name, people will give them a proper answer in the bypolls."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yediyurappa-condemns-k-taka-bjp-chief-s-drug-addict-remark-on-rahul-gandhi-101634785645289.html
21-10-2021||Delhi||‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’: Delhi MLAs to hit the streets today to raise awareness on anti-pollution drive||To provide further impetus to the “Red Light On, Gaadi Off” campaign, all the MLAs of Delhi will gather at the Chandgi Ram Akhara intersection on Thursday to aware people of the drive to reduce vehicular pollution, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai has said. In a statement, the minister said that public participation is key to the success of any government initiative and if two crore people of Delhi contribute responsibly, then vehicle pollution can be reduced by 15 to 20 per cent.“On October 21 (Thursday), all the MLAs of Delhi will raise awareness about the 'Red Light On, Gaadi Off' campaign near Chandgi Ram Akhara on Ring Road. They will appeal to the public to contribute to the campaign. I request the people of Delhi to strengthen our fight against pollution,” Rai said on Wednesday.The Delhi government had on Monday launched the “Red Light On, Gaadi Off” initiative – turning off a car's engine at a red signal -- with an aim to cut down on vehicular emissions.The campaign will continue for a month till November 18.As many as 2,500 civil defence volunteers will be deployed in two shifts of 8 am to 2 pm and 2 pm to 8 pm across 100 traffic junctions in the city for the campaign.The environment minister said that when both the government and society fight together, only then the fight against pollution can be won. He said that the aim of this campaign is to stop the burning of fuel from vehicles stopping at intersections.“I call upon the two crore people of Delhi. This entire campaign is on your shoulders. We are confident that the way we are running the anti-dust campaign in Delhi, we will also see success similarly with this campaign,” Rai said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/red-light-on-gaadi-off-delhi-mlas-to-hit-the-streets-today-to-raise-awareness-on-anti-pollution-drive-101634779519079.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Meghalaya guv’s claim about me being Roshni Act beneficiary false: Mehbooba||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday asked Meghalaya governor Satya Pal Malik to withdraw his purported comments that the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister was a beneficiary of now-abandoned Roshni scheme, failing which legal action will be taken against him.“False & unsavoury utterances of Satya Pal Malik about me being a beneficiary of Roshni Act is highly mischievous. My legal team is preparing to sue him. He has the option to withdraw his comments, failing which I will pursue legal recourse,” Mehbooba said in a tweet. Mehbooba shared a video in which Malik, who was the last governor of Jammu and Kashmir state, is purportedly seen claiming that National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah, his son Omar Abdullah and People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mufti have got plots of land under the Roshni scheme.The Roshni Act was brought in by the Farooq Abdullah government with the aim of granting proprietary rights to occupants of state land in lieu of charges. The money thus generated was to be used for setting up hydroelectric power plants in the erstwhile state.However, the scheme was disbanded after Jammu and Kashmir High Court declared it illegal and directed the CBI to investigate the beneficiaries of the scheme.It has emerged that proprietary rights to bulk of the state land (nearly 28,500 hectares) was given in the Jammu division, while proprietary rights were transferred to the occupants in Kashmir only on six per cent (1,700 hectares) of the land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/meghalaya-guv-s-claim-about-me-being-roshni-act-beneficiary-false-mehbooba-101634779044301.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 of family arrested for smuggling drugs in Jammu||Three members of a family were arrested for smuggling drugs and ₹1.6 lakh recovered from them in Jammu district on Tuesday, officials said.A police team stopped a man, his father and mother at a checkpoint near Chorli Kothey in Bishnah belt.They signalled to stop for checking and instead of stopping, they tried to flee, which created suspicion among the police party, prompting them to chase and overpower them swiftly, police said.On their search, 30 grams of heroin and cash worth ₹1.6 lakh was recovered, they said. The three accused were identified as Sunny Kumar, his father Baldev Raj and mother Boli Devi of Kothey Chorli village, they said, adding a case was registered against them at a police station in Bishnah.According to police, Kumar has been involved in 16 FIRs earlier and was evading the arrest.Kumar and his father are “notorious” criminals and detained under the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act (PSA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-of-family-arrested-for-smuggling-drugs-in-jammu-101634778864609.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: Work on Tawi barrage to be completed in 10 months||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has approved the revised project for the construction of balance works of Tawi barrage, popularly called Artificial Lake, at an estimated cost of ₹73.34 crore. The administrative council, which met in Srinagar on Tuesday under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, approved the revised project. Farooq Khan and Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, advisers to the LG, Arun Kumar Mehta, chief secretary, J&K and Nitishwar Kumar, principal secretary to the LG attended the meeting. The proposed gated barrage on Tawi is one of the three subprojects of the prestigious artificial lake project that which was conceptualised to give a boost to regional tourism in Jammu by creating recreational activities like boating and water sports, besides enhancing the overall aesthetic look of the city. The other two subprojects, viz Tawi river development project and beautification and creation of tourist facilities are to executed by the housing and urban development department and tourism department, respectively.. The project was originally sanctioned in the financial year 2010-11 at a cost of ₹70.00 crore by dovetailing funds from various sources. However, the project was stalled on account of contractor’s inactivity for seven years leading to cancellation of awarded tender and related cost escalation. “The administrative council has sanctioned the revised project which will be completed within 10 months of allotment through e-tendering at an estimated cost of ₹131.53 crore which includes the additional grant of ₹73.34 crore and already incurred expenditure of ₹58.19 crore,” said an official spokesperson. On completion, the project will promote water recreation and sporting facilities besides boosting commercial activities around the artificial lake which in turn create employment opportunities for locals and attract tourists to Jammu city. A whopping ₹60 crore of tax payers’ money has been spent so far in the past 12 years since it was conceived in 2009. On May 31 this year, J&K administration headed by LG Manoj Sinha had again set a timeline for the completion of the protracted project. Pertinently, the Jammu and Kashmir administration had engaged the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee, for detailed assessment of works already executed on Tawi Barrage Project and to give expert advice on the completion of leftover work and recommend measures required to be taken to prevent erosion of the embankments and suggest required flood protection works. Under the Jhelum Tawi Flood Recovery Project (JTFRP) a Portuguese firm — Aqualogus — was also assigned the task of conducting morphology study of Tawi so that effective measures can be taken for flood protection. Last year in February, the general administration department had issued an order sanctioning constitution of a panel to probe lapses and fixing responsibility into the poor execution of the contract. A three-member panel of officers, headed by principal secretary Rohit Kansal, was given the task to probe the matter and submit a report to the government in a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-work-on-tawi-barrage-to-be-completed-in-10-months-101634778564211.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: LeT terrorist nabbed with grenade in Kishtwar||Security forces on Wednesday evening nabbed a terrorist and recovered a grenade from his possession in Kishtwar district, said officials. He was identified as Sohail Ahmed Bhat, son of Noor Mohammad Bhat of Bathri Gandoh. “Based on inputs about inimical elements planning to cause disturbance in Kishtwar district, a joint checkpost was set up at Drabshalla Thathri by a team of police, army and CRPF. At 5.30pm, during search of vehicles and persons travelling through the checkpost, an individual was found moving suspiciously and trying to avoid the naka,” said a spokesperson. However, alert jawans at the checkpost immediately overpowered the individual and started frisking him. “On his personal search, one hand grenade was recovered from his possession,” he added. Under relevant sections of law, a case has been registered at the Kishtwar police station and further investigations have been taken up. “The arrested terrorist belongs to LeT and was sent by a grenade by a terrorist named Khobaib based in Pakistan,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-let-terrorist-nabbed-with-grenade-in-kishtwar-101634778384210.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: Heavy exchanges continue in Poonch on Day 10||Even as search operations entered Day 10 on Wednesday, security forces and terrorists hiding in the Nar Khas forests in Mendhar area of Poonch traded heavy gunfire this morning followed by a low-intensity blast around 4.37 pm. “There was heavy exchange of fire between the soldiers and terrorists in Nar Khas forests this morning. Thereafter, there was a lull followed by a low-intensity blast around 4.37pm,” said a police officer. The blast was probably of an under barrel grenade launcher (UBGL) used by the soldiers to blow up a natural cave inside the forest, he added. Defence spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand said, “The operation is on, but there is no further headway.” The operation in the Rajouri-Poonch belt has become the longest ever with highest number of casualties of army personnel in recent years. Sources confided to HT that the terrorists, well trained in guerilla warfare, were using the thick forest having natural caves to their advantage. The police have so far detained around eight people, including a woman and her son, on the suspicion of providing the terrorists logistical support. “The forest is under tight cordon and the security forces are wearing out the terrorists because we have already lost nine of our soldiers,” said army sources. Meanwhile, traffic movement on Bhimber Gali-Jaranwali Gali-Surankote remained suspended for the fifth consecutive day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-heavy-exchanges-continue-in-poonch-on-day-10-101634778264126.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Swarnim Vijay Varsh victory torch reaches Shimla||The victory torch of Swarnim Vijay Varsh was on Wednesday installed at the Army Training Command (ATRAC) in Shimla on Wednesday.The victory torch is being carried across the country to mark the stupendous victory of India over Pakistan in the 1971 war 50 years ago.Chief of Staff, ATRAC, Lieutenant General JS Sandhu honoured the war widows, family members and veterans of the 1971 war. He said it was a proud moment for the Indian Army and the people of the state that the victory torch was being taken to the houses of the soldiers and martyrs. “This celebration will be important and inspiring for the generations to come,” said Lt Gen Sandhu. “We feel privileged to honour the family members and veterans on this occasion,” he added.He said Himachal Pradesh was the land of soldiers and the people of the state supported army wholeheartedly. Lt Gen Sandhu said the victory torch will be handed over the Western Command on October 23 at Kasauli. Meanwhile, addressing the media, Brigadier Rajesh Siag said, “We got the victory torch of the north direction on Tuesday at the residence of Captain Jitendra Nath Sood where his elder brother Yogindernath received it and a small programme was organised to honour them.” On December 16, all four torches would be merged into Amar Jawan Jyoti in New Delhi.“It is a very important day for us that we were able to honour the soldiers and their family members here,” said Brigadier Siag.The golden victory year celebration was launched by PM Narendra Modi on December 16, 2020, from the national capital with an objective to honour the 1971 war veterans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/swarnim-vijay-varsh-victory-torch-reaches-shimla-101634778084301.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Eleven people on trek to Himachal’s Chitkul go missing||Eight trekkers and three cooks accompanying them on a trek to Chitkul in the neighbouring Himachal Pradesh have gone missing, officials said on Wednesday.The team of eleven people was on a trek to Chitkul via Harsil in Uttarkashi district of Uttarakhand, district disaster management officer Devendra Patwal said. Comprising seven tourists from Kolkata and one from Delhi, the team had left Harsil for Chitkul on October 11 and was supposed to reach there on October 19. However, when it did not reach Chitkul on Tuesday, worried trek organisers informed the Uttarkashi district disaster management office, Patwal said. An SDRF team is preparing to trace the missing trekkers by a helicopter and rescue them, he said. The team members have been identified as Anita Rawat (38) from Delhi, and Mithun Dari (31), Tanmay Tiwari (30), Vikash Makal (33), Saurav Ghosh (34), Saviayan Das (28), Richard Mandal (30), and Suken Manjhi (43), all from Kolkata. The cooking staff have been identified as Devendra (37), Gyan Chandra (33) and Upendra (32), all from Purola in Uttarkashi. “They are supposedly stuck near Lakhwaga Pass. An ITBP team will start rescue operation early in the morning tomorrow,” said Kinnaur deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq. Kinnaur superintendent of police Ashok Rattan said that cops have also been dispatched.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eleven-people-on-trek-to-himachal-s-chitkul-go-missing-101634777844124.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls: People dislike the kind of language Cong leaders are using, says Jai Ram||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday said the kind of language the Opposition party leaders were using during the election campaign was not liked by the people of the state.“Even the Congress workers were hurt by the words they have used against me and BJP nominee Brigadier Khushal Thakur,” the chief minister said while addressing a meeting at Sarao in the Seraj assembly segment.He said that when the Covid pandemic hit the country, the Congress only made noise but did nothing to contribute to the fight against the virus.Responding to the Congress’ allegation that the CM doesn’t step out of helicopters, Jai Ram asked if the Congress leaders used to travel in bullock carts. Taking a jibe at the CM, leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri had said that he flew in the helicopter and thus didn’t know the problems being faced by the common people.Meanwhile, addressing a rally at Mandi, Agnihotri said if the Congress is voted to power in 2022, it would give a new pay scale to the employees and would also implement ‘One Rank One Pension’ for ex-servicemen. Pratibha Singh said she was campaigning in the election without her husband Virbhadra Singh for the first time.Cong always promotes dynastic politics: Satti The Congress could not provide a competent leadership to the state as it prefers nepotism over capability, former president of Himachal BJP Satpal Singh Satti said on Wednesday.He was campaigning for BJP nominee Baldev Thakur in Fatehpur constituency.Satti said the narrow thinking of the Congress can be gauged from the fact that they have sacrificed the organisation for the sake of dynastic politics at national and state levels.‘BJP fighting bypolls on development issue’Meanwhile, addressing another election meeting in Fatehpur, forest minister Rakesh Pathania said that BJP was fighting the election on development issue.“Our government has ensured equal development across the state. The people of Fatehpur must make the assembly segment Congress-free so that the pace of development can be given a boost,” said Pathania.‘Jubbal-Kotkhai saw maximum development in Cong regime’Shimla The Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segment saw unprecedented development, especially in the road infrastructure, under the leadership of Rohit Thakur during the previous Congress regime, former state chief of Himachal Congress Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu said on Wednesday.He was addressing an election meeting at Sarhana in Jubbal-Kotkhai.He said that during the Congress regime, Jubbal-Navar-Kotkhai was allocated the maximum budget for roads. He said that Rohit Thakur had always been concerned about the development of the Jubbal-Kotkhai area.“It was due to his people-centric vision that the area got maximum budget among all assembly segments,” said Sukhu.He said that in the current BJP regime, all budget was going to only two assembly segments in the Mandi district.Rohit Thakur said that roads were given priority when the Congress was in power to carry forward the development of Jubbal-Kotkhai in the horticulture area. He said during 2012-17, more than ₹250 crore was spent on constructing 60 new roads while forest clearances were also obtained for as many roads. He alleged that the BJP government stopped the work on Theog-Hatkoti road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypolls-people-dislike-the-kind-of-language-cong-leaders-are-using-says-jai-ram-101634777604197.html
21-10-2021||Dehradun||52 dead in Uttarakhand floods, Amit Shah to conduct aerial survey today||Union home minister Amit Shah, who reached Uttarakhand around midnight, will take stock of the flood situation in the state on Thursday. Shah was welcomed by chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami at the Dehradun airport.Shah will also conduct an aerial survey of the state’s affected areas, news agency ANI reported.“After his (Amit Shah’s) arrival in Uttarakhand at midnight, he was apprised about the damage caused by the natural calamity in the last two days,” chief minister Dhami tweeted, adding that the Union home minister also visited the rescue and relief operations being done in the state.The death toll due to the floods caused by incessant rainfall since Sunday has climbed to 52. Seventeen people have been injured till now while five are still missing. Of the total deaths, 28 were reported from Nainital alone. According to an official statement, a majority of the deaths were due to house collapses. Forty-six of such houses suffered damages.The weather in Uttarakhand cleared on Wednesday morning and Nainital saw the sun rising without any trace of rain. Tourists in Nainital were out shopping and sightseeing and taxis also started operating. The supply of electricity and telephone connections, which were earlier in the town, was restored on Wednesday.The Haldwani-Nainital national highway is open for light vehicles only because of landslide-prone zones at some spots.Meanwhile, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said on Wednesday that it has rescued over 1,300 people from the affected areas. Seventeen teams of the NDRF have been deployed across Uttarakhand.“So far, NDRF rescuers have evacuated more than 1,300 stranded people from Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital. They are also distributing relief material in flood-affected areas of Uttarakhand,” a spokesperson said.Six NDRF teams have been deployed in Udham Singh Nagar, two teams each in Uttarkashi, Chamoli and one each in Dehradun, Champawat, Pithoragarh and Haridwar.As the weather conditions improved on Wednesday, state government authorities allowed the stranded pilgrims to proceed towards the Chardham destinations of Kedarnath, Yamunotri and Gangotri.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/52-dead-in-uttarakhand-floods-amit-shah-to-conduct-aerial-survey-today-101634777315894.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls: ‘Creating job avenues for youth will be my priority’||Khushal Thakur, 67, is a war veteran who shot to fame during the Kargil conflict in 1999 when he was the commanding officer of 18 Grenadiers that captured Tiger Hill and Tololing, which were of strategic importance to India. During his 34-year-old military career, he participated in the Indian peacekeeping mission in Sri Lanka against the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). While on a UN peacekeeping mission in Sierra Leone, he successfully led Operation Khukri and liberated 234 soldiers. He was awarded the Yudh Seva Medal and his unit received a record 52 gallantry awards. Post-retirement, he got involved in social work and politics. Thakur also led the agitation of farmers affected by the widening of Pathankot-Mandi national highway. He was the chairperson-cum-MD of Himachal Pradesh Ex-Servicemen Corporation, but resigned from the post when he was pitted against Congress’ nominee from Mandi. In an interview with Hindustan Times, Thakur talks about his plans, priorities and addresses the allegations of the Opposition. Edited excerpts: Which will be top-three issues on your priority list if elected?My priorities would be strengthening the road Infrastructure, ensuring functional tap water supply to every rural household and promoting tourism that will eventually generate more employment in our region. What’s your take on the allegation that BJP is trying to cash in on your army background?That’s not true. The BJP is not trying to cash in on army sentiment. It is a nationalist party that respects each and every nationalist who has served the nation. For the BJP, nation comes first. How do you respond to the allegation that you abandoned the cause of those affected by Chandigarh-Manali highway project? The Land Acquisition Act was passed by the UPA government in 2013, which was made applicable for national highways in HP in 2015. All the hardships could have been avoided had the Congress implemented the Act in time. The BJP government has formed a three-member committee headed by Mahender Singh Thakur in this regard. I am sure that the panel will soon find a solution to resolve the issue. I can assure you that I will continue to take up the matter strongly with the state and central governments so that affected people get their entitlement. Don’t you think that real issues have been put on the back-burner in this bypoll?No, I do not think so. The BJP is always working on PM Narendra Modi’s motto ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas Aur Sabka Prayas’, which aims at making India self-reliant. I feel that we all should unite to foster this dream. Common man issues are the priority and are still at the forefront of the campaign. Why should people vote for you? People should vote for the BJP as our country and state are under dynamic and honest leadership. The central government under PM Modi in the last more than seven years and Jai Ram-led state government in the last four years have delivered remarkably. Casing point being PM Modi’s idea of ‘Jaan Hai to Jahaan Hai’ has been implemented in the state, which has done exceptionally well on the Covid vaccination front.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypolls-creating-job-avenues-for-youth-will-be-my-priority-101634775984101.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali shooter Hunar bags bronze||Hunar Gill, 13, from Mohali won a bronze medal in the 30th All-India GV Mavalankar Shooting Championship that is underway at Ahmedabad and will conclude on October 30. She won the bronze in the 10-m air rifle event of the sub-youth category scoring 392 points out of 400. A trainee of the Trinetra Shooting Sports Academy, Mohali, she became the first shooter from Punjab to have won a medal in this event till now. Trained by coach Archit Singh, who is a former shooter, Hunar proved her mettle during the event. Praising Hunar, the coach said, “She prepared for the tournament well. She was aiming for a podium finish. I’m hoping she wins more medals in upcoming tournaments this year and practises more.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-shooter-hunar-bags-bronze-101634764412703.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man awarded one-year jail for snatching phone, purse||Terming rising incidents of snatching in the city a social menace, a local court has awarded one-year jail to a Dhanas resident arrested for snatching. The court of additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) TPS Randhawa also imposed a fine of ₹1,000 on the convict, Jitender Kumar.The case dates back to March 2018, when the accused had snatched a woman’s purse and mobile phone.In her complaint, Pooja Rani, a resident of Sector 28-C, Chandigarh, had said she was walking with a friend in Sector 27, when a motorcyclist, wearing a helmet, came from behind, and snatched her mobile phone and purse from her hand. The purse contained Rs700. A case under Sections 379 (snatching), 356 (assault or criminal force in attempt to commit theft of property carried by a person) and 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) of the Indian Penal Code was registered on March 22, 2018, and the accused was arrested on April 6, 2018. The snatched mobile phone was recovered from him. What the court said “Snatchings have assumed alarming proportions these days and ladies and old aged persons are vulnerable and easy targets for miscreants,” the court observed.Dismissing the prayer of accused for leniency or benefit of probation, it said, “It (snatching) causes general alarm among the public and reflects poorly on the law and order situation in the country. Such type of miscreants should be dealt with a heavy hand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-awarded-one-year-jail-for-snatching-phone-purse-101634764411514.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||SAD, Congress failed to revive Mohali ISBT: AAP||Members of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday staged a protest outside the Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT) promoted as the new bus stand for Mohali. They held parties in the state responsible for allegedly wasting ₹350 crore of public money just to quench their political thirst.The protest, which was led by AAP activist Vineet Verma, in-charge, Mohali, claimed that the Congress, SAD and the local MLA failed to keep up their promises and did not make efforts to revive this project.Verma said, “The bus stand built at a cost of ₹350 crore was said to be an air-conditioned bus stand, but surprisingly there is no power connection to his building. The company has already defaulted investors and fled as they have not paid the power bills after which Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) disconnected the power connection. The building is in a poor shape and needs attention.”“The Congress and SAD governments did not foresee before getting the Phase VIII bus stand demolished by GMADA as now Mohali has no bus stand where people can board buses,” he said.The AAP leader said, “People are forced to board buses from temporary bus stands made by transporters at their own sweet will.” Notably, the state-of-the-art Baba Banda Singh Bahadur ISBT in Mohali, an ambitious project of former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal, was inaugurated in 2016 after which it ran into rough weather as the construction-maintenance-operations were deserted by the C&C Company after which investors lodged a complaint with and police and, thereafter, cases were registered against the chairman and the directors under Sections 406, 420 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) in August 2018. Thereafter, another FIR was registered in January 2019.The terminus constructed with a cost of ₹350 crore was to be operated and maintained by C&C Company, but a few months after the inauguration, the company deserted the terminus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-congress-failed-to-revive-mohali-isbt-aap-101634764410115.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Decomposing body found in Ambala drain||The decomposing body of an unidentified person was found in a drain along National Highway 44 in Ambala, police said on Wednesday. The body was mutilated by animals, so it was difficult to establish the gender, said Ram Kumar, station in-charge, Ambala City police station.It was noticed by passers-by at a desolate location in between the sewage drain near Manji Sahib Gurdwara.“The deceased seems to have died over a week ago. The body will be sent to BPS Medical College in Sonepat’s Khanpur Kalan for autopsy. Further investigation will be undertaken as per the report,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/decomposing-body-found-in-ambala-drain-101634764408919.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||On Annual Research Day, PGIMER to showcase 576 abstracts; 58 on Covid||Various departments of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, concluded 576 research papers on medical education in the last two years of which 58 pertains to research in Covid-19, the hospital authorities said on Wednesday.They added that these abstracts would be showcased during the institute’s 8th Annual Research Day.The day will be held on October 22. Dr AK Gupta, dean (research) and medical superintendent, PGIMER, said, “The research intends to monitor the institute’s strengths as well as areas of improvement in the domain of research. The end objective of any research is to bring in more and more innovations and translate them into excellent clinical services for the masses. With the remarkable research contributions by participants, we are hopeful of further upskilling our clinical services, thereby, helping our patients.”“With two more categories added this year from NIPS and NINE in the earlier categories of medical, surgical and para clinical, 47 awards will be given to the best entries, including all categories. The programme will include inspirational lectures by dignitaries and poster presentations by faculty members, residents and PhD scholars of the institute,” he added.The Annual Research Day will have two eminent medical scientists of the country, Prof YK Chawla, former director, and Prof Digambar Behera, former dean (research) of the PGIMER, as chief guests.Dr Vishali Gupta, department of ophthalmology; Dr K Gaba, sub-dean (research) & head, department of oral health sciences; Dr Arnab Pal, faculty in-charge, MERC; and Dr Ramandeep Singh, department of ophthalmology, were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/on-annual-research-day-pgimer-to-showcase-576-abstracts-58-on-covid-101634764407691.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh airport set to start cargo services from November, rates fixed||Six years after getting the international tag, the Chandigarh International Airport is all set to launch its cargo facility in the first week of November.Airport authorities have decided the rates for both domestic and international cargo, including perishable goods, that will be handled at five cargo sheds (see box). The cargo complex has come up on 14,127 square metres at a cost of ₹11.5 crore.“Our cargo facility will be the biggest after Delhi in north India and will offer the most reasonable rates as compared to other airports in the region. We are waiting for one notification, which is expected in a week and are hopeful of starting the facility by November 1,” said Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHAIL).Air cargo or air freight allows speedy transportation of commercial goods through an air carrier. At present, CHAIL only provides a common screening facility for domestic cargo, while the airlines — Air India, IndiGo, Vistara and GoAir — are handling the goods on their own.It was on September 11, 2015, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inaugurated the Chandigarh International Airport. But the Punjab government announced the air cargo facility only in February this year. Presenting the budget, finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal had said the facility will give a boost to the industry, and provide it better access to international and domestic markets.Yogesh Sagar, president, Mohali Industries Association, said, “An accessible air cargo facility was a long-pending requirement. At present, we have to send consignments by road to the Delhi airport, where they are lined up for 24 to 48 hours before being loaded on an aircraft.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-airport-set-to-start-cargo-services-from-november-rates-fixed-101634764406547.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||New daily flights to Srinagar, Mumbai started from Chandigarh airport||Two new daily flights to Srinagar and Mumbai have started at the Chandigarh International Airport. With this, the number of flights to Srinagar has increased to four and those to Mumbai to nine. The latest flights, both operated by GoAir, will depart for Srinagar at 5.45am and for Mumbai at 6am. “The morning flights will be especially helpful for people willing to return the same day,” said Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer, Chandigarh International Airport Limited.Direct connectivity to Jodhpur and Ranchi soonBhardwaj said the winter schedule had yet to be approved, but will most likely include direct connectivity to Jodhpur and Ranchi as well. “The airport will also resume flights to Jammu and Patna. After a halt at Patna, the flight will depart for Ranchi, covering both cities,” said Bhardwaj. IndiGo had started the direct flight between Patna and Chandigarh in March last year, but it was grounded soon after due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It resumed in January this year, but had to be suspended once again in March. Set to return again, the flight will operate six days a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-daily-flights-to-srinagar-mumbai-started-from-chandigarh-airport-101634764404629.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Work on Ambala homoeopathic hospital reaches halfway mark||Almost 50% of the construction work of the state’s first homoeopathy hospital and college that is coming up in the Ambala Cantt’s Chandpura area has been completed, officials said on Wednesday.The 100-bedded project worth ₹55.85 crore was approved in 2018 by the state government and was inaugurated by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in January 2019. Dr Satpal Jast, district ayurveda officer, said, “It was earlier proposed to come up at Manglai village on the Jagadhri road but due to its distance to residential areas, the project was shifted to Chadpura village. So the construction work on the new site started earlier this year.”The facility will provide free of cost treatment to patients and will also have accommodation for students and doctors/faculty as well. It is being taken up under the National Ayush Mission.Nishant Kumar, executive engineer, PWD (B&R), said the hospital and college were coming up on 8 acres and the walling had been completed.“The foundation work is 50% completed and there will be separate buildings for hospital and college. Six floors of each hostel facility for boys and girls will also be available,” he said. The main hospital building will be of three floors with all medical facilities and there will be two floors of the main college building. As many as 16 staff quarters of different specifications will also be constructed along with five rainwater harvesting systems. Dr Satpal said in the first academic year, admissions of 50 students would be taken and that would increase accordingly in coming years. Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij, who represents this constituency, said the areas surrounding the hospital like Rampur, Sarsehri, Babyal, Ramgarh Majra, Boh, etc, would benefit from this project and would give an economic boost to the locals.“There are also several industries in the area and to improve the connectivity with the rest of the constituency, a newly constructed road on the Rampur-Sarsehri path worth ₹4 crore is ready. Similarly, the construction of a flyover on the Tangri river with an approach road worth ₹7 crore is underway,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/work-on-ambala-homoeopathic-hospital-reaches-halfway-mark-101634764403312.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Immigration consultancy owner held in Mohali, 150 passports seized||Police have arrested the owner of a consultancy firm in Sector 70 for duping people on the pretext of getting them jobs abroad, and recovered 150 passports, two notary stamps, and a laptop from him.The accused has been identified as Vikas Verma, who runs Prime International Consultancy in Sector 70.Naveen Pal Singh Lehal, SHO, Mataur, said, “We got a tip-off that the firm was duping people, following which we raided its premises and seized 150 passports, two fake stamps of a notary and a laptop.”He said as per rules, though he was running a consultancy firm, he cannot retain passports or keep notary stamps.A case under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code and the Immigration Act has been registered against him. He will be produced in court on Thursday.Two Patiala residents, who forged documents to get iPhones financed, have been arrested.The accused were identified as Vikramjit Singh and Nand Kishore. Mataur SHO said the accused forged their documents, Aadhar and PAN cards, and even got two iPhones from Phase 4 through Bajaj Finance Limited. When they went to Phase 7 to get another iPhone financed, the shopkeeper informed the police and they were arrested.He said during the investigation it was found that they were using their photographs and forged the Aadhar and PAN cards of other persons. A case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/immigration-consultancy-owner-held-in-mohali-150-passports-seized-101634764349951.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||No new Covid case in Mohali again, five test positive in UT, Panchkula||Mohali district reported no fresh Covid-19 case on Wednesday, the fifth time this month. Three people tested positive for the virus in Panchkula and two in Chandigarh, making tricity’s daily tally five, lower than seven on Tuesday.Also, no virus-related death was reported for the 15th day in a row.As many as 134 infections and five deaths have been recorded in the tricity in October so far, compared to 188 cases and seven casualties in the same period in September.The latest cases in Chandigarh came from Sectors 8 and 48, and those from Panchkula from Sector 2 and Mansa Devi Complex, Sector 4.Meanwhile, tricity’s active caseload also lowered from 70 to 67 since Tuesday. Currently, 31 patients are still infected in Mohali, 24 in Chandigarh and 12 in Panchkula.Health experts have cautioned that though the pandemic figures have been receding, Covid appropriate behaviour must not be disregarded, especially amid the festive season when the public movement intensifies, to keep the third wave at bay.Chandigarh has recorded 65,312 positive cases since the beginning of the pandemic. As many as 64,468 patients have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, 68,788 people have been found infected till date and 1,068 have died, but 67,689 have recovered. Panchkula’s total cases stand at 30,756, including 30,366 recoveries and 378 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-new-covid-case-in-mohali-again-five-test-positive-in-ut-panchkula-101634764348830.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh PGIMER finds AI 85% effective in diagnosing diabetic retinopathy||Artificial intelligence (AI)-powered detection of diabetic retinopathy at public health facilities may soon become a reality.Under a central government-funded pilot project, the ophthalmology department of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has found 85% efficacy in diagnosing the disease through AI, allowing minimal intervention of a physician.The disease is a diabetes complication that affects the retina in the eyes due to damage to blood vessels. Symptoms include blurred vision, colour blindness, poor vision at night and floaters, and in severe cases, blindness may also occur. As part of the pilot project, being conducted only at PGIMER in the country, three AI platforms were used to diagnose 250 patients in Panchkula and Mohali.“The motive was true diagnosis of the disease in comparison with eye specialists. Advanced Eye Centre of PGIMER tested three algorithms on the fundus (back of the eye) images, out of which one showed 85% accuracy, while others gave reasonably well results,” said Dr Vishali Gupta, professor, community ophthalmology.Currently, patients are dependent on trained opthalmologists to detect the disease by looking at the image reports of the eyes.However, retinopathy tests done through AI-based cameras can give fast medical results without the involvement of a doctor. The test will have high sensitivity and diagnostic accuracy and will be more cost-effective for the patients, according to PGIMER experts.“At public healthcare facilities in India, especially in rural areas, people do not have access to retina specialists. Majority of diabetic retinopathy patients have no symptoms until very late stages, and delayed detection can lead to loss of eye sight. Fundus photography is useful for screening and monitoring the rear of the eye. Therefore, by using fundus camera, PGIMER is able to precisely detect clinical signs of the disease using AI,” said Dr Mona Duggal, associate professor, community ophthalmology, PGIMER.The doctors said once approved by the central government, the AI-powered screening will be recommended to state governments to give people access to cost-effective test at public hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-pgimer-finds-ai-85-effective-in-diagnosing-diabetic-retinopathy-101634764347222.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||CTU bus snuffs out biker’s life in Chandigarh||A CTU bus claimed the life of a 25-year-old motorcyclist near Kisan Bhawan in Sector 35, police said on Wednesday.The deceased, Raju, was a resident of EWS Colony, Dhanas. His friend Uma Shankar, a resident of small flats, Dhanas, was also injured in the accident. Shankar told the police that they both were labourers and were returning from work on Monday night when the accident took place. He took Raju to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, where he later succumbed to his injuries. The bus driver, Baljeet Singh, hailing from Rupnagar, was arrested on the spot as he stopped after the accident. He was booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life) and 304-A (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and later granted bail. 65-year-old pedestrian hit by car, diesIn another accident, a 65-year-old pedestrian was killed after she was hit by a car in Phase 1, Industrial Area on Tuesday. The victim, Boni, a resident of Colony Number 4, Industrial Area, was out for a walk when a Maruti Swift hit her. An injured Boni was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, where she died during treatment. The car driver, Darshan Singh, 61, a resident Khizargarh, Mohali, was arrested. A case under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC was registered against him. Youth killed in bike-truck crash in PanchkulaA youth was killed and his uncle was injured after his motorcycle was hit by a speeding truck near NH-7 in Panchkula on Tuesday night.Shubham and his uncle, Rajpal, both residents of Hangoli village in Panchkula’s Raipur Rani area, were returning from Barwala when a truck rammed into their bike. Shubham died on the spot, while Rajpal is undergoing treatment at a local health centre. The truck driver fled the scene after leaving his vehicle behind. He was booked under Sections 279 and 304-A of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ctu-bus-snuffs-out-biker-s-life-in-chandigarh-101634764344582.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Emerging economies varsity rankings: PU in 201-250 bracket again, overall score improves||Panjab University (PU) has yet again ranked in the 201-250 bracket in the 2022 Times Higher Education (THE) Emerging Economies University rankings declared on Tuesday.Before similar placement in the 2021 rankings, the varsity was ranked 166 in 2020 and 150 in 2019. The Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru continued to remain on the top with rank 18, followed by JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research, Mysuru (73) and Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Indore (84).The rankings include only institutions in countries classified by the London Stock Exchange’s FTSE group as “advanced emerging, secondary emerging or frontier”. Overall, there are 698 universities in the rankings this year, up from 606 in 2021, and 50 territories are represented.Apart from IITs and IISc, PU is behind Mahatma Gandhi University (101), Alagappa University (126), Jawaharlal Nehru University (140), Banaras Hindu University (159), Jamia Millia Islamia (172), Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham (188) and Delhi Technological University (191).However, PU’s overall score, which was 27.0-29.1 in 2021, has increased to 29.0-30.7. Its score in teaching increased to 32.9 from 29.1 points in the 2021 rankings. It also performed better in industry income with a score of 35.4, compared to 34.7 last time, while in international outlook, its score improved from 15.9 to 16.5.However, its performance in citations got 52.6, lower than 52.9 in the last year’s rankings. Even in research, the score dipped from 15.2 to 14.8. . “It is encouraging that PU has fared well in many parameters. We would continue to strive for improvement,” said Dr Anupama Sharma, associate director of PU’s Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/emerging-economies-varsity-rankings-pu-in-201-250-bracket-again-overall-score-improves-101634764343262.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||‘No justice for poor while…’: Priyanka Gandhi attacks UP’s Yogi Adityanath govt||AGRA: Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday launched a bitter attack on Uttar Pradesh’s Bharatiya Janata Party government over the death of the 31-year-old Dalit sanitation worker in police custody after his arrest on charges of theft, saying there was no justice for the poor, Dalits and farmers in UP while sons of ministers are free to commit crimes.Priyanka Gandhi, who was earlier in the day stopped from proceeding towards Agra, reached Arun Kumar’s house in Agra’s Loha Mandi area town at about 11pm on Wednesday. She interacted with Arun Kumar’s wife and mother, and later with others in the locality where she spent nearly an hour.The attack on chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s government came soon after.“There seems to be no justice in the state….Illiterate family members of Arun Valmiki said they were asked to sign a document…. Their house was ransacked by the police, beds were damaged, clothes were thrown away,” she told reporters after meeting the sanitation worker who belonged to the Valmiki community.“I’ve met Arun’s family members. His wife told me that her husband was beaten in front of her... He was given electric shocks,” said Priyanka Gandhi who left Lucknow for Agra at 3pm but was stopped at the Lucknow-Agra Expressway on the grounds that the Agra administration has requested political leaders to refrain from visiting the area. Following her release, she left for Agra with Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu and senior party leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam.“What kind of nation are we becoming? We are quiet on injustice to the poor, the government is silent. A man is kept in custody and tortured, his family is harassed for four days. The family made it clear that they want justice and will not remain silent after receiving ₹10 lakh compensation given by the state government,” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in Agra.The Congress leader said she will reach out to the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan “to give Arun Valmiki’s family compensation” since the deceased’s family has links with Bharatpur also.The deceased’s family earlier demanded a compensation of ₹1 crore, a government job and action against the policemen concerned.According to the Agra Police, Arun Kumar died in police custody after his health suddenly deteriorated during interrogation late on Tuesday. He was arrested on charges of stealing ₹25 lakh from maal khana (storage room where confiscated items are kept) of Jagdishpura police station in Agra on Sunday.“Kumar was picked up from the Tajganj area on Tuesday and during interrogation, he admitted to his involvement in the theft and said that the stolen cash was kept in his house. A police team recovered ₹15 lakh cash from his house. However, during the recovery, he suddenly fell ill and was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared ‘brought dead’ by doctors,” Muniraj G, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Agra, said.Earlier in the day, BJP leader and UP minister Sidharth Nath Singh hit out at Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, alleging that Congress leaders were hatching conspiracy to destabilise law and order in the state. “Why doesn’t Priyanka speak out about that family in Hanumangarh, Rajasthan which is still waiting for justice? There a Dalit youth was beaten to death and in Chhattisgarh devotees were run over under a jeep. Both are Congress ruled states but Priyanka has never spoken on them. Why these dual standards,” he asked, asserting that the UP government suspended the police personnel responsible for the Dalit’ mans death. “Under Yogi government it is clear that law doesn’t discriminate against people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-justice-for-poor-while-priyanka-gandhi-s-bitter-attack-on-up-s-yogi-govt-101634761703049.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Four arrested with 10 stolen motorcycles in Sangrur||Police in Sangrur on Wednesday arrested four men allegedly involved in vehicle theft and claimed to have recovered 10 stolen motorcycles from them. Deputy superintendent of police (rural) Satpal Sharma said a team nabbed Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukhi, Vindo Kumar, alias Joshi and Jasvir Singh from Gobindgarh Jejian with three motorcycles. Six more bikes were seized at their instance following interrogation, he added. A case under Section 379 (punishment for theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sangrur (city) police station.In another case, the police arrested Rahul Kumar of Sangrur with a stolen motorcycle. A case under Section 379 of the IPC was also registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-arrested-with-10-stolen-motorcycles-in-sangrur-101634761582881.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM announces memorial gate, stadium in memory of slain Gurdaspur soldier||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday announced the construction of a memorial gate and a stadium in the memory of Naik Mandeep Singh who died in the line of duty during an anti-insurgency operation in Jammu and Kashmir. The CM, accompanied by Vidhan Sabha speaker Rana KP Singh and rural development minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, visited Mandeep’s family at Chatha Seera village in Gurdaspur district and extended his condolences.He said that Mandeep’s supreme sacrifice will always inspire the coming generations.Channi also handed over a cheque of ex-gratia to the bereaved family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-announces-memorial-gate-stadium-in-memory-of-slain-gurdaspur-soldier-101634761223159.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Our government clear on spending people’s money on people’s welfare: Punjab CM Channi||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Wednesday said that his government was crystal clear in its approach on “spending people’s money on people’s welfare”. The remark by the CM, who was attending a state-level function to mark the Balmiki Jayanti, was seen as a dig at those blaming his government for giving freebies at the cost of the state exchequer. He announced an annual budgetary grant of ₹5 crore for the existing Bhagwan Balmiki Chair at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar. In recognition of the “immense contribution” of the Balmiki community in the overall development of Punjab, the CM also announced to set up a chair after legendary Sikh warrior Baba Jiwan Singh (Bhai Jaita), a devout companion of Guru Gobind Singh. The CM said the upcoming chair would also be given an annual grant of ₹5 crore to undertake extensive research on the teachings and philosophy of the iconic warrior.Channi said that over 1 lakh vacant posts in different departments will soon be filled purely on the basis of merit in a fair, impartial and transparent manner. He cautioned the aspirants and their parents against giving money to unscrupulous elements for securing jobs illegally. Also, the CM announced that safai sewaks (sanitation workers) will get weekly off besides all gazetted holidays on a par with other government employees. Vidhan Sabha speaker Rana KP Singh said the decision of Congress high command to elevate Channi as CM reflects the party’s visionary approach and idea of social justice. Deputy chief minister OP Soni lauded the “pro-poor initiatives” by Channi as CM. Earlier, the CM laid the foundation stone of state-of-the-art Panorma in the Bhagwan Balmiki Tirath Sthal complex at a cost of ₹25 crore. Congress MPs Gurjeet Singh Aujla and Mohammad Sadiq were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/our-government-clear-on-spending-people-s-money-on-people-s-welfare-punjab-cmchanni-101634760985370.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder hand in glove with BJP, backstabbed Cong: Randhawa, Pargat||Chandigarh A day after former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh unveiled his plans to launch his own political party, Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and cabinet minister Pargat Singh on Wednesday accused him of being “hand in glove” with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and backstabbing the Congress. Calling the two-time former chief minister an “opportunist”, Randhawa said that Capt Amarinder always had his and his family and friends’ interests in mind. “Captain Saab has betrayed the (Gandhi) family that gave various positions and always honoured him. Had the Congress not given its support, he would not have remained the chief minister of Punjab for nine-and-a-half years. Now he calls it the worst party,” he said in a statement, accusing him of betraying Punjab. Randhawa, who also hurled personal accusations at the former CM, blamed him for the Centre’s unilateral move to extend the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15 km to 50 km, from the border. “He (Amarinder) says Punjab is a border state. I want to remind Capt Saab that if it is a border state then why were tiffin bombs and drones coming? Why smuggling of arms and drugs could not be stopped?” he asked. The deputy CM said: “Punjab does not fear Pakistan or China. If the state faces any threat today, it is from Amarinder”. He was accompanied by Amarinder’s one-time political secretary Capt Sandeep Sandhu. The deputy CM’s stinging attack came a few hours after Capt Amarinder announced his plans to launch a new party and hinted at a possible pre-poll pact with the BJP if the farmers’ issue was resolved. Randhawa was among the four ministers who had rebelled against Amarinder after the state government suffered a legal setback in the Kotkapura police firing case six months ago. Amarinder resigned as the chief minister last month after a bitter tussle with Navjot Singh Sidhu and rebellion by several ministers and MLAs in which the Congress leadership sided with his detractors. The party then appointed Charanjit Singh Channi, one of the four rebel ministers, as the next chief minister. Asked about Sidhu’s differences with Channi, Randhawa termed it as an internal democracy. “In Congress, we do not stop anyone from voicing his views. We are not like the BJP and the AAP where you are not allowed to speak,” he said. Training his guns at the former chief minister, cabinet minister Pargat Singh also said that Capt Amarinder was in league with the BJP for the past more than two-and-a-half years. “I have been saying this since then, but many in the party did not believe me at that time. The truth is now coming out,” said the minister, who is a confidant of Sidhu. BJP hits back at RandhawaThe Punjab BJP hit back at Sukhjinder Randhawa for his statement that Punjab has no threat from Pakistan and China. In statement, party general secretary Subhash Sharma said Randhawa, was taking pro-Pakistan stand on the lines of Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. “Randhawa is holding a sensitive portfolio of home minister of a border state and by stating that state don’t have any threat from Pakistan, he has overlooked all misdeeds of our notorious neighbour,” said Sharma. How can Randhawa forget how Pakistan is pumping drugs and ammunition into Punjab and was using drones to drop at the borders, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-hand-in-glove-with-bjp-backstabbed-cong-randhawa-pargat-101634760204550.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gangrape victim succumbs, kin demand justice||The 18- year-old girl, who was poisoned and gang-raped by three youths on October 10, succumbed during treatment at the civil hospital here on Wednesday. Rajinder Kumar, civil hospital police post in-charge, said: “The victim was referred to the hospital in a serious condition. Her blood pressure and pulse was dropping. Besides suffering from superficial injuries, it was stated that she was poisoned too. The victim died on Wednesday following which informed the Machhiwara police. I The exact cause of death, whether injuries or poison, will be known after the postmortem and viscera examination.”Investigating officer Santokh Singh said the three accused, who were facing rape charges, would be booked under section 302 of the IPC too. According to the police, the three accused, one of them a juvenile, are hooked on drugs.The relatives of the girl assembled outside her house in Machhiwara and demanded exemplary action against the accused. “This incident is an outcome of the prevalence of drugs in our village. The trio was addicted to (chitta) heroin,” said a relative of the girl.“The girl had left studies and was helping my mother in the household work. The accused gangraped her when she was alone. We will resort to protest if the accused are not brought to justice,” said the victim’s maternal uncle.While two accused have been arrested, their third accomplice is on the run. The arrested accused have been identified as Gurinder Singh and Yadwinder Singh.According to the complaint filed by the girl’s mother, the girl had gone to the fields to fetch fodder for cattle. She later found her lying unconscious in the fields. The girl was rushed to the government hospital at Machhiwara.After regaining consciousness on Monday, the girl narrated the entire incident to her family following which police were informed.The girl said the accused intercepted and overpowered her in the fields and poured some substance into her mouth. As she slipped into stupor, the accused gangraped her, said the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gangrape-victim-succumbs-kin-demand-justice-101634760202913.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sikhs join faith leaders submitting appeal to US State Dept on climate||WashingtonGlobal environmental organisation EcoSikh represented the Sikh community at a major prayer gathering of various faith leaders outside the US State Department to amplify the issue of climate emergency ahead of the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) in Glasgow.A rally was held as a follow-up event to the “Faith and Science” conference hosted by Pope Francis where faith leaders jointly issued an appeal to the world leaders for setting ambitious targets to address the issue of climate change, the group said in a statement on Tuesday.Jesse Young, senior adviser to special presidential envoy on climate change John Kerry, received the copy of the statement from the faith leaders.The COP26 in Glasgow from October 31 to November 12 is the last ray of hope as the earth faces an unprecedented ecological crisis, it said.“It is upon us all to take action against this present crisis, it is our responsibility to make sure that our politicians take required action for the best of humanity,” said EcoSikh president Rajwant Singh, who is one of the four American signatories to the appeal.“Religions of the world are yet to realise the potential impact they can have. Today’s gathering is an important occasion in this direction,” he said.According to Young, faiths have a real voice to bring to this process.“We need you to lift up us to do the right thing. Hold us accountable when we fall short. We need your voices, we need your communities. We need your work to preserve our national natural heritage and God’s creation,” Young said.“As people of faith and conscience, we understand that the climate crisis is a spiritual crisis and that our faiths call us to prioritise the health and well-being of those who are most vulnerable,” said Reverend Susan Hendershot, president of Interfaith Power and Light.“Climate disasters and pollution are bringing death and destruction to communities in the US and globally. It is our sacred calling to act. The US has a moral responsibility to accelerate ambition and care for the most vulnerable people at COP26,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikhs-join-faith-leaders-submitting-appeal-to-us-state-dept-on-climate-101634759602872.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Fact-finding report disproves spurious seeds behind pink bollworm infestation in Punjab||The agriculture department has ruled out any role of spurious BT cotton seeds or substandard insecticides behind the widespread infestation of pink bollworm pest on the cotton crop in the south Malwa districts.In a fact-finding report submitted to the state government last weekend, the department has squarely blamed the cotton ginning factories and poor farm practices behind the worst ever pink bollworm pest attack in Punjab.Agriculture minister Randeep Singh Nabha confirmed receiving the report but declined to share its content.“The detailed report will be tabled in a cabinet meeting scheduled to be held later this week for compensation to affected cotton growers,” said the minister.Officials said Bathinda and Mansa are the worst-hit districts where 80% area under cotton crop has suffered 76-100% damage.Bathinda has the largest area of 96,000 hectares of Punjab under the cash crop whereas cotton was sown on 65,000 hectares in Mansa.BKU (Ekta Ughrahan) has been blaming the poor quality of seeds and insecticides for the pest infestation.BKU (Ekta Ughrahan), which is demanding a compensation of ₹60,000 per acre, ended the dharna outside finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal’s residence after 15 days on Tuesday and decided to resume the protest outside the Bathinda district administrative complex from October 25. Bathinda chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh said there was no evidence of spurious BT cotton seeds sold to farmers in the region.Field inspections found that cotton ginning units were responsible for breaching safety protocols while processing raw cotton bought from other states, he added.Bathinda has 21 units whereas in Mansa there 14 units engaged in ginning.“These factories were bringing raw cotton from different states, including from the regions experiencing pink bollworm attack for over six years. As fumigation of factories was not conducted periodically, the pest population grew alarmingly in Bathinda and Mansa in the last four years,” said Singh.An agriculture scientist said pink bollworm is a monophagous pest which survives only on cotton plants. As farmers failed to follow guidelines of cotton crop residue management, it gave ample space for the pest to survive.Pink bollworm attack on BT cotton is nothing new and it was common in other states of Telangana, Karnataka and Maharashtra, said the expert.“It is a baseless claim that spurious seeds caused the infestation. The deadly pest was in the farm ecosystem of southern Punjab since 2018 when it was detected for the first time in Punjab at Bathinda’s Jodhpur Romana village. Field analysis shows that like ginning units, farmers also did not pay much attention to the repeated advisories against pink bollworm threat in the last three years. Overconfident farmers failed to notice infestation at the initial levels and the pest attack spread even in pockets of Sangrur and Muktsar districts as well,” said an official engaged in field surveillance.Cotton prices cross ₹8,000 markOwing to high demand in the market and suspected low productivity this kharif season, private players are paying up to ₹8,300 per quintal, the highest price ever, against the MSP of ₹5,925.Out of seven cotton-growing districts, the rate of raw cotton has crossed ₹8,000 mark in mandis of six districts. Till Wednesday, 5 lakh quintal cotton was purchased at various centres of the semi-arid districts of the state.Fazilka is leading with 1.78 lakh quintals, followed by Mansa 1.08 lakh quintals, Bathinda and Mansa 98,000 each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/factfinding-report-disproves-spurious-seeds-behind-pink-bollworm-infestation-in-punjab-101634759422934.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sets up three-member SIT to probe Singhu border lynching||The Punjab government on Wednesday constituted a special investigation team (SIT) led by ADGP, Bureau of Investigation, Varinder Kumar to probe if Tarn Taran resident Lakhbir Singh, who was brutally murdered by Nihangs at a farmer agitation site at Singhu border was allured by some persons. The SIT was constituted by acting director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota on the directions of deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who is also the state home minister. DIG, Ferozepur range, Inderbir Singh and Tarn Taran SSP Harvinder Singh Virk are members of the SIT. As per the information, Raj Kaur, sister of Lakhbir, alleged that her brother was allured by some persons and taken to Singhu where he was murdered by some Nihang Sikhs on October 15 for alleged sacrilege.ADGP-cum-Director Bureau of Investigation Varinder Kumar may co-opt any other police officers posted in the state for the inquiry as per needs and requirements, reads the order, adding that he would also be at liberty to obtain the support of any other wing/unit of Punjab Police. After pictures of Nihang Baba Aman Singh meeting Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar went viral, Randhawa had signalled towards a deep-rooted conspiracy as how Lakhbir, who is said to be a drug addict, managed to reach Singhu. Randhawa has called the killing a possible conspiracy to defame the farmers’ agitation. On October 15, the body of Lakhbir, 35,, a Dalit farm labourer from Punjab’s Tarn Taran district, was found tied to a police barricade near the Singhu farm protest site on the outskirts of the national capital with his left hand and right foot chopped off. Nihangs, who claimed responsibility of killing Lakhbir, said he was trying to tear saroop of Guru Granth Sahib. Three Nihangs have surrendered in the case so far in the case registered by Sonepat police. Sikh activists give ₹1 lakh aid to Lakhbir’s kin AMRITSAR: Sikh activists gave a monetary aid of ₹1 lakh to the wife and daughters of Lakhbir Singh, citing that they (the family) were also victimized by him.Sikh and social activist Gangveer Singh Rathore and Sunny Singh Khalsa said the assistance has been extended with the cooperation of other members of Sikh community.Lakhbir’s brother-in-law Sukhchain Singh said: “Lakhbir has paid the price of what he had done. If he had committed the sacrilege, he also got the punishment. The question is how he reached the Singhu border? How was he taken to the protest site? The sacrilege has pained us. This act cannot be tolerated. If he is guilty, we stand with the Panth,” they said. Lakhbir’s wife and three daughters have been living at her parental house at Ladhewal village in Amritsar for last five years. Her two-year son died of illness during this period. Lakhbir met his wife and daughters only once during this period, and that too on the cremation of his son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sets-up-three-member-sit-to-probe-singhu-border-lynching-101634759243027.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 33 fresh Covid cases, 1 death||ChandigarhThe Covid tally in Punjab rose to 6,02,113 on Wednesday with 33 fresh cases, while one coronavirus-related fatality was reported in the state, according to a medical bulletin.With one death reported from Muktsar, the toll reached 16,550.Of the fresh cases, Ludhiana reported eight infections, followed by five in Pathankot and four in Faridkot, among others.The number of active cases in the state rose to 232 from 216 on Tuesday.Fifteen more people have recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,85,331, the bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-33-fresh-covid-cases-1-death-101634759062817.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||If Capt wants to eat crow, he can: Rawat||Punjab Congress in-charge Harish Rawat on Wednesday hit out at former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s decision of floating a new political party, which might be open to seat arrangement with the BJP, saying if he (Capt) wants to eat crow and go with the BJP, he can. “His decision will not hurt us (Congress) in Punjab. It will actually divide the votes of Congress’ rivals in the state. Channi has begun well and his performance will decide the showing of the party,” the former Uttarakhand chief minister said, questioning the former chief minister’s secular credentials. Rawat said that Amarinder was seen as a symbol of “sarvdharm sambhav” and was connected to Congress’ traditions for a long time but he wanted to go (to the BJP), he should. “Who can forgive the BJP that has kept farmers at the borders for 10 months? Can Punjab forgive them for the manner in which farmers’ agitation has been dealt with?” he told reporters after meeting former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi. The AICC general secretary, who was made in-charge of Punjab a year ago, also requested the party leadership to relieve him of the responsibility to allow him to focus on his home state of Uttarakhand for next few months. “Things are getting complex. As the polls are approaching, I will have to devote time to both places (Uttarakhand and Punjab),” the Congress leader said in a Facebook post, pointing out that he was torn between his “janmabhoomi” and “karmabhoomi”. Uttarakhand is going to polls with Punjab in another four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/if-capt-wants-to-eat-crow-he-can-rawat-101634758762766.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi music director held for ₹25-lakh fraud in Yamunanagar||The CIA-2 team of Yamunanagar police arrested a music director from his Mohali-based production house for allegedly defrauding a local of ₹25 lakh on the pretext of getting him a role in a Punjabi song and sending him abroad, the police said on Wednesday.The suspect, Beant Singh Aujla, alias Preet Aujla, is a resident of Tarn Taran in Punjab and runs Maha Music and Films Production House Private Limited in Mohali. A police PRO said that the accused was currently living in Kharar and has already been booked in several fraud cases in Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.Crime branch in-charge Mehroof Ali said that several films and songs had been shot at his production house. “In this case, Atul, a resident of Sarojini Colony, had complained with us in April that Aujla took money from him and didn’t provide the services. He was also intimidated when he had asked about the money. He was presented before a court and sent to five days of police remand,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-music-director-held-for-25-lakh-fraud-in-yamunanagar-101634757982843.html
21-10-2021||Other||Bhoa Cong MLA thrashes man for questioning performance; Punjab Police also joined in beating up the man.||Pathankot/Chandigarh A video went viral on social media on Wednesday showing Punjab Congress MLA from Bhoa Joginder Pal and Punjab Police personnel thrashing a young man for questioning the legislator on lack of work done in his village. The video was shot during a Bhagwati Jagran (all-night praise of the lord) in a village. Meanwhile, in Chandigarh the SAD condemned the conduct of the Congress MLA. SAD spokesman Pawan Tinu said a criminal case should be registered against the Congress legislator and he should be arrested immediately. The MLA couldn’t be contacted over phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhoa-cong-mla-thrashes-man-for-questioning-performance-punjab-police-also-joined-in-beating-up-the-man-101634757865004.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Bulandshahr farmer’s passion for dancing earns him fame||Lucknow: Love for dancing has catapulted a young farmer from a village in Bulandshahr district to fame. After recently being featured in a popular dance reality show, Vineet Kumar aka ‘Khomcha (a large basket woven with twigs)’ has turned into a local sensation. “ I like to be happy, have fun and dance. I try to incorporate dance in everything I do,” says Vineet with his trademark broad smile as he sits in his farm which is also his dance studio. With very little training in professional dancing, Vineet incorporates different dance styles in his performances. “I watch dance moves and practice them while working in my fields,” he says. For a 22-year-old who is the only brother of seven sisters belonging to a family of cultivators in debt, pursuing the passion of dancing is as hard as it can get. With no support from the family and only sniggers from villagers, Vineet took a leap of faith into dancing almost five years ago after being rusticated from his school. “I was rusticated from school after failing in class 11 twice. Everybody around me was angry but I was happy because I could devote my time to farming and practicing dancing,” he says. Vineet devoted himself to farming to support the family and continued dancing to keep ‘head in the right place.’ “Dancing helped me to get over the difficulties in life and keep a positive outlook about the situation I was in. Dancing takes me to a place where everything is happy and looks in control,” he says. The dance practice which he does using a pair of small rechargeable speakers helped Vineet get some popularity among the locals but getting a call from a popular dance reality show was his biggest success. “I went to Delhi and then to Mumbai where I stayed for over a month and danced in the reality show. It was certainly the happiest period of my life till date,” says Vineet who returned to his village over a month ago. “I was evicted after a few rounds but I learnt a lot. I will continue working on my dance because it has now become a part of me.” The dance reality show has certainly changed his life. The teachers at the school from where he was rusticated are now calling him for a felicitation, the villagers who made fun of him now trail him for a selfie. Firoz Khan, an assitant teacher at a government primary school, has also come forward to support Vineet chase his passion. Despite this jump in popularity Vineet still considers himself a farmer who cannot leave his village behind and people who laughed at him ashis biggest motivators. “People who mock me are my biggest promotors,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bulandshahr-farmer-s-passion-for-dancing-earns-him-fame-101634757863764.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad bypolls: Ajay, Abhay Chautala hit out at each other||Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) national president Ajay Singh Chautala and his estranged younger brother Abhay Singh Chautala, who is seeking a fourth straight term on the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) ticket slammed each other as campaigning turned fierce for the Ellenabad bypoll, which is scheduled for October 30.This is for the first time that Ajay has started election canvassing against Abhay after forming JJP after the festering family feud resulted in vertical split of INLD in 2018. In the 2019 assembly elections, Ajay had not campaigned against Abhay.While campaigning at a village in Ellenabad constituency, Ajay slammed Abhay for resigning from the Haryana assembly and forcing people to go for bypoll in just two years.“Abhay resigned from the Haryana assembly amid the farmers’ protests against the Centre’s three farm laws with an aim to become the tallest leader of farmers. He had claimed that he will not enter the Vidhan Sabha until the farm laws are repealed. Has that happened? Abhay forced people to go for elections in just two years,” he said.“In the 2019 assembly elections, we (Ajay’s family) did not campaign against him because senior Chautala saab asked the voters to elect Abhay. Now, Abhay has forced the 86-year-old leader (father OP Chautala) to board a specially designed chariot and seek votes,” he added.“Abhay had claimed that he will not campaign in the bypolls but now three generations of his family (Abhay) are visiting door-to-door to seek votes,” the JJP chief added.Making a direct attack on Abhay, Ajay said he had given their parent party (INLD) to his younger brother, 20 MLAs with a voting percentage of 27%.“In the 2019 elections, the INLD had reduced to one MLA with nearly 1.8% vote share and this happened due to the ego of one man (Abhay). If he loses, people will say ‘ek thi INLD’. The voters of Haryana had given 10 seats with 17% vote share in 2019 assembly polls to a young boy (Dushyant Chautala), who had formed a party nearly a year ago and is working hard to fulfil his promises being listed in the manifesto,” Ajay added.Ajay’s uncle Rajnit Singh, who is jails and power minister of Haryana and his cousin Aditya Devi Lal, BJP’s Sirsa district chief, are campaigning against Abhay in the Ellenabad bypolls.Meanwhile, countering the allegations of JJP chief and his elder brother Ajay, INLD nominee Abhay said he had resigned from the state assembly after hearing the voice of farmers.“Some people (referring to Ajay) who were seeking resignation of Gopal Kanda (the then Haryana minister) in connection with an air hostess’ suicide case, are canvassing for his brother (BJP nominee Gobind Kanda) who is facing many serious charges,” he added.“The BJP and Congress did not have candidates and brought parachute nominees into the fray. This battle is being fought by farmers against the BJP and Congress, who were behind in bringing these three laws,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-bypolls-ajay-abhay-chautala-hit-out-at-each-other-101634757683721.html
21-10-2021||Mumbai||SC okays Maharashtra plan for ₹25 crore lying in court registry for years||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday approved a plan submitted by the Maharashtra government to provide a one-time financial assistance of ₹10,000 to every child in the state who lost both or either parents due to Covid-19 to help meet their educational expenses such as school fee, hostel fee and purchase of educational material.The plan came in response to a court order of September 13 when the state government was informed about ₹25 crore lying with the Supreme Court registry. The money was to be returned to the state government under a December 2016 order on the condition that it must be utilised for “issues of juvenile justice”.In Maharashtra, 20,407 children lost one of their parents due to Covid-19 since April 2020; another 635 lost both parents. The court wanted the state government to come out with a plan to utilise the amount for the benefit of Covid-affected children.For the state, advocate Sachin Patil submitted an affidavit by principal secretary, women and child development indicating three options. Of them, the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and BV Nagarathna zeroed in on the option that spoke about transferring ₹25.53 crore into the Juvenile Justice Fund that will give the money to affected children to meet their educational expenses such as school fees, hostel fees and educational material and equipment.“This option will be beneficial from all perspectives,” the bench said, noting that the district task force will be given the responsibility to distribute the amount after scrutinising need-based applications, following which a report will be submitted to the women and child development commissioner at Pune.Satisfied with the state’s plan, the bench directed the release of the money to the Juvenile Justice Fund.In December 2016, the Supreme Court held a medical college in the state at fault for admitting students in violation of standards prescribed by the then Medical Council of India. The court had directed the Maharashtra government to deposit ₹20 crore with the Court and recover the same from the defaulting medical college. This amount, over a period of time swelled with interest to ₹25.53 crore.Patil told the Court that this order should not come in the way of the state government to recover the ₹20 crore amount from the erring college. The bench accordingly stated in its order, “This order shall not, in any manner, affect the recovery of an amount of ₹20 crore from the defaulting institution as already directed by us”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-okays-maharashtra-plan-for-rs-25-crore-lying-in-court-registry-for-years-101634757502883.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||SAD to support INLD’s Abhay Chautala in Ellenabad bypolls: Chandumajra||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) plans to support Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) nominee Abhay Singh Chatuala in the Ellenabad bypolls.The SAD leadership has decided to support Abhay as this election is being contested on the farmer’s issue, said party’s senior vice-president Prem Singh Chandumajra in an interaction with the media in Kurukshetra.“Since Abhay had resigned in support of the farmers’ agitation and SAD is known to be a pro-farmer party, we have decided to support the INLD candidate in the bypols,” he said.The Akali leader said directions have been issued to the party workers from Haryana to join the campaign and ensure Chatuala’s victory with a huge margin.Chandumajra slammed the Opposition parties, especially the Congress, for fielding their candidate in the bypolls saying, “This election is a fight between pro-farmers and anti-farmers. Other parties that claimed to be pro-farmer should not have fielded their candidates against Abhay as he had sacrificed his legislature for the farmers and his win will be considered a victory of the protesting farmers.Ellenabad was earlier considered INLD’s pocket borough but this election has become a matter of prestige for Abhhay, who is locked in a triangular contest and facing a tough challenge from Congress’ Pawan Beniwal and the ruling BJP-JJP alliance’s Gobind Kanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-to-support-inld-s-abhay-chautala-in-ellenabad-bypolls-chandumajra-101634757145779.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Congress leaders hit campaign trail for Ellenabad bypolls||Haryana Congress leaders hit the campaign trail in favour of party nominee Pawan Beniwal for the Ellenabad bypolls on Wednesday.Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, state Congress chief Kumari Selja, party’s state affairs in-charge Vivek Bansal and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry visited many villages seeking votes for Beniwal, who is pitted against INLD’s Abhay Singh Chautala and BJP’s Gobind Kanda.Former Congress legislature party leader and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry slammed the state government over inflation, unemployment, rise in crime and farmers’ issues.“Farmers are lining up every day since early morning to get DAP amid mustard cultivation. The state and Union governments have failed on all fronts. We are hoping that Congress’ Beniwal will defeat his opponents,” she added.Hooda said Abhay had resigned to get political mileage and everyone knows that INLD has always helped the BJP.“We had brought a ‘no-confidence’ motion against the BJP-JJP government in the Haryana assembly. Instead of standing against the coalition government, Chautala resigned to help them .The Haryana government has failed to procure bajra and paddy and farmers are paying huge prices for their policies,” he said.“The Congress has been fighting for the common man. The BJP government has failed to end the deadlock with the protesting farmers over the three farm laws,” he added.Selja leads the campaignSelja, who is leading Congress’s campaign in Ellenabad, slammed the BJP-JJP government over Centre’s three farm laws, paper leak issue and procurement issues.“People of Haryana are unsatisfied with the rule of the current government. They want to get rid of the government which has been crushing the voice of farmers and labourers. They are further annoyed over cases of paper leak. INLD’s lone MLA Chautala had resigned to get political benefit but is struggling in the bypolls,” she added.As per experts, the Ellenabad election is crucial for Selja as this constituency comes under Sirsa parliamentary seat and she got elected twice from here.Her father Chaudhary Dalbir Singh also represented the parliamentary seat and Selja is making efforts to regain her grounds in Sirsa.“There was a huge role of Selja behind Beniwal’s entry into the Congress, besides finalising his name as party nominee for the Ellenabad bypolls. After former Haryana Congress president Ashok Tanwar quit the party, Selja has once again made attempts to make inroads to Sirsa constituency,” said Anant Ram, a retired political science professor of the Bhiwani government college.“Most leaders of Sirsa parliamentary seat joined the Congress in the presence of Selja in the last two years, which underlines her importance in district. The result of the bypolls are crucial for Selja and Beniwal as former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda had showed his strength by ensuring the win of Indu Raj Narwal in the Baroda bypolls which were held last year,” the retired professor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-leaders-hit-campaign-trail-for-ellenabad-bypolls-101634757022875.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sweets shops, dairies inspected for quality in Kharar, Mullanpur||In order to ensure clean, hygienic and quality food items for residents during the festive season, a food safety team of the district health department conducted a surprise check at sweets shops and dairies in Kharar and Mullanpur areas.District health officer (DHO) Dr Subhash Kumar along with his team checked the quality and durability of the sweets and milk, and took a total of nine samples of milk and milk products, which have been sent to the Kharar lab for testing.Dr Kumar said that all big and small sweets shops and dairies on Jhungian Road, Kharar and Mullanpur were inspected and samples of milk, curd, khoya, milk cake and kalakand were taken.Dr Kumar said that the traders were also directed to indicate the expiry date of the sweets on the tray. Shopkeepers were also instructed to follow the guidelines issued by the district administration and health department to curb the spread of coronavirus. They were instructed to keep clean and not to sell expired items. They were told to wear gloves and masks and not allow anyone to enter the shops without masks.The shopkeepers were also briefed on the Food Safety Act. They were asked to sell pure and unadulterated items and also to pay special attention to cleanliness. Dr Kumar said that checking was not meant to harass anyone, but to ensure that clean and quality food items were made available to the people.The DHO also informed that a mobile testing van is moving throughout the district and anyone could get the quality of food items checked. He said that the van was equipped with modern machinery capable of checking the quality of milk, RO water or plain water, turmeric, salt, pepper, spices, cold drinks, desi ghee, etc. A fee of ₹50 per item will be charged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sweets-shops-dairies-inspected-for-quality-in-kharar-mullanpur-101634756964123.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hero Women’s Pro Golf: Pranavi takes one-shot lead over Amandeep||Pranavi Urs, who has tasted success twice as an amateur and then two more times as a professional on the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour, showed that she is fast recovering from the injury that set her back earlier on.Urs took the first round lead in the 11th leg of the Hero WPGT at the Panchkula Golf Club with a card of 3-under 69 that gave her a one-shot lead over Amandeep Drall.Pranavi, who won once earlier this year, had four birdies against one bogey, while Amandeep, winner last week, had a bogey each in the first and 10th holes against four birdies, three of which came on the back nine.Seher Atwal had two birdies in the last three holes in her card of 1-under 71. She had one bogey on par-5 15th and then birdies on 16th and 17th.Lakhmehar Pardesi (73) was fourth, while amateur Kriti Chowhan and Jahanvi Bakshi shot 74 each. Vani Kapoor (75) was sixth. Amateur Avani Prashanth and Rhea Jha carded 76 each, while five players shot 77 each in tied 10th place and they were Hitaashee Bakshi, amateur Puneet K Bajwa, Rhea Saravanan, Gauri Karhade and Ishvari Prasanna.Pranavi, who also went to Europe for a couple of starts to test her game, seemed to have found her rhythm early. She birdied the second and fifth holes but dropped a shot on seventh. Birdies on 11th and 15th added to her performance as she closed with 69, the only sub-70 round of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hero-women-s-pro-golf-pranavi-takes-one-shot-lead-over-amandeep-101634756962752.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC removes 400 illegal hoardings in special drive||Taking serious note of illegal hoardings in the city, the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has removed 400 such structures in a special drive initiated on October 18.The MC also issued a 30-day notice to shopkeepers, businessmen and people in general to remove all illegal advertisements contrary to the provisions of the law. Action would be taken for advertisements put out in violation of Chandigarh Advertisement Control Order, 1954, an MC spokesman said.MC commissioner Anindita Mitra said that continuous indifference by the violators has been viewed seriously and a special drive was started from 18 October 2021 to remove such illegal advertisements. As per law, the violators are liable to pay advertising fees and penalties which may run into several lakhs depending upon the size of the illegal hoardings. Such violations also attract action under the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code as well as the Indian Penal Code for the violation of Prevention of Delhi Defacement of Property Act, 2007, she said, adding that drives against illegal advertisements, defacement or displays would be regularly carried out. She further appealed to the people to voluntarily remove such illegal hoardings to avoid penal action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-removes-400-illegal-hoardings-in-special-drive-101634756904281.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||PUTA elections: Campaigning begins with department visits, in-person meets this year||After remaining a low-key affair last year due to the pandemic, the campaigning for the upcoming elections of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) has started with full fervour this year.With the improved Covid situation this year, candidates have started visiting departments and conducting door-to-door meets on campus to reach out to the voters. Last year, instead of gatherings and visiting departments, the use of online platforms to reach out to the teaching community was preferred.The election for the office-bearers of PU’s teaching body is scheduled on October 28. The final list of candidates has already been released by the returning officer. Two candidates are running for the post of president this time. Incumbent president of PUTA Mritunjay Kumar, who is contesting again for the post, said, “Campaigning is being done in a more traditional way this time as compared to last year when campaigning was pushed to social media.”“Through campaigning we come to know what teachers want, it is good that we should meet, discuss and understand their concerns. However, safety norms are being followed,” he said.Also, last year the polling was held at two different venues with staggered timings as a precautionary measure. “People are coming out now, candidates are visiting departments and in-person meetings are also taking place with Covid protocols in place,” said Manu Sharma, who is also contesting for the post of president.Over 600 teachers are eligible to vote in the upcoming elections of PUTA with teachers of PU’s dental institute participating after two years of boycott. The Mritunjay-Naura group had managed a clean sweep against the rival Khalid group in last year’s polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/puta-elections-campaigning-begins-with-department-visits-in-person-meets-this-year-101634756902747.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||INLD lodges complaint against former BJP minister||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) office secretary Nachhattar Singh Malhan on Wednesday lodged a complaint with the chief electoral officer over alleged violation of the model code of conduct by former BJP minister Krishan Lal Panwar.In his complaint, Malhan said, “On October 18, Panwar used casteist language to seek votes for the party candidate in a meeting at Kagdana village. He tried to polarise people on caste lines by adding caste colour to the campaign.”“Our party demands strict action against the BJP leader who sought votes by playing the caste card. He has disturbed the harmony of the society and tried to divide the society on the basis of caste which is an offence under the IPC and a violation of the model code of conduct,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inld-lodges-complaint-against-former-bjp-minister-101634756782582.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Man accused of stealing ₹25L from Agra police station dies in custody||Agra A man accused of theft of ₹25 lakh from Jagdishpura police station allegedly died in police custody on Tuesday night during a raid at his house for recovery of the cash. The deceased belonged to the Valmiki community. In protest against his death, the Valmiki Jayanti celebration in the city on Wednesday was cancelled. His family and community members demanded compensation of ₹1 crore, a government job to one of his dependents and action against the guilty cops. Later in the day, five policemen, including an inspector, were suspended and on behalf of the state government, the district administration announced ₹10 lakh compensation and sanitation worker’s job to a dependent of the deceased. To recall, ₹25 lakh cash was stolen from the ‘maalkhana’ (srtorage house where confiscated items are kept) of Jagdishpura police station in Agra on Sunday last. Taking a serious note of the security lapse, additional director general (ADG) Agra Zone Ajay Anand had suspended 6 policemen, including station house officer. SSP Agra Muniraj G said police were investigating the theft and questioning those who were frequent to the police station. “One of the suspects was a sweeper Arun Kumar who cleaned the police station. He was questioned on Tuesday after being nabbed from Tajganj area. Arun admitted to his involvement in the theft and said the cash was in his house. A police team took him to his house where ₹15 lakh cash was recovered. However, during the recovery, Arun’s health deteriorated and he was rushed to a nearby hospital but was declared ‘brought dead’,” said the SSP. “The district magistrate was contacted and the body was sent for post mortem examination by a panel of doctors. Family members of the deceased filed an FIR and sought action against the police men. A case has been registered and further action will be taken on the basis of the post mortem examination report and investigation,” said Muniraj G. Meanwhile, the leaders of Vallmiki community called off the Valmiki Jayanti celebrations after the death of Arun Kumar, also a Valmiki. “There is much anger and grief among Valmikis in the city on the death of community member Arun Kumar, allegedly in police custody. We have called off all celebrations and will not stop till his family gets justice,”” said Vinod Allahabadi, senior vice president of Local Self Body Workers’ Union. “We demand compensation of ₹1 crore to family members of the deceased, a government job to one of his dependents and prison for guilty police men against whom case for murder should be registered. In case the administration fails to meet the demands, the Valmiki community will not hesitate in going on strike, stopping all work in Agra Nagar Nigam,” he warned. Five cops suspended SSP Muniraj G said five policemen, including an inspector, were suspended for their alleged involvement in the custodial death. A case had also been registered against unidentified policemen on the complaint lodged by family members of the deceased at Jagdishpura police station. “We have constituted an enquiry committee which will probe the incident and further action will take place after the enquiry committee report. Meanwhile, five policemen, including an inspector, a sub inspector and three constables who had the accused in custody have been suspended,” informed SSP Agra Muniraj G. Compensation of ₹10 lakh, job to kin On behalf of state government, district magistrate of Agra Prabhu N Singh declared monetary compensation of ₹10 lakh for the family of Arun Valmiki who died in police custody. Sanitation worker’s job has also been assured to kin of the deceased. “The state government and district administration duly considered the demand made by the family members. The state government has declared financial relief of ₹10 lakh for the family of deceased. Beside this, a job has been assured to one of the dependents of the deceased who will get employment as ‘safai karamchari’ in Agra Nagar Nigam,” said DM Prabhu N Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/man-accused-of-stealing-rs-25l-from-agra-police-station-dies-in-custody-101634756723029.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Angry over non-purchase of paddy UP farmers block Karnal-Meerut highway||Accusing the authorities of not procuring paddy of farmers from other states, hundreds of farmers from Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday blocked the Karnal-Meerut highway on the Haryana-UP border.The sloganeering protesters blocked the road with their tractor-trailers laden with paddy causing inconvenience to commuters by blocking the highway connecting two states.Agitators alleged that the farmers are not being allowed to sell their produce in the mandis of Haryana even after they registered on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal as per the government’s guidelines.Some farmers said they belong to Haryana, but own land in UP. But the Haryana government is not procuring their produce even as they had registered on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal.Farmers lashed out at the government and slammed leaders of the ruling party for their claims that farmers can sell their produce on the minimum support price (MSP).Farmers said they had been selling their produce in the Karnal grain market for years but are facing problems for the past few years.Members of farm unions and arhtiya associations have demanded that the government should allow farmers from the neighbouring states to sell their produce in the mandis as there are no grain markets in UP and many famers from Haryana have also purchased land in UP.The blockade of the highway on the bridge of river Yamuna caused long traffic jams on both sides and hundreds of people were stranded for hours. The blockade continued till evening as the farmers continued their protest in lack of response from the Karnal administration over their demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/angry-over-non-purchase-of-paddy-up-farmers-block-karnal-meerut-highway-101634756422973.html
21-10-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal visits Valmiki temple in Mandir Marg||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced that the government will organise an event on October 23 at Thyagaraj Stadium to celebrate the life of saint Valmiki.The chief minister announced the event in a press statement released soon after his visit to the Valmiki temple in Mandir Marg on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti on Wednesday.Saint Valmiki is worshipped by sections of the Dalit community. Kejriwal often starts the Aam Aadmi Party’s campaigns ahead of elections from the Mandir Marg temple, which is under his jurisdiction as an MLA.The government statement said, “Delhi government will celebrate the Pragat Diwas of Lord Valmiki on a grand scale at Thyagaraj Stadium on October 23. All Delhiites are invited to this function.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia accompanied Kejriwal during his visit to the temple on Wednesday evening.The event gains significance in light of the Punjab assembly election, scheduled to be held in a few months. The AAP is the principal Opposition party in the state. According to government data, Punjab has a significant population of Dalits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-visits-valmiki-temple-in-mandir-marg-101634756190854.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Under-14 cricket tournament: SCA beats CPCA by 57 runs||Sanjay Cricket Academy clinched a comfortable 57 run victory against CP Cricket Academy during the GNSA Under-14 Cricket Tournament in Ludhiana on Wednesday.Batting first, SCA put together a nominal total of 153 runs, losing all 10 wickets in 35.3 overs.Sidharth and Ritesh Ranjan scored 49 and 25 runs, respectively. Harish Kumar of CPCA took a fifer in his seven over spell, including two maiden overs, conceding a mere eight runs.In reply, CPCA was bowled out for 96 in 29.4 overs. Only two batsmen of the team, Deepinder Singh and Harish Kumar, reached the double figures, scoring 34 runs each.Pavir of SCA shined with the ball and took five wickets in his 6.4 over spell, including a maiden, while conceding 13 runs. Rakhsit Khosla took two wickets in his five over spell, giving away 15 runs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/under14-cricket-tournament-sca-beats-cpca-by-57-runs-101634756002825.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Fire in Sarabha Nagar house after short-circuit in AC||Fire broke out at a house in Block-1 of Sarabha Nagar on Wednesday evening after a short-circuit occurred in one of the air conditioners (AC). No casualty was reported, though the family incurred losses as a few furniture items also caught fire. A passerby is said to have alerted the fire officials after seeing smoke rising out of the building.The owners were trying to douse the flames with the help of a water pipe when the fire brigade reached the spot.Firefighter Saurav said the incident took place around 6pm and one fire-tender was rushed to the spot. As the family was already working douse to flames with a water-pipe, the flames were controlled in around 10-15 minutes. No injury was reported from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-fire-in-sarabha-nagar-house-after-short-circuit-in-ac-101634755883365.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Corruption won’t be tolerated in Punjab State Warehousing Corporation: Vaid||Gill MLA Kuldeep Singh Vaid was appointed chairman of the Punjab State Warehousing Corporation (PSWHC) with cabinet rank on Tuesday. He stated that there will be zero tolerance towards corruption and strict action will be taken again those found engaging in such practices.Addressing mediapersons at his office in Sarabha Nagar on Wednesday, Vaid stated that an Inspector of PSWHC has already been suspended after he was caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of ₹30,000 in Bholath (Kapurthala) on Tuesday.Thanking the party high command, including chief minister Charanjit Channi and president of Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee, Navjot Singh Sidhu, for his appointment, Vaid stated that Congress is the only party that has always worked for upliftment of the Scheduled Caste community. He added that this is evident from the fact that it chose Channi as the new CM, Raj Kumar Verka and Aruna Chaudhary as cabinet ministers and now, he has been appointed chairman of PSWHC. ‘Formation of new party by Capt will not affect Cong’Claiming that the Congress will form the government in 2022 following the assembly elections, Vaid stated that formation of a new party by former CM Captain Amarinder Singh in the future will not affect them in any way and SAD has already been rejected by the public.He said that Channi is the most educated CM in the country, humble and hardworking. Vaid added that Channi has been working tirelessly for the upliftment of the downtrodden strata of Punjab, which clearly shows that his government is actually working for the common man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/corruption-won-t-be-tolerated-in-punjab-state-warehousing-corporation-vaid-101634755823452.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Man found bludgeoned to death in Sihala village||Panic gripped Sihala village in Machhiwara after a man was found brutally murdered here on Wednesday.Police said the victim has been identified as Dalip Kumar, 35, a native of Bihar who was residing in Sirhind and worked as labourer. He was identified by one of his relatives. Police said he had been bludgeoned with a stone and they found the weapon near his body. According to the villagers, they hadn’t seen Kumar in the area earlier. Police said the victim might have been in an inebriated condition when he was attacked.Inspector Kulwant Singh, station house officer at Samrala police station, said, “His relative was not aware why and how Dalip was here in Samrala. However, the investigation is still on and we are scanning footage from CCTV cameras in the village,” he said.The inspector added that a murder case has been registered against unidentified accused based on the statement of former sarpanch of Sihala village, Rakesh Kumar..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-found-bludgeoned-to-death-in-sihala-village-101634755645547.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Three more booked for firing at marriage palace||A day after the Sadar police booked around 17 persons of a group for attempt to murder after gunshots were fired during a violent scuffle in a marriage palace on Pakhowal Road, a cross-FIR was registered against three persons from the opposite group.Jagdev Singh, Sadar station house officer, confirmed the development. He said three persons from the opposite group have been booked under Sections 307, 323, 506, 148, 149 of the Indian Penal Code, and Sections 25/54/59 of the Arms Act.In the incident, around four persons were injured. They were identified as Manpreet Singh Mani of Baba Than Singh Chowk, Sarbjot Singh Mangi, Sarbjit Singh Lucky and Simran Bindra. Of these four, Simran Bindra belongs to one group while the other three belong to another group.On Tuesday, the Sadar police had booked 17 persons of which seven were identified as Lovish Oberoi, Bony Oberoi, Simran Bindra, Gurpreet Bindra, Gurpreet Billa, Sukhwinder Singh and Gifty. The accused Lovish and Bony are relatives of a local Shiromani Akali Dal leader.Earlier during the day, a local leader Raju Chawla, who belongs to the opposite group, alleged the police was not recording their statement and not registering a cross-FIR in the case. “The weapon from which the shots were fired belonged to the members of the opposite group and despite that police have booked members of our group,” he had claimed.Raju Chawla said the police commissioner was not available in office. He along with other members met the joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) who had reportedly assured that an FIR will be registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-three-more-booked-for-firing-at-marriage-palace-101634755642573.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue: Ludhiana sees highest one-day spike of this season with 54 cases||Ludhiana district saw the highest single-day spike in dengue cases this season on Wednesday, with 54 fresh infections being reported in the last 24 hours, health department officials said. As many as 34 cases had been reported on Tuesday, the previous highest single-day spike in infections.With this, the total number of confirmed dengue cases in the district has reached 527 this year, while 1,960 others are suspected to have contracted the infection.Of the total confirmed cases, 405 were reported from city areas, while others are from Payal, Khanna, Sudhar, and Sahnewal among others. As many as 126 patients are undergoing treatment at different private hospitals, while 401 have been discharged. The cases from the city have been reported from areas like Kitchlu Nagar, BRS Nagar, Sham Singh Road, Model Gram, Kailash Chowk, Bhamian Road, Chander Nagar, Atam Nagar, Rani Jhansi Road, Hargobindpura, Nehru Nagar and Tagore Nagar.While three suspected people are suspected to have succumbed to the disease, no fatality has been confirmed yet.Meanwhile, the authorities have appealed to the residents to take precautions and avoid water accumulation in and around their houses to stop breeding of mosquitoes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-ludhiana-sees-highest-one-day-spike-of-this-season-with-54-cases-101634755465968.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Festive rush in Ludhiana: MC, police to jointly deal with encroachments, traffic chaos in markets||The municipal corporation (MC) and police have will form joint teams to deal with encroachments and traffic jams ahead of the festive season. Councillors have also been roped in to prevent shopkeepers from encroaching on road portions of markets, which results in traffic bottlenecks.A meeting was held regarding the same at the MC’s Zone-D office on Wednesday, which was attended by MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, joint commissioner of police (JCP - city and traffic) Deepak Pareek, MC additional commissioner Aaditya Dachalwal and other MC officials. Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra and councillors including Jai Prakash, Sunny Bhalla, Baljinder Bunty and Rakesh Prashar were also present.It was decided to appeal to shopkeepers to reduce the area of vends outside their shops and take action against those not abiding by it.Making main markets/roads vehicle-free zones or one-way roads after getting consent from councillors concerned was also discussed.Traffic chaos is being witnessed in various markets including Ghumar Mandi and Gol Market in Model Town; Field Ganj, Chaura Bazar and Jawahar Nagar camp.Senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra said , “Shopkeepers in Chaura Bazar are ready to ban the entry of four-wheelers in the market. Banning entry of vehicles in markets will also be discussed and appeal will be made to shopkeepers to reduce the area of the vends outside their shops. We do not want to play spoilsport during the festive season as the market is already going through a slump. But, action will be taken against shopkeepers if they remain adamant and create traffic bottlenecks.” Temporary vending zones to be establishedIt was also decided to locate vacant spaces in markets which can be used as temporary vending zones where so street vendors can be shifted.The Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) was directed to open the basement of the multi-storey complex on Rani Jhansi road to establish temporary parking. Further, the officials were asked to locate vacant plots, schools etc which can be used as temporary parking lot in the evening. The project to establish temporary parking sites in the city has been hanging fire for over a month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/festive-rush-in-ludhiana-mc-police-to-jointly-deal-with-encroachments-traffic-chaos-in-markets-101634755344342.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amid festive hustle and bustle, Ludhiana sees marginal rise in Covid cases||Amid the festive hustle and bustle, Ludhiana has registered a marginal increase in Covid cases as compared to the last week. Eight Covid-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours in the district, the highest number in the last over 40 days. On Tuesday, four cases and one death due to Covid-19 was reported. The total number of cases since the beginning of the pandemic is 87,586, of which 2,105 succumbed. Currently, the district has 28 active cases. As per state government’s directions, four micro-containment zones have been created in the city which includes Janpath Farms, Canal Road, Ludhiana, where three cases have been reported from a house. Similarly, micro-containment zones have been created at Inder Vihar Chander Nagar, BRS Nagar Block B and Dugri Urban Estate where two cases each have been reported in the last one week. “There is nothing alarming as such in terms of Covid cases, but we are taking all measures to prevent further spread. Micro-containment zones are confined to areas where two cases or more have been reported from the same house in a locality. Still, people should exercise caution at all times and wear masks in public places and continue washing and sanitising hands,” said deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-festive-hustle-and-bustle-ludhiana-sees-marginal-rise-in-covid-cases-101634755225544.html
21-10-2021||Lucknow||Night curfew goes but UP govt stresses on following Covid-19 protocols||The UP government has ended the night curfew (between 11pm and 6am) imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, on Wednesday. However, the restrictions will continue in containment zones still existing anywhere in the state, senior home department officials said.A press note from the home department stated that the restrictions have been lifted with instructions to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing at public places. It further read that night restrictions are lifted following a very low infection percentage across the state.A senior home official said that the state government order directs that Covid-19 protocols should strictly be followed during festivals to ensure that infections do not increase further in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/night-curfew-goes-but-up-govt-stresses-on-following-covid-19-protocols-101634755103849.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Immigration fraud: Chandigarh woman booked for duping Khanna man of ₹11 lakh||The owner of a Chandigarh-based immigration agency has been booked for duping a Khanna resident of around ₹11 lakh on the pretext of providing a study visa for Canada for his daughter-in-law. The accused has been identified as Pooja Mahajan, owner of I-Abroad Education and Immigration Services Private Limited, Sector 42-C, Chandigarh.The FIR has been lodged based on the complaint of Baljinder Singh of Guru Gobind Singh Nagar, Khanna.Baljinder stated that his daughter-in-law Prabhjot Kaur had applied for a study visa to Canada through the agency, which Mahajan had promised to provide for ₹12 lakh. “I had transferred ₹5.10 lakh and ₹5.80 lakh via RTGC to the firm on July 8, 2020 and September 19, 2020, respectively. But, the accused has neither provided the visa nor returned the money,” stated the complainant.Assistant sub-inspector Jagjivan Ram, investigating officer, said that after preliminary investigation, a case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and 24 of Immigration Act has been registered at Khanna city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/immigration-fraud-chandigarh-woman-booked-for-duping-khanna-man-of-11-lakh-101634755102600.html
21-10-2021||Dehradun||Amit Shah to assess flood situation in Uttarakhand||Union minister of home Amit Shah will assess the flood situation and take an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas in Uttarakhand on Thursday, people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.Over the past one week, 52 people have died in Uttarakhand due to rain-related incidents, and at least 17 people are still missing.“On Thursday at 9.45 am, he (Shah) would leave to conduct an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas of the state along with CM Pushkar Singh Dhami,” said Devendra Bhasin, the vice president of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s state unit.Bhasin added that the aerial survey will span for about two hours. “After conducting the aerial survey, he would reach Jolly Grant airport where he will hold a meeting with officials concerned at the state guest house from 11.45 am to 12.45 pm,” added Bhasin.The Union home minister will then depart for Delhi from the airport at around 1 pm in an IAF plane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/amit-shah-to-assess-flood-situation-in-uttarakhand-101634754987024.html
21-10-2021||Delhi||Good to poor in 48 hours: Bad air back in Delhi, and set to get worse||Air pollution levels rebounded sharply into the poor zone on Wednesday after unseasonal rains and strong winds led to a rare ‘good’ Air Quality Index (AQI) day for this time of the year earlier this week, a turn for the worse that experts fear will only deteriorate in coming days.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings showed the 24-hour average AQI at 4pm on Wednesday at 221 – a drastic worsening from Monday’s 46 (good) and Tuesday’s 69 (satisfactory).Experts said the sharp fall in air quality was due to the impact of smoke from farm fires in neighbouring states, and calm local winds.
21-10-2021||Noida||Noida authority opens membership drive for new golf course||The Noida authority on Wednesday sought applications from the general public for membership to the golf course being developed in Sector 151A. There are two categories of membership -- regular and associate membership, officials said, adding that the authority has named the upcoming facility as ‘Noida International Golf Course’.Anyone who wants to become member of this golf course can apply beginning October 21 on https://golfcourse.mynoida.in.“The applicant will have to deposit 50% of total membership fee with the form and the remaining fee will have to be paid within three months from the date, when the golf course will become operational,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.According to the officials, the general public will have to pay ₹10 lakh (excluding taxes) as membership fee, while employees of Uttar Pradesh government will have to pay ₹4 lakh. However, government employees outside the UP has a membership fee of ₹6 lakh, said the authority. The authority will charge around ₹15 lakh for a corporate membership and non-resident Indians. The authority has a target to make the golf course functional within a year if the membership fee is collected now. “We have opened the membership drive now because we want to collect funds. This way we can develop it without arranging funds by the authority,” said Maheshwari, adding that the authority will make 1,000 members in phase 1 of the membership drive.It will be the second golf course in Noida. At present, the city has a 18-hole golf course in Sector 38A.The authority, in February 2020, had approved a budget of ₹90 crore to develop a 90-acre golf course at Sector 151A located along the Noida expressway. This golf course is surrounded by luxurious apartments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-opens-membership-drive-for-new-golf-course-101634754682802.html
21-10-2021||Kolkata||Nurse arrested for Kolkata top exec Subir Chaki murder, her family detained: Cop||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Police probing the murder of Subir Chaki, 61, managing director of Kilburn Engineering, and his driver Rabin Mondal, 65, arrested a woman on Wednesday evening and detained three members of her family.The woman was identified by the police as a nurse, Mithu Haldar. She was picked up from the Diamond Harbour area of South 24 Parganas district, a police officer said on condition of anonymity. The officer said her elder son Vicky, who is suspected to have posed as a prospective buyer for Subir Chaki’s ancestral house, is missing.There has, however, been no formal statement by the Kolkata police on the arrest.Her husband Subhas Haldar, younger son Bilash and brother Tarun Haldar have been detained.Subhas Haldar was first picked up for questioning from south Kolkata on Tuesday night. South 24 Parganas district police officers said the nurse, Mithu Haldar, was arrested last year also on a complaint by her husband Subhas Haldar who alleged she tried to kill him. She was later released on bail.Subir Chaki had been trying to sell the three-storey building for the last six years and many prospective buyers came to see the property in the past. Local residents told the police that the property was valued at around ₹2 crore, given its size and prime location. Chaki, who lived in New Town on the eastern outskirts of the city with his wife, mother and mother-in-law, also owned a posh south Kolkata condominium. Interrogation of the suspects and security camera footage indicated that Vicky committed the crime with two associates, who are also missing.“Vicky contacted Subir Chaki around 10 months ago after seeing an advertisement for the sale of the property. Vicky came posing as a buyer and hatched a plan to rob Chaki. He was waiting for an opportunity. He called up Chaki again a few days ago but posing as another buyer. It seems Chaki was killed because he recognised Vicky when he arrived on Sunday. Chaki’s purse and ring were missing when his body was found. We are trying to find out what else was robbed,” said an officer. Pampa Gayen, who rented out her house to Mithu Haldar and her family in Diamond Harbour’s Kopathat area, told local media that Mithu was taken to Lalbazar police headquarters in Kolkata on Wednesday afternoon after being grilled for hours.“After Mithu returned home on Sunday night, I found her washing some blood-stained clothes in the common courtyard. When I asked her about the blood, she said her son got drunk and fell on the road while taking part in the immersion of a Durga idol. I had no reason to be suspicious,” said Pampa Gayen.Mithu Haldar’s brother and sons live in another rented house in Diamond Harbour. “The police also seized some documents and a pendrive while searching the house. We do not know anything about the contents,” she added.The twin murders took place on Sunday evening shortly after Subir Chaki went to his ancestral house located at Kankulia Road in Kolkata’s Gariahat area. Chaki’s body was found on the first floor the following morning; his driver’s body was on the second floor. Both bore multiple stab injuries. Chaki, who studied at Kolkata’s St Xavier’s School, IIT Kharagpur and IIM Calcutta, worked for well-known companies all his life. His son and daughter live in London and Bengaluru respectively. Local residents told officers of the detective department of the city police that they heard several voices, including that of a woman, from the house on Sunday evening. In the past, Chaki sent Mondal to open the premises when prospective buyers came to see the property. The police suspect that Chaki may have been led to believe that he was close to sealing a deal and hence came to the house on Sunday. Police found that on the way he bought sweets from a popular shop in Gariahat.Subir Chaki’s family told the police that he called them on Sunday evening and spoke about some repair work required at the house. His phone was switched off around 7 pm, around the same time that his driver, Rabin Mondal’s phone was also turned off. Since both devices were missing, police examined their call records which helped them crack the case.A police sniffer dog on Tuesday led the officers to the Ballygunge railway station less than a kilometre away. The dog went to a platform after crossing the over-bridge. This led the officers to suspect that someone who came to the house walked down to the station to board a train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/nurse-arrested-for-kolkata-top-exec-subir-chaki-murder-her-family-detained-cop-101634748203509.html
21-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police, BSF recover cache of arms, ammo from Pakistan border||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-bsf-recover-cache-of-arms-ammo-from-pakistan-border-101634711659487.html
