22-10-2021||Other||Azad in Agra, demands CBI probe in custodial death case||Azad Samaj Party (previously known as Bhim Army) chief Chandra Shekhar Azad demanded a CBI probe in the custodial death case in Agra. He met family members of the sanitation worker killed allegedly in police custody and targeted the BJP regime in the state for being anti-dalit.Azad arrived in Agra on Friday evening and reached the house of Arun Valmiki, consoled family members, and later interacted with mediapersons. “We demand a CBI probe in this custodial death case because the police is lying and has allegedly killed an innocent Dalit to save themselves in theft case at police station. The police has heaped atrocities on Valmiki and his family members and a dozen women were kept in custody among the 40 people rounded up by the police,” Chandra Shekhar alleged. “Although Agra is the capital of dalits but they (dalits) are weak here but the Azad Samaj Party will stand for them and will question the SSP and DM of Agra about when the real culprits will be arrested. Those who have stolen crores of money are moving scot free and an innocent dalit is tortured to death in matter of 25 lakh stolen from a police station,” Azad said. “The government in Uttar Pradesh gets moved by the death of a cow but is unmoved by the death of a dalit which is shameful. Even the compensation granted of 10 lakh is nothing when compared to similar matters of police atrocities. The Agra incident is a blot on the face of humanity and there is no future for three children, including a 30-day-old daughter, whom the deceased has left behind,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/azad-in-agra-demands-cbi-probe-in-custodial-death-case-101634927323059.html
22-10-2021||Pune||31K applications for 236 health department posts in Pune circle; exam on October 24||PUNE The health department of the state government has received a total of 31,000 applications for 236 available posts in the public health department of the Pune circle for Group C jobs. Group C posts mainly perform clerical work in ministries and departments. The health department is now gearing up to conduct written tests on October 24. The exams were earlier scheduled for September 24 were cancelled.Dr Sanjay Deshmkuh, deputy director of Health, said, “Of the total vacancies in the state, 236 vacancies are in the Pune circle, which consists of three districts, Pune, Solapur and Satara, for 18 categories in Group C. For these 236 posts 31,951 applications have come in. Of these, 200 have got their seats in Ahmednagar and in Pune. The exam will be conducted at 123 centres in the circle.” The exam for all the centres of the public health department located in Pune, and for other districts whose bureaus and offices are located in Pune circle, will be conducted by the Pune circle health department, said Deshmukh. The exam will be held in two sessions on the same day, October 24 - from 10am to 12noon and from 3pm to 5pm. At the district level, district surgeons will act as the nodal officers.Earlier students had raised complaints regarding a difficulty in getting access to the examination centres. To make it easier each student has been sent their admission card. Apart from this, arrangements have been made at the respective circle offices. CCTV cameras, video cameras and mobile jammers have been installed at the examination cenres to ensure that there is no copying ot other irregularities in the classrooms. Also care has been taken to ensure that the question paper has not got out and that no fake messages are circulated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/31k-applications-for-236-health-department-posts-in-pune-circle-exam-on-october-24-101634927204123.html
22-10-2021||Pune||First day, first shows sell out in “re-opened” cinemas, theatres in Pune||PUNE The Balgandharva Rang Mandir echoed with the sound of the “teesri ghanta” (third bell) at 7am on Friday, following orders from the Maharashtra government and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) allowing theatres and cinemas to reopen at 50% of capacity.Prashant Damle will present his “Eka Lagnachi Teesri Ghosta” at the Balgandharva on October 23 and 24.“We have already got bookings, with most of the producers bringing in their already set productions. No one has planned a new play yet. We are following the SOPs and will allow only 50% occupancy. There will be no canteen also, “ said Sunil Mate, head of the Pune Municipal Cultural Centre.“At 50% occupancy it is not helping cover costs. We only hope that the CM will look at our request to open theatres for full occupancy with full Covid norms,” said Sunil Mahajan, president, Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Natya Parishad, Kothrud.Rashmi Aras, an avid theatre goer is eager to watch a play ‘live’. “It is about time that theatres were opened to public. I miss watching plays. It is like complete entertainment for the entire family,” she said.For cinema lovers it was time to rejoice as well. “We know that audiences have been patiently waiting for cinemas to reopen. Our morning shows starting between 9am and 10am were almost sold out across all our multiplexes. The overall turnout during the day so far has been reminiscent of the pre-Covid days,” said Rajeev Patni, chief operating officer, Inox Leisure. Arvind Chaphalkar, MD, City Pride multiplex said, “The cinema halls saw a good number of people showing up. Sales will pick up slowly.”Lalit Kala Kendra at the SPPU presented its very first show at Namdeo hall to mark the reopening of theatres on Friday. The play is “Waghachi Ghosta”, an adaptation of an Italian play translated by Vinod Luvekar. “It ran to a full house, naturally,” said Pravin Bhole, head of department, Latit Kala Kendra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/first-day-first-shows-sell-out-in-re-opened-cinemas-theatres-in-pune-101634927023383.html
22-10-2021||Lucknow||West UP’s paddy crop damaged, farmers seek compensation||MEERUT Last week’s heavy rain has caused widespread damage to paddy crop in different districts of western UP. With an estimated 15 to 20 per cent crop damaged, farmers are demanding to an immediate survey to assess the damage. Chief scientist of Basmati Export Promotion Council Dr Ritesh Sharma said that 1509 variety of Basmati were popular among farmers in Meerut, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Hapur, Saharanpur, Moradabad and Bareilly region. An estimated 4 lakh hectare area is under Basmati cultivation in western UP. Sharma said that 10 to 15 per cent crop of Basmati 1509 had been damaged due to heavy rain last week. “ It was harvesting season for early variety of Basmati when the downpour hit the crop for three days,” said Singh. In addition to loss due to rain, the crop standing in the fields was now being attacked by insects, causing 5 to 7 per cent damage to the quality of grain, he said. An exporter of Basmati rice Ajay Bhalotia also expressed concern over widespread damage to the crop. “ Gujarat, Delhi and a few other states had declared compensation to paddy farmers after due survey but nothing has happened in UP so far and farmers are demanding immediate survey of the loss”, said Bhalotia who convened a meeting with a group of farmers in Jatpura village of Matt tehsil in Mathura on Friday. Bhalotia said that it was really painful to see the damage to crop and farmers needed assistance from the state government, otherwise it would be difficult for them to bear such a heavy loss. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) president for NCR Mangeram Tyagi said, “ We have directed our tehsil and block level officials to meet farmers and raise their issue with the district magistrates and sub divisional magistrates to push the demand for immediate survey of damage so that compensation may be declared immediately.” BKU’s youth wing state president Digamber Singh, who belongs to Bijnor district, claimed that farmers grew paddy in a large area in the district. “Incessant rain caused heavy damage to paddy crops and unfortunately media also did not raise the plight of paddy farmers,” said Singh who also demanded immediate survey of the damage and compensation to farmers. Criticizing the PM Fasal Beema Yojana and other schemes for benefits of farmers, Singh claimed that the system had made these schemes so complex that farmers seldom received their benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/west-up-s-paddy-crop-damaged-farmers-seek-compensation-101634926906408.html
22-10-2021||Other||Road fatalities in Chandigarh dip by half to 53 in 2020 over 2019||Chandigarh Road fatalities have dropped from 104 in 2019 to 53 in 2020, as per the ‘Road Safety in Chandigarh 2020’ report released by the traffic police on Friday. Traffic was constrained in view of the Covid-9 pandemic from April to May, with 50 First-Information Reports (FIRs) registered in the year, the lowest since 1976, when traffic volume was a fraction of today. The number of crash related calls to the PCR was 8,240 is also half of 15,794 calls in 2019. Senior superintendent of police (SSP, Traffic) Manisha Choudhary said, Vehicular restrictions due to Covid pandemic contributed to lower fatalities in 2020. However, continued efforts in areas of enforcement, road safety awareness and road engineering interventions have also helped us in bringing down fatalities by half in the last decade.”National Road Safety Council member Kamaljeet Soi said, “Apart from Covid, we see the traffic police turning to hi-tech speed cameras and e-challaning. Enforcement has increased and a fall in fatality figures was to be expected,” he said.Speeding continues to remain the main cause of fatal accidents in the city. In 2019, 95% of all fatal accidents were caused by speeding; this dipped marginally to 92% in 2020. Road safety activist Harpreet Singh said, “Due to good infrastructure and wide roads speeding has become a problem in the city. Behavioural changes are needed and the traffic police must think of re-introducing speeding nakas like before to change people’s behaviour.” SSP Choudhary added “We will analyse the accident prone areas and take corrective actions in terms of deployment and engineering intervention. We are already deploying night nakas based on accident-prone location analysis and are in the process of purchasing night-vision radar guns to capture speeding violations at night and new Handycams as well. Smart City project will help us in preventing accidents.”TWO-WHEELERS MOST DANGEROUSTwo-wheelers remained the most dangerous mode of transport with 43% of fatalities involving these, from 44% in 2019. Of 22 two-wheeler fatalities, eight were without helmet. Over 22% of all fatalities were pedestrians, 19% were cyclists and 7% were rehri-pullers. In 2019, this was 34% pedestrians, 10% were cyclists and 1% were rickshaw pullers.Cars caused the most accidents. In 60% of all fatalities the vehicle of the accused was a light motor vehicle (32 of 53 fatalities). 17% fatalities were caused by trucks, 8% fatalities by lorries and 4% by buses in 2020.CHANDIGARH VEHICLES MAJOR CULPRITS THIS YEAR In 2019, 41% of the fatal accidents were caused by vehicles from Punjab and Haryana, but in 2020 the number went down to 32%. Vehicles from Chandigarh caused 18 of the 50 fatal accidents which is 36%. Nights remained the most dangerous with 14 of 50 fatal accidents between 9pm and midnight and 12 accidents between 6pm and 9pm. Over 57% fatal accidents were reported during night hours; Of the fatalities, 87% were male and 13% female.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/road-fatalities-in-chandigarh-dip-by-half-to-53-in-2020-over-2019-101634926904871.html
22-10-2021||Pune||3 dead, 12 injured as truck brushes off car, rams into empty container at Navale bridge||At least three persons were killed and 12 others sustained injuries when a tanker containing thinner brushed a car and rammed into an empty container near Navale bridge on Katraj-Mumbai road on Friday evening, officials said. According to the police, the container was heading towards Mumbai when the driver lost control near Navale bridge. “In order to overtake, the tanker containing thinner first brushed a small seven-seater vehicle which had 12 people travelling in it. Then it also hit a two-wheeler before being rammed into container,” said Devidas Gheware, senior inspector, Sinhgad road police station. Thinner is a solvent used to thin oil-based paints or as a cleaning agent. According to Gheware, three people were confirmed dead and 12 people are injured and have been rushed to the hospital at the time of going to press. The deceased were removed by fire brigade personnel. Assistant commissioner of police Vijay Choudhari said, prima facie it appears that the truck had switched off engine on the slope when the driver lost control. Earlier on Thursday, two women and five others were injured after a container truck caused a multi-vehicle pile up near Narhe selfie point. The truck heading towards Warje hit a pick up van causing it to swerve and hit three motorcycles. The entire stretch between Narhe going till Navale bridge has seen several accidents in the past. Frequent mishaps on the stretch has forced NHAI to take corrective steps while traffic police too have invoked stricter rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3-dead-12-injured-as-truck-brushes-off-car-rams-into-empty-container-at-navale-bridge-101634926782819.html
22-10-2021||Lucknow||KGMU non-teaching staff threatens stir||The non-teaching staff of the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) will start an indefinite strike from November 16 and will even oppose state officials who visit to convince them to end the strike, the KGMU Employees’ Council (KGMUEC) has decided.“Our demand for a wage revision at par with the staff of the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) was agreed upon and a government order was also issued in August 2016. But we, the non-teaching staff, are yet to get the benefit. All the talks with officials and ministers have had no impact on revising our wages, hence, we have decided to go on a strike,” said Pradip Gangwar, president, KGMUEC.Gangwar, who a month earlier had staged a unique protest by crawling on the road demanding wage revision and restructuring of the staff cadre, said, “In a meeting in January, the minister for medical education had agreed to our demand and it was decided that by April restructuring of four cadres and by September all cadres should be done. It is October and nothing has been done.”“We have decided that once our agitation begins this time, it will not be cancelled till our demands are met. During our stir, we shall also oppose visits by ministers and officials on the campus,” said Gangwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kgmu-non-teaching-staff-threatens-stir-101634926722795.html
22-10-2021||Gurugram||MCG directs all senior officials to set up composting units at residences soon||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, has directed all senior staffers to set up composting units at their residences to step up the preparations for Swachh Survekshan 2022, according to a release issued by the civic body on Friday.According to MCG officials, the commissioner collected information from the MCG empanelled experts about the home composting process and then directed the MCG joint commissioner for Swachh Bharat Mission, Hariom Attri, to set up home composting units in the residences of all senior officials of the civic body.Ahuja has also set up a home composting unit at his residence in Civil Lines.“The MCG commissioner has also appealed to the residents of the city to adopt home composting units and cooperate in making Gurugram a clean and garbage-free city. He said that wet, dry and domestic harmful waste should be kept separately in the houses. Do composting at home from wet waste and use compost made from it for the plants. Due to this, the waste in Gurugram will reduce, and it will also add to the green cover in the city. Dry and domestic harmful waste should be given to the recyclers. Overall, these measures will help reduce the waste load carried to the Bandhwari landfill,” said SS Rohilla, public relations officer (PRO) of MCG.Ahuja also said that the Swachh Survekshan 2022 was announced by the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, and Gurugram is participating in it. He appealed to the citizens for cooperation and said that they should segregate waste, adopt home composting, stop using polythene and single use plastic, and take care of cleanliness of their houses and their surrounding areas.“This way, we will help Gurugram get better in cleanliness ranking and make the city better by making it clean and beautiful,” Ahuja added.He also said that directions have been issued to 26 empanelled agencies of MCG to ensure that waste management is done at bulk waste generators, and to send monthly reports of the action taken to the MCG. If any agency does not work properly, action will also be taken against it according to the rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-directs-all-senior-officials-to-set-up-composting-units-at-residences-soon-101634926542747.html
22-10-2021||Gurugram||Faridabad, Manesar pollution hotspots in NCR even during monsoon, says CSE study||Faridabad and Manesar in the National Capital Region (NCR) were identified as pollution hotspots this monsoon as when most of NCR breathed clean air, these two regions reported high pollution levels during the season, found a recent analysis of air quality trends conducted by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), which released the data on Friday evening. The study found Faridabad’s Sector 11 had the worst air this monsoon in the NCR with 64 ug/m3 (micrograms per cubic meter) of pollutants. The analysis is a continuation of the air quality tracker initiative of the Urban Data Analytics Lab of the CSE that was started last winter. The objective of this new analysis is to understand the starting line of the onset of pollution during the pre-winter levels in this region. The analysis assessed the annual and seasonal trends in PM2.5 concentration from January 1, 2018 to October 15, 2021. As part of the study, 14 new locations in NCR were identified last winter as emerging hotspots, half of which registered lower PM 2.5 concentration this monsoon compared to city and regional averages. Three more locations, including Manesar and Faridabad’s Sector 11, emerged as potential pollution hotspots this monsoon. The analysis shows these locations show significantly higher seasonal average compared to the rest of the region. Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager for sustainable cities with CSE, said, “During monsoon, there are no external factors, such as temperature drop and stubble burning that come into play during winter, that will affect the air quality. Still Faridabad, Manesar and other cities of Haryana had high pollution levels. Usually, the rain washes down all pollutants, but higher levels indicate that local sources of pollution are not being controlled.” “If during monsoon, high levels of pollution are being reported when most of Delhi-NCR had good air quality, it will be very difficult to meet targets during winter, when external factors affect the air quality,” he added. According to the 2009 National Ambient Air Quality Standards, the permissible PM2.5 level over a year-long period is 40µg/m³--eight times more than the revised threshold set by the World Health Organisation. The seasonal average of air pollutants in Faridabad (42), Gurugram (44), Manesar (51) and Dharuhera (43) during monsoon this year (from July 1 till October 15) was higher than the annual average. S Narayanan, member secretary of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said, “I am yet to go through the data. I will not be able to comment before studying it. All measures are being taken to ensure that pollution levels are under control during the winter season.” Meanwhile, the air quality in Gurugram was in the moderate category. The Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality bulletin showed Gurugram had an air quality index (AQI) of 164 on Friday. With an AQI of 183, Faridabad district also recorded moderate air quality, though slightly poorer than Gurugram. Over the next two days, the city is likely to receive one or two spells of rain, which might improve the air quality. According to the weather bulletin issued on Friday by the Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the air quality in the national capital territory will remain ‘moderate’ on Saturday and is likely to improve on Sunday, owing to rainfall and strong winds. The contribution of biomass burning in PM2.5 concentration is also likely to be less than 5% and reduce significantly over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/faridabad-manesar-pollution-hotspots-in-ncr-even-during-monsoon-says-cse-study-101634926302728.html
22-10-2021||Gurugram||11 years on, buyers protest against non-delivery of plots in Gurugram project||Plot buyers of ‘Krrish World’ in Gurugram’s Brahma City project protested against the developer near the department of town and country planning (DTCP) office in Sector 14 on Friday for failing to deliver their plots even 11 years after launching the project.The buyers also submitted a memorandum to the DTCP, demanding delivery of their pending plots despite 90% of the total payment being done, alleged members of Krrish & Brahma Buyers Association.The association said the project, which was launched in 2010 by Krrish Realtech Private Limited (KRPL), offered plots to buyers in Brahma City spread over sectors 60, 61, 62, 63 and 65, promising that the plots would be delivered between 2013 and 2014. The average size of plots ranged from 300 square yard to 400 square yard, according to the buyers.The protesters, who had gathered near the DTCP office on Friday, alleged that the developer did not offer them possession of their plots and has now come up with a new scheme, according to which, the project will be developed in collaboration with a third party to offer floor spaces to the buyers instead of plots which they had purchased earlier.Naresh Garg, a buyer, said that the developer has approached the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), declaring itself insolvent so that the project could be handed over to a third party for making floor spaces without any consent from the plot owners. “Instead of giving us the plots, the developer is now offering us floor spaces. We want our original plots only,” said Garg, adding that they have not given any consent to accept the floor spaces.According to the buyers, several plots have also been sold to multiple buyers and it becomes a problem when they go for the physical possession. “When I went to take possession of my plot, five other persons were already sitting there who refused to let us take possession as they, too, claimed ownership of the plot,” said Girish Guliani, another buyer.Plot buyers, who protested on Friday, alleged that they have paid nearly ₹1 crore each to the developer, and many of them even took loans and are paying EMIs for the same. “Most of the buyers are end-users and they have invested their hard-earned money in the project. The authorities and developers must not allow this change in the character of the project as it will cause a major loss to the buyers,” said DD Singh, president of the association.The project developer, however, denied the allegations and said that they have been committed to delivering the plots to the buyers. “We are working out a scheme for the delivery of the plots to the buyers, and they will get their spaces soon. We are committed to delivering these units to the buyers. The delay has been caused due to various reasons and we are working on it,” said Amulya Misra, director of KRPL.A spokesperson of Brahma City Private Limited (BCPL) said, “We examined our records, and it is submitted at the outset that the said individuals/entities are not customers or allottees of BCPL and have no privity of contract with it. Further, it may be noted at the outset that BCPL is not responsible for any act or omission committed by KRPL. BCPL is a separate and distinct legal entity. The complainant appears to be the allottee of KRPL and therefore BCPL is not responsible for any act or omission committed by KRPL.”Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, Gurugram, said that the DTCP officials were in Chandigarh on Friday to attend a meeting, but a memorandum has been submitted to the office. “We will examine issues raised by the buyers, and the needful will be done according to the rules,” Mann said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/11-years-on-buyers-protest-against-non-delivery-of-plots-in-gurugram-project-101634926122794.html
22-10-2021||Gurugram||Seven years after proposal, art and cultural complex project revived in Gurugram||Nearly seven years after it was first proposed, the arts and cultural complex project of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has now been revived, with the tenders for the project likely to be floated by the next month, and the actual work to be commenced from December, officials familiar with the development said on Friday.According to MCG officials, the design of the arts and cultural complex in Gurugram Sector 53 has been inspired by India Habitat Centre (IHC) in Delhi, Dilli Haat in Indian National Airways (INA) Market, and Ravindra Natya Grah auditorium in Indore.Spread across seven acres, the complex will have an auditorium, open-air theatres, restaurants, art galleries, rest houses, pantry area and parking spaces, and a dedicated space for setting up an open market, food court and craft market along the lines of Dilli Haat.According to the MCG officials, a consultant of the civic body made a presentation on the design and concept of the project before senior MCG officials at its Sector 34 office on Thursday evening, and its detailed project report was approved. “Following the presentation, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and I, together, examined various aspects of the project’s detailed notice inviting tender (DNIT), detailed project report (DPR), estimates and technical sanctions among other such issues. All of these have been approved and will be taken up on priority,” said TL Sharma, chief engineer of MCG.Sharma also said that the project is estimated to cost around ₹210 crore.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had announced the establishment of the arts and cultural complex in 2015. The state government had given administrative approval for the project in September 2019 for ₹194.95 crore.“There were some technical issues with the previous concept. The entire project has been designed and planned afresh with new estimates. The consultant has also made changes in the DPR accordingly, and the commissioner has also given his approval to it,” Sharma added.There is a dearth of arts and cultural spaces in the city. The last public cultural centre in Gurugram was the 200-seating capacity Bal Bhawan auditorium in Sector 4 where the MCG showcased its weekly culture performances. The auditorium was shut in February 2018 as it was in a dilapidated condition, and is now under renovation.According to a senior MCG official privy to the matter, the MCG’s consultant will submit the design plans and concept in writing by the next week, following which, they will initiate the tendering process. “The project is in its final stages. The MCG will issue tenders to hire contractors within the next 15 days. According to the concept, art galleries, auditoriums, open-air theatres, rest houses for artists, restaurants, pantries and parking spaces will be set up. Spaces have also been earmarked to set up food plazas, cultural and crafts shops like the ones in Dilli Haat. The cultural complex will be one-of-its-kind in the city,” said Vivek Gill, superintendent engineer of MCG, who is overseeing the project.Gill said that the entire design of the project was inspired from IHC and Ravindra Natya Grah auditorium in Indore.In regards to private cultural spaces, the Epicentre in Sector 44 was the city’s cultural and social hub from 2008 till January 2017, hosting exhibitions, song festivals, plays, dance performances and stand-up comedy shows among other such events. In October 2018, it restarted as an “apparel house”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/seven-years-after-proposal-art-and-cultural-complex-project-revived-in-gurugram-101634926062827.html
22-10-2021||Other||Noida to sign MoU with South Korea’s Changwon to lure investors||The Noida Authority is likely to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with South Korean city Changwon on November 15 to “lure more investors” and “exchange ideas”.The MoU will aim to start an interactive campaign between the two cities known for their growth and opportunities in both countries, said Noida Authority officials.“After the MoU is signed, we will take things forward with Changwon’s investors, businessmen, and other stakeholders. The MoU will enable the facilitation of investors so that they can interact with people here and invest in Noida,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of Noida Authority.The MoU will be signed online.“Our job will be to facilitate meetings so that investors or entrepreneurs from both cities can learn from each other and look for opportunities,” said Maheshwari.The South Korean government also wants to encourage their businessman to learn and start new businesses, said officials of the Noida Authority.“During interactive sessions, businessmen from the South Korean city can learn about the laws that are to be followed in Noida in terms of starting a new business or opportunities here. And the same goes for Noida entrepreneurs. Both can explore opportunities in their fields and set up businesses. During these sessions, both cities can lure investors and witness growth,” said a Noida Authority official, requesting anonymity.In Noida, there are at least 10,000 industrial units, both small and big. The authority will encourage them to use this opportunity to expand their businesses.“We are hopeful that these kind of events will help us learn best practices in business and explore new business models,” said Vipin Malhan, president of Noida Entrepreneurs’ Association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-to-sign-mou-with-south-korea-s-changwon-to-lure-investors-101634925942923.html
22-10-2021||Noida||Man arrested for killing interior designer in Greater Noida||A 30-year-old man was arrested on Thursday night for allegedly killing a 28-year-old woman, an interior designer by profession, in Greater Noida on Wednesday. Police said the suspect Arjun Singh, alias Chaman Chauhan, a resident of Alipur in New Delhi, wanted to marry the woman identified as Pinky Chauhan. Arjun’s sister was married to Pinky’s cousin last year. He killed Pinky because her family fixed her marriage with someone else, said police. According to police, Pinky’s family members found her with her throat slit and multiple wounds on her body at their home in Paramount Golf Foreste Villas Sector Zeta – 1. Arjun allegedly fled with her cellphone, ₹4 lakh cash and gold jewellery. Ankur Agarwal, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said Arjun fled the spot after committing the murder. “We scanned the CCTV footage and identified him and the scooter used in the crime. We launched a search and also informed Delhi police. A team of Delhi police’s crime branch arrested Arjun from Delhi on Thursday night and handed him over to Noida police,” he said.On Friday, the Surajpur police took Arjun to find the murder weapon and the valuables, which he had hid in a bush near Tilapta roundabout. “The police found a bag in which a sharp knife, a stolen I-phone and some gold and silver jewellery, ₹ 39,526 in cash, 190 Nepali rupees and $11 dollar were found,” said Agarwal. Agarwal said that Arjun suddenly snatched a sub-inspector Hariram Singh’s pistol and tried to escape after opening fire. “Police returned the fire; Arjun was shot on the right leg and overpowered. He was sent for medical treatment to the district hospital,” he said. Agarwal added Arjun wanted to marry Pinky but her family had recently fixed her marriage with somewhere else. “Primary investigation shows the suspect had murdered the woman over this issue,” he said. Pappu Namberdar, Pinky’s maternal uncle, said her father deals in the transport business in Noida. Originally from Noida’s Chhalera village, the Chauhans shifted to their new home in Greater Noida last year. On Wednesday afternoon, Pinky’s parents had gone out shopping, and her brother was in his office. “The family planned a pooja and a havan on Thursday. When Pinky’s parents returned home around 9pm, the main door of the house was locked from inside and they knocked on the door several times but did not get any response from Pinky,” said Namberdar . “Her parents used another set of keys to unlock the door, and on entering the house, they found Pinky lying in a pool of blood, with multiple wounds on her neck and body. They immediately informed the police,” he said.A case has been registered against Arjun under Sections 302 (murder) and 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the IPC. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-killing-interior-designer-in-greater-noida-101634925704804.html
22-10-2021||Noida||Army Training Command, Noida university sign MoU for Centre of Excellence||The Amity University, Noida, and the Army Training Command (ARTRAC), Indian Army, on Friday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to start a joint Centre of Excellence for studies in engineering and technology at the campus of the private university. ARTRAC is one of the seven commands of the Indian Army which aims to maximise effectiveness of training defence personnel. Under the initiative, the Indian Army will establish the centre with an objective of exchange of information on educational programmes run by the university. The varsity officials said that the Indian Army would sponsor its officers to undergo on-campus and off-campus educational programmes. The visits by faculty and students of the Amity University will be undertaken to army establishments to better understand educational and technology needs of the Indian Army, and visits by army officers to the Noida university to engage in research and innovation.Lt Gen Raj Shukla, ARTRAC commander, and Maj Gen Vivek Kashyap, attended the programme at the Amity University on Friday. Shukla said he was confident that a large segment of officers would be doing research and studies with defined projects at the Amity University in the coming days. “The MoU between Amity and ARTRAC is a step towards strengthening the institutional linkages between academia and the Indian military,” he said. Ashok K Chauhan, founder president, Amity Education Group, said the signing of MoU between Amity and ARTRAC is a historical occasion. “Amity always wanted to contribute to nation building and this is a big step towards it,” he said. The university, in a press statement, said the centre will also focus on emerging areas of science and technology, including information warfare or security; wireless communications; robotics and automation; tracking /surveillance, underwater acoustics and communication; chemical storage, handling, transport, and disposal; environment and energy system technologies; and other fields in the larger domain of defence technology and management.The collaborative research and innovation in areas of mutual interest in physical sciences, engineering, pharmacy, management, and social sciences, among others, will also take place at the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/army-training-command-noida-university-sign-mou-for-centre-of-excellence-101634925643264.html
22-10-2021||Lucknow||Lord Ram is symbol of Indianness: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday referred to Lord Ram as a symbol of Indianness while releasing for four volume book on him. The Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan and Vani Prakashan has carried out research work for the book ‘Ram in Indian Languages’. The book carries details about Lord Ram in 17 Indian languages. Addressing the gathering, the CM said: “Lord Ram is the symbol of Indianness.” Adityanath discussed relevance of lord Ram even in a Muslim country like Indonesia, Thailand and South Korea. On the occasion, the CM also announced that encyclopaedia on Ram will be available. The Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan is carrying out research work on this encyclopaedia. “Even today Ramayan serial is watched with much eagerness like it was on its first telecast,” said CM. He also pointed out how Ramayan serial that was telecast on Doordarshan during lockdown scaled up TRP rating of the national broadcaster. Also present on the occasion, Vidhan Sabha speaker Hriday Narain Dikshit said: “Those who used to call Ram an imaginary figure are now eager to go to Ayodhya.” He referred to Ram as being India’s soul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lord-ram-is-symbol-of-indianness-yogi-adityanath-101634925588259.html
22-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Govt hospitals record high bed occupancy with rise in dengue cases||The surge in dengue cases, coupled with a high number of viral fever cases, has led to almost full occupancy in the two district hospitals in Ghaziabad. Experts said the occupancy is also very high in private hospitals. Officials of the district health department said they have directed the hospitals to increase the number of beds as per requirement.According to the official figures of the district health department, 33 fresh cases of dengue were reported on Friday taking the tally of cases to 747, of which 356 cases have been reported in October (till Friday) alone. The first dengue case was reported from the district on September 1. “The bigger private hospitals in the city have almost 80-90% occupancy, while beds are available in other facilities. The reason for the higher occupancy is the increasing number of cases of both viral fever and dengue, where the platelet count shows a marked decline. The situation is likely to prevail for another fortnight. We are expecting the cases to decline as has been the trend in the past years,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of the Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad. Officials of the two district hospitals in Ghaziabad said almost all their beds reserved for patients suffering from dengue and viral fever are occupied. “We have 60 beds reserved for dengue cases, malaria and viral fever and all of these are full nowadays. Apart from these beds, we have 40 beds reserved for paediatric ICU, high dependency unit and neonatal intensive care. If need be, we can allot these 40 beds for dengue and other patients,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital. “We have about 150 cases of viral fever. We keep receiving patients suffering from viral fever at our outpatient department on a daily basis. The number (150) has not decreased,” he added. Officials of the MMG District Hospital said almost 90% of their beds are occupied by mostly dengue and viral fever patients. “We have 166 beds in our hospital; around 90% of them are occupied with some beds occupied by patients who have undergone different surgeries. The beds are mostly occupied by patients who are suffering from dengue and viral fever. On an average, we receive around 200 patients daily with symptoms of fever,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent of the MMG District Hospital. Officials of the district health department said they are keeping a close watch on the rise in the number of dengue and viral fever cases. “As regards the bed occupancy, in some hospitals it is high while in others, beds are easily available. In fact, we have also asked the hospitals to increase the number of beds as and when required. The cases of viral fever cannot be ascertained on a daily basis but we have a count of dengue cases as it has to be reported by every hospital in the district,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer. The tally of dengue cases is highest after 2014 when the district received 928 cases. Official records indicate that the district recorded the first 100 cases in 15 days on September 15 after the first case was reported on September 1. The next set of 100 cases was reported in nine days on September 24. The district breached the 300-mark of dengue cases on September 30. On October 6, the tally of dengue cases breached the 400 mark while the next 100 cases were reported in the next five days on October 11. The tally increased to 600 in a span of five days on October 16. The total number of dengue cases crossed the 700-mark on October 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-govt-hospitals-record-high-bed-occupancy-with-rise-in-dengue-cases-101634925524229.html
22-10-2021||Noida||Noida’s air quality improves as wind catches pace||The air quality of Noida on Friday improved to ‘moderate’ levels due to strong westerly winds. Weather analysts said that the air quality may further improve as the city is likely to witness rain on Saturday. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) reading, on a scale of 0 to 500, for Noida on Friday was 192 (‘moderate’) against 209 (‘poor’) a day earlier. Similarly, the AQI of Greater Noida was 172 against 220 a day earlier. The air quality of Gaziabad, however, remained ‘poor’ even though showing marginal improvement within the category, with the city recording an AQI of 236 against 262 a day earlier, showed the CPCB data.An AQI reading between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Noida and adjoining areas may see rainfall on Saturday. “Maximum temperature will hover around 30°C and minimum around 17°C on Saturday. There is a possibility of light rainfall in the region on Saturday,” said an IMD official.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet, said that Noida saw strong winds up to 20-25 km per hour that helped with dispersion of the pollutants and better ventilation. “A western disturbance is also approaching that may lead to change in the wind directions towards evening hours on Friday, which may drop the wind speed during night time on Friday and lead to slight spike in pollution levels. However, the winds will catch up during the daytime. There is also a possibility of light rainfall on Saturday which may further improve the air quality,” Palawat said.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the air quality is likely to remain ‘moderate’. “In presence of dry weather and westerly wind, local dust emission will lead to high PM10. Additional dust transport from Rajasthan’s desert areas due to high wind speed and dry conditions is contributing to PM10 enhancement. Impact of fire emission is almost negligible due to faster dispersion and unfavourable wind direction. The overall AQI is forecasted to remain in moderate category for the next two days,” said a statement by Safar on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-air-quality-improves-as-wind-catches-pace-101634925350287.html
22-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Five of porn racket arrested||The Ghaziabad police on Friday arrested a couple and their three women employees for allegedly running an online porn racket in which they trapped customers by recording their objectionable videos and extorted lakhs of rupees by threatening them to make the videos viral on social media. Several accounts of the suspect couple have transactions amounting to about ₹3.6 crore, the police said, adding the suspects were operating from a rented flat in a high-rise in Raj Nagar Extension. Police identified the couple as Yogesh Gautam, 28, his wife Sapna Gautam, 24. The couple’s three women employees, who joined lately, were identified as Nikita Singh, 19, Priya, 20, and Nidhi Khanna, 28, all residents of Ghaziabad. According to the police, for past two years, the couple was registered on a website where they would connect on live porn video shows with different customers. “Through this website, the customers used to pay up ₹234 per minute and the couple used to get half of the money. Later, the couple came in contact with a man from Australia who told them that they can start their own venture by connecting to customers directly and bypassing the website. So, they started connecting to customers directly by providing them the mobile numbers,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1). The police said that when the customer base grew, the couple hired three women and together they propagated the modus operandi of the website. “While dealing directly with the customers, the gang would record their objectionable videos and then blackmail them. We have come across the couple’s eight bank accounts so far and four of these have transactions of about ₹3.6 crore. Recently, we got a tip-off from the Rajkot police in Gujarat that the suspects extorted ₹80 lakh from a man through a similar modus operandi and the money belonged to his employer. The employer later lodged an FIR and the reason behind siphoning off ₹80 lakh was revealed to the police,” Agarwal said. Based on the tip provided by the Rajkot police, the Ghaziabad police roped in cyber cell teams and nabbed the suspects, the officials said. “The couple had hired a high-end flat in Raj Nagar Extension and was living a luxurious life. It is estimated that they cheated hundreds of people and we are trying to trace them with the help of bank transactions of the suspects. We also recovered several mobile phones containing objectionable videos, web cameras, laptops, and bank documents, among other things, from their possession,” the police officer said. According to the police, an FIR was registered against the suspects at Nandgram police station under IPC sections for extortion, obscenity, criminal breach of trust, cheating and also under provisions of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-five-of-porn-racket-arrested-101634924984525.html
22-10-2021||Other||Emerald Court: Probe of officials involved in allowing green belt encroachment complete||The Noida authority on Friday said that it has completed a probe into the roles of authority officials in allowing the Supertech Limited to encroach upon a 7,000 square metres green belt adjacent to the developer’s controversial Emerald Court project in Noida’s Sector 93A. “The probe is almost complete and its report will be sent to the state government next week. Some officials from the town planning department were involved in this case,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer, Noida authority.“These are same officials who have been facing FIR in the violation of building map for twin tower case,” said Maheshwari.The Noida authority may send the probe report to the government for further action on Tuesday (October 26), said the officials, adding that the authority has already freed up the 7,000 sqm green belt and taken possession of the land.On October 3, the special investigation team (SIT), constituted to investigate irregularities in the approval of building map plans for 40-storey twin towers in the Emerald Court project, directed the Noida authority to free up 7,000 sqm green area that was merged into the housing project illegally. Officials of Supertech have refused to comment on the issue.In its report, the SIT had said that 26 Noida authority officials were involved in the irregularities in the Supertech’s twin tower map approval. Of the 26 officials, two are dead and 20 have retired. The SIT has also recommended filing an FIR against four directors of Supertech Limited, two private architects and the 24 Noida authority officials.Following the SIT’s recommendations, the Noida authority’s planning department filed FIR against the suspected authority officials with the vigilance department in Lucknow. The SIT was formed by the state government on September 2, two days after the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of Apex and Ceyane towers in the Emerald Court project over grave violation of building norms. The court said the violation was a result of “nefarious complicity” between the Noida authority and the real estate developer. The process to demolish the twin towers is underway, said authority officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emerald-court-probe-of-officials-involved-in-allowing-green-belt-encroachment-complete-101634924683152.html
22-10-2021||Lucknow||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to launch three yatras in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will launch three pratigya yatras in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday, party leaders said.The Congress general secretary is also expected to make some more announcements after promising 40% reservation for women in the allocation of the party tickets for the Uttar Pradesh assembly election, besides smartphones to class 12 pass girls and electric scooties for graduating women students.In all, the Congress proposes to make seven “pratigyas” (promises) to the people of the state in addition to the party’s election manifesto to be released in the coming weeks.Senior party leaders have been deployed to lead the yatras to take these promises to the people.“Yes, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will flag off three yatras in Barabanki on Saturday. She will make the announcement about the remaining pratigyas (promises) while flagging off the yatras scheduled to end on November 1,” said Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ who, along with senior party leaders PL Punia, Naseemuddin Siddiqui and Rajesh Mishra, shared with the media the details of the yatras that would cover major cities, towns and villages of Uttar Pradesh.Punia said the first yatra to be led by Pramod Tiwari, Rajesh Mishra and Nadeem Javed would begin in Varanasi and pass through Chandauli, Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Prayagraj, Pratapgarh and Amethi districts to end in Rae Bareli. He said another yatra would begin in Barabanki and end in Jhansi via Lucknow, Unnao, Fatehpur, Chitrakoot, Banda, Hamirpur and Jalaun. Punia would lead this second yatra with Pradeep Jain ‘Aditya’ and Naseemuddin Siddiqui. Former Union minister Salman Khurshid, along with senior party leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam, would lead the third yatra that would begin in Saharanpur.Asked whether the party has cancelled the fourth yatra proposed earlier, Mishra said, “We have a public meeting in Gorakhpur on October 31 and the yatra was also to be in the district at the same time. This would have upset the programme. So, a decision about the fourth yatra will be taken after Diwali.”Indeed, the months preceding the 2022 assembly polls appear to be replete with yatras —the Congress’s Pratigya Yatras, the BJP’s Jan Ashirvad Yatras, the Samajwadi Party’s Vijay Yatras and Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party’s Samajik Parivartan Yatra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-general-secretary-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-to-launch-three-yatras-in-uttar-pradesh-on-saturday-101634924142718.html
22-10-2021||Other||Lucknow Development Authority to roll out GIS mapping system||Lucknow: The Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) will soon roll out the Geographical Information System (GIS) mapping system to check illegal constructions across the city. Presiding over a meeting on GIS based ‘One Map’ system on Friday, Pawan Gangwar, secretary, LDA, reviewed the ongoing process of superimposition of development authority’s master plan for Lucknow, ‘shajra map’ and satellite images. The LDA secretary directed officials to go through the land audit carried out by the development authority in 2016 under the Uttar Pradesh Nagar Yojana and Vikas Adhinayam, the all development authorities are required to make their zonal development plans. In a bid to ensure uniformity in zonal development plans prepared by development authorities, the housing development board has made various changes in bylaws. Now, using GIS tool is also a part of these changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-development-authority-to-roll-out-gis-mapping-system-101634922642431.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||NEET-UG: Students worry about further delay in results||The wait for results of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) exams just got longer after the Bombay high court on Thursday directed the National Testing Agency (NTA), the nodal exam conducting agency, to conduct the examination afresh for two candidates who approached the judiciary. The decision comes after two medical aspirants from Solapur complained that their exam invigilators mixed up their question and answer sheets on the day of the examination, leaving them without the original answer booklet for results. This automatically means that the already delayed results for the all India medical entrance exam will be further delayed. Nearly 16 lakh students appeared for the exam held on September 12 this year.“There have been too many hiccups with NEET-UG exams this year, starting with delay due to rising Covid-19 cases, then complaints of malpractices during the exam. Now this order by the Bombay HC automatically means further delay,” said Anuja Parikh, mother of a UG medical aspirant. Complaints of malpractices on the day of the exam cropped up in several states this year, including Rajasthan and Maharashtra. Several petitions were filed demanding for re-examination but the final verdict came from the Supreme Court last month clarifying that no re-exam would be held for NEET UG 2021.Late on Thursday night, the National Testing Agency (NTA) further extended dates for the second phase of online correction of data in the original application form. Students can now complete this process by October 26, 11:50pm. The NTA, however, has not yet given clarity on the second round of exam as per Bombay HC order, out details about results date.“This delay (in results) means delay in starting the admissions process. Once again admissions to undergraduate medical and dental courses will not begin until November and that means regular lectures will only start in December. It’s unfair to the students to bear the brunt of mistakes made by the authorities,” said another parent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neetug-students-worry-about-further-delay-in-results-101634922402962.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Pandemic reduced life expectancy at birth in India by two years: study||In 2020, the life expectancy at birth in India reduced by two years due to Covid-19, a new study published by researchers from the International Institute of Population Sciences (IIPS) and Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has found. The reduction, according to the authors, was due to the excess deaths caused by Covid-19 in the 35-79 age group. The study published on Thursday in BMC Public Health, a peer-reviewed journal, also highlighted that the age-wise mortality disruptions caused by the pandemic impacted more men than women. “The inequality in the deaths by age groups was higher in men,” said Suryakant Yadav from IIPS, who co-authored the paper along with Pawan Kumar Yadav from IIPS and Neha Yadav from JNU. “It could be because men were exposed more to the external factors compared to women,” he said. Life expectancy at birth reflects the overall mortality level of a population, according to the World Health Organization. It summarises the mortality pattern that prevails across all age groups - children and adolescents, adults and the elderly. For the study, the authors retrieved data between January 30, 2020 and December 31, 2020 from Covid-19-India Application Programming Interface (API) portal available in the public domain. They also retrieved data of 21 causes of deaths compiled under the Global Burden of Disease. “We collated these data sets and altogether had 22 causes of deaths with the addition of Covid-19. We used a life table methodology to analyse the impact of Covid-19 and found a drop of two years in the life expectancy at birth,” said Yadav. A life table presents a set of tabulations that describe the probability of dying, the death rate and the number of survivors for each age or age group. The study said that Covid-19 disease demonstrates its potential to cancel the gains of six to eight years in life expectancy at birth and five years in inequality in age at death. “The Covid-19 pandemic has negative repercussions on life expectancy and inequality in age at death and has slowed the mortality transition in India,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pandemic-reduced-life-expectancy-at-birth-in-india-by-two-years-study-101634921922423.html
22-10-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh: Active Covid-19 cases below 100||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh on Friday reported only three fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest in a single day this year, while 23 patients were discharged during the past 24-hours. With this, the total number of active Covid cases in the state has now declined below 100, for the first time this year. “At present, there are 85 active Covid cases under treatment and among them 72 are in home isolation. In the past 24-hours, 17,8,229 samples were tested and three new cases have been reported. It is after March 2020 that the number of active cases has come below 100,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health in a press statement. Till now, the state has tested 8,21,45,330 Covid samples. In the past 24 hours, 97,529 samples were sent to labs for RTPCR test. So far, UP has administered 12,43,88,400 doses of Covid vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-active-covid-19-cases-below-100-101634921863165.html
22-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath says discontent, mistrust prevailed before 2014||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said discontent and mistrust prevailed in the country before 2014 as scams came to light every day.But the BJP, which came to power at the Centre in 2014 after ten years of the Congress-led UPA rule and formed the government in Uttar Pradesh in 2017, was working on the “sabka saath sabka vikas” mantra given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure benefits of various schemes reached all without discrimination, he said.The chief minister was speaking at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) backward class samajik pratinidhi sammelan here on Friday.Adityanath also said during the previous Samajwadi Party government, terrorist activities refreshed the memories of the medieval period when temples and mutts were attacked.The sentiments of Hindus were trampled, police stations and tehsil offices were sold while the SP workers indulged in loot, he alleged.He also said if the BJP had been power in 1990, no one would have dared to open fire on Ram bhakts at Ayodhya.Those who ordered firing on the devotees could not be forgiven, he said.“Will you forgive those who opened fire on Lord Ram devotees? Lord Ram will not,” the chief minister said. Yogi Adityanath was referring to the police firing on karsevaks gathered in Ayodhya on the saffron outfits’ call in 1990 when SP leader Mulayam Singh Yadav was the UP chief minister.Now, with the BJP in power at the Centre and the state, a grand Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya, he said, adding it is an opportunity for 135 crore Indians to hold their heads high before the world.He also said a self-respecting society cannot tolerate the chains of slavery. Accusing the then UPA government of doing politics at the cost of the country, he alleged terrorist outfits had a free run and Maoist groups were active across the country.When the country was passing through this period of discontent, Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave the slogan of “sabka saath- sabka vikas”, which has turned into a reality today as a result of which there is no discrimination in government schemes as members from all communities have benefitted, he said.While the SP and BSP governments did not work for the uplift of the weaker sections in the society, the BJP government has launched a slew of development projects across the state, he said.One can see that the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state have built toilets, given cooking gas connections, distributed kisan samman nidhi, ensure loan waiver, brought health insurance scheme, free ration and free Covid vaccine without any discrimination, he said.The party workers should visit each family in the state to tell them that the BJP is working for the development of the society, the state and the country, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-says-discontent-mistrust-prevailed-before-2014-101634921682740.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Economic Offences Wing seizes 5 cars belonging to Samruddha Jeevan group||PUNE The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the state’s Criminal Investigation Department (CID) has seized five cars belonging to companies under the Samruddha Jeevan group.Mahesh Motewar, managing director of the Samruddha Jeevan group, is currently under arrest for allegedly duping two million small investors of a total of ₹4,725.64 crore in an investor fraud dating back to 2015.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Manisha Zende and deputy commissioner of police (EOW) Pankaj Deshmukh, led the team that seized the vehicles which included a Mitsubishi Pajero, a BMW and a Nissan Micra.DCP Deshmukh said, “The group under Motewar bought a number of four- wheelers which were being used by company officials. We have appealed to the citizens to inform us if any agent is using these company cars. Once we get the information, the vehicle will immediately be seized.” Earlier in 2018, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had attached Motewar’s properties spread across eight states, which included flats, offices, and commercial premises in the name of various Samruddha Jeevan group companies, and his family members and relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/economic-offences-wing-seizes-5-cars-belonging-to-samruddha-jeevan-group-101634920482429.html
22-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Union minister’s son Ashish Mishra remanded in police custody again||Union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni’s son Ashish Mishra, arrested for his alleged role in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, was on Friday remanded in police custody for two days.It was for the second time that he was remanded in police custody by Lakhimpur Kheri’s chief judicial magistrate Chinta Ram.Besides Ashish Mishra, CJM also sent three other accused Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti and Latif to police custody, accepting the prosecution’s request for their police remand in connection with the Lakhimpur Kheri violence.The two-day police remand for the four, starting from 5pm on Friday, will end at the same time on Sunday.Special prosecution officer (SPO) SP Yadav said, “Investigators moved an application in the court of chief judicial magistrate Chinta Ram, requesting the police custody remand of Ashish Mishra alias Monu, Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti and Latif for further interrogation.”“After hearing the arguments of the prosecution and the defence, the court accepted police custody remand of the four accused from 5pm on October 22 to 5pm on October 24,” Yadav added.“The lawyer of the accused were allowed by the court to be present during interrogation without causing any hindrance. The court also ordered to avoid any torture of the accused and ordered for their medical examination,” he said.After his arrest on October 9, Ashish Mishra was first remanded in police custody on October 11 with the remand period starting on October 12 and ending on October 15. After the expiry of his first remand period, he had been sent back to the Lakhimpur jail under judicial custody.The court had earlier on Thursday remanded four other accused, Sumit Jaiswal, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam, Nandan Singh Bisht and Shishu Pal, in police custody for three days.In the FIR lodged at the Tikunia police station in Lakhimpur Kheri district following the October 3 violence there in which eight people, including four farmers, were killed, Ashish Mishra figures as the prime accused besides 10-15 other unidentified, unmade persons.The violence was triggered after a vehicle that was part of a convoy had alleged ploughed into a crowd of protesting farmers, leaving four people dead.In the ensuing violence, two BJP workers, an SUV driver and a freelance journalist were killed.After the registration of the first FIR, a second counter-FIR was lodged at the same police station on the complaint by BJP ward member Sumit Jaiswal, who too was arrested subsequently.The UP government has set up an SIT, headed by DIG Upendra Kumar Agarwal, to probe into the case. A total of ten people have been arrested in the case so far.(WITH PTI INPUTS)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-union-minister-s-son-ashish-mishra-remanded-in-police-custody-again-101634920422307.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Pune’s active Covid cases drop below 7k; 381 new cases reported on Friday||PUNE According to the state health department, the Pune district has reported 381 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. No virus-related deaths were reported in the state on the day.The progressive count now stands at 1.15 million out of which 1.12 million have recovered, 19,915 deaths reported and 6,955 are active cases.The district active count has gone down below the 7,000 mark for the first time in eight months when the state department had last reported 6,503 active Covid cases on February 15.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 206 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 364,293 and the death toll stood at 6,868.Pune city reported 103 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 520,122 and the death toll stood at 9,197.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 72 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 268,177 and the toll stood at 3,501.Pune also saw 48, 361 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-Win dashboard and in total 1,18,01,695. Out of which 7,729,612 are first doses and 4,072,083 are second doses. A total of 710 sites saw vaccination out of which 503 were government centres and 207 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-active-covid-cases-drop-below-7k-381-new-cases-reported-on-friday-101634919822518.html
22-10-2021||Lucknow||In Prayagraj, Made in India electric products outshine Chinese counterparts||‘Made in India’ electric products are a big hit among people this Diwali with consumers seen shunning their cheap Chinese alternatives, said traders of Prayagraj’s Shahganj market that caters to city as well as rural areas of the district.From attractive jhalars to decorative lamps, ‘akashdeep’ (hanging lamps), artificial candles, chandeliers, the market is flooded with both Indian and Chinese variants but there are more takers for Indian manufactured products as compared to its option made from the ‘Dragon country’, said shopkeepers. The attraction for Made in India variants are pertinent despite the fact that they are a bit expensive but comes with longer shelf life guarantee, the sellers added. Besides, the sense of patriotism associated with Made in India products has added to the popularity, they conceded. Mohd Gufran, a shopkeeper said a length of Made in India jhalars is more than 65 meters and costs ₹240 to ₹310. Its specialty is that the damaged bulbs can be replaced which is not an option for Chinese variants. Along with this, attractive 3D skirting with LED is also being sold in the market. Among the two variants of skirting, the one made in India has copper wire and is more in demand as compared to its cheaper variant having ordinary wire. The one with copper wire is expensive yet are selling like hot cakes, said another shopkeeper Rajesh Srivastava. Because of the last year’s slowdown due to the pandemic, this Diwali traders are trying to make-up the loss because of which the prices have increased by 10 to 15% as compared to last year. Some shopkeepers have also launched attractive schemes to boost their sale. Shopkeepers Raghavendra and Satyendra Singh said the market has an annual turnover of ₹20 to 25 crore. Last year the sale was quite low but this Diwali has brought promise of bigger profits. “The pandemic had completely ruined the business last year but thank god that there is some relief this time and the market is expected to pick up in coming days,” said Ranjan Mishra, another shopkeeper. This year the main attraction of the market is an electronic fountain and peacock. In the electronic fountain, eight colours of light come out surrounding the water like a waterfall. At the same time, the multi-coloured electronic peacock is quite attractive which looks like it is studded with gems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/in-prayagraj-made-in-india-electric-products-outshine-chinese-counterparts-101634919462525.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane district aims cent per cent vaccination for students in colleges by Nov 1st week||Thane district aims to conduct 100% vaccination for students within the first week of November. They have started a youth health campaign wherein vaccination drives will be held in colleges across the district.Starting on October 25 till November 2, colleges in the rural and urban areas of the district will be shortlisted to conduct vaccination drives.A meeting was held with principals from various talukas and municipal corporations by the Additional Collector, Vaidehi Ranade, to organise vaccination drives and encourage the youngsters within the 18 to 22 years age group specifically to get inoculated.“As colleges have reopened across the State, we wanted to ensure that the students are fully vaccinated. We also want to target those who have not taken the first jab and ensure provisions are made as per their convenience. Colleges have to provide a list of eligible students to the district or civic health department,” said Ranade.The Collector has shortlisted 57 colleges in the rural areas of the district for the vaccination drive. Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) was the first in the district to start the vaccination drive in colleges, from October 20.Close on heels were Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation that started with the drive in colleges on October 22. From Monday, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation and other civic bodies and talukas will also begin with the drive in colleges as part of the Youth Health Campaign.The vaccination facility has to be provided in three rooms in the college and necessary arrangements for the same needs to be made over the weekend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-district-aims-100-vaccination-for-students-in-colleges-by-nov-1st-week-101634919163028.html
22-10-2021||Other||Dhanbad judge death: J’khand HC pulls up CBI on lack of headway||RANCHIThe Jharkhand High Court Friday pulled up the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is probing the Dhanbad judge’s death case, observing that the probe agency has failed to come up with any evidence to back the murder charge made against the two persons arrested in the case and has also kept the court in dark by not informing it before filing the charge sheet.The observations were made during the weekly hearing before the division bench of chief justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and justice Sujeet Narayan Prasad on the mysterious death of Dhanbad’s additional judge Uttam Anand in July this year. CBI on Wednesday filed its first charge sheet in the case, charging the two arrested accused under Sections 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for murder and other offences. Ananad was mowed down by an auto rickshaw on July 28 this year when he was out for his morning walk. Two people allegedly involved in the alleged killing, Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma, were arrested by Jharkhand police and the vehicle involved was seized.Lawyers who participated in the hearing n HC on Friday said the bench came down heavily on the central agency for not making any major headway in the investigation.“The bench observed that neither the agency took the court into confidence nor did it attach a copy of the charge sheet along with the status report and it was not expected from a professional agency like the CBI. It also said the agency has been filing a stereotyped report every week. The agency has failed to even provide any evidence to establish the motive behind the murder charge. This could ultimately help the two accused,” a lawyer said. CBI, in its submission, said it filed the charge sheet in consultation with its headquarter and is investigating further to establish the motive and unravel the conspiracy behind the murder. It said it would submit a detailed report on the next hearing on October 29. The court observed that if the headquarter was consulted before filing of chargsheet, then the bench would better summon the CBI director after seeing the report next week and seek requisite clarifications from the top officer himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhanbad-judge-death-j-khand-hc-pulls-up-cbi-on-lack-of-headway-101634918986191.html
22-10-2021||Other||Bihar constable shot dead while foiling loot bid||PATNAA Bihar Police constable was shot dead while resisting a robbery bid on an elderly woman on the Jehanabad-Biharsharif state highway Thursday evening, the police said.Constable Bibhuti Kumar Sharma, a resident of Makhdumpur in Jehanabad, was brought to Patna Medical College and Hospital in a critical condition where he died on Friday. Sharma was posted in the state capital and was currently on leave. According to police, around 9.45 pm on Thursday, Sharma was at Kako bus stand when he saw some four miscreants on motorcycles trying to loot a gold chain from a woman. He gave them a chase and even caught one of them when one of the robbers shot him in the waist and leg before making an escape. He was rushed by passerby to Sadar Hospital, from where he was referred to the PMCH. “A case of murder and robbery attempt has been registered in the Town police station,” said Jehanabad superintendent of police (SP) Deepak Ranjan. On Friday, irate locals disrupted vehicular traffic on the highway in protest. “Crimes are being committed with impunity. The criminals don’t fear the police,” said local resident Satpal Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-constable-shot-dead-while-foiling-loot-bid-101634918983546.html
22-10-2021||Other||Teachers’ recruitment: Bihar to issue fresh schedule||PATNAThe Bihar government’s education department has formally postponed the schedule for school teachers’ recruitment, issued through July 29 notification, till further orders in view of disruption caused by ongoing panchayat elections.“The decision to postpone the schedule, by which the process was to be completed by December 10, was taken after due consideration. The state election commission (SEC) has denied permission to go ahead with the recruitment and the officials are also involved with the election process. A new schedule will be issued after the completion of panchayat polls,” said the department notification issued on Friday.The notification comes after SEC rejected to department’s request for permission to carry on with the process for sixth phase of recruitment. This would further delay the start of the seventh phase recruitment, as the sixth phase could start only in the third week of December at the earliest and may stretch for a couple of months or more due to the cumbersome process of documents verification. So far, even first and second phase counselling has not been completed in nearly 1,200 recruiting units and the department might also go in for the third round counselling. “It is only after the sixth phase is completed that the department will have an assessment of the quantum of vacancies for the seventh phase of recruitment,” said a department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-recruitment-bihar-to-issue-fresh-schedule-101634918982342.html
22-10-2021||Other||Have exited grand alliance in Bihar: Cong||PATNAA senior Congress leader on Friday announced that his party has exited the Rashtriya Janata Dal-led grand alliance in Bihar and would contest all 40 Lok Sabha seats in the state in the 2024 parliamentary elections. The two allies have been locked in a war of words in the run-up to the October 30 bypolls for Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats in Bihar, where both have fielded their candidates.“We are not in Mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) in Bihar. A decision to this effect was taken after October 16 considering what happened at Kusheshwar Asthan, which was snatched from us. What is the use of having such an alliance? The two parties are not in sync,” Congress’s in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, told reporters after landing in Patna.In the 2020 assembly elections, Congress had contested from Kusheshwar Asthan and RJD from Tarapur as part of seat-sharing deal in the grand alliance. Both seats were won by the ruling Janata Dal (United). Das said Congress wants to contest all the 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar in 2024.Asked if Congress would review its stance if RJD approached them to continue in the alliance, Das said, “The high command will take a decision on this.”A few days earlier, leader of opposition in the state Tejashwi Yadav, who is RJD’s de facto leader, had indicated that his party would contest all seats on its own.The simmering tension between the two allies came to a flashpoint recently when RJD also decided to contest from Kusheshwar Asthan, a seat in Darbhanga district which has been a Congress stronghold. Left parties, which are also part of the grand alliance in Bihar, are supporting RJD nominees for bypolls. “We are fighting for self-respect and cannot go on being dictated by others,” said state Congress state spokesperson Anand Madhab. State RJD president Jagdanand Singh said, “Entire Bihar knows we followed the coalition dharma and how our party chief Lalu Prasad sacrificed posts for alliance partners.” Party spokesperson Mirtunjay Tiwary blamed Congress leaders “for this state of affairs”. “They do not know the ground reality in Bihar. And it is because of leaders like Das that Congress has reached such a sorry state,” he said. The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) took a dig at Congress and called it “a momentary threat”. “They are hurt. It is momentary but they have been humiliated by a regional party,” said BJP spokesperson Dhananjay Giri. The JD (U) called it match fixing. “Once the by-elections are over and results are announced, they will share the dias again and claim that Tejashwi is the leader of GA. This is match fixing,” said JD (U) spokesperson Nikhil Mandal. The opposition’s grand alliance had won 110 seats in the 243-member Bihar assembly in 2020 polls, in which RJD accounts for 75, Congress 19 and Left parties for 16.JAP TO SUPPORT CONGRESSMeanwhile, hours after Das met former Madhepura MP Pappu Yadav in Patna on Friday, the latter announced that his Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) would support Congress. On Thursday, state Congress president Madan Mohan Jha had written a letter to JAP president soliciting his support. “Congress in Bihar is fighting a battle to save the state. It is fighting the battle for farmers and labourers. For this reason, it has been decided to support Congress in the upcoming bypolls,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/have-exited-grand-alliance-in-bihar-cong-101634918924945.html
22-10-2021||Other||Vegetable prices soar due to fuel price hike, crop damage||PATNA: The price of vegetables has skyrocketed in the state capital over the last one week due to rising fuel price and unseasonal rain triggering crop damage, said vegetable sellers on Friday. According to residents, the inflated price of essential commodities have choked household budgets forcing them to reduce the quantity of dishes from their food platter.Vegetable sellers shared that the price of tomato has doubled while green vegetables have also seen a price rise by 40% to 60% in past two weeks.Buyers shared that the price of tomato that was available at ₹30 per kg till September which increased to ₹60 per kg in early October and now ₹80 per kg.Radhika Devi, a vegetable vendor near Jagdeo Path, said, “Tomato is sold at ₹80 per kg, pointed gourd ₹70 per kg, cauliflower ₹40-50/piece, Bottle gourd ₹50 per piece, spinach ₹120 per kg while coriander leaves at ₹300 per kg. After the price shot up, sale has dipped as buyers are demanding smaller quantity.” Santosh Prasad, a whole seller near Mithapur vegetable market, said, “Tomato is sold at ₹60 to ₹65 in wholesale market. Supply of vegetables has reduced by 30% after unseasonal rain and crop damage. However, price of onion and potato is quite stable.”Geeta Devi, a homemaker near Bailey Road, said, “Buying adequate quantity of vegetables for a five-member family has become unaffordable. I cook dry cereals and seeds like soyabean chunks and grams on alternate days to sustain household budget.”Shashikant Prasad, president of Patna Fruit and Vegetable Association, said, “Price of fruits and vegetables shot up by 20% in September after initial rise in fuel price as transportation cost increased. The prices have increased up to 60% this month owing to further increase in fuel price and unseasonal rain which has hit the supply chain. Irregular supply of vegetables from rural market and other states are affected over 15 days due to erratic rain.”Graphics:Vegetable Current price (This week) Old price (October 10)Tomato ` ₹80 per kg ₹60 per kgSpinach ₹120 per kg ₹80 per kgBrinjal ₹60 per kg ₹30 per kgPointed gourd ₹70 per kg ₹40 per kgGourd ₹50 per piece ₹30 per pieceCapsicum ₹240 per kg ₹160 per kg||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vegetable-prices-soar-due-to-fuel-price-hike-crop-damage-101634918923550.html
22-10-2021||Other||Uttarakhand’s tragedy: 2 more bodies found, 19 from West Champaran dead so far||BETTIAHA National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) recovered bodies of two migrant workers from Bihar’s West Champaran district who died in the October 18 landslide in Uttarakhand’s Nainital.With this, 10 people from West Champaran have been confirmede to have died in the tragedy. Dhiraj Singh Garbiyal, Nainital’s district magistrate (DM), said the two bodies were recovered from Jutiya village in Ramgarh block of Nainital district. “Nine people from West Champaran were living in a house that collapsed. While bodies of seven have recovered, search for two others is on,” said the DM, adding that one Rajan Sah who survived the tragedy is undergoing treatment at Haldwani town of Uttarakhand. All seven bodies have been taken to Haldwani. “We have made necessary arrangements for bodies to be taken to Delhi, where they would be handed over to Bihar government,” said the district magistrate. The two deceased have been identified as Shrikant Manjhi (22) and Chunni Manjhi (21), hailing from Bairiya block of West Champaran. Earlier, bodies of three migrant workers from West Champaran’s Sathi block were recovered at Mukteshwar near Nainital town on October 19, five others were recovered on October 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhands-tragedy-2-more-bodies-found-19-from-west-champaran-dead-so-far-101634918922284.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Metro gets Interim Speed Certificate for first route||CIDCO’s Navi Mumbai Metro has received the Interim Speed Certificate from Research Design and Standards Organisation (RDSO) for the first route of the Navi Mumbai Metro.The RDSO has granted an Interim Speed Certificate for the Pendhar-Central Park route of Navi Mumbai Metro after the successful trials conducted in September 2021, and after reviewing a large number of documents and test certificates that were submitted, adhering to the guidelines of the RDSO safety manual.“As the trials conducted on the Metro Line-1 were successful, the RDSO granted the Interim Speed Certificate. This allows the Navi Mumbai Metro to deploy the trains at maximum operational speed. This marks an important milestone for the Navi Mumbai Metro. Now we are waiting for CCRS approvals to commence operations,” Sanjay Mukherjee, VC-MD, CIDCO, said.The first elevated route from Belapur to Pendhar is 11km long with its Metro car shed in Taloja. The certificate was granted for the 5.14km long route between stations 7 and 11. RDSO of the Central Railway Ministry is responsible for the safety and uniformity of the railway network throughout India. For this, RDSO conducts tests and issues certificates that are required to operate any railway network commercially.The RDSO started the oscillation trails for the Navi Mumbai Metro on August 28, 2021. During these trials, the Metro trains and systems were tested for their load carrying capacities as well as their emergency braking systems. CIDCO had also submitted a large number of test certificates and documents regarding the rolling stock systems, signalling, power supply, tracks, to the RDSO for review.Soon, an inspection will be conducted by the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety and the approval of the Railway Board will be obtained subsequently. The approval will commence the commercial operation of Navi Mumbai Metro from Pendhar to Central Park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-metro-gets-interim-speed-certificate-for-first-route-101634918207659.html
22-10-2021||Jaipur||‘Only a person loved by all communities,’ says Vasundhara Raje on BJP’s CM face||JAIPUR: “Only a person who has the love of all communities gets to rule,” former Rajasthan chief minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vasundhara Raje said on Friday, her response to a question on several BJP leaders trying to project themselves as the party’s presumptive chief minister for the 2023 assembly polls.There has been intense infighting in the Rajasthan unit of the BJP with a section of party leaders, said to be supporters of Vasundhara Raje, seeking removal of state party chief Satish Poonia, who has repeatedly insisted that the party hasn’t decided who will lead the BJP campaign for the next assembly elections.Raje’s supporters recently also took offence to the party leaving out her photograph from the BJP posters in Jaipur, after which the state unit, made amends and included her photo in the posters. Raje has not actively participated in party functions in the state including the recently held state BJP executive meeting in Udaipur.Raje told reporters in Jodhpur that people will decide who will be the party’s CM’s face, and asked her supporters to get ready for assembly elections in November-December 2023 and Lok polls in April-May 2024. Raje, who is also BJP vice-president, said, “What people want is more important. One thing needs to be understood that all the communities needed to be loved and only that person will rule in the future, who gets their love in return.”Raje was on a two-day visit to Jodhpur to pay homage to mother of union cabinet minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, who passed away last week, and to former minister and Congress leader Mahipal Maderna, who died on Sunday.On infighting in Congress, she said, “It’s their internal issue but it is a fact that the Congress is a sinking ship.” Interacting with party workers and leaders at Jodhpur circuit house, she asked them to get ready for the next elections. “I have asked all the workers to get ready as the bugle for election in 2023-24 (Assembly and Lok Sabha) has to be blown. I have told them to come out in the field with great strength”, she said. Political analyst Manish Godha said she was a given warm welcome by the workers in Jodhpur and thereafter such a statement is a message to the party that people still love her and she can sway people’s sentiment. Godha added Raje stature cannot be neglected by her party if they want to return to power in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/vasundhara-raje-is-asked-about-bjp-s-cm-face-for-rajasthan-she-responds-101634917902321.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Covid oxygen demand drops drastically in Pune||In less than six months, the number of Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen has fallen drastically as compared to what it was in April.Back in April, the city had 6,685 active Covid-19 patients requiring oxygen. This number has now fallen down to 212 active patients requiring oxygen, as of October 13 – a number 31 times lower than the April figure - as per data with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health department.The number of Covid-related deaths has also fallen from 1,495 deaths in April to 35 by mid-October. The positivity rate in the city was above 23.17% in April and is now 2%.Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC Health department chief said, “In addition to the number of new Covid-19 cases coming down, the number of tests being conducted by the PMC has continued to remain high despite the fall in new cases. For example, in April, when the city saw its worst with regards to Covid19, Pune city reported a total of 150,175 Covid-19 cases of the 648,085 tests conducted which put our positivity rate at 23.17%. Now despite the fall in cases the positivity rate has gone down to 2% because we reported only 2,149 cases by mid-October, of the 106,260 tests conducted.”Dr Bharti added: “In October alone we conducted 88,000 RTPCR tests as against 17,000 Rapid Antigen tests, so that we avoid any false negatives. Although the second wave is receding even now, the PMC has not let its guard down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-oxygen-demand-drops-drastically-in-pune-101634917542355.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Externed from Mumbai, man commits theft in Raigad, arrested||Externed from Mumbai, a 30-year-old accused who starts committing crime in Raigad district, has been arrested by Local Crime Branch (LCB), Raigad.The accused, identified as Abrar Shaikh, was arrested by LCB on the basis of CCTV footage they procured from a house-breaking spot in Alibag. On October 8, between 11.30am and 12.30pm, a house break was reported in the closed residence of Rupesh Jain at Ozone Residency in Alibag. Valuables of around ₹3.95 lakh including cash and silver were stolen.A house break during the peak hours at the main market of Alibag was alarming for the police and the investigation was handed over to the LCB. In the CCTV footage, the police found visuals of the accused, which was circulated among the other teams and informers in Navi Mumbai, Mumbai and Thane.The LCB learnt that the accused had previously committed 20 crimes in Mumbai and has since been externed. “We got information that the person found in the footage was seen at Nagpada in Mumbai and then we laid a trap there and arrested him,” police inspector Dayanand Gawade, LCB, said.A resident of Mankhurd, he had previously committed crimes at Nagpada, Agripada, Mumbra, Kalwa, Naya Nagar, JJ Marg and DB Marg from 2013 to 2019. The police also seized valuables worth ₹6 lakh from the accused. The accused had committed three crimes in Raigad district this year, with two at Alibag and one in Pen. According to police, since he was externed from Mumbai and had an established criminal record, he decided to explore committing crime in Raigad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/externed-from-mumbai-man-commits-theft-in-raigad-arrested-101634917362301.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Dr Anand Teltumbde writing suspicious content in letters: NIA affidavit in HC||Justifying the restrictions put on Elgar Parishad accused Dr Anand Teltumbde, who is lodged in Taloja jail, from sending and receiving certain letters, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in its affidavit before the Bombay high court stated that Dr Teltumbde has been addressing people and magazines, which could have an impact on the trial. The affidavit states that as the Prison Rules do not permit objectionable, cryptic or suspicious content being written or received through letters, with the exception of letters written to and by the family and lawyers of Dr Teltumbde, all other letters are restricted and hence the petition by Rama Teltumbde, wife of the accused, is without grounds and should be dismissed. Rama Teltumbde has filed a petition in the HC seeking an inquiry into the alleged embargo on her activist husband by the superintendent of Taloja jail from writing letters to his spouse and lawyers. Susan Gonsalves, the wife of another activist Vernon Gonsalves, who is also lodged in Taloja jail, has also filed a similar petition alleging that the letters by him are either withheld or are being posted belatedly. The petitions are being heard by a division bench of justice Nitin Jamdar and justice Sarang Kotwal. The affidavit by NIA filed by additional SP Anil Kumar Nair stated that the contentions of the petitioners that the communication and letters were completely stopped was ‘untrue and misleading’ as the accused could send and receive letters to family members, subject to their scrutiny. The affidavit further stated that as the petition was not filed by the accused themselves, the rights of the petitioners were not violated and hence the petition was not maintainable. The NIA affidavit further stated that Dr Teltumbde had written letters to a person called Mr Riyaz which contained allegations regarding hatching of conspiracy in connection with Elgar Parishad and the same had resulted in an article which alleged that letters were planted in the computer of another accused Rona Wilson. “The petitioner wants the husband of the petitioner to pass off prohibited material in the nature of the letter,” the affidavit states. The affidavit stated that after repeated requests by the jail authorities to the accused to desist from indulging in restricted activities, the superintendent of the jail had exercised his powers mentioned in the Prison Rules to withhold the incoming and outgoing of letters with objectionable, cryptic or suspicious contents. Seeking dismissal of the petitions, the affidavit stated, “The letters with such objectionable, cryptic or suspicious contents are only withheld and not all the communications made by the petitioner. It is further pertinent to note that letter communication with the family members and the advocates is also allowed and the petitioner is writing letters to the advocate and his family members. Hence the present petition be dismissed with cost.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dr-anand-teltumbde-writing-suspicious-content-in-letters-nia-affidavit-in-hc-101634916102045.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Winter chill sets in with minimum temperature at 17 degrees Celsius in Pune||PUNE Pune city began to feel the chills of winter, as for a second day, night temperatures dipped to 17 degree Celsius on Friday. Day temperatures are forecast to drop further in the city in the next few days, said weather department officials.As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Shivajinagar, Friday saw a maximum temperature of 32.2 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 17 degrees Celsius. Lohegaon reported 32.7 degrees Celsius maximum and at night, 18.3 degrees Celsius. Pashan reported 17.8 degrees Celsius, Lavale reported 19.6 degrees Celsius, Chinchwad reported 21 degrees Celsius and Magarpatta reported 21.5 degrees Celsius as the minimum temperature on Friday.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that the maximum temperature is likely to be 32 degrees till October 25.“From October 25 onwards, the day temperature is likely to see a further decrease by one or two degrees. Similarly, the minimum temperature may continue to reach 17 to 18 degrees Celsius by October 25. However, afterwards, the minimum temperature is likely to increase by a degree or so,” said Kashyapi.He added that from November, the minimum temperature is likely to reduce further as cooler northerly winds may penetrate the state. “Weather across Maharashtra will remain dry. The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra on Friday was 36.1 degrees Celsius at Santacruz in Mumbai. And the lowest minimum temperature reported was 14.8 degrees Celsius at Nashik on Friday,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/winter-chill-sets-in-with-minimum-temperature-at-17-degrees-celsius-in-pune-101634915922130.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbra Retibunder incident: Third boy saved from being swept away in current||The tragedy at the Mumbra Retibunder, where two minors are feared to have drowned earlier this week, could have been a bigger one had it not been averted in the nick of time, the police investigations have revealed.On Monday afternoon, four teenagers from the Parsik area in Mumbra had gone for a swim in the Retibunder creek. Two of them, Sagar Gaikwad (13) and Saksham Ingle (14), went in too deep and were swept away in the strong water current. The other two, Harshal Gade (14) and Shahbaz Sheikh (12), returned home but were too scared to tell anyone about the tragedy. They only revealed the truth when confronted by the Mumbra police.Investigating officials said that Shahbaz, too, very nearly drowned in the water while trying to save Sagar and Saksham.“The two missing boys had tied pieces of thermocol to their bodies and were swimming in the Retibunder when they got caught in the current. Shahbaz saw this and tried to go after them to try and save them. However, Harshal caught Shahbaz’s hand and pulled him back before he, too, could get swept away,” police sub-inspector Pradeep Gaikwad, Mumbra police station, said.After the parents of the two missing boys approached the police, the investigating team examined CCTV footage, which showed the four boys going towards Retibunder, but only Shahbaz and Harshal were seen returning. The two survivors were subsequently quizzed and they confessed the truth, after which a search operation was mounted on Tuesday morning.The search for Sagar and Saksham entered its fourth day on Friday but still yielded no results. The coordinated search operation is being conducted from morning till sun-down jointly by the police, the Regional Disaster Management Cell of the Thane Municipal Corporation, the Thane Disaster Response Force and local residents.“We have searched the creek all the way till Kasheli, Ghodbunder and Kasar Wadavli but have found nothing yet. On Friday, we conducted the search till 1pm, after which high tide started and we called it off for safety reasons. The search will resume on Saturday,” Gaikwad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbra-retibunder-incident-third-boy-saved-from-being-swept-away-in-current-101634915866922.html
22-10-2021||Pune||No irregularities in sale of sugar mill: Ajit Pawar||PUNE Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, in Pune on Friday, read out a list of the sugar mills sold by the Maharashtra State Co-operative Bank (MSCB) and claimed that there were no irregularities with the selling procedure of the Jarandeshwar Sahakari Karkhana in 2010 in particular. This came against the backdrop of allegations made by Kirit Somaiya of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), that he (Ajit Pawar) bought the Jarandeshwar sugar mill with the help of shell companies. Without naming Somaiya, Pawar stated that some persons are trying to mislead people by making “baseless” accusations again and again. “People didn’t know the details. Now I have put forward every fact before you. Some mislead people by making false accusations and try to defame and target a person. I have shown the SC order and high court orders on this matter. Many agencies have done inquiries and nothing has been found,” said Ajit Pawar. Earlier in Mumbai, high drama had unfolded on Wednesday at the zonal office of the ED as Kirit Somaiya reached to give additional information against Ajit Pawar. NCP workers had staged a protest. While talking about this issue Pawar had warned on Thursday that he would list out transactions of the other sugar mills in Maharashtra which were sold. Speaking in Pune, Pawar also mentioned that there were some sugar factories which were sold at the a price of Rs3-4 crore. “While selling Jarandeshwar sugar mill, MSCB followed all due procedures. About 12-15 companies had applied in the tendering process. The highest bid was offered by Guru Commodity situated in Mumbai for ₹66 crore, and the mill was sold at this price. Other mills were also purchased by various companies,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-irregularities-in-sale-of-sugar-mill-ajit-pawar-101634915622061.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Music bands allowed to perform in Pune; full vaccination a must||PUNE Pune Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar on Friday issued a circular allowing marriage bands, and other bands in the city, to resume their business activities on the condition that all band members have been vaccinated.The circular is effective October 22. No bands were allowed to perform in the city due to Covid. With Covid cases now dropping in the city the PMC has further eased the rule for bands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/music-bands-allowed-to-perform-in-pune-full-vaccination-a-must-101634915262157.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Thackeray steps in as greens claim birds & flight safety study at Navi Mumbai International Airport blocked at Panje wetland||Maharashtra Chief Minister, Uddhav Thackeray, has asked the Urban Development department to look into allegations of denotified-Navi Mumbai SEZ (NMSEZ) security preventing a critical research study by the prestigious BNHS on the flights and safety of birds at the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA).Quickly responding to a complaint from NatConnect Foundation seeking his immediate intervention, Thackeray asked Bhushan Gagrani, Principal Secretary – Urban development-1, to look into the issue.“This is a serious study assigned by the city planner and State-government owned CIDCO itself to BNHS, which has reported as early as in 2015 that the wanton destruction of wetlands in the 25km radius of the NMIA project could pose bird-hit dangers for the future flights,” said NatConnect Foundation director, BN Kumar.This danger would increase as the birds could fill the skies in search of roosting and resting grounds when they miss their traditional destinations and even land at the high-ground airport site, the research body said.CIDCO then asked BNHS to do a long-term study on the subject and the ongoing research is focused on Panje Wetland as the nearly 300-hectare contiguous water body attracts thousands of different species 50 varieties such as Lesser Whistling Duck, Ruddy Shelduck Tadorna, Indian Spot-billed Duck and Little Grebe land here.BNHS’s latest report – Coastal Wetlands And Waterbirds Of Navi Mumbai: Current Status –published in 2019 mentions the need to preserve and conserve the five constantly threatened wetlands – Belpada, Bhendkhal, Panje, NRI and TS Chanakya.Though Covid has impacted the study, the researchers who have begun to spring back into action after the easing of lockdown curbs have been physically stopped by the security at Panje wetland, which CIDCO has leased out to the Special Economic Zone, allege the greens.BNHS director, Dr Bivash Pandav, has said in an online discussion hosted by NatConnect Foundation that he was also asked to leave Panje wetland when he went with his teamMedia persons, nature photographers and the local fishing community have also been stopped from entering the wetland by the security and some local vested interests, the mail to Thackeray pointed out.The NMSEZ security cabins at Panje are also illegal and the State Environment Director asked the project CEO and CIDCO to demolish them in November 2020 as the area falls under CRZ-1 category that prohibits any construction. Yet, the cabins are intact and so is the security, Nandkumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, said.The cabins have come up despite Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray’s order against construction at the wetland. There also has been intermittent landfill at the place. Certain unidentified people set fire crackers to chase away the protected migratory birds, Pawar said.Despite repeated attempts, CIDCO, which has a stake in NMSEZ, refused to comment on the allegations and complaint. There was no response from NMSEZ either. NMSEZ has earlier denied allegations of dumping debris in the area and also stated that Panje is not a wetland but agricultural land leased to it, a fact it said, was confirmed by the state government, which has not included it in its list of wetlands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thackeray-steps-in-as-greens-claim-birds-flight-safety-study-at-navi-mumbai-international-airport-blocked-at-panje-wetland-101634915022470.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Recently-installed LED lights in Kalyan, Dombivli not functioning, complain motorists||Motorists in Kalyan and Dombivli have raised concerns over the non-functioning of the recently-installed LED streetlights in several parts of the city. As per the motorist, the streetlights are not working most of the time. They complain that either some are completely off or are blinking.“These lights that are blinking make it difficult to ride. It will also lead to accidents during night hours, especially among senior citizens who ride a bike. The civic body should fix these lights with immediate effect to avoid accidents,” said Rahul Singh, 45, a motorist who takes the Shubhash Chowk bridge connecting Waldhuni in Kalyan (W).These LED lights were installed by the Smart Kalyan Dombivli Corporation Limited (SKDCL) under the smart city project a month ago in several parts of the city, replacing the old street lights in the city. The SKDCL has plans to install 27,500 such lights in KDMC limits, out of which 10,500 have been installed in several areas. As per the SKDCL, the work of installing the LED lights is supposed to be finished in another three to four months.“In case any of the lights are not functioning, they will be repaired within a day or two. The company that has taken up the work will maintain the lights for five years. The work of installing the lights is under progress,” said Prashant Bhagat, general manager, IT, SKDCL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/recentlyinstalled-led-lights-in-kalyan-dombivli-not-functioning-complain-motorists-101634913706626.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai civic body starts vaccination drive in colleges||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) started conducting vaccination drives in colleges on Friday in order to make sure that the staff and the students of the colleges are fully vaccinated.“The students who are yet to take vaccination should be able to take it easily without any hassle and hence the drive is planned to make it easy for the students. We have written to all colleges to take the opportunity and get everyone vaccinated,” Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.The idea is to have these drives for the next five days at least and if there is demand, it would be continued further. “We want all the eligible population to get vaccinated,” Bangar added.On the first day of NMMC’s ‘Mission Youth Health’ meant for vaccinating the college goers, 407 students were vaccinated in 10 colleges. In Tilak Education Society SK College, 30 students were jabbed, 50 in ICL College, 35 in YC College, 50 in Tilak College, 20 in Sterling College, 19 in Terna Engineering College, 137 in Modern College, 26 in Shetkari Shikshan Sanstha Vidyalaya and Junior College, 10 in Bharati University and 30 in Indian Aerospace and Engineering College.“Most of the students were vaccinated. Those who have not got jabbed took the opportunity to get the jab. Some of the staff as well got the vaccination during the drive. Some colleges are having online exams currently and hence have requested to have the drive there post exams. As per the convenience of the college, they will approach us and we would arrange the session for them,” a medical officer said.Till now 7,25,232 people in the age group of 18 to 45 years have got their first dose and 2,90,240, their second. The target to vaccinate in this age group is 6,81,300, which has been exceeded by the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-civic-body-starts-vaccination-drive-in-colleges-101634912867815.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Students should start practising ‘offline’ for exams: Uday Samant||PUNE As colleges have been allowed to reopen in the state, students are not yet coming in to attend lectures. College administrations are planning to go back to offline classes after the Diwali vacation. Students should start practising now for offline classes and examinations. They need to come out of the online learning mode,” said state technical and higher education minister, Uday Samant. He was speaking at a press conference held on Friday at the College of Engineering Pune (COEP).“The reason many students are not turning up to college is the lack of two vaccination doses. So a massive vaccination drive specially for college students is going to start from October 25 to November 2. Before Diwali, our target is to vaccinate as many as four million students in the state under the ‘Yuva Swasthya Mission’,” he added.When asked about the long-pending issue of COEP’s university status, Samant said, “All our efforts are on to make COEP a university, and we are working towards it. Not only COEP, but also the J J School of Arts in Mumbai, both will be given university status hopefully by the next academic year,”When asked about the opening up of college hostels, and canteens, he said, “We are ready to open the university and college hostels and messes, but this responsibility is given to the respective directors of the higher and technical education departments. They are studying the safety precautions to be taken and guidelines for opening up of the hostels.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-should-start-practising-offline-for-exams-uday-samant-101634912081981.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Shootout between rival gangs in Pune kills 2, leaves two more injured||Two men were killed and two others injured in a shootout between rival gangs in Uruli Kanchan area of Maharashtra's Pune district on Friday, police said.According to the police, the incident took place at Uruli Kanchan Chowk around 2.30 pm, when one of the deceased men, identified as Santosh Jagtap, was coming out of a restaurant with two of his aides."Four people opened fire at Jagtap. One of his aides, who was armed, fired in retaliation, shooting a person from the rival gang," said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police (Zone V). Members of the rival gang took one of the injured men to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead, and Jagtap was also declared brought dead, the official said. Two of Jagtap's aides, who were injured in the firing, are undergoing treatment, she added. According to the police, the shootout was a result of some old enmity between the two gangs. Jagtap, a criminal on record, was an accused in a murder that took place in Rahu village in Daund tehsil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shootout-between-rival-gangs-in-pune-kills-2-leaves-two-more-injured-101634911276619.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Work on SPPU flyover to begin after Diwali: Ajit Pawar||Admitting that construction work on the proposed multi-level flyover at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) chowk has been delayed, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Friday, said that the word would begin soon after Diwali. Pawar claimed that almost all approvals for this project have been issued by the administration. “Tata company is doing this work. Because of some difficulties work is getting delayed. I spoke to the CM and requested him to personally attend the stone-laying ceremony of this project whenever they are ready to begin work,” said Ajit Pawar, addressing a press conference in Pune. The previous flyover at the university chowk was demolished over a year ago to make way for this new multi-level flyover to tun parallel to the Metro line. Pune Municipal Corporation and Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority had cleared the project. However, a year after the demolition of the old flyover construction work on the multilevel flyover has not begun. The university chowk is one of the busiest in the city and currently commuters have to face traffic jams. “Land acquisition for the Metro has been completed.I am constantly taking a follow-up with officials at Tata and have assured them of all the cooperation. The work is expected to start soon after Diwali as some approvals are in the final stages. I have told them to inform me about the required approvals from the state government. During the construction work proper traffic planning would have to be done. I have instructed the divisional commissioner to devise a proper plan with the Pune Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (PUMTA),” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/work-on-sppu-flyover-to-begin-after-diwali-ajit-pawar-101634910881690.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Gunfight at Uralikanchan leaves 2 dead, 1 injured||PUNE Two men were shot dead and a third was injured after a gunfight between rival criminal gangs broke out near the Sonai hotel at Uralikanchan, some 30km from Pune on the Solapur highway on Friday afternoon. One of the deceased has been identified as Santosh Jagtap, a resident of Rahu, while the other man killed has been identified as Swagat Bapu Khaire (24).Police believe an inter-gang rivalry over control of the illegal sand mining trade in the area is the prime reason behind the daylight killings. DCP Namrata Patil and senior inspector Rajendra Mokashi reached the spot immediately after the incident. DCP Patil said, “Two persons have been shot dead. Jagtap was killed by Khaire while his bouncer (security guard), fired at Khaire which led to his death. We have lodged a case and no arrests have been made so far. It is a case of gang rivalry and all angles are being probed.” Police have recovered three empty cartridges from the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gunfight-at-uralikanchan-leaves-2-dead-1-injured-101634910221735.html
22-10-2021||Lucknow||Agra sanitation worker case: Probe transferred to Aligarh range police||The investigation into the alleged custodial death of an Agra sanitation worker has been transferred to the Aligarh range police to “maintain transparency”, a senior police official said on Friday.“This was done to maintain transparency in the conduct of the investigation as the matter was against the Agra police. As such, it was found fit to have the investigation conducted by the police from another range,” said additional director general of police (Agra zone) Rajeev Krishna on Friday. “A report was sought from Agra SSP Muniraj G and was received at the Agra zone office on Thursday. As such, orders were issued to transfer the investigation and would now be conducted by the police from any district in the Aligarh range,” ADG further said.The Aligarh range police comprises police of Aligarh, Etah, Kasganj and Hathras districts. The Agra sanitation worker, Arun Valmiki, was a suspect in the alleged theft of ₹25 lakh cash from the “maal-khana” (warehouse) of Jagdishpura police station of Agra on Sunday (October 17).The sanitation worker, Arun Valmiki, had allegedly died in police custody on Tuesday night. His health deteriorated when police reportedly took him to his residence where ₹15 lakh cash was allegedly recovered after the theft.He was rushed to hospital but was declared “brought dead” by the doctors. Five policemen, including an inspector, were suspended for the alleged custodial death.Arun Valmiki used to do sanitation work at the police station.Following the sanitation worker’s death, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government after she met the family members of Arun Valmiki on in Agra Wednesday night. Aam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh and a Bahujan Samaj Party delegation, too, came to meet the family. A Congress delegation comprising former Union minister Salman Khurshid, former Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Naseemuddin Siddiqui and former Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Pradeep Mathur reached the victim’s residence with a team of lawyers on Thursday. On Friday, Union minister of state for law and justice Prof SP Singh Baghel, who is the Agra MP, visited Arun Valmiki’s residence and assured all help to the family members. He criticised the opposition leaders for “playing politics” over the death. Former Uttarakhand governor and BJP national vice-president Baby Rani Maurya also met the family members and consoled them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/agra-sanitation-worker-case-probe-transferred-to-aligarh-range-police-101634909681928.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane railway station platforms get fresh look with plants, flowers||The Care for Nature group of youngsters and senior citizens in Thane has been taking care of Thane railway station air quality by planting trees and taking care of them for more than a year.The group recently arranged a ‘go green keep clean’ campaign in which they have kept plants on the Thane railway platforms. Commuters and railway authorities have felt nice to see flower pots on the platforms and appreciated the efforts.Keshav Mahadik, 43, a daily commuter, feels relaxed by watching plants at the station. He said, “Generally, we have seen government bodies planting trees but not maintaining them, as a result the plants look pale and dry. But, as I travel daily from Badlapur to Thane, I have been watching these beautiful plants grow and well-maintained. Recently, I have noticed some flower plants and could not resist praising the railway authorities. They told me about the Care for Nature group that has started this project.”An officer from Thane Railway Station said, “The group is really working hard and inspires us to take care of the plants. So many commuters have told us that they feel fresh and positive by looking at these beautiful plants.”Ulhas Karle, a member of Care for Nature, said, “We have planted trees like Kamini, Nag Champa, Yellomanda, Golden Bamboo, Calathia, and Dracena. Our vice-president, Sachin Tembkar, and other members take care of them once a week as most are young and working. All of them love gardening and it has given a different look to the platforms without creating a hurdle for the commuters.”Thane station is the oldest railway station in India. Approximately 6.50 lakh commuters use it daily. Besides, outstation trains pass by this station. Hence, the amount of pollution here is high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-railway-station-platforms-get-fresh-look-with-plants-flowers-101634908901856.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Koregaon Bhima Commission summons Parambir Singh, Rashmi Shukla||PUNE The Koregaon Bhima Commission, on Friday, issued a summons to former Mumbai police commissioner Parambir Singh and former Pune police commissioner Rashmi Shukla, directing them to appear as witnesses in the ongoing probe into the events which led to the violence at Koregaon Bhima on January 1, 2018. The summons has asked both the police officials to respond by November 8. Parambir was additional director general (law and order) at the time of the Bima Koregaon violence, while Shukla was commissioner of police in Pune. The summons reads: “Considering that Parambir Singh was ADG (law and order) state of Maharashtra at the relevant time when the incident of violence took place at Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018 and sometime prior and after that date in some parts of the state. As such he must have received valuable inputs concerning terms of reference before the commission. Ms Rashmi Shukla who was the police commissioner for Pune city. Some incidents of violence had taken place in and around Pune city. The CP office must have received valuable inputs/information concerning the terms of reference before the commission. Therefore, the commission deems it expedient to examine Singh and Shukla and for production of documents as prayed in the application. Singh and Shukla would be at liberty to file an affidavit, if they desire, hence, the order.” The Elgar Parishad conclave was first held on December 31, 2017, at Pune’s historic Shaniwarwada, ahead of the 200th anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon, which was observed on January 1, 2018. Clashes broke out between right-wing forces and Dalits near the Vijay Stambh (victory pillar) located in Perne village on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/koregaon-bhima-commission-summons-parambir-singh-rashmi-shukla-101634908841834.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Enter, The Modern Classic||Cars: how much they define who we are and the times we live in.One of the most powerful symbols of the end of India’s Licence Raj and its voyage into liberalisation in the nineties was when the monotony of our bulbous Ambassadors and boxy Fiats began to make way for other brands on our roads. Maruti-Suzuki, to begin with, and then everything from Hondas to Hyundai’s and Toyotas. Who will believe how thrilling it was to see their many bright colours and multiple shapes dotting our landscape, and how it spoke of newer, bigger horizons in the country’s life? In our own lives too, who can ever forget the excitement of their first car? The thrill of sitting behind its wheel and the heady fragrance of its newness and the possibilities it was offering…Indeed, cars have captured public imagination and played such a significant part in telling the story of who we are and how we live. And at the end of this month, the city will witness one such untold story with the country’s first Modern Classic Rally 2021 at the Sofitel BKC (Bandra-Kurla Complex) in Mumbai where a convoy of Jaguar E-types, Maseratis, a BMW E30 Mercedes-Benz SLs, Ford Mustangs and a few Ferraris will be driven in stately splendour by their proud owners over the Bandra-Worli Sea Link and return to Sofitel BKC where they will be feted and festooned.“What is unique about this rally is that unlike others held in the past, which featured vintage and classic automobiles from the 1930s and 40s, cars which had been the purview of Maharajas and a handful of collectors, this one will feature cars between 10 and 30 years and up to 50 years,” said Perseus Bandrawalla, the moving spirit behind the rally, whose Insta-handle description is ‘Columnist-Autocar & a car nut who loves anything with a motor fitted to it’ and ‘obsessed with modern classics’.According to Bandrawalla, the uniqueness of his upcoming rally is that it will feature exactly the cars that today’s car aficionado grew up ‘lusting after’, the ones their peers were driving, which they grew up around. “This genre of cars is very special to collectors such as Gautam Singhania and Viveck Goenka because these are cars which still drive beautifully but have old world charm, combined with modern breakthroughs. “What’s more, according to him, over the past-half-a-decade, in line with international trends, modern classics have been gaining in popularity in India. Prices of cars such as the Mercedes W123 and the Mazda Miata MX-5, among others, have shot up exponentially. And top restorers in India’s metros are now increasingly working on a number of such examples.“The Modern Classic Rally 2021 is both a reflection of the rising awareness and prominence of these cars among the country’s car enthusiasts and a celebration of their numerous attributes,” he said, adding, “their appeal lies also in their provenance. For instance when I turned 18, and use to drive my grandpa Adi Malgham’s Porsche 944 back in 2002. It was one of the four known Porsches in Mumbai. Today, you can buy almost any sports car or supercar you fancy in India from a showroom in your city. This was not the case even 20 years ago, and only a lucky few could import and own these cars. The limited numbers in which they existed back in the day makes these cars even more special today”.“I guess you can compare a modern classic to your first college crush. When we were in college, Jennifer Aniston was the big name who every boy had a crush on. So today, it doesn’t matter who’s on the current cover of Vogue, for a certain generation, it will always be Aniston. It’s exactly like that. When you can buy the latest Ferrari today, what you want is a Ferrari 355 from 1994. Along with this, modern classic cars are also loved by enthusiasts because they have a sweet blend of old school engineering and (almost) a modern electronic precision. That’s the only explanation I have for the enthusiastic response to them,” says Bandrawalla.*********************************************************************************************And so, like beautiful women who are admired, coveted and adored, the upcoming Modern Classic Rally promises the presence of many such cars, which had once fired up the imagination of some of the city’s most powerful and famous. Cars which had come of age when some of the city’s movers and shakers of today, would have been coming of age themselves. Cars that they acquired and cherished loved and lost, perhaps like much else in their own lives. Cars with riveting back stories: for instance, like the Porsche 993, once owned by the son of a top industrialist fitted with the last air-cool engine that the company had produced and the only one of its kind in India. “I used to photograph it on my way home from college,” Bandrawalla said, adding, “and gaze adoringly at it when it used to be driven to the Willingdon Club. It was subsequently sold, but what’s thrilling is that after making a dozen calls a day, my team and I have zeroed in on the new owner. And it will feature in the rally.”Or take the case of the Dodge Viper that had once belonged to a flashy diamond merchant, according to Bandrawalla an absolutely iconic Modern Classic - it was the largest engine ever to be fitted to a modern car in the nineties. “It was the only one that had come into the country and there was this serious collector – the erstwhile Maharaja of Gondal, someone known to possess a fleet of some of the world’s best cars such as a 300SL and many American supercars, but he absolutely lusted after the Dodge Viper car. And finally, he managed to buy it from the diamond merchant and it will have a pride of place at the rally.”Iconic cars, each with a fascinating provenance. Each with a story tucked in to its taillights, one that speaks of the city and the heady preoccupations and pursuits of its chosen few.Like the BMW that had once been the apple of legendary art collector and ex-sheriff of Mumbai, Jehangir Nicholson’s eye. A car that Bandrawalla said he had tracked as a school boy, dreamt of and coveted, knowing he’d never be able to afford. Until one morning, Hormazd Sorabjee, editor, Autocar India, who also used to covet the car, bought it after Nicholson died and invited Bandrawalla to jointly own and care for it.“I remember collecting the car within a few hours of the phone call and have kept it with me since,” said Bandrawalla. ********************************************************************************************************“There are lots of exciting cars coming. The ones I am looking forward to is the Lamborghini Murcielago which I first drove in 2005, the Honda NSX – a marvel of sports car engineering in its day – and American muscle in the form of the Dodge Viper, Chevy Corvette and Ford Mustangs. Also expected are iconic Porsches, Maseratis, Ferraris owned by several wealthy individuals over the years,” said Sorabjee, who is supporting the rally. “In fact the Toyota Supra we will see at the rally was the iconic one in Fast and Furious. The SL Mercs were again another Hollywood favourite and the Mini was immortalised in the Italian Job. It is certainly a day I’m looking forward to…,” he added.So this October 31, while the world will be celebrating Halloween – a day for bonfires, donning ghoulish costumes, trick-or-treating and honouring the past – here in Mumbai, there will be another kind of honouring and remembrance: when a procession featuring Jaguar E-type, Maseratis, BMWs Mercedes-Benz SLs, Ford Mustangs’, Ferrari 348, among others will roll out of BKC, take in the wide sweep of the sea link, and along the way tell the story of who we were and what we once loved.And who we are, and what we aspire to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-enter-the-modern-classic-101634908785711.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Near 2 century-old Thane Civil Hospital to be converted into multi-speciality hospital||Forty seven-year-old Ganesh Vaze, a resident of Bhiwandi village, could not afford treatment at a private hospital for a leg injury. He went to the Civil Hospital in Thane but all the beds were occupied in June due to the spike in Covid cases and other monsoon-related illnesses within the district. Vaze then headed to Mumbai for treatment. However, it was difficult for his family members to stay with him or provide support throughout as it was very far from their home.With hardly 300 beds, Thane Civil Hospital caters to the entire rural population and those who cannot afford in the urban areas of Thane district. Like Vaze, there are many who are keen on getting better facilities and additional beds within the hospital.Plans to convert the more than 180-year-old hospital into a multi-specialty hospital are under way. Meanwhile, a two storied structure near the Mental Hospital, near Teen Haath Naka , has been set up where the maternity and paediatric ward will be shifted from the Civil Hospital while it is under renovation.“We have some last-minute fittings and fire safety-related measures that are under way at the new structure, as of now. Once we get a go ahead from the fire department, we shall start the hospital. It is expected soon after Diwali,” said Kailas Pawar, civil surgeon, Thane Civil Hospital.This move will be a welcome relief for the locals within Thane district as the new hospital’s capacity will be triple the current size.A two-storey structure has been converted into a special maternity and paediatric ward with NICU facilities as well near the Mental Hospital in Teen Haath Naka, Thane This structure will be converted into a special women and children’s facility once the Civil Hospital is revamped completely.“Currently, we will only start with shifting the women and paediatric ward at the additional structure. It also has a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and nutritional rehabilitation centre for malnourished children. The Covid and emergency wards will continue to be at the existing Civil Hospital. Once the renovation of the hospital begins, based on the pandemic situation, we shall take a call regarding the Covid facility,” added Pawar.“There is no such provision in the rural areas, the only affordable option is to come to this civil hospital. But the number of beds available here is not sufficient for the number of people that visit on a daily basis. Anytime we have visited the hospital for our family members or neighbours in the villages we have noticed the long waiting period and difficulty to get beds. Although treatment and immediate medical provisions are available, getting a bed becomes difficult,” added Vaze.The Civil Hospital is a stone structure built during the British era in 1835. The British used it as a medical facility and it has continued to serve patients in Thane and nearby areas all these years. After renovation, the Civil Hospital will include 900 beds – 500 for general patients, 200 for women and children, and 200 super speciality beds. It also includes a solar system, rainwater harvesting, garden and sewage treatment plant. The structure has been facing maintenance-related issues time and again.In 2017, the plan of a multi-speciality hospital was sanctioned but as the funds were not sufficient, the project was not taken further. In 2019, ₹314Cr fund was sanctioned for the project. Last week, the State health department approved the upgradation plan of the Civil Hospital at ₹500Cr. Initially, it was supposed to have 574 beds but in a Government Resolution, permission to increase it by including another 326 beds was given, taking it to 900 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/near-2-century-old-thane-civil-hospital-to-be-converted-into-multi-speciality-hospital-101634908784305.html
22-10-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati attacks Congress over poll promises||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Friday hit out at the Congress for making lucrative poll promises before the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election.The attack by Mayawati came a day after Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra announced that her party will provide smartphones and electric scooties to class 12 pass and graduate girl students on coming to power in Uttar Pradesh. Priyanka had earlier also announced that the Congress will give 40% reservation to women in the allocation of party tickets for the 2022 assembly election. Mayawati termed the Congress’s poll promises an electoral gimmick.In a series of tweets in Hindi, the BSP president said, “The Congress has started making various kinds of lucrative promises, like the BJP and SP, as part of an electoral gimmick under which this party has talked about giving smartphones and scooty to girl students if their government is formed in Uttar Pradesh, but the basic question is who can trust them and how.”Mayawati also said, “The Congress has its governments in Rajasthan and Punjab. Have they done something like this there so that people could believe them? If not, then how can people believe them? This is the reason why there is a severe lack of public confidence in the claims and promises of parties like the Congress and BJP.”She also said the Congress is facing “bad days” due to “non-fulfilment” of poll promises in the past and the BJP could also face the same fate as that of the Congress due to its alleged failure to fulfil promises made to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-attacks-congress-over-poll-promises-101634908662644.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||DDMA to decide on Chhath celebrations next week in Delhi as politics intensifies||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will decide on the permission for the Chhath Puja celebration in the national capital next week. The authority will meet on October 27 and the issue of permission for the Chhath Puja celebrations will be taken up, according to news agency ANI. Politics over Chhath Puja intensified in Delhi after the DDMA banned celebrations in public places for the second consecutive year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier written to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, requesting him to allow Chhath Puja celebrations at public places. He told Baijal that the Covid-19 situation has been under control in the national capital and the festival should be allowed to be conducted with Covid protocols in place."For the last three months, the Covid-19 situation is under control in Delhi. I believe, that we should allow the festival of Chhath Puja to be conducted with Covid-19 protocols in place," Kejriwal wrote.Also Read | Politics intensifies as Delhi civic bodies begin Chhath Puja preparationsBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Manoj Tiwari has been targeting the government after DDMA announced a ban on Chhath celebrations in public places. Tiwari said that Kejriwal, who is also the vice-chairman of DDMA, can take a decision to allow Chhath Puja celebrations. While the BJP-ruled municipal corporations have already started preparations for the festival, Delhi BJP has announced that it will celebrate the festival despite the ban.“According to the guidelines issued by the Centre, the state government is free to make its own guidelines regarding the COVID-19. Arvind Kejriwal is not only the CM of Delhi but vice-chairman of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority. Therefore he can take decisions," news agency ANI quoted Tiwari as saying.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-to-decide-on-chhath-celebration-next-week-as-politics-intensifies-in-delhi-101634907857459.html
22-10-2021||Jaipur||UP sanitation worker death: Kin meet Gehlot, seek protection from UP Police||Five Bharatpur-based relatives of Arun Valmiki, who died in police custody in Agra, met Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot here on Friday demanding protection from UP Police.The relatives alleged they were picked up by the Uttar Pradesh (UP) police from Bharatpur on Saturday night and were harassed for four days.Subash Garg, a Bharatpur MLA (Rashtriya Lok Dal) and Technical Education Minister in the Rajasthan government, arranged the meeting of the relatives with Gehlot before he left for Jodhpur.Arun Valmiki's wife belongs to Bharatpur and her family members were allegedly picked up by the UP police after Valmiki was termed a suspect in a theft incident at a police station in Agra.“They were taken by UP police and harassed in custody. Arun's brother-in-law is not even able to walk properly. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot today listened to them and spoke to SP Bharatpur," Garg said.“The chief minister has assured them all assistance,” he added.Congress stands with the victim’s family, he said.AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had met Valmiki’s family in Agra on Wednesday.Valmiki, a sanitation worker, was accused of stealing ₹25 lakh from the storage room of Jagdishpura Police Station in Agra on Saturday night.He allegedly fell sick and died during a raid on Tuesday at his house in Agra that police conducted to recover the stolen money. Police has since said he died of a heart attack citing a post mortem report.One of the five relatives alleged a team of UP police had come to their house in Bharatpur looking for him on Saturday night.“We were not aware of his whereabouts. The police took us with them and kept us there for four days. They beat us and demanded money even when Arun was caught,” the relative said.“We narrated our ordeal to chief minister Gehlot and he has asked us not to worry. He has given us assurance for security,” he said. PTI SDA VN VN VN||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/up-sanitation-worker-death-kin-meet-gehlot-seek-protection-from-up-police-101634905901826.html
22-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM says Siddaramaiah of misled people on 17 lakh EWS houses||Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday accused former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah of misleading people by saying that 17 lakh houses were built for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) during his tenure. "Siddaramaiah has given a statement that he gave away 17 lakh houses when he was the chief minister. The fact is that he had only sanctioned 15 lakh houses on paper whereas he should have allocated funds too," Bommai told reporters in Hanagal. Bommai was in Hanagal, his home district, to campaign for the BJP candidate Shivaraj Sajjanar contesting the Hanagal assembly bypoll. "It is not a great achievement to sanction 15 lakh houses three months ahead of elections. If he had sanctioned it at the beginning of his tenure and completed it then it was a feat. Siddaramaiah is misleading people," Bommai said. The Chief Minister said he has sanctioned four lakh houses in rural areas and one lakh in the urban areas since he took over and now the process to identify the beneficiaries has begun. Also, at an election rally in Hanagal, Bommai alleged that Siddaramaiah's claim of giving rice under the 'Anna Bhagya' scheme could happen due to the subsidy provided by the Centre. He also said giving rice at subsidised rate has been going on since independence and there was nothing new about it. Meanwhile, Siddaramaiah challenged Bommai to come for a debate in public on the issue of development of Hanagal and questioned his ability to be the Chief Minister of the state. "The Nellur lake bund got damaged in 2018. If the tank bund could not be repaired in the past four years, then the people of this region will decide whether you are capable or incapable of becoming chief minister," Siddaramaiah said during an election rally in Hanagal. "I call upon Bommai to come to a common platform where we can debate before people what we have done under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme," the senior congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-says-siddaramaiah-of-misled-people-on-17-lakh-ews-houses-101634904210331.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Despite job losses, salary cuts, Dombivli residents contribute for Diwali sweets for soldiers||Despite losing jobs or facing salary cuts, several Dombivli residents have come together to send sweets to more than 8,000 soldiers stationed at different borders of the country this Diwali. These residents are sending the goodies through several NGOs like Hindu Nav Varsh Swagat Samiti, Bharat Vikas Parishad and Sadguru Pratishthan among others.Some of these NGOS regularly have been sending Diwali sweets to soldiers for many years. However, owing to the lockdown, they were not sure if people would be willing to come forward and help. However, more than 80% of the people who regularly contribute including those who lost jobs and had to take up alternate professions or business during the pandemic have readily agreed.Kunal Sutavane, one of the organisers, said, “Every year, we send Faral, a collection of savouries and sweets, with some useful gifts to more than 8,000 Army personnel. We take permission from different places where our friends and family members are posted in the army like Jammu, Leh, Imphal, Jorhat, Shillong, Tawang and Udhampur borders. This time, we were not expecting any help from people but we have achieved 80% of the target because of the donations we have received. We know people who have suffered a lot last year but still many have saved money and contributed for this project.”Chinmay Ghokle, a 38-year-old priest from Dombivli, was unable to earn enough as temples were closed and people no longer called them home to perform pujas. “I stay with my mother and am not getting any appointments to perform any religious function. I started some freelance work and started saving a small amount every month. I decided to donate ₹5,000 from my savings for the army as, despite the pandemic, they are protecting us at the borders.”Darshna Koli, a 41-year-old professor who lost her job, started a home-cooked meal service. She has saved a share of her profit to contribute to this initiative. Koli said, “I cannot even go in cold weather due to several health issues and I protected my children from the same. I thought about how those soldiers who are also children to their parents stand in cold weather for us. We are going out now and having fun with family and friends but tension at the border is still there. We all should contribute to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/despite-job-losses-salary-cuts-dombivli-residents-contribute-for-diwali-sweets-for-soldiers-101634905481556.html
22-10-2021||Noida||Bharatiya Kisan Union announces revamped Uttar Pradesh unit||The Bharatiya Kisan Union on Friday announced its executive council in Uttar Pradesh, three months after it was dissolved in the poll-bound state amid ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws.The Muzaffarnagar-headquartered influential farmers' outfit had on July 12 dissolved all its units in Uttar Pradesh, BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said.Except for BKU's UP unit president Rajveer Singh Jadaun, all other office-bearers were relieved of their responsibilities.Jaduan on Friday announced names of presidents of Meerut, Moradabad, Bareilly, Lucknow, Jhansi, Chitrakoot, Kanpur, Basti, Devipatan, Varanasi and Allahabad divisions.He also announced names of presidents of districts in these divisions.The BKU, led by national president Naresh Tikait, is a part of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the stir against the central laws enacted last year.Hundreds of farmers are encamped at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November 2020, demanding the repeal of the laws and a legal guarantee of the minimum support price for crops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bharatiya-kisan-union-announces-revamped-uttar-pradesh-unit-101634904022588.html
22-10-2021||Pune||SPPU admissions impacted by pandemic, extensions for some courses||PUNE: Admissions to various postgraduate and other courses are currently underway at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and 4,300 out of the 6,500 seats available with 200 courses across departments have been filled up. However with less number of admissions, the deadline for admission to several courses across departments has been extended.Rajesh Raherkar, SPPU assistant registrar (admissions), said, “Currently, the admission process for all courses available with the SPPU which include postgraduate, certificate and diploma courses, is underway. For some of the courses, the admission process has been completed while for others, we have given extensions due to less number of admissions. There are a total 6,500 seats available for 200 different courses, out of which 4,300 admissions have been completed.”“The response to the science and humanities stream is good compared to other streams. The pandemic has certainly impacted the admission process as students from rural areas have not come forward to take admissions this year,” Raherkar said.While admissions to the SPPU’s postgraduate, diploma and certificate courses began a few months ago, the process has been adversely affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The university campus has still not reopened due to which students are unable to visit the campus and get their admission-related queries resolved. Tushar Badare, a student from Nanded said, “I had applied for the postgraduate Master of Arts (MA) course and wanted to specialise in History. However as the college and university have not yet reopened, I haven’t confirmed my admission. I will now visit Pune and complete my admission process as the university and offline lectures are set to begin.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-admissions-impacted-by-pandemic-extensions-for-some-courses-101634903501411.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi in Punjab schools: Rhetoric versus reality||The recent decision of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to relegate Punjabi to the status of a minor subject, from its previous status of a major subject, has triggered a controversy on what is potentially an emotive issue. Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi and two of his cabinet ministers, including education minister Pargat Singh, have unequivocally condemned this decision as a manifestation of the central government’s general policy to encroach upon the constitutional space of the states, in what is supposed to be a federal polity. While the CBSE has been at pains to explain that this is merely an administrative decision, based on the number of students opting for a particular language/subject, eminent citizens, including educationists, former administrators and even NRIs, have expressed an opinion that this decision, whether by accident or by design, shall further whittle down the importance of Punjabi in the country, particularly in Punjab. Medium of instruction In this context, many of the participants in this lively debate have missed out on the provisions of the Punjab Learning of Punjabi and Other Languages Act, 2008. This enactment, which was approved unanimously by the Punjab Vidhan Sabha during the tenure of the Parkash Singh Badal Government, in which the BJP was an active ally, makes teaching of Punjabi compulsory in all schools in the state from Classes 1 to 10. This law makes it mandatory for all schools to teach Hindi from Classes 3 to 8. The enactment makes it clear that there shall be no bar in teaching English in the school, notwithstanding the provisions pertaining to Punjabi and Hindi. The Act is, however, silent on the medium of instruction. Legal experts, including education administrators, have rushed to point out that education being a concurrent list subject, a Punjab law cannot operate to impose its will on the CBSE, a statutory body of the central government. It is, however, submitted that this law does not prima facie offend provisions of any central law. The definition of school, under this 2008 law, is wide enough to include schools run by societies and trusts. It thus applies equally to schools affiliated with CBSE/ICSE Boards, since all of them are required to have a non-proprietary legal structure, such as a society/trust. Contentious section Nevertheless, Section 3 (2) is slightly contentious. It states: “No board or institution shall award matriculation certificate to any student, unless he has passed the Tenth Class examination in Punjabi subject.” Does this effectively mean that the CBSE shall not be able to issue a matriculation certificate, in respect of students of schools situated in Punjab, unless they have Punjabi as one of the subjects at the Class 10 level? While the teaching of Punjabi has been made mandatory up to Class 10, the basic question arises is whether the students can opt for either Hindi or Punjabi as one of the languages, in addition to the compulsory English, in Classes 9 and 10. This is to be seen in the context that the regulation of the CBSE, statutory in nature, will evidently provide so. In my opinion, Section 3(2) cannot be read to invalidate a matriculation certificate issued by the CBSE/ICSE, merely on the ground that Punjabi was not taken as one of the subjects in the Class 10 board exam. This is so because Section 3(2) would run counter to the statutory regulation of the CBSE and hence would effectively be inoperative, since the conflict of the Punjab law is essentially in conflict with a central law on education, a concurrent list subject. A harmonious interpretation would mean that while teaching of Punjabi in all schools in Punjab, including those affiliated with CBSE/ICSE Boards, is mandatory up to Class 10, it is purely the choice of the student whether he/she opts for Punjabi or Hindi as an elective subject in Classes 9 and 10, or even both. Section 7 of this Act allows the government to exempt a class or category of students, but not schools, from any of the provisions of this law. Thus, foreign nationals or children of defence personnel and other officers, who are liable to be transferred all over the country, may be exempted from learning Punjabi. The enactment also provides an increasing amount of civil penalty that can be imposed on the schools that are not complying with the law. It, however, stops short of criminal prosecution. Ninth most widely spoken language The promotion of Punjabi within and outside Punjab will require interventions much beyond merely a state legislation. NGOs, in particular organisations such as the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and Chief Khalsa Diwan, must contribute their might and to encourage reading, writing and speaking of Punjabi. Punjabi University, Patiala, which was set up in 1961, essentially to promote Punjabi as a language will also need to refocus and reorient its priorities. The mother tongue in general, and Punjabi in particular, is an emotive issue and even Punjabi-speaking population across the border has been increasingly vociferous, seeking reintroduction of this language, though in “shahmukhi” script, as an official language in West Punjab, instead of Urdu. In a scenario where about 93 million people across the globe have Punjabi as their mother tongue, it being the ninth most widely spoken language, we as a nation cannot afford to allow Punjabi language to become a bone of contention in the border state of Punjab, which can easily snowball into something far more serious. Statesmanship, not politics, is required at this stage. kbs.sidhu@gmail.com The writer is a retired Punjab-cadre IAS officer. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-in-punjab-schools-rhetoric-versus-reality-101634903081304.html
22-10-2021||Patna||Have exited Bihar grand alliance, says Cong; RJD hits back with a reality check||PATNA: Barely a week before the by-polls and amidst the ongoing tussle between the Congress and the RJD, a senior Congress leader on Friday announced that the party has exited the Rashtriya Janata Dal-led grand alliance in the state and wants field candidates on all 40 Lok Sabha seats in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.“We are not in Mahaghatbandhan (grand alliance) in Bihar. A decision to this effect was taken after October 16 after what happened at Kusheshwarsthan which was snatched from us. What is the use of having such an alliance? The thought procedures of the two parties are not in sync,” Congress in-charge for Bihar Bhakta Charan Das told reporters after landing in Patna on Friday.Das added that Congress wants to contest all the 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar in 2024 on its own.Asked if the Congress could review its stance if the RJD approach them to continue the alliance, Das said, “The high command will take a call on this.”Das’ sharp comments come a few days after RJD leaders such as Mritunjay Tiwary also indicated that the RJD will contest all seats on its own.Das has met Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) leader Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav and solicited his party’s support.Pappu Yadav , the national president of the Jan Adhikar Party (JAP), responded promptly, announcing at a Press conference that his party will support the Congress in the October 30 by-elections. He said the Congress in Bihar is fighting the battle to save Bihar and the battle for farmers and labourers. “For this reason, to save Bihar, it has been decided to support the Congress party in the upcoming by-election,” he said.The discord in the grand alliance came to the fore recently when the Congress sought to field its candidate for the Kusheshwarsthan bypoll - it was given this seat as part of the seat-sharing pact for the 2020 assembly elections and lost. But the RJD went ahead to field its candidates from the two seats, Kusheshwarsthan and Tarapur. Upset, the Congress also fielded its candidates from both the seats. The Left parties, which are part of the grand alliance in Bihar, are supporting the RJD nominees from both, Kusheshwarstahn and Tarapur. “We are fighting for self-respect and cannot go on being dictated by others,” said Congress state spokesperson Anand Madhab. The RJD has reacted strongly to Congress leader Bhakta Charan Das swipe.“Entire Bihar knows that we followed the coalition dharma and how Lalu Prasad sacrificed posts for alliance partners,” said RJD state president Jagdanand Singh.Party spokesperson Mirtunjay Tiwary blamed Congress leaders “for this state of affairs”. “The Congress leaders do not know the ground reality in Bihar. And it is because of leaders such as Das that the Congress has reached such a sorry state,” said Tiwary. The ruling BJP took a dig at the Congress and called it “a momentary threat”. “They are hurt. It is momentary but they have been humiliated by a regional party,” said BJP spokesperson Dhanjay Giri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/have-exited-bihar-grand-alliance-says-cong-rjd-hits-back-with-a-reality-check-101634902961263.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Leopard rescued from open well in Junnar||PUNE A leopard was rescued from an open well in Belsar village, Junnar division, by Wildlife SOS and the Forest Department on Thursday.The wild cat is currently under medical observation at the Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Centre.The seven-year-old male fell into an open well in Belsar village and was paddling to stay afloat. A local farmer immediately alerted the Forest Department. The Wildlife SOS, operating out of Manikdoh Leopard Rescue Centre, was also called in.A three-member rescue team led by Wildlife SOS vetenarian Dr Nikhil Bangar, accompanied a team of forest officers, got to the location. With villagers flocking around the well to catch a glimpse of the leopard a trap cage was then lowered into the well to safely extricate the leopard.Dr Bangar said, “The animal is exhausted from the ordeal and will be kept under observation for a few days till he is deemed fit for release.”Kartick Satyanarayan, CEO and co-founder Wildlife SOS said, “This is the second incident where we have assisted the Forest Department with the timely rescue of a leopard from an uncovered well. The issue cannot be taken lightly. It is not just leopards, a species protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, that are vulnerable to these wells, but also several other species that may fall in accidentally, with potentially fatal results.”Ajit Shinde, range forest officer, said, “This is becoming a common occurrence across Junnar as leopards often fall prey to open wells while foraging. We have advised villagers to take precautionary measures by covering wells.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/leopard-rescued-from-open-well-in-junnar-101634902901772.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||‘He might have survived’: Mumbai mayor on man who fell to his death in high-rise fire||Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar criticised the lack of proper training given to private security guards after a 30-year-old security personnel, Arun Tiwari, fell to his death from the 19th floor of a 61-storey residential building One Avighna Park in Currey Road area of Central Mumbai, where a major fire had broken out on Friday, reported news agency PTI."They (security guards) had 15 minutes to take necessary steps. Had they caught him in a bedsheet below or put mattresses on the floor, he might have survived," Pednekar told reporters while visiting the site of the fire.Tiwari, who has been working at One Avighna Park for a few years now, was trapped on the 19th floor, where the fire had erupted. In a video that has since gone viral on social media, Tiwari can be seen dangling from a balcony as he slowly loses his grip and falls. He was rushed to KEM hospital where doctors declared him dead."After the fire broke out, Arun Tiwari, a security guard of the building, rushed to the 19th floor. But he soon realised that he was trapped and in order to save himself from the blaze, he went to the balcony of the flat, where the fire had erupted. He held onto the balcony's railing and kept precariously dangling from there. He clung to the railing for several minutes before losing his grip and falling to his death," an official told reporters.The Mumbai mayor took to Twitter to inform citizens that she “rushed” to the One Avighna Park as soon as she heard of the fire and that Tiwari lost his grip and fell to his untimely demise before the firefighters could put up a ladder to save him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/he-might-have-survived-mumbai-mayor-on-man-who-fell-to-his-death-in-high-rise-fire-101634902125089.html
22-10-2021||Indore||Delhi-bound flight lands in Indore for medical emergency; passenger declared dead at hospital||A Delhi-bound Vistara flight was diverted to Devi Ahilyabai Holkar International Airport here after a passenger complained of breathlessness and fainted, an airport official said on Friday. The Vistara flight UK-818, which took off from Bengaluru, landed in Indore at 9.30 pm on Thursday and the passenger was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared dead, he said. "Manoj Kumar Agrawal, who was travelling in Vistara's flight, complained of breathlessness and fainted. The Bengaluru-Delhi flight landed under medical emergency around 9.30 pm at Indore airport after being diverted," the airport's in-charge director Pramod Kumar Sharma said. The passenger was rushed to Banthia Hospital here, where doctors declared him dead after examination. "Agrawal succumbed on way to hospital from the airport and looking at his condition, it appears that he must have suffered a heart attack," director of the hospital, Dr Sunil Banthia, said. An aerodrome police station official said that Agrawal belongs to Delhi and after post-mortem, his body will be handed over to his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/delhibound-flight-lands-in-indore-for-medical-emergency-passenger-declared-dead-at-hospital-101634901839764.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Six Punjab Police personnel booked after two prisoners escape||Six Punjab Police personnel were booked for negligence on Friday after two undertrials escaped while being brought back to the Faridkot Central Jail from a hearing in a Mukerian court on Thursday. Also read: Rajasthan minister Harish Chaudhary replaces Harish Rawat as Punjab Congress in-chargeAssistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurdev Singh, ASI Baljinder Singh, ASI Kulwinder Singh, head constable Surinder Kumar, Punjab Home Guard (PHG) Mahinder Singh and PHG Harminder Singh were booked under Sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code. The two inmates who escaped were identified as Abdul and Sajim, who were undergoing trial for cases of robbery registered against them in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana districts. “According to the police personnel escorting them back, both inmates managed to open their handcuffs and jump out of the window of the police bus while it was moving. We are investigating the matter. A case has been registered against the six police personnel on the bus,” said superintendent of police Bal Krishan Singla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-punjab-police-personnel-booked-after-two-prisoners-escape-101634900501087.html
22-10-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: October 23-28||Da High Big Gigs: Zokhuma Unafraid to crisscross between soundscapes you’ve never heard, Zokhuma is taking over da High stage with his infectious energy behind the console! Expect frantic, chopped-up African beats or moodier, experimental electronica and much more. The 26-year-old maverick has a mask for every occasion. Well known in cult progressive metal circles in India for his earlier work songwriting and playing guitar for Goddess Gagged before moving on to study music production in the UK, he’s already performed in places like Croatia, Netherlands and Sri Lanka while cherry-picking his way through local gigs & festivals as well.When: Friday, October 22; 8pmWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon Park Saturday Night ‘Live’: Groove Junktion They are legends. They are favourites. They are a party. They are Groove Junktion! Pop, Rock, RnB & Blues, come groove with Sandra, Leo Mathew, Denzil, Ryan, Chris and Mike. When: October 23; 8pm Where: High Spirits, Koregaon ParkKalagram: Diwali exhibition Kalagram is back with its most awaited exhibition where you can shop for designer apparel, accessories, footwear, and jewellery from curated stalls.When: October 22; 4pm-8pm; October 23, 24; 10am to 8pm,Where: Manohar Mangal Karyalaya. Erandwane Raah Utsav 2021 For the third consecutive year Raah invites you to a shopping experience at the very popular Raah Utsav, which showcases impeccable quality and exclusive products made by NGOs and women entrepreneurs. Two lucky draws will be held during the day. For details call 9373559577/ 9763095043When: October 23, 10am to 8pmWhere: Raah Literacy and Cultural Centre, Kondhwa-Bibwewadi roadActing course Sansaptak presents an online course in acting. Sansaptak has staged 600 theatre productions of 40 plays all over India, from tragedies to comedies, classical to contemporary, covering varied subjects.To register go to http://www.sansaptaktheatre.com/Registration fees Rs100; Course fees Rs12,000When: Starts October 24Where: OnlineThe Shopping Garage The most eccentric and fun shopping experience, organised by Punekars, for Punekars!For details call 087669 62067When: October 23, 10am onwardsWhere: The Pune Studio, 43/7 Karve Road, Opp. SNDT College, Erandwane, Oorja by One Tree Décor Showcase lifestyle products and gifting ideas for the festive season with ideas from One Tree DecorFor details email onetreedecor@gmail.comWhen: October 23, 11am to 8pmWhere: Sterling Foods, Ozone Greens, Deccan Gymkhana Remembering the maestro ‘A Faint Glimmer Of Hope’‘A Faint Glimmer Of Hope’ named for one of the late guitar maestro Derek Julien’s compositions, is a ‘live’ gig to be held at Shisha Café. Performing will be Vineet Alurkar and The Bavdhan Booze Band, Roger Dragonette, Seema Ramchandani and The Back Pack with guests artistes, Luke Samson and Danielle Julien. John Samson will host the evening.For table reservations call8446060390 / 9145144983When: Sunday, October 24; 1:30pm to 4:30pm Where: Shisha Café, ABC Farms, MundhwaDa High Cookout feat. JBabe, Rye+Oorvaksh Possessed by the desire to art-direct one’s own sobbing self portrait, to make sure his mascara smears in the most perfectly dishevelled way. But who cares what’s “real” when the music delivers a truth you can see.Inspired by the likes of artistes such as Frank Ocean, Julian Casablancas, Homeshake, and Poolside multi-instrumentalist, producer, composer, guitarist and vocalist of The F16s, Josh Fernandez decided to pursue his solo dream project on the side, thus creating JBABE. He describes his music as lo-fi, indie-pop mixed with rhythm and blues.When: October 24; 1:30pm onwardsWhere: High Spirits, Koregaon Park||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-october-2328-101634899852315.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Importance of mundane information to being human||Growing up in the 1970s, I had a very open and intimate relationship with the world. Pawan Gandhi lived a few buildings from our building. We used to go to school together, play together, fight and spin yarns together. The Sethi, Bhosale, Mehra and Nayak families were in our building. The Kapoor, Vendantham, Kumar, Patni, Swarup and Bansal families were in the building opposite ours. The Santhanams were in the building at the end of our row. Ruel Rebecca Raymond lived in the row of buildings behind our row. (He was the fastest bowler in the colony and everybody wanted him in their team). I knew the building and flat numbers of each of these families and I leapt up and downstairs (two, sometimes three stairs at a time) and ran up and down the alleys between buildings to meet my friends around our LIC colony in Santacruz West, Mumbai (then Bombay).Ground floor flats had the advantage of being able to plant some vegetables and while anyone could enjoy the papaya from the trees that grew wild and abundantly, I have fond memories of plucking seasonal pumpkin flowers from wild pumpkins that grew here and there - I had mentioned seeing the pumpkin patches and my parents had informed me that we could make delicious “pakodas” with pumpkin flowers.I went to St Joseph’s school in Juhu and took bus number 339 to get there from Santacruz depot. We used to pass Amitabh Bachchan’s bungalow twice every day since the house was one stop away from school. I often walked into Juhu church (which was attached to the school) drawn by the choir. It was at school that I met Joseph D’Souza, Leah Fernandes, Abbas and Nishrin Neemuchwala, Lazarian D’Souza, Altaf Daruwala and Siraj Dhanani, among many others. (Pawan and other children from our colony also went to St Joseph’s school in Juhu). I knew the addresses and bus routes to all my friends’ houses by heart, which means I never wrote it down nor had to look it up. Given that my friend circle was around 40 kids - approximately half of them out of the colony - I carried a good bit of information in my head.We also had a vast family and friends circle across India - Varanasi, Delhi, Shimla, Bhopal, Chandigarh, Calcutta, Lucknow, Asansol, Siliguri, Gangtok, Haridwar, Guwahati, Chennai, Bengaluru, Jalandhar, to name a few places. I wrote regular letters which meant I remembered all the postal addresses and knew the location of the cities on a physical map and also how to get to their houses from the railway station - I used to get the route description from my cousins and friends when we met during holidays or weddings, which was maybe once in two years. So we listened and committed that information to memory as a routine task without any effort.In 1984 we shifted to Delhi for three years and that was a whole different world of relationships, school, sports, bus routes. A couple of weeks ago, my childhood friend, Vineet Sharma posted a photo of an old DTC (Delhi Transport Corporation) double-decker bus on the school group. Within moments classmates like Anand, Shashikant, Anurodh, Ghosh, Rajesh and Khurana responded, guessing the bus depot. Places were named and buses were numbered and soon enough we started retracing routes from our school in Raja Bazaar and from the bus depots at Madras Hotel and C-Sec (Central Secretariat) to everyone’s house and in particular to Patel Nagar, which is where Ghosh used to live. We were able to recall many of the regular routes we frequented, the bus stops en route and conversation even veered towards Scindia House where we got bus passes for ₹12.50.For the latter half of our stay in Delhi, I used to take bus number 960 to school. The bus started at Sayyed Gaon, literally one of the last villages then on the outskirts of Delhi, near the border with Haryana. That’s where we had our house in a colony of little houses owned by LIC employees who saved and saved and saved and then built their little dream house. And guess who we met there? The Bansals (from our Bombay LIC colony).In 1987 we returned to Mumbai and I reconnected with old friends and made new ones in junior college. Sometime in 1990, we got our first telephone and so I had to create new methods to remember and retrieve numeric info. But I had to wait for a couple of years when I went to Bengaluru for work and then to Delhi and Shimla and finally to Pune (1996) to use my new method of remembering phone numbers.Pune opened a new world to me, a world I had never before seen in a city, one of the peaceful walks. I walked from Parvati to FC Road and from FC Road to Agricultural College and from there to Pune University and back. I remembered all the gullies and bylanes between Bhandarkar road and Prabhat road (where my journalism classmate and guardian angel Sanjay Pendse still lives) and between FC and Gole and Apte roads. Later, I shifted to Saifee Lane in Camp and walked all around and all about and by 1997, I generally had a proper map of Pune from Camp to Paud road - you could wake me up in the middle of the night and I could tell you where to take a right turn to get “black daal” or left turn to the freshly simmered “Amruttulya chaha.”Then I got my first mobile phone. And for the next decade, I used to know every phone number I required of family, friends, colleagues, clients, associates, doctors, and important contacts. All the numbers I regularly used. At one point it was close to a hundred and thirty numbers. I had perfected my original method and added a musical pattern by which I remembered numbers and names and addresses and routes.Somewhere around 2011, I walked into the age of smartphones, and since then I have struggled to maintain my habit of dialling numbers or visualising addresses. I now have more than 3,000 contacts across the world and since people keep changing numbers, it kind of became a thankless exercise remembering them: I can recall less than 30 numbers today.Routes I still visualise and remember vividly. I make it a point to associate people and names and how and when I interacted with them. But technology is rapidly making itself so useful that tech companies and governments may eventually win the battle to make me useless for the very thing that used to make me human: thinking. Memory is a critical component of the thinking process. If you don’t practice thinking you can’t organise data, which means you can’t recall it. If you can’t recall it, you can’t build associations.If you can’t build associations you can’t be comfortable in your environs. If you aren’t comfortable in your environment, you’ll withdraw and isolate yourself in memories of eras gone by and then become alienated from the current world.Pawan and I are still in regular touch. He’s in Singapore and on the cutting-edge of AI and ML tech. I like talking to him because he’s still connected to the human experience and with every conversation, I learn a lot. It’s a rapidly changing world, but all that it means is that I have to work harder to stay active and aware, and consciously change to adapt to the emerging world and practice being myself.And make new associations and new routes to learning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-importance-of-mundane-information-to-being-human-101634899360877.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli civic body to identify garbage vulnerable points, clear them permanently||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has decided to identify garbage vulnerable points in its vicinity and permanently clear such points in the coming days to keep the streets in the city clean.For the first time, the civic body will also involve civic teachers to work on these points and help clear them. As per the civic body, around 150 civic teachers have agreed to do the job.“Once we identify the points, the health inspectors and teachers will find out the source of garbage dumping at that particular point and further ensure that all measures are taken to clear the point of garbage dumping activity permanently,” said Ramdas Kokre, deputy commissioner, KDMC.A health inspector will work at two garbage vulnerable points while a teacher will look after one such point. “Teachers have the ability to learn and teach others. They can educate people in every way once they find the source of the garbage dumping at a particular point. Teachers will be a great help to keep the city clean,” added Kokre.A special cleanliness drive will be observed in the city between October 25 and 31 for which the KDMC chief, Vijay Suryavanshi, has asked the civic officials to gear up and work towards it.Residents of KDMC have been complaining about several roads having garbage dumped on a regular basis. Recently, residents of Forest Society near Milind Nagar in Kalyan (W) complained of garbage dumped in their area leading to foul smell that made it difficult for them to breathe. The residents also took to social media to highlight the same.“The garbage dumped in the area is not cleared for several days and it leads to a very stinky environment. It is very difficult to breathe also. It is a residential area and there is poor waste management by the civic body. Even if the garbage vehicles come, they don’t lift all the garbage and leave some behind,” said Nandkumar Pol, a 68-year-old resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-civic-body-to-identify-garbage-vulnerable-points-clear-them-permanently-101634898827034.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||On petitioner’s ‘forced vaccination’ plea, HC seeks response from Delhi govt, education department||A single-judge bench of the Delhi high court on Friday sought response from the Delhi government and its education department on a petition filed with the court, challenging an order directing all teachers, teaching in schools across the national capital, to get vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) by October 15, or be barred from reporting for duty. The bench has sought response from the Union health ministry and a city school as well.Also Read | Delhi: Education dept asks govt school teachers to get vaccine shots by October 15Justice Rekha Palli directed the respondents to reply on a plea filed by a teacher at the school. In his plea, the petitioner argued that since allopathic treatment taken by him to cure a hand disorder led to impotency, he should not be “forced” by the respondents to get vaccinated against Covid-19. Additionally, he sought quashing of a circular dated August 9, and two circulars dated September 29--all published by the Directorate of Education (DoE) of the Delhi government--thus declaring them “illegal,” “arbitrary” and “not in consonance with the Constitution of India.”Also informing the court that he contracted the viral illness at the peak of the second wave, in April, the petitioner sought a compensation of ₹10 lakh for the “mental harassment” meted out to him.The circulars issued on September 29 make it mandatory for teachers to get inoculated against Covid-19, or be disallowed from attending schools. Also, as per the order, teachers’ absence will be treated as them being “on leave.”The directions were issued in the wake of the reopening of schools in the city, with physical lectures resuming for those in classes 9-12 from September 1. A decision on the resumption of schools for other classes was expected after Dussehra, which was observed on October 15.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/forced-vaccination-hc-seeks-response-from-delhi-govt-education-department-on-order-101634897688394.html
22-10-2021||Other||5 dead, 6 injured after house collapses in Uttar Pradesh’s Jaunpur||Five persons died while six others got injured when a two-storey house collapsed in Roja Arjun locality of Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh during wee hours on Friday, police said. A police officer said that Kamaruddin has an old house in Roja Arjun locality. The house was in a dilapidated state. After dinner, all 11 members of the family went to bed in a room in the house. The house collapsed during the wee hours and all the members got trapped under the debris. Locals heard the sound and informed.Soon after that, a police team and a rescue team reached the spot. The team rescued all 11 people and rushed them to the hospital where doctors declared five of them dead. The deceased include Azimullah, 68, Sajida Bano, 50, Waziuddin, 12, Mohammad Kaif, eight, and a four-year-old girl, said the officer.Six injured include Chandni (12), Hera (10), Asusideen (20), Sanno (60), Sneha (14). They are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Joint Magistrate Himanshu Nagpal, and Additional Superintendent of Police, city, Dr Sanjay Kumar, reached the spot. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath condoled the death of people in the accident and expressed condolences to the bereaved family of the deceased. The chief minister has given instructions to provide proper treatment to those injured in the accident and provide all possible help and relief to the affected people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-dead-6-injured-after-house-collapses-in-uttar-pradesh-s-jaunpur-101634893121081.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab elections: Ex-Speaker Kahlon’s son SAD Dera Baba Nanak candidate||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday announced the candidatures of Ravikaran Singh Kahlon and Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal from Dera Baba Nanak and Fatehgarh Churian assembly segments of Gurdaspur district, respectively, for the 2022 elections in Punjab. Also read: Centre must reverse decision on BSF’s jurisdiction: Sukhbir to PMSAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced the names of the two candidates, taking the number of party nominees whose names have been declared to 76. The SAD is contesting the assembly elections in alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party that gets to nominate 20 candidates. The SAD will be putting up a total of 97 candidates for the 117-member assembly. While Kahlon is son of a former Speaker of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha, Nirmal Singh Kahlon, Lodhinangal is an MLA from the Batala segment. At present, deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa represents Dera Baba Nanak segment, whereas rural development and panchayati raj minister Tript Singh Bajwa is the MLA from Fatehgarh Churian. Bajwa had defeated Ravikaran’s father from this segment. Randhawa on the other hand had twice defeated former SAD minister Sucha Singh Langah from Dera Baba Nanak in the 2012 and 2017 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-elections-ex-speaker-kahlon-s-son-sad-dera-baba-nanak-candidate-101634888922830.html
22-10-2021||Other||25 ITBP personnel fell ill in Chhattisgarh due to food poisoning||As many as 25 personnel of the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) fell ill with symptoms of food poisoning after consuming a meal in their camp in Rajanandgaon district, officials said on Friday. “All personnel are from the ITBP’s 40th battalion and were stationed in Malaida. They fell ill after having dinner on Wednesday evening. They complained of the symptoms on Thursday. All were admitted to Community Health Centre (CHC) in Khairagarh town and are now stable,” said Collector Rajanandgaon, Taran Prakash Sinha. “Prima facie, it seems they fell sick due to food poisoning. However, their condition is stable and they were kept under observation,” said Dr Vivek Bisen of the CHC Khairagarh. The collector further said that some of them complained of diarrhoea and vomiting following which 21 of them were rushed to CHC Khairagarh, while four more personnel were shifted there this morning. The district administration also sent a team of doctors on Friday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25-itbp-personnel-fell-ill-in-chhattisgarh-due-to-food-poisoning-101634888921094.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at Mumbai high-rise, 30-year-old man jumps to death||A fire broke out at a high-rise in central Mumbai leading to the death of a 30-year-old man.The level-three fire was reported from the 60-storied building, named One Avighna Park, in the Currey Road area of central Mumbai. The fire was reported around 11.51am from the 19th floor.One person, identified as Arun Tiwari jumped from the 19th floor of the building to escape the blaze, was declared dead on arrival at the civic-body run KEM Hospital, the BMC's Disaster Management Cell said. Mayor Kishori Pednekar and other senior officials have reached the spot. About 24 vehicles are on spot for firefighting services.Initially, the Mumbai fire department had said there was no report of injuries. The cause of the blaze was yet to be ascertained. (With inputs from Mumbai bureau)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-mumbai-high-rise-man-jumps-to-death-101634888624317.html
22-10-2021||City||When will theatres in Maharashtra reopen at increased seating capacity? Deputy CM answers||On a day when multiplexes, theatres, cinema halls and auditoriums across Maharashtra reopened, albeit at an audience capacity of not more than 50 per cent, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday that the permission to operate with increased seating capacity would be given after Diwali if, after the festival, the Covid-19 situation in the state was “under control.”Also Read | Cinema halls, auditoriums, amusement parks to reopen today; check SOPs“We have reopened theatres with 50 per cent capacity from today. However, the owners are demanding that they be allowed to operate with 100 per cent seating capacity. We have told them to wait till Diwali. If, after Diwali, the situation is under control, then we will increase the capacity,” Pawar said, according to news agency ANI. We have re-opened theatres with 50% capacity from today. The theatre owners are demanding to reopen with 100% seating capacity but we have told them to wait till Diwali. After Diwali if situation is under control, then we'll increase the capacity: Maharashtra Dy CM Ajit Pawar pic.twitter.com/b2hiDigntyThe decision to reopen theatres and auditoriums in Maharashtra was announced by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's office on September 25. In its tweet, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said that the detailed SOPs in this regard would be issued soon; the guidelines were issued on October 12, mandating, among other things, that such establishments can function at a maximum seating capacity of 50 per cent.Also Read | Cinema halls, auditoriums to reopen in Maharashtra from Oct 22. Details hereCinema halls and theatres in the western state, which were shut since March 2020, reopened in November last year. However, these were once again asked to close in April this year, when a devastating second wave swept through the country.In recent days, the improvement in the state's pandemic situation has enabled the government to ease restrictions as, earlier this month, schools, colleges and religious places reopened after several months. On Thursday, 1573 people across Maharashtra tested positive for the viral illness, while 39 people lost their lives due to the infection, as per a health department bulletin. The cumulative Covid-19 infection tally stands at 6,598,218 including 6,430,394 recoveries, 139,925 deaths and 27,899 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/when-will-theatres-in-maharashtra-reopen-at-increased-seating-capacity-deputy-cm-answers-101634886208908.html
22-10-2021||Dehradun||Trekker rescued in Uttarakhand, body of another recovered||A trekker was rescued while the body of another was recovered from Lamkhaga Pass near Harsil Valley of Uttarkashi district about 5,000 metres above sea level, officials said on Friday.“They then brought them to their camp near the Lamkhaga Pass. The survivor was taken care of the whole night by the rescue workers. On Friday early morning, when a backup team reached the spot with a helicopter, he and the body were brought down to Harsil where the survivor was shifted to the army hospital,” said Lalita Negi, the media in-charge of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF). “Efforts are on...to bring down the remaining bodies from the Lamkhaga Pass.”On Thursday, the rescue workers spotted bodies of five persons, who were part of an 11-member group. The group included eight trekkers, who went missing en route to Lamkhaga Pass on October 14. Six of the nine porters in the group managed to return. They informed the authorities that three porters and eight trekkers had gone missing.Separately, the toll from rain-related incidents in the state mounted to 65 on Friday. On Thursday, Union home minister Amit Shah told media after an aerial survey of the affected areas that 64 deaths were reported in the state.The state government on Friday said 35 were killed in the worst-hit Nainital district. Eleven deaths were reported from Champawat and six from the Almora district. At least 22 people remained missing.On Friday, chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami left for a fresh aerial and ground survey of the affected areas of Chamoli and Pauri Garhwal districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/trekker-rescued-in-uttarakhand-body-of-another-recovered-101634885320628.html
22-10-2021||Lucknow||Through Mahila Mates, UP aims to better women’s participation in MGNREGS||Uttar Pradesh took a significant step to amend its standing of being among the worst-performing states with respect to women’s participation in the Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). The UP rural development department, aiming for higher women’s participation in MGNREGS, has trained 18,000 Mahila Mates and deployed 3,010 on job sites, data shows. Mahila Mates are women assistants for management and supervision of MGNREGS jobs and job sites.So, how is UP the worst performer? And how would Mahila Mates make a difference?During the Covid-19 pandemic in 2019-20, Uttar Pradesh employed a whopping 1.11 crore people under the MGNREGA, but the workforce was male-dominated.“The state generated only 32.52% of women person-days of the 30.55 crore person-days of work generated in the year. At the 28th position, UP was the lowest in the country with only Jammu and Kashmir and Lakshadweep ranking lower on the women’s employment index under the MGNREGS. But then we decided to bring in a change. Mahila Mates was one of the top ideas for this,” said Yogesh Kumar, additional commissioner, MGNREGS, Uttar Pradesh.In March, the rural development department announced that it will appoint Mahila Mates on job sites. By June, the appointment process was completed. Till now 18,000 Mahila Mates who were selected have been trained. Of these, 3,010 have begun working on their respective job sites.“We believe that the Mahila Mate concept will go a long way in increasing women’s participation in the rural employment scheme. First of all, these 18,000 Mahila Mates are getting direct employment in the scheme. Secondly, once the women in villages know that job sites are being managed by women, it will inspire women in villages to opt for work under the scheme because job sites headed by women will change the social structure of a job site and address the hesitancy among prospective women workers. We had observed that men-dominated worksites do make women shy from participating in work even if they wanted to,” he said.He said that apart from Mahila Mates, the department is also introducing a few more women-friendly factors in MGNREGS such as creating all-women worksites and women-specific work projects.The rural development department had ordered that all job sites with less than 40 workers will have a Mahila Mate to supervise the site and work there. Sites with more than 40 workers will have two Mahila Mates.To make the appointment fast and smooth, the department had selected the Mahila Mates from existing women SHGs (self-help groups) in the panchayats.Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu were the top-ranking states offering women work under MGNREGS with 91.41%, 87.04%, and 84.88% women person-days respectively last year.During these times of pandemic, with a focus on employment generation under MGNREGS, UP registered a whopping 87% increase in person-days generated in 2019-20 against the previous year. But women’s share remained unchanged in the last five years.“Yes, over the last five years, women’s participation in the MGNREGS has consistently been low and lower than the national average in UP,” said Yogesh Kumar.The national average in 2019-20 had been 52% women person-days, UP’s was 32.52%. “Now we aim to take it above 38%,” said Kumar.He said, “Socio-cultural set-up and physical intensive works are inhibiting factors behind the low participation. Women do not like to work at male-dominated worksites and on physically gruelling jobs. So, we have decided to introduce all-women worksites and women-specific works, such as plantation, gardening, nutrition gardens, nurseries or organic cultivations.”All the Mahila Mates that were selected have been trained in how to do their work- making muster roll, record attendance, making a layout for work, measuring of work done, or how to update the work demand, and how to encourage women to work. Women Mates will also have to arrange for amenities such as drinking water, shed at job sites for workers. They will get ₹290 to ₹370 wages per workday depending upon which PWD (public works department) wage circle their village falls under. On looking to increase women employment under MGNREGS, Yogesh Kumar said, “the aim is to take women participation under the scheme over 38%. Economic empowerment of women also leads to an automatic change in basic indicators of development. When money comes in the hands of women, a family’s undergoes improvements in education, health and nutrition, and sanitation.”The department will also promote horticulture, floriculture, vegetable cultivation, animal husbandry, and fisheries under convergence of MGNREGS and the rural livelihood mission as these jobs are not as physically intensive and also interest women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/through-mahila-mates-up-aims-to-better-women-s-participation-in-mgnregs-101634884120947.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Cruise drug case: NCB detains 24-year-old peddler for questioning||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has detained a 24-year-old drug peddler in Mumbai in connection with the cruise liner drug bust.As per NCB's statement, the drug peddler's name has emerged from the alleged 'drug chats' in the case. "The drug peddler was brought to the NCB office for interrogation in connection with the cruise drugs case," it said.Meanwhile, the NCB has conducted six raids or searches in Mumbai and nearby areas in the last two days in connection with the cruise drugs case, said sources.According to sources, the areas where these searches were conducted are Navi Mumbai, South Mumbai, Nalasopara, International Airport, Bandra and Juhu."In the last two days, NCB conducted 6 raids/searches in Mumbai and nearby areas. Searches were conducted in Navi Mumbai, South Mumbai, Nalasopara, International Airport, Bandra and Juhu areas," sources said.An NCB team busted an alleged drugs party on the Cordelia Cruise ship which was on its way to Goa at mid-sea on October 2.A total of 20 people, including Aryan Khan and two Nigerian nationals, have been arrested so far in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-drug-case-ncb-detains-24-year-old-peddler-for-questioning-101634882042467.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal BJP expels Jubbal Kotkhai block unit president, 12 office-bearers||The Himachal Pradesh BJP has expelled 13 office-bearers of the Jubbal-Kotkhai block unit, including its president Gopal Javeik and general secretary Satish Pirta, for six years for anti-party activities. State BJP chief Suresh Kashyap said the party has taken note of the anti-party activities of the leaders and their primary membership stands cancelled. Also read: In PM Modi’s billion jab praise to ‘new India’, a message for detractorsThe expelled leaders had resigned from the Jubbal-Kotkhai BJP block unit on October 15 in support of Chetan Bragta, the former state convener of party’s IT cell and son of deceased legislator Narinder Bragta whose demise necessitated the byelection. Chetan Bragta had rebelled after the party chose Neelam Saraik as it nominee and is contesting the byelection as an independent candidate. The denial of ticket also triggered a rebellion in party and the entire Jubbal-Kotkhai unit had resigned. The other leaders expelled include Yashveer Justa, state executive member; Ankush Chauhan, district president Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), Mahasu; Sushil Kadsholi, district BJYM general secretary, Mahasu; Sandeep Gangta, state executive member, BJYM; Ravinder Chauhan, special invitee member, Mahasu; and Ashok Justa, vice-president, Jubbal-Kotkhai block BJP. Besides, Devinder Shyam, vice-president of the Mahasu BJP; Ramprakash Gaitha, vice-president, Jubbal-Kotkhai block; and block executive members Chetan Kadeik, Rajesh Chauhan and Anil Kalta are among those shown the door by the party. Bragta’s entering the poll fray has made the byelection in Jubbal-Kotkhai a triangular contest. He would not only harm the BJP’s prospects but is likely to give a tough fight, riding on the sympathy wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bjp-expels-jubbal-kotkhai-block-unit-president-12-officebearers-101634880819045.html
22-10-2021||Other||Sub-judge convicted of raping, cheating woman in Jammu||A fast-track court in Jammu on Thursday convicted suspended sub-judge Rakesh Kumar Abrol of raping and cheating a woman, who sought his legal help in 2018.“There is a complete chain of events and facts to indicate that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and all the circumstances brought on record and established are consistent with the guilt of the accused and inconsistent with his innocence,” said the court, which is expected to pronounce the quantum of sentence on Saturday.“Persons of influence, keeping in view their reach, impact, and authority they wield on the general public or the specific class to which they belong owe a duty and have to be more responsible they are expected to know and perceive the meaning of authority and law with experience and knowledge. It is reasonable to hold that they would be careful in their lives...”The prosecution said the woman met Abrol in connection with the case. Abrol promised her legal help and asked her to work as his domestic help. He also promised her better education for her daughter and ₹5,000 as salary, the prosecution added. After some time, the woman’s parents asked her to return home. The prosecution said as soon as Abrol, who had parted with his wife and lived alone for seven years, got to know she was planning to leave his home, he requested her not to leave. He told her she is his wife now after smearing her head with vermilion powder. Abrol planned to solemnise the marriage with her but a year later married another woman after divorcing his first wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/subjudge-convicted-of-raping-cheating-woman-101634880460409.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Clear weather, moderate air quality in store for Delhi on Friday||Delhi is likely to see a clear sky on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be at 16 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 32 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature on Thursday was 32.4 degrees Celsius and the minimum was 16 degrees Celsius.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 192. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI was 199.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “Delhi’s AQI is in the moderate category. As per SAFAR methodology, effective fire counts are 1234 and its share is 15% in Delhi’s PM2.5 as transport-level winds are favourable for intrusion. However, local winds are moderate which enhances dispersion of pollutants keeping AQI in the moderate category. The share of fire emissions is expected to increase in the next 2 days. In presence of local dry weather and north-westerly wind local dust emission leads to an increase of PM10. Additional dust input from desert areas via transport is very likely. The overall AQI is likely to degrade to poor in next 2 days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clear-weather-moderate-air-quality-in-store-for-delhi-on-friday-101634875480768.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra tops with highest number of fully Covid-19 vaccinated population||Amid the country crossing the one billion mark for Covid-19 vaccine doses, Maharashtra has administered over 93 million doses till date. Maharashtra tops the charts, in terms of the fully vaccinated population, although it holds the second position when it comes to the total number of doses administered, after Uttar Pradesh.Of the targeted population of 91.5 million, 70% or 64,913,396 people, have been given the first dose, while 29,065,236 beneficiaries in the state are fully vaccinated in the state. The state has administered 93,978,623 doses till date, according to the data on Co-Win portal. On Thursday, the state administered 516,519 doses.Maharashtra’s public health minister Rajesh Tope said that covering the rest of the targeted population will be a challenge as they require counselling sessions to convince them for vaccination. To facilitate speedy vaccination, the state government is starting a drive to cover all college students in the age group of 18-25 by organising sessions on college campuses. The drive will be undertaken for 10 days, from October 25 to November 3.“We are proud to be a major contributor in the achievement of the one-billion mark. We are lagging behind UP in overall inoculation because the northern state was provided with more doses on the basis of their population,” the minister said.Meanwhile, Maharashtra recorded 1,573 fresh infections, pushing the count to 6,598,218 on Thursday. The tally of active cases further reduced to 24,292 as 2,968 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-tops-with-highest-number-of-fully-covid-19-vaccinated-population-101634872659220.html
22-10-2021||Pune||Pune civic body launches 'Vaccine on Wheel' drive for housing societies||The Pune Municipal Corporation has launched the 'Vaccine on Wheel' drive for the people living in the housing societies in the district.The housing societies will have to contact their ward medical officer to organise the drive in their society."We'll launch vaccine on wheel drive to inoculate people in housing societies. Societies have to contact their ward medical officer to hold vaccination drive at their premises," said Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, Pune Municipal Corporation on Thursday.The drive was earlier carried out for slums, students going to foreign countries, senior citizens, among others."Vaccine on wheel helped us to run easy vaccination for slums, students who were going to foreign countries, senior citizens... No section of society should be left where vaccination doesn't reach," Mohol added.Meanwhile, India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed 100 crore doses on Thursday. A total of 100 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far to eligible beneficiaries, as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.India's Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16, 2021. Initially, the vaccination was opened for Health Care Workers (HCWs) only.From February 2, front line workers were made eligible for vaccination. These included State and Central Police personnel, Armed Force Personnel, Home Guards, Civil Defence & Disaster Management Volunteers, Municipal workers, Prison Staff, PRI Staff and Revenue workers involved in containment and surveillance, Railway Protection Force and election Staff.The vaccination drive was expanded from March 1 to include persons above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with associated specified 20 comorbidities. It was further expanded to all people above 45 years of age from April 1. From May 1, all persons above 18 years of age were made eligible for Covid-19 vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-civic-body-launches-vaccine-on-wheel-drive-for-housing-societies-101634869857120.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi to spend ₹104 cr on installing 500 flags in city||The Delhi government will spend ₹104.37 crore on installation of 35-metre high national flags across 500 locations in the city, according to government documents.In the 2021-22 budget, named the Deshbhakti budget by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government, the government allocated ₹45 crore for the project. In the first tender of the project issued in September, the estimated spending was revised to ₹84 crore, according to the government documents that HT has seen.“It was further stated that funds to the tune of ₹45 crore has been earmarked/approved during the current financial year. Additional budget provisions, if any required, will be made in RE (revised estimates) 2021-22 after locating matching savings in other capital heads,” said the minutes of a meeting that was held on September 23 and the documents shared by the government in public domain on Thursday.It further said, “The department (public works) has selected 611 tentative locations such as schools, Delhi government offices, DTC (bus) depots, hospitals, courts, etc. Five flags were already installed and inaugurated on August 15, 2021. The final 495 locations will be done in consultation with local representatives and public.”The five locations where the government unfurled national flags on August 15 are in assembly segments New Delhi, which is represented by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal; deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s assembly constituency Patparganj; health minister Satyendar Jain’s constituency Shakur Basti; Kalkaji, represented by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi; and Dwarka represented by MLA Vinay Mishra.The Delhi government presented its seventh annual budget on March 9 and termed it a “deshbhakti (patriotic) budget”, in view of the nation celebrating 75th Independence Day this year. It announced a range of programmes and measures to evoke patriotism in citizens, and Sisodia, who is also the finance minister of Delhi, proposed ₹45 crore for installing the national flag at 500 different locations across Delhi. The government also allocated ₹20 crore for events to be held on themes related to personalities such as Bhagat Singh and BR Ambedkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-spend-104-cr-on-installing-500-flags-in-city-101634863345953.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cinema halls, auditoriums, amusement parks to reopen today; check SOPs||In view of the easing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in Mumbai, the city's civic body – the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) – has allowed cinema halls, drama theatres, and auditoriums, to reopen from Friday, albeit with pandemic-necessitated protocols like the mandatory use of face masks and social distancing.In three separate orders, the BMC issued earlier this week the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the reopening of these establishments that are set to gradually bring the city's entertainment and cultural landscape back on track after a prolonged period of closure due to the infectious disease. The Maharashtra government has also allowed amusement parks to reopen ‘dry’ (without any water rides) from today.Also Read | Mumbai airport handles 91,904 fliers in a day, a Covid-19 pandemic recordThe BMC said its SOPs will be applicable to only those cinema halls, drama theatres, and auditoriums in Mumbai which fall under its civic jurisdiction. Last week, the Maharashtra government had issued broader, state-wide orders detailing the SOPs for all such establishments that can operate at 50 per cent of their audience capacity.Now, in addition to the measures announced by the state government, the establishments falling under the BMC's jurisdiction will have to abide by the SOPs issued by the civic body, which include the mask mandate and social distancing norms.Covid-19 protocols for cinema hallsAccording to the new SOPs, show timings in cinema halls will have to be “staggered” and the sale of only packaged food and beverages is allowed. However, these food items can at no point be taken inside the screening auditorium, where cinema-goers will be required to put their face masks up at all times.Hand sanitisers should also be made available, both inside the hall as well as in each of the washrooms. Spitting will not be allowed anywhere on the premises and thermal check-ups will be mandatory at entry points. Moreover, according to the SOPs, air-conditioning temperatures inside the cinema halls should be fixed between 24-30 degrees Celsius.Movie-goers should be vaccinated against Covid-19 with at least the primary dose, or their health status on the Aarogya Setu app must show “safe”, the SOPs detailed. All staff, including the workers at the food court and those involved with housekeeping, shall, however, need to be vaccinated with both doses of the Covid-19 shot, and at least 14 days must have passed since the second dose.Amusement parks to reopen ‘dry’Although amusement parks in Mumbai are also set to reopen from Friday, no ‘water rides’ shall be allowed in view of the pandemic situation.The decision was taken at a meeting of the Covid-19 task force, chaired by Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Monday. “We are slowly relaxing the restrictions and the number of patients seems to be decreasing,” Thackeray told reporters after the meeting. “There is also a constant demand to extend the working hours of restaurants and shops.”Earlier in the day, the chief minister met representatives of the Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association in Mumbai and said theatres and cinema halls should constitute proper fire and structural safety checks ahead of their reopening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cinema-halls-auditoriums-amusement-parks-to-reopen-today-check-sops-101634859835934.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Pollution levels dip slightly as winds over Delhi pick up pace||Delhi’s air quality improved slightly as winds picked up on Thursday, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings showed, and scientists separately predicted that emissions from farm fires in Punjab and Haryana are unlikely to pose a threat immediately.CPCB data showed that the overall air quality index (AQI) on Thursday was 199, in the ‘moderate’ category and a marginal improvement from Wednesday’s 221.Union ministry of earth science’ air quality monitoring centre’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) showed that 1,234 farm fires were seen in the neighbouring states of Punjab and Haryana through satellites on Thursday, which contributed to nearly 15% of the city’s PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels.While this was higher than Wednesday’s 12%, the pollution levels were lower because of the relatively higher local wind speeds.“Local winds are moderate that enhances dispersion of pollutants keeping AQI in moderate category. Share of fire emissions is expected to increase in next two days. In presence of local dry weather and north-westerly wind local dust emission leads to increase of PM10 (particulate matter with diameter less than 10 micrometres). The overall AQI is likely to degrade to poor in next two days,” the Safar air quality analysis read.Senior scientists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that under the impact of a western disturbance, there is a possibility of cloudy skies coupled with isolated rain in some areas between October 23 and October 24. The western disturbance will also be marked by a slight increase in the temperatures in Delhi on October 22.On Thursday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which provides representational data for the entire city, was 32.4 degrees Celsius. The minimum was 16 degrees Celsius, two degrees below what is considered normal for this time of the year. The maximum temperature at the Palam observatory was 32 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal, while the minimum temperature here was recorded 18.3 degrees Celsius.“The air quality is likely to remain in the poor category in the next few days. As for the temperatures, there will be a slight rise on account of the passing of the western disturbance. Temperatures might start falling by the end of October,” said a senior IMD official.For the next five days, local pollution sources such as vehicular emissions, construction dust, residential emissions and pollution from industries within and in the peripheries of the city are likely to be the primary reasons for bad air, a forecast by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s decision support system showed on Thursday.IITM’s decision support system, which is an early warning system that forecasts the primary pollution sources that contribute to the Capital’s air pollution at any given time of the day, showed on Wednesday that vehicular emissions are likely to be the highest contributor in the city’s pollution levels in the next five days. The share in Delhi’s PM 2.5 (particulate matter with a diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) is forecasted to range between 10-35% in the coming days.The DSS forecast said that on October 22, the contribution of vehicular emissions is expected to reach around 22%, and it will continue to rise and 30.35% on October 23 and then 32.66% on October 25.Apart from vehicular emissions, other local sources that are also expected to act up in the coming days are industries in Delhi and its peripheries (4-6%), pollution from residential sources (3-9%), construction (3-5%), waste burning (2-3%), power plants (1-2%) and road dust (1-2%).“The predominant surface wind was from northwest directions of Delhi with a wind speed of around 10-16 kmph and mainly clear sky on October 21. This will change to west/southwest with speed of 08-20 kmph and mainly clear sky October 22,” the DDS forecast read.Weather forecasters and scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that there may be a fall in the contribution of stubble fires to Delhi’s pollution, possibly because of moderate to heavy showers predicted in parts of Punjab and Haryana on between October 23 and October 24.“Under the impact of a western disturbance, there is a forecast of moderate to heavy rainfall in parts of Punjab and Haryana on October 23-24. In Delhi this would probably only cause isolated showers,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet Weather Services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pollution-levels-dip-slightly-as-winds-over-delhi-pick-up-pace-101634863101744.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Engine derailed near Chandimandir: DRM marks inquiry into matter||A J-grade railway officer will inquire into the engine derailment near Panchkula’s Chandimandir area that left three injured, Ambala division railway manager (DRM) GM Singh said on Thursday. On Wednesday, the said engine was on its way from Kalka to Chandigarh when it derailed and fell into a pit, damaging its large portion. Three persons, including a loco pilot, an assistant driver and a guard, had sustained injuries and are currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Chandigarh. The DRM said while the loco pilot has received some injuries on his face and nose, the other two are stable and might get discharged in a day or two. Railways officials are, meanwhile, having a hard time retrieving the engine from the pit as cranes are unable to reach the spot. DRM Singh said that engineers are on the task and the engine will be transported to Saharanpur shed, its home station. On being asked about the purported reason and aspects of inquiry, the DRM said, “It has come to the fore that the brakes of the engine were of poor quality and the engine was not fit to move alone. The inquiry will look into the entire incident and responsibility will be fixed. It will be checked if that’s because of someone’s mistake or was a result of a system failure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/engine-derailed-near-chandimandir-drm-marks-inquiry-into-matter-101634857955605.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Contradiction in statements leads to man’s acquittal in 2017 harassment case||Contradiction in statements of prime witnesses and delay in registration of the FIR led to the acquittal of a Sector-8 resident on Thursday, almost after four years of being booked for harassing a girl. Madan Lal, who runs a shop in Sector 10, was arrested on March 3, 2017, after a case under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against him. As per the police, a student of DAV College, Sector 10, had lodged a complaint accusing Madan of outraging her modesty. As per the prosecution, the victim, along with her friend, had gone to the shop of the accused where he misbehaved with her and even tried to kiss her. The victim then returned the next day along with few other fellow students and started assaulting Madan. He was then handed over to the police. ‘Falsely implicated after he asked for money’ Madan’s defence counsel, AS Chahal, said he was falsely implicated. “Madan had maintained that the complainant used to buy items on credit from his shop and on March 3, he had asked her to clear the account,” Chahal said. “There was not just the delay of 27 hours in reporting the incident, but also contradiction in the statements of the complainant and her friend who had accompanied her,” Chahal added. While testifying before the court, complainant’s friend denied that Madan had misbehaved with her. “The statement of the complainant did not inspire confidence of the court,” added Chahal, while talking about acquittal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-contradiction-in-statements-leads-to-man-s-acquittal-in-2017-harassment-case-101634857715414.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Two brothers stabbed over money dispute||Two brothers were stabbed in Ram Darbar’s Phase 1 over a financial dispute, Chandigarh Police said on Thursday. In his complaint, Vijay Kumar said that he worked as a sanitation worker at the central school in Chandigarh, while his brothers Ajay and Shekhar played dhols in weddings. Vijay said their neighbour Rohan was also engaged in the same profession. “Two days ago, he along with my brother Shekhar had gone to a wedding in Mauli Jagran where they had an argument over distribution of money,” Vijay told the police. He alleged that on October 19, Rohan and his relative Vishal attacked Ajay and when he intervened, they stabbed him as well. The injured were admitted to GMCH in Sector 32. An FIR under Section 324 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector-31 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-two-brothers-stabbed-over-money-dispute-101634857535485.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: CCPCR team finds school in-charge absent, garbage dumps outside premises||After primary classes reopened in government schools, the Chandigarh Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) started inspecting schools and interacting with children there to ensure they aren’t facing any hardships. During one such inspection of the Government Model Senior Secondary School and Government Middle School in Sector 45 on Thursday, a number of issues were flagged.The team was led by CCPCR chairperson Harjinder Kaur. On reaching the middle school in Sector 45, it was found that school in-charge Krishan Mohan was not present there. “The in-charge has not been coming for the past few days as he is on duty as a booth-level officer. We will ask the officials to give this role to someone else as the school is suffering in his absence. Further, the attendance of primary students here is also low,” Kaur noted. Deputy director education Ravinder Kaur, who is an ex-officio member of CCPCR, was also a part of the official team visiting the schools. Though she remained unavailable for comment, she will meet the school in-charge before any action is taken, officials said. The issue of garbage strewn around the schools was also highlighted. Harjinder Kaur said, “While GMSSS-45 was clean from the inside, there was garbage dumped outside its campus. In the middle school, trash was found inside the school as well and a part of the boundary wall was also missing. We will write to the municipal corporation to clear the garbage from here. Some issues with the buildings will also be taken up with the UT administration.” Director school education Palika Arora also said that she would examine the issues that were highlighted.Children were, meanwhile, found adhering to the Covid protocols and were happy to be back in schools. CCPCR had conducted a similar inspection on Tuesday at GMSSS-8 and officials said that these inspections will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-ccpcr-team-finds-school-in-charge-absent-garbage-dumps-outside-premises-101634857415278.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: 225 cartons of whisky, countrymade liquor seized in Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi police on Thursday seized 225 cartons of whisky and countrymade liquor, which were smuggled into Punjab territory. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said the cartons were concealed in a specially fabricated space in a truck. “But our vigilant cops discovered the hidden items and recovered the liquor being smuggled into Punjab from Haryana,” he added. Dera Bassi station house officer (SHO) Jatin Kumar said they recovered 110 cartons of whisky and 115 cartons of countrymade liquor which was meant to be sold in Haryana only. Truck driver Jaspal Singh alias Kala, a resident of Janetpur village, has been arrested for smuggling liquor into Punjab. He said a police team headed by ASI Narinder Kumar had set up a check post on Ambala-Dera Bassi highway when they stopped the truck. “On checking, they found something suspicious as the open area in the rear of the truck was not what it had to be actually,” the SHO said. He said that a cabin was fabricated in the rear side of the truck in such a manner that it looked like the truck was empty. The police have registered the FIR against Jaspal under Section 14 of the Excise Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-225-cartons-of-whisky-countrymade-liquor-seized-in-dera-bassi-101634856995285.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Police Commemoration Day observed in Chandigarh, Mohali||The Police Commemoration Day was observed in Chandigarh and Mohali on Thursday wherein a parade was organised in the memory of bravehearts and homage paid to the fallen heroes. In Chandigarh, the parade was organised on the police station grounds in Sector 17. In the past one year, two Chandigarh policemen sacrificed their lives in the line of duty to maintain peace, law and order during the pandemic. ASI Sukhbir Singh, who was posted at Sarangpur, died on October 23, 2020, while ASI Ramesh Chand, who was posted at Sector-19 police station and deputed on a naka on April 10, 2021, was hit by a vehicle. He succumbed to his injuries on May 1, 2021. A two-minute silence was observed to salute the policemen who sacrificed their lives. Chandigarh DGP Praveer Ranjan, along with other officers, paid homage to their departed colleagues at the Martyrs Memorial Site. Central police organisations and state police observe this day in the form of Martyrdom Day. In Mohali, the day was observed at the district administrative complex in Sector 76. Deputy commissioner Isha Kalia, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, judicial magistrate first class Mukesh Kumar Singla along with other cops paid homage to cops who laid down their lives in the line of duty. “The police are responsible for the internal security of the country. Tributes are paid to commemorate their martyrdom. In the past one year, 377 police personnel sacrificed their lives in India, including two from Punjab. I salute these martyrs and the nation will forever remain indebted to these heroes,” said the DC. She added that the district administration had firm determination to be with the families of martyrs in this hour of grief and every possible help would be provided to them. SSP Mahal said, “We should work diligently to fulfil our duty, irrespective of consequences. On this day, we should once again dedicate ourselves to the security and safety of the people of our country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-commemoration-day-observed-in-chandigarh-mohali-101634856815293.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC to install 100 CCTV cameras in markets to boost women safety||The Mohali municipal corporation (MC) is all set to install 100 high-resolution CCTV cameras in the city markets where footfall of women is more. Under the Nirbhaya Fund, the central government is providing assistance to civic bodies for this purpose. The cameras will be installed at markets in Phase 7, Phase 3B2, and Phase 5. There will be 80 fixed and 20 moving cameras which would come up at a cost of ₹4.5 crore. A meeting of Mohali MC was held on Thursday under the chairmanship of mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu in which senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, commissioner Kamal Garg, DSP (Traffic) and other officials were also present. Disclosing this here on Thursday, the mayor said that through Nirbhaya Fund, it is proposed to upgrade the surveillance infrastructure in the cities for the protection of women. “The state government has formulated Punjab urban local bodies surveillance grid for women safety (PUNGRID-WS) scheme under which CCTV cameras will be installed in places more frequented by women like girls’ colleges, universities, educational institutions and markets,” Sidhu said. The mayor said that under this scheme, 100 CCTV cameras would be installed at Mohali city in the first phase. He said these cameras would be monitored by the Punjab Police, various law enforcement agencies and the state government authorities, which would significantly enhance the security of women. Sidhu said the police have identified the places where crimes against women are likely to increase. He said on the basis of this information provided by the police, 100 cameras were being installed in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-to-install-100-cctv-cameras-in-markets-to-boost-women-safety-101634856395195.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hero WPGT: Amateur Avani moves ahead of Amandeep, Pranavi||A superb six-under 66 took amateur Avani Prashanth to the top of the leaderboard at the end of the second round of the 11th leg of the Hero WPGT at the Panchkula Golf Club on Thursday.Avani, who shot 76 in the first round, made a 10-shot improvement as she had four birdies on the front nine, beginning with one on the first hole and three in a row from fifth to seventh. She had two more on 10th and 15th, and no bogeys. The highlight was that she picked birdies on three of the four Par-5s as she is now 2-under 142 and one shot ahead of Amandeep Drall and Pranavi Urs.Despite being an amateur Avani, straddling between the Hero WPGT circuit and the amateur tours, has been having a great season. She won the third leg in Mumbai and has since finished runners-up at the DLF Golf and Country Club in Gurugram in the eighth leg, and was again second in the 10th leg, last week in Chandigarh.Amandeep, the winner last week and second after the first day, stayed there with a second round of 73 that included a double bogey on Par-4 10th. She had three bogeys against four birdies but at 1-under 143 she is breathing down Avani’s neck.Pranavi, a four-time winner on the Hero WPGT, slipped to 2 over 74 as she had three birdies, three bogeys and a double bogey on the Par-5 seventh.Saaniya Sharma had the biggest swing in scores from first to second day as she followed up her first round 79 with a second round 66, which was flawless and equal to leader Avani’s card. Saaniya, however, had an eagle on the Par-5 third and four other birdies without dropping any shots.Vani Kapoor (71), Jahanvi Bakshi (72) and Seher Atwal (75) were tied for fifth at 2-over 146, while Rhea Jha (73), Lakhmehar Pardesi (79) and Gaurika Bishnoi (76) were occupying places eighth to 10th.With just one shot separating the top three, a keen battle is assured in the leading group, but right behind them are Saaniya, Vani and Jahanvi.The cut fell at 15-over 159 and 18 players who made the cut will figure in the final round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hero-wpgt-amateur-avani-moves-ahead-of-amandeep-pranavi-101634853214182.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||High-tech LED traffic lights inaugurated in Mohali||City mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Thursday inaugurated the state-of-the-art LED traffic lights near IISER on Airport Road. Set up at a cost of ₹5 lakh, the high-intensity LED lights are complemented by glowing direction panels, providing better visibility at night, especially amid fog in winter.The mayor said the equipment had been installed here as part of a pilot project, which will be followed by phased installation on all main and internal roads of the city. These will replace the existing round-shape lights and will be visible from a long distance.Deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, commissioner Kamal Garg, superintending engineer Sanjay Kanwar and executive engineer Kamaljit Singh were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hightech-led-traffic-lights-inaugurated-in-mohali-101634853164215.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Stray dog beaten to death in Mohali, two brothers booked||A stray dog was mercilessly beaten to death by two brothers after it bit their sister at Raipur village in Balongi, Mohali.After a video of the incident went viral on social media, police booked the brothers, Prince and Honey, under Section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming animal) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.“Prince has been arrested on the complaint of an NGO. Honey is away at Ladakh,” said Rajpal Singh, station house officer, Balongi. During his interrogation, Prince revealed that they killed the dog by hitting its head and legs repeatedly and also filmed it to teach a lesson to their neighbours with whom they had a rift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stray-dog-beaten-to-death-in-mohali-two-brothers-booked-101634853162958.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Three succumb to dengue in Chandigarh in year’s first deaths||Dengue has claimed its first victims in Chandigarh this year, the UT health department confirmed on Thursday after three people succumbed to the virus.The deceased include a 31-year-old man from Kishangarh, a 50-year-old man from Sector 16 and a 42-year-old woman from Sector 27.These are also the first dengue fatalities in the city since 2019.The infection also claimed two more lives in Mohali, where this year’s toll has reached 20.The latest fatalities in the district are a 30-year-old woman from Sector 81 and a 42-year-old man from Lohgarh, Zirakpur.Mohali has confirmed 18 deaths in October alone, while two people died in September as well, when the dengue cases first started spiralling. No fatality has been reported in Panchkula so far.142 new infections in tricityMeanwhile, 142 fresh infections were reported in the tricity on Thursday. Worst-hit by the disease, Mohali led with 93 cases, while 35 and 14 patients were found infected in Chandigarh and Panchkula, respectively.With this, Mohali’s tally this year has climbed to 1,848 – a 292% jump from last year’s count of 471.Chandigarh has detected 508 cases so far, almost double than the 265 cases in 2020.Dengue infections are steadily multiplying in Panchkula as well, as 380 patients have already contracted the infection this year, 387% higher than 78 a year ago.High-risk areasMost of the cases in Chandigarh are being reported from congested rural areas and colonies. On Thursday, 19 cases came from Manimajra, five from Mauli Jagran, two from Bapu Dham, while the remaining were scattered across Sectors 21, 41 and 52, Dhanas, Kishangarh and Kajheri.Among the high-risk localities identified in Mohali are Phases 3B2, 4, 5 and 7, Sectors 70 and 71 in urban areas, besides villages Balongi, Badmajra, Mataur, Jujhar Nagar and Sohana.Cases are also being reported from Dera Bassi, Zirakpur and Kharar. Fogging intensifiedMohali municipal corporation commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said due to the steady rise in cases, fogging in all affected areas had been intensified. Over 3,100 people have been challaned in the district this year for not clearing stagnating water, a breeding ground for dengue-causing mosquitoes.Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh, said the UT health department conducted fogging in 44 areas on Thursday and challans were issued to people wherever mosquito larvae were found.“So far this year, 8,052 notices have been issued to the violators and 447 have been fined,” she added.In Panchkula, 20 beds have been increased at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 due to increase in patient inflow.“We have added more beds and more doctors have also been deployed. No patient is being turned away. Our teams visit all areas where dengue cases are detected, for source-reduction activity,” said Dr Mukta Kumar, civil surgeon, Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-succumb-to-dengue-in-chandigarh-in-year-s-first-deaths-101634853161808.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Seniors’ tennis: Men’s final clashes in Zirakpur today||Harneet Singh will lock horns with Raj Kumar in the men’s singles’ 35+ final of the International Tennis Federation Seniors Ranking Championship at the Roots Tennis Academy in Zirakpur on Friday. Yogesh Kohli will take on Monty Roy in the men’s singles’ 45+ final, while Nirmal Rajan Kumar will cross swords with Ajeet Bhardwaj in the men’s singles’ 55+ final. In the men’s singles’ 65+ final, top seed Narender Janweja will face second seed Suresh Murthati. In the women’s 35+ round-robin match, Simi Begam beat Priyanka Sharma 6-1, 6-1, while Sonal Vohra got the better of Irene Van Der 6-2, 6-2 in the women’s 45+ round-robin tie.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seniors-tennis-men-s-final-clashes-in-zirakpur-today-101634853159680.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Vegetable seller kills married woman for rejecting his advances, arrested||Furious over his rejection, a vegetable vendor stabbed a 30-year-old married woman to death at her house in Hallomajra on Thursday.Police said the victim, Vanita, was home alone when the accused, Jatinder, broke in and attacked her. He was arrested later at night.The murder came to light when the victim’s 12-year-old son returned from school and found her lying in a pool of blood.The kitchen knife used in the crime was recovered from near the body. Jatinder had brought the weapon with him, as the victim’s husband confirmed that it was not from his house. Lived in same locality in HallomajraAccording to police, Vanita and her husband, Ranjit, 40, hailed from Uttar Pradesh and had shifted to a rented accommodation in Hallomajra in June this year. Jatinder also lives in the same area at Deep Complex.Vanita was a housewife, while Ranjit works at a factory in Mohali.In his complaint, Ranjit said his wife was friendly with Jatinder, but had recently stopped talking to him. Since then, he had been harassing her over the phone and also threatened her with dire consequences. Jatinder would also visit their house while he was away at work, Ranjit said. Didn’t answer son’s callsThe victim’s minor son, a student of Class 5, told the police that when he returned from school, he called out to his mother from ground floor to take his school bag. When she did not respond, he went upstairs and was shocked to find her lying dead on a cot next to the bed.Hearing his cries, neighbours rushed upstairs and informed the police as well as his father.Police reached the spot and shifted the body to the mortuary of Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. An autopsy will be conducted on Friday. Jatinder has been booked for murder under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhvegetable-seller-kills-married-woman-for-rejecting-his-advances-arrested-101634853158373.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sewage entering N-Choe in Mohali: PPCB issues notice to GMADA||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has issued a notice to the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) over the discharge of untreated sewage into the N-Choe in IT City near Airport Road.The pollution board has sought a reply within two weeks.Under Section 25/26 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, no industry, operator process or any treatment and disposal system can be established without the previous consent of the state pollution board, and no industry or process can discharge sewage or trade effluent into a stream, well, sewer or land in excess of the standards.In September, Hindustan Times had highlighted how despite the directions of the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change, GMADA has not constructed two sewage treatment plants (STPs) with 10 MLD capacity each. As a result, untreated sewage is being discharged into the N-Choe passing through the IT City, leading to harmful waterborne pathogens and bacteria, which pose a high risk to human and animal health.In 2019, the authority had built a portable STP of 500 KLD, which is also lying defunct now.Violation of any order under the Water Act, for which no penalty has been provided elsewhere in its framework, is punishable with imprisonment up to three months with/or fine of up to ₹10,000. PPCB superintending engineer Paramjeet Singh said a notice had been issued to GMADA and a reply had been sought within two weeks, following which action will be initiated accordingly.A seasonal stream, N-Choe originates in the north of Chandigarh and runs across the city, before meeting the Jagatpura drain at Manauli village in Mohali. The water finally drains into Ghaggar river.The IT City is spread over 1,722 acres across Sectors 66B, 82A, 83A and 101A near the Airport Road, and has major IT companies, industrial and commercial units, residential areas and a private school, besides campuses of two major private universities. The first housing scheme in IT City was launched in February 2014 with 325 residential plots, the second scheme in July 2016 with 750 plots, and the last scheme in April 2018.Ikesh Pal Singh, general secretary of Residents Welfare Association, IT City (Block C), said, “Despite the issue being highlighted multiple times, GMADA has made no effort to sort it out. The authority was supposed to treat the waste water generated in residential area and channel it back to houses for irrigation and construction purposes. But sewage continues to be disposed of unscientifically into the choe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sewage-entering-n-choe-in-mohali-ppcb-issues-notice-to-gmada-101634853157104.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC tells Mohali SSP to examine underage marriage at gurdwara||Taking up a protection plea by a married couple, an 18-year-old girl and a 20-year-old man, the high court has asked the Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) to examine how an underage marriage was solemnised in a city gurdwara.The couple, hailing from Moga, had sought directions to the Moga SSP to provide them protection as they had got married against the wishes of their families. During the hearing, it came to light that while the girl was 18 years old, the man was aged 20. They had annexed photographs of their wedding and a marriage certificate. The court said the marriage was stated to have been solemnised at “Gurdwara Guru Nanak Niwas Sahib” in Mohali. However, it had been performed against the provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006, as per which the girl can’t be less than 18 years of age and the boy less than 21 years. The court directed the Mohali SSP to look into the role of the priest who solemnised the marriage and take necessary steps as warranted by law if any provisions were violated.The Moga SSP was also directed to look into the couple’s demand of security and examine the matter in light of one of them being underage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-tells-mohali-ssp-to-examine-underage-marriage-at-gurdwara-101634853155513.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rainy weekend on the cards in Chandigarh, mercury to dip further||After dropping below 25°C earlier this week due to rains, the maximum temperature is likely to decrease further over the weekend when light to moderate rain is predicted.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the day maximum temperature may fall by five degrees during this period. “Up to 30mm rain and gusty winds up to 50km per hour can be expected on Saturday and Sunday. The rain will stop from Monday onwards,” said an IMD official.Meanwhile, the maximum temperature went up from 32.2°C on Wednesday to 32.5°C on Thursday. However, the nights got colder with the minimum temperature reducing from 18°C to 17.4°C. Over the next three days, the day temperature will remain between 27°C and 33°C, while the minimum temperature is expected to be around 17°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rainy-weekend-on-the-cards-in-chandigarh-mercury-to-dip-further-101634853154173.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||87 more Covid cases in J&K, 202 in Himachal||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 87 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday.Of the total cases, 74 cases were reported in Kashmir valley, while Jammu division saw 13 infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 73 with active positive cases reaching 814.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 88,835 vaccine doses were administered on Thursday taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.4 crore.HP sees 202 infections Dharamshala Himachal Pradesh logged 202 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the state’s case tally to 2,22,138 while the death toll mounted to 3,715 after four more patients died of the contagion. Among the fresh cases, 75 were reported from Kangra, 36 from Hamirpur, 31 from Una, 24 from Mandi, 15 from Shimla, 11 from Bilaspur, seven from Chamba, four from Kullu, three from Solan and one from Kinnaur. The active case count rose to 1,452, while recoveries reached 2,16,954 after 140 people recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/87-more-covid-cases-in-j-k-202-in-himachal-101634848953320.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lamkhaga Pass: Five of 11 missing trekkers found dead, 2 rescued||Five climbers that were part of an 11-member trekking team, which had gone missing during a snowstorm on the Lamkhaga Pass between October 17 and 18, were found dead on Thursday. A team of the army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police were able to locate five bodies and rescue two stranded members of the trekking team. “The five bodies were found at different places but could not be airlifted due to inclement weather. The identity of the victims will be known once the bodies are brought down. Four people are still missing and search operation to trace them is on,” said Kinnaur deputy commissioner Abid Hussain Sadiq, adding that the bodies were found scattered below the pass in Uttarakhand and the rescue mission will be resumed at 6.30am on Friday. “The rescue teams had left for Lamkhaga Pass at 4:30am from both the Kinnaur and Uttarkashi side. They found two people alive, including one tourist. The tourist has been airlifted to Uttarkashi and the guide, who was handed over to the army, will be flown to Uttarkashi on Friday,” said Sadiq. The pass, which is at an altitude of 5,282m, connects Kinnaur in Himachal with Harshil in Uttarakhand’s Uttarkashi district. The group comprised eight tourists – seven from Kolkata and one from New Delhi – and three cooks from Uttarakhand. “The team had embarked on the trek from Harshil in Uttarkashi district and was supposed to reach Chhitkul village in Kinnaur on October 19,” said Sadiq. The Uttarakhand State Disaster Response Force has identified the members of the trekking group as Mithun Dari, 31; Tanmay Tiwari, 30; Vikash Makal, 33; Saurav Ghosh, 34; Saviayan Das, 28; Richard Mandal, 30; and Suken Manjhi, 43, of Kolkata; and Anita Rawat, 38, of Delhi. The cooks accompanying the ream were Devendra, 37; Gyan Chandra, 33; and Upendra, 32. They all belonged to Purola area of Uttarkashi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lamkhaga-pass-five-of-11-missing-trekkers-found-dead-2-rescued-101634848894210.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Perform or get ready to be shunted out: Punjab CM Channi to police brass||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Thursday warned the police officers, especially the senior superintendents of police (SSPs), to perform or be ready to be replaced for inefficiency. He also asked the force to ensure effective, efficient and transparent policing across the state to instill confidence of the general public in the law and order machinery. Prioritising the challenges being faced by the state, Channi asked the officials, right from top brass to the bottom, to work in unison to eradicate corruption, break the drug supply chain, illicit liquor trade and curb the sand mafia with heavy hand. “A system should be developed to identify the drug peddlers, smugglers who are supplying drugs,” he said while chairing the first meeting of the police brass. Expressing concern over the adulteration of food products like milk, cheese and other dairy products, the CM asked the police to launch a vigorous campaign in tandem with the health department to crack down on such unscrupulous elements. The additional chief secretary (home) was asked to rope in vigilance teams to act against those involved in food adulteration. He also asked the SSPs to issue detailed directions to all the DSPs and station house officers (SHOs) to ensure that small shopkeepers, especially vendors, are not fleeced in lieu of allowing them to put stalls for selling crackers and other items. Deputy CM Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota and chief secretary Anirudh Tewari were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/perform-or-get-ready-to-be-shunted-out-punjab-cm-channi-to-police-brass-101634848472769.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Police commemoration day observed in Ludhiana||Police commemoration day was observed at Police Lines, Ludhiana, on Thursday to pay tributes to police and paramilitary martyrs.The day is observed ever year in memory of the CRPF jawans, who attained martyrdom on October 21, 1959, at Hot Springs, Ladakh, during an assault by the Chinese Army. Speaking on the occasion, Ludhiana police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar urged people to fight anti-national forces jointly. “It is only because of the great sacrifices of our martyrs that we are living in a peaceful environment. We can never forget the sacrifices of our martyrs,” he said.Bhullar was accompanied by former director general of police DR Bhatti, MC commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal and several others.A list comprising names of officials and jawans of police and paramilitary forces who sacrificed their lives during the past one year was also read out.Bhullar also lauded the sacrifices of the Punjab Police personnel while combating militancy in the state and other internal disturbances.The police chief said that during the dark days of terrorism, a total of 117 police personnel of Ludhiana police laid down their lives. He said that Punjab Police continues to stand with the families of these martyrs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-commemoration-day-observed-in-ludhiana-101634848412918.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dera Bassi: 36-year-old man found dead inside well||Missing for three days, a 36-year-old man was found dead in a well at Dera Bassi on Thursday. Police said according to the family, the deceased might have ended his life as he was upset due to his ailments.A resident of Sainia Mohalla in Dera Bassi, the man had left his house on October 18 and never returned. A missing person’s complaint was filed by the family the next day. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The body was handed over the family after autopsy.MORE NEWS IN BRIEFS3 held, 24 stolen two-wheelers seizedWith the arrest of three members of a vehicle lifters’ gang, police recovered 24 stolen two-wheelers on Thursday. The accused are Sharanjit, Guri and Mandeep Singh. The police said that a complaint was lodged by Dharminder of Maloya after his motorcycle was stolen. Auto-rickshaw stolen from BDCA resident of Bapu Dham Colony reported his rickshaw stolen on the intervening night of October 19 and 20. The victim , Harish Kumar, said that he runs a grocery shop from his house. Later, Sonu alias Gani, 26, a resident of the same locality was booked. A theft case has been registered at Sector 26 police station.Bookmark making contest at PGGC-46A bookmark-making competition was held at Post Graduate Government College in Sector 46 on Thursday. The event was organised by the best out of waste society in collaboration with the library outreach society and aimed to encourage students to read books and show their ingenuity and talent in art and craft. SGGS College acquires CII membershipSri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, has been instituted as a member of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Chandigarh. The CII membership will encourage mutual cooperation between the college and CII, help in improving the industry-institute interface and facilitate the setting up of new incubation centres.Theft reported from Sec 42A theft was reported from a house in Sector 42. The complainant, Sarabjit Singh, alleged that a man identified as Bablu, a resident of Kajheri village, stole ₹3,650 from his house on October 16. He said that Bablu was white-washing his house and had the keys for it. A theft case has been registered. Three women held while gamblingThree women were arrested from Sector 25 while they were gambling. Police recovered ₹15,200 from their possession. A case under Gambling Act has been registered at Sector 11 police station. They were later released on bail.QRS machine launched at Max Hospital A state-of-the-art quantum resonance system (QRS) machine was launched at Max Hospital, Mohali on Thursday. Dr RS Rai, urology head at the hospital, said that the machine will benefit those with continuous urination or urine leakage while coughing, laughing, sneezing, heavy exercise etc. Fresher’s welcomed at Khalsa college in MohaliA fresher’s party was organised for the students of Khalsa College (Amritsar) of Technology and Business Studies, Mohali, on Thursday. The Mr Fresher title went to Taj Tarunveer Singh while Parjinder Kaur was chosen Ms Fresher.Two day training on WPI beginsA two-day training-cum-interactive session on wholesale price index for Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh being organised by The National Statistical Office commenced a on Thursday. The objective of the session was to train the field staff about the methodology followed in the process of price collection for WPI.Now, get real-time traffic updates in ChandigarhAs part of police commemoration day celebrations on Thursday, the RoadEase mobile application, developed by Lepton Software, was launched by UT director general of police Praveer Ranjan. This will help the Chandigarh traffic police send real time traffic updates like closure of road, construction work in progress, congestion etc, on Google Maps for the convenience of commuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dera-bassi-36-year-old-man-found-dead-inside-well-101634848292972.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala man kills fiancée after she discovers his first marriage, held||A 40-year-old man from Patiala’s Urban Estate Colony was arrested for allegedly killing his fiancée after she found that he was already married to another woman. The accused, Navninder Preet Singh took the step days before his marriage with Rupinder Kaur (28) of Bathinda and buried her body in his house, police said. The two were to marry on Wednesday. The police retrieved the body from Navninder’s house on Thursday morning. Rupinder was missing since October 11 following which a missing complaint was registered. The police later registered an FIR against the accused under Section 364 (kidnapping) of Indian Penal Code.In his complaint, Sukhchain Singh, the victim’s father, said, “Navninder first showed reluctance to get married but later called her to Patiala for wedding shopping on October 11. Three days later, he told us that he had a heated argument with Rupinder over some issue and she left his house. He claimed that she left her mobile phone behind.” The two were in a relationship for the past five years and got engaged in 2020, the police said. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harcharan Singh Bhullar said investigation is on in the case. A case has been registered against the accused under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-man-kills-fianc-e-after-she-discovers-his-first-marriage-held-101634848172708.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gangrape: Autopsy inconclusive on cause of death, case referred for chemical analysis||The autopsy of the 18-year-old gangrape victim, who died during treatment at civil hospital on Wednesday evening, revealed that she had been mercilessly brutalised by the three accused. The three-member doctors’ panel that conducted the post-mortem found over 12 injuries, including two on the lips and rest on the victim’s private parts.As the post-mortem report could not establish the exact cause of death, the panel decided to refer to the case for chemical examination.The brain has been sent for histopathological examination, while her uterus has been sent to check for impregnation and her viscera samples have been sent to ascertain whether she was poisoned or not. Her vaginal swab test report is also awaited.During autopsy, the doctors tried to ascertain what led to the victim’s death. “It was discovered that the victim was gagged as she was gangraped which may have led to the snapping of oxygen supply, and she slipped into hypoxia (condition where body is deprived of adequate oxygen). Epilepsy attacks could also be the reason for such a condition,” said one of the doctors on the panel. The doctor added that poisoning could not be ruled out as the cause of death.Senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Amarjeet Kaur said that gauging the sensitivity of the matter, a three-member board was constituted to conduct the autopsy. The victim’s body was handed over to her kin after post-mortem and the body was cremated at Machhiwara around 6pm. The entire village gathered at cremation ground to condole the family.The patents and brothers of victim, who were in an inconsolable state, demanded that the rapists be given capital punishment.The victim’s maternal uncle reiterated the issue of drug addiction in the village. “They had mauled our daughter like animals. I have leant that two of the accused have a drug case against them,” said the victim’s maternal uncle.Investigating officer Santokh Singh said the police were looking into the criminal background of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gangrape-autopsy-inconclusive-on-cause-of-death-case-referred-for-chemical-analysis-101634848052771.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||One shot dead, 2 injured in Bathinda group clash||A 34-year-old man was shot dead and two others sustained injuries after two groups clashed in Ajit Road locality of Bathinda city on Thursday evening.Hasan Preet from Mehma Bhagwana village in Bathinda district died on the spot in a park where he was attacked, police said. He suffered a gunshot in his chest.Superintendent of police (SP) Jaspal Singh said preliminary investigation revealed that the crime was committed by Baljinder, alias Billa Bhokra from the district and others. There is no confirmation if anyone among the assailants also sustained injuries, he added. “Billa has a criminal background. In the initial investigation, we are able to confirm his role. So far, there is no input on the deceased’s shady past,” said the SP.Later, the police in a tweet said four persons namely Baljinder, alias Billa, Satnam, Surinder, alias Kali and Sukhdev were identified as the main accused in the crime. The clash, the police said, was an outcome of personal enmity between the two groups.On August 6 this year, the accused had allegedly tried to kill the victim and a case in this connection was registered at the Nehianwala police stationPunit Kaur, a doctor at the emergency ward of Bathinda civil hospital, said Buta Singh, who suffered multiple injuries, was referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, in a serious condition.Jaskaran Singh, a passerby, reportedly suffered a minor injury from a bullet shrapnel.Police officials said CCTV footage revealed that at least five assailants were in a car near the park.“Buta was brutally attacked on the road whereas Hasan Preet was shot dead in the park. We are working to find as why the two groups clashed and the motive behind the crime,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-shot-dead-2-injured-in-bathinda-group-clash-101634847933884.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Second complainant withdraws rape plaint against LIP chief Bains||In a major respite for Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) supremo Simarjit Singh Bains, one of the two women who had accused him of rape has withdrawn her complaint and alleged that Congress leaders had used her to further their political agenda. While an FIR was lodged on the first woman’s complaint following the court’s directions, no action had been taken so far on the second woman’s plaint. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, the second complainant claimed that Congress leaders Kamaljit Singh Karwal and another leader had pressured her to lodge a complaint against Bains. She claimed that Karwal, who is vying for a party ticket, had done so to malign the image of the LIP leader. She said that Karwal had even taken help of an Akali leader in formatting the complaint. “I was under tremendous pressure. My children stay abroad, and I was told that they could end up in trouble if I don’t do what I was told. I was worried about their well-being; but not anymore. I have withdrawn my complaint and will not pursue the matter further,” said the woman while interacting with mediapersons on Thursday. Since June, Bains has been maintaining that the rape complaint was false and politically motivated. However, the trouble is far from over for Bains as the first complainant continues to sit outside the police commissioner’s office, demanding the arrest of LIP chief. When contacted, Kamaljit Singh Karwal said, “Firstly, I do not indulge in such petty politics. The entire turn of events shows who is playing politics over the issue. It was the woman who levelled rape allegations against Bains. However, instead of taking action against the woman for maligning his image, Bains is using her to target me.” “I feel sad for the woman. By withdrawing the complaint, she has done grave injustice to those who are seeking justice, and no one offers them help. It was after the woman approached me multiple times and requested help that I had agreed to show solidarity with her,” Karwal further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-one-of-the-complainants-withdraws-rape-plaint-against-lip-chief-bains-101634847752732.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records half of last year’s farm fires, but pace picking up now||Punjab till Thursday recorded nearly half of the stubble burning incident against the total number of cases detected last year till the corresponding date. This year, the number of farm fires till October 21 was 4,327 while the figure was 9,444 in 2020, according to the data of the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC) that keeps tabs on the burning of crop residue in the state.At least 597 cases were detected on Thursday of which 162 were in Tarn Taran district of the Majha region while the Mansa district recorded the least number of cases at just 1. Nearly 50 cases each were detected in Amritsar, Ferozepur and Gurdaspur districts. Kapurthala reported 39 cases of stubble burning on Thursday, the highest in the Doaba region.Experts attributed the less farm fire incidents to delay in the paddy harvesting season. But straw burning will pick pace in the coming days. They said that the state government must take stern action against the violators, especially in districts like Kapurthala, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Ludhiana, Moga, Patiala and Jalandhar to control the rise in stubble burning to protect the environment.A senior police official from the Malwa belt said that they act as per the reports from the agriculture department to lodge FIRs in case of stubble burning. “But we too are helpless due to the ongoing farm agitation as nobody wants to take risk as the issue has been highly politicised,” he added. A Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) official said, “We still can’t predict that the trend will remain the same as harvesting was delayed. The number of incidents from Majha is increasing and it is worrying. We are exhorting farmers to desist from stubble burning.” Punjab has deputed 8,000 nodal officers, apart from asking deputy commissioners to monitor farm fires. But it has not yield much result on the ground. The state government has been conducting awareness programmes in villages, telling farmers about the ill-effects of the practice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-half-of-last-year-s-farm-fires-but-pace-picking-up-now-101634847573758.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Academy finish third||RoundGlass Punjab Hockey Academy finished third at Hockey India’s inaugural Sub-Junior Men Academy National Championship held in Bhopal recently. The team won its bronze medal play-off against SGPC Hockey Academy on October 13 by a 5-1 margin, registering a place on the podium in its maiden participation at a national-level tournament.Scoring a total of 36 goals across five matches, the academy sailed through to the knockouts, courtesy their comprehensive victories against Citizen Hockey XI (19-0) and Mata Sahib Kaur Hockey Academy (6-0) in the pool stage. The tournament featured 24 teams from across India.The team continued its fine run to defeat Sports Authority of India Academy 4-1 in the quarter-final. The semi-final saw the side go down fighting to Odisha Naval Tata High Performance Centre (5-2). However, the team came roaring back to clinch victory in the third-place play-off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundglass-punjab-hockey-academy-finish-third-101634847572496.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Kharar: Two protesting unemployed teachers climb atop water tank||Two protesting members of the Elementary Teacher Training-Teacher Eligibility Test (ETT-TET) Qualified Unemployed Teachers Union climbed atop a water tank in Kharar on the wee hours of Thursday over non-fulfilment of their long-pending demands. The two teachers, Aman Rana and Dharampal Nukerian, threatened to jump off the tank if the Punjab government does not fulfil their demands. Representatives of the teachers’ union, who were wearing black ribbons, said, “They have pledged to sit on fast-unto-death and they may also jump to death if their demands are not met.”President of the union, Deepak Kamboj, said, “In 2016, present Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and member of Parliament Preneet Kaur assured that our demands will be fulfilled. However, even four years after the Congress came to power in the state, the ruling dispensation has still been ignoring us.” Their demands include a notification for recruitment for all 12,000 vacant posts of ETT-TET teachers and an increase in the upper age limit to 42 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kharar-two-protesting-unemployed-teachers-climb-atop-water-tank-101634847336180.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab government to restart selection process of PTU V-C after finalising name for post||The Punjab government has decided to restart the selection process of vice-chancellor of the Inder Kumar Gujral-Punjab Technical University (IKG-PTU), Kapurthala, after nearly finalising the name of Prof Siby John when Amarinder Singh was chief minister. The government will again issue advertisement for the post, officials familiar with the matter said. The name of John from the Punjab Engineering College (PEC), Chandigarh, who earlier served in the IKG-PTU, was considered almost final for the post when the file recommending the name of the candidate of choice was sent to the Punjab governor for final approval on August 25, it is learnt. Earlier, the varsity’s board of governors had sent a panel of three names, including VK Paul from the National Institute of Planning and Architecture, Delhi, and Onkar Singh from Technical University Lucknow, besides John to the state government. But the process was set aside at the eleventh hour after some aspirants raised questions on selection, citing favoritism. Some had even approached the then technical education minister Charanjit Channi (now chief minister) claiming that candidates from Punjab were completely ignored. There were also reports at the time of Channi having no say in the selection process for the V-C’s post. State technical education minister Rana Gurjit Singh said the file on the V-C’s appointment was back with the government. “We will start the selection process afresh,” he said. Sixteen names of a total of 67 candidates who had applied for the V-C’s post were shortlisted for appearing before the select panel headed by the chief secretary. The post of the PTU V-C had fallen vacant on May 31 when Ajay Kumar’s term came to an end. Currently, the principal secretary (technical education) is holding the V-C’s charge. Ad hocism has taken over higher technical institutes in Punjab with three out of four state government-run universities functioning without a regular V-C. The two newly upgraded technical varsities — Shaheed Bhagat Singh Technical University, Ferozepur, and the Sardar Beant Singh Technical University, Gurdaspur — don’t have a regular V-C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-government-to-restart-selection-process-of-ptu-v-c-after-finalising-name-for-post-101634847332431.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Property services: Chandigarh panel holds meeting||An 11- member panel comprising Chandigarh member of Parliament Kirron Kher, mayor Ravi Kant Sharma and deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar among others held a meeting on Thursday to review and streamline property-related services like sanction of mutation and grant of occupancy certificate and no-objection certificate. Kher attended the meeting via video conferencing.A spokesman said that the panel discussed issues like streamlining the process of mutation of property through sale deed, transfer of lease rights by sale and grant of no objection certificate and certificate of unearned profit under Rule 1973 and 2007. The panel also discussed issues like unearned increase for transfer of society flats and other properties, charging of GST by Chandigarh Housing Board and transfer of flats in case of general power of attorney holders. The DC also showed Kher a presentation on the progress regarding digitisation of the estate office.The committee had been set up after following the Supreme Court order of September 7, which stated that Chandigarh residents are “widely harassed” while seeking a no-objection certificate for the sale of leasehold property. The apex court had ordered the administration to set up a committee to streamline the process. The committee is to submit its report to the administrator and Chandigarh administration, preferably within three months, upon which the administrator has to take a final decision based on its recommendations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-services-chandigarh-panel-holds-meeting-101634846915281.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Give the BJP a chance in Fatehpur: Jai Ram||With the Fatehpur assembly segment, which has been a Congress bastion for a decade, heading for a tough three-cornered bypoll, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday asked the people of the constituency to give the BJP a chance. The byelection to the Fatehpur assembly segment was necessitated due to the death of incumbent legislator Sujan Singh Pathania, who had won three consecutive elections, including one byelection, from the segment. The three-way contest is between Pathania’s son Bhawani Singh, BJP’s candidate Baldev Thakur and former MP Rajan Sushant who is contesting as an independent. “Give us just one year and I am sure you will support the BJP in next election,” said the chief minister, while addressing election meetings at Golwan, Hori Devi and Bhatoli villages. “No stone will be left unturned to develop Fatehpur. I assure you that all pending work of the last four years will be completed within a year,” said the CM. The Fatehpur election is a high-stake election as it will be used to measure the chief minister’s popularity in Kangra district and will indicate the voting pattern of the district in the 2022 assembly polls. However, factionalism has been plaguing the BJP with former Rajya Sabha MP Kripal Parmar staying away from the campaign after being denied a ticket. To top it all, the BJP is also facing farmers’ ire. Farms are annoyed over lack of markets to sell their crop and are not letting BJP workers enter their villages in some areas. Congress is the mother of inflation: Jai Ram On the issue if inflation, the CM turned the tables on the Congress saying that the party was the mother of inflation. “The Congress was in power for 50 years and all the problems that the country and state are facing is due to them,” he said. He also took a dig at newly inducted Congress member, Kanhaiya Kumar saying the grand old party had appointed leaders, who insult the army, as its star campaigners. “These are the same people who say that in Jammu and Kashmir army personnel commit atrocities on women. Congress is insulting the brave soldiers of Himachal by bringing such people to the state,” he said. He also slammed the Congress for promoting ‘dynastic politics’ and said that after the death of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, Congress leaders are competing to become the CM. “The Congress asks us what we have done? Himachal has emerged as a model state by achieving number one position in the Covid vaccination programme. Earlier, we had only two oxygen plants. Today, we have 30 plants,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/give-the-bjp-a-chance-in-fatehpur-jai-ram-101634846852421.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Derogatory posters case: SIT submits CFSL writing sample report of one sacrilege accused in court||Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 sacrilege cases on Thursday submitted the forensic analysis report of handwriting samples of a dera Sacha Sauda follower in a Faridkot court in connection with the 2015 derogatory posters case. The analysis report of handwriting samples of dera follower Sukhjinder Singh alias Sunny, who is an accused in three sacrilege cases, was received from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) at Chandigarh in a sealed envelope, which has been submitted to the court of judicial magistrate Tarjani by the SIT. The court will open the report on October 27 during the hearing on the charge sheet filed by the SIT against the accused. In May this year, the SIT led by inspector general of police Surinder Pal Singh Parmar arrested four dera followers — Sukhjinder, Shakti Singh, Ranjit Singh and Baljeet Singh — saying the posters were pasted by them on the directions of dera’s three national committee members. On June 1, the SIT collected samples of Sukhjinder to match them with the writing on the posters claiming that one of the posters was written by him, and sent samples to CFSL for matching. If the handwriting of the accused matches with the posters, it will be crucial evidence for the SIT to prove their claim in court. An official privy to the development said the SIT was confident the handwriting samples will match. The SIT led by then deputy inspector general (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra in 2018 had claimed that the handwriting of the accused dera followers had matched with the posters but no report was submitted to the court. Later, the CBI in its closure report filed in a Mohali court in July 2019 said the handwriting samples of the accused dera followers it had sent to the CFSL in Delhi did not match with the posters. As per the closure report of the CBI, the fingerprints and specimens of handwritings of 49 people were collected during the investigation. The CFSL report was received pertaining to 10 people, including all the dera followers named accused in this case by the SIT. However, SIT filed a nine-point opinion on the closure report of the CBI, saying that without waiting for the report of the remaining 39 persons, the agency made a hurry in filing the closure report. “Also, CFSL report mentions that the expert was not having sufficient material on record for scientific examination of fingerprints on posters with the samples sent,” the SIT claimed. In the three posters that appeared at Bargari and Burj Jawahar Singh Wala villages on September 24-25, 2015, it was threatened that the “bir” (copy) of Guru Granth Sahib stolen from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala on June 1 that year would be torn if the Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim-starrer film Messenger of God (MSG)-2 was not allowed to be released in Punjab. Parmar-led SIT has also claimed in the charge sheet that there are two witnesses who saw the four accused dera followers pasting derogatory posters at Bur Jawahar Singh Wala and Bargari villages on September 24, 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/derogatory-posters-case-sit-submits-cfsl-writing-sample-report-of-one-sacrilege-accused-in-court-101634846732530.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU’s graduate constituency: 12 candidates eliminated during counting||As many as 12 candidates were eliminated due to less number of votes during the counting for registered graduate constituency of Panjab University (PU) senate.No one was declared elected on Thursday. Among those eliminated are Mandeep Kumar, Amit Kumar, Sham Singh, Jyoti Gupta, Sanjeev Kumar and Ashok Goyal. Around 40 candidates were in fray from the graduate constituency that will send 15 members to the PU senate. Three candidates – Dayal Partap Singh Randhawa, Sandeep Singh and Mukesh Arora – were declared elected on Tuesday.As the varsity will be closed on Friday, in view of the birth anniversary of Guru Ram Das, and the weekend, the counting of votes will resume at the gymnasium hall on Monday. The registered graduate constituency is the largest among the eight constituencies of PU senate. Even though it had 3.61 lakh eligible voters, the voter turnout was only 14.57%. The polling for the constituency was held in two phases.A total of 35 of the 47 candidates have already been elected from the senate’s eight constituencies so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pus-graduate-constituency-12-candidates-eliminated-during-counting-101634846675732.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Not just another footpath sight||The pillar is slender, and swells up towards the top like a sonata soaring to a crescendo. It appears to be of red sandstone but the red has faded.You may spot this kind of fluted column inside the old houses in the Walled City, and also within temples and mosques.But it will be rare to find it by a footpath so matter-of-factly. Here, snuggled deep within south Delhi’s Chirag Delhi village, the column is half-embedded into the adjacent concrete, the other half exposed to the street like a dead body washed ashore. The column lies under a weather-beaten cement platform, which has four benches facing each other. It is a popular meeting point for the villagers. This afternoon, a bunch of men are playing a card game. One of them turns around and bends down his head to examine the column. “It is called column in angrezi,” he explains (in Hindi).A black dog jumps down from the platform, his tail fleetingly brushing the column. The scene vividly evokes Delhi’s multilayered past. Much like in Rome, Cairo and Istanbul, the previous lives of our ancient city exist in its ruins, many of which continue to survive, while many others have disappeared, or lie concealed from plain sight. Indeed, there is no knowing how often we Delhiites unsuspectingly step upon our city’s underground relics as we walk along the streets and parks. But this column doesn’t belong to any buried site. One of the card players identifies it as a discard from a nearby haveli—the area has a handful of period houses with intricately built doorways and windows. “The khamba collapsed some years ago, and was thrown out by the house owners… it was (eventually) used to lay the foundation of this platform 6-7 years ago.”A middle-aged shopkeeper contradicts the claim, insisting that the column has been on this spot since his infancy. Perhaps an archaeologist might correctly determine its antiquity. May be it isn’t old after all. Either way, the object succeeds in summoning the spirits of the dead. Lying forlorn along the muddy pathway, the stone column mutely substantiates the credence that histories and eras are literally littered over this city in material form.Meanwhile, in a leaf-strewn yard some steps away, a similar column is lying unclaimed under a neem tree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-not-just-another-footpath-sight-101634846439059.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hostel for SC student: PU depts asked to share data again||Panjab University (PU) has once again asked its teaching departments to share details of Scheduled Caste (SC) students by October 29, so that hostels can be constructed for them.PU is planning to send a proposal to the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment for the construction of hostels for SC students under the Babu Jagjivan Ram Chhatrawas Yojana (BJRCY).The varsity had on October 8 issued a circular to the teaching departments asking them to send the data of SC students for the 2019-20 session by October 13. “However, some departments have not sent the information so far. Therefore, they have been requested again,” states a circular issued on Thursday.They have been asked to submit details on the number of students, those who applied for hostel accommodation and those who were allotted hostels. They have also been asked to send details of SC research scholars.BJRCY SchemeThe scheme for construction of hostels for SC students is a way to enable and encourage them to attain quality education. Its primary objective is to attract implementing agencies to undertake construction of hostels, especially for SC girls.The other objectives include having a girls’ hostel with a capacity of 100 seats in every block headquarters of low literacy districts and repair and proper maintenance of hostels.Presently, there are 17 residence halls for students on campus: eight each for boys and nine for girls along with a working women’s hostel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hostel-for-sc-student-pu-depts-asked-to-share-data-again-101634846502686.html
22-10-2021||Kolkata||Private firm exec Subir Chaki killed because he recognised robber: Kolkata cops||KOLKATA: Subir Chaki, 61, the managing director of Kilburn Engineering, and his driver Rabin Mondal, 65, were allegedly murdered after the top executive recognised Vicky Haldar who posed as a buyer for Chaki’s three-storey ancestral house and intended to rob him, according to people familiar with the matter.Vicky, who met Subir Chaki ostensibly to seal the deal for the house in south Kolkata’s upmarket Gariahat area, assumed that the 61-year-old would be carrying a lot of cash.Vicky’s mother, Mithu Haldar, who worked as a nurse in the Kankulia Road area, was arrested on Wednesday. She was remanded in police custody for two weeks by a Kolkata court on Thursday afternoon. Police told the court that she and Vicky planned the robbery that led to the murders.“The detective department and officers from some other departments have cracked the case. A few more arrests are to be made. We will brief the media after wrapping up the investigation,” Kolkata Police commissioner Soumen Mitra said on Thursday, indirectly referring to Vicky and his associates who the police have not yet named.Vicky met Subir Chaki for the first time around 10 months ago posing as a buyer but under a different name, the police found after interrogating the suspect’s mother, father Subhas Haldar, younger brother Bilash and maternal uncle Tarun Haldar. The last three were detained on Wednesday.Police said Vicky’s mother revealed during interrogation that when Chaki recognized Vicky from their previous meeting, her son and his associates attacked the top executive with the knives they were carrying. They killed the driver too since he was a witness and decamped with Chaki’s gold rings and wallet, which had some cash and credit cards.Vicky, who failed his matriculation examination but can converse in English, according to the investigators, continued to dodge the police till Thursday evening by changing locations and phone numbers.His mother Mithu Haldar was picked up from her rented home at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district, the same locality where Vicky, Bilash and Tarun Haldar lived in another rented house.Mithu Haldar and her husband Subhas Haldar have an estranged relationship and lived separately, police said.South 24 Parganas district police officers said that in 2021, Subhas Haldar filed a complaint against his wife and Vicky, saying they tried to kill him. Mithu Haldar and her elder son were arrested and remanded in judicial custody before being released on bail.Police said although Vicky was jobless, he told some relatives that he was an engineer with the Kolaka Metro railway. Some people also told the police that Vicky worked briefly at a crematorium. Chaki’s body was found on the first floor while the driver’s body was lying on the second floor on Monday. There were multiple stab injuries.Kankulia Road residents told police that they had heard several voices, including that of a woman, coming from the house on Sunday evening. Mithu Haldar, however, claimed during interrogation that she did not visit the house.Police suspect that she was waiting in the vicinity because her landlady, Pampa Gayen, found her washing some blood-stained clothes later that night.A police sniffer dog on Tuesday picked up a smell and led the officers to the Ballygunge railway station located less than a kilometre away. Trains for Diamond Harbour pass through this station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/private-firm-exec-subir-chaki-killed-because-he-recognised-robber-kolkata-cops-101634846017192.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Out for court hearing, 2 Kanpur men facing robbery cases escape||Two undertrial inmates facing a number of robbery cases escaped when they were being brought back in a vehicle from a Mukerian court to the Central Jail, Faridkot, after a hearing on Thursday. The accused allegedly overpowered the police personnel near Kaler village of Faridkot district and fled. The accused were identified as Abdulla and Saleem, both residents of Kanpur. Superintendent of police Bal Krishan Singla said both Abdulla and Saleem were facing trials in various FIRs lodged against them in Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana districts for robbery. “The police had taken them to Mukerian for a hearing on Thursday. After the hearing, when the police were taking them back to Faridkot, they escaped. Police teams are conducting raids to nab them. We have also initiated an investigation to find if there was negligence on the part of police personnel,” he added. Faridkot jail superintendent Joginder Pal said they handed over both the inmates to police on Thursday for the hearing. “However, they have not returned and police have also not conveyed us anything so far,” he added. Meanwhile, a case under Sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered against the accused at Faridkot Sadar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/out-for-court-hearing-2-kanpur-men-facing-robbery-cases-escape-101634846015922.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala police arrests Nigerian national from Delhi for supplying heroin||The CIA-2 team of Ambala police have nabbed a Nigerian national from New Delhi for allegedly supplying heroin to Ambala through a local supplier, deputy superintendent of police (Cantt) Ram Kumar said on Thursday. The accused, Martin, 47, was arrested from Vikaspuri in Tilak Nagar area of New Delhi. He will be presented before a court on Friday, CIA-2 in-charge Virender Walia said. He was arrested in connection with the recovery of 55.72 gram heroin and 4.53-gram (40 in number) crank balls made of heroin from two locals, identified as Deepak alias Dipa of Valmiki Basti and Tarsem alias Badal of Topkhana Bazar. They were arrested on October 18 on NH-44 and a case was been registered at Parao polices station. “Tarsem is a taxi driver and was sent to central jail, while Deepak is currently under three days remand and has been involved in providing drug peddling for several months. During interrogation, he stated that he procured the drugs from Martin,” the inspector said. DSP Kumar said that the team has seized drugs in atleast 15 such cases in the last one month and Martin is reportedly involved in several other drugs cases in the state, including a recent one in Ambala. “His purported brother, David, is lodged in Ambala jail in a similar case. We are verifying the facts along with his past cases ,” Walia said. The arrest comes days after SSP Hamid Akhtar chaired a meeting where he instructed police officers to beef up vigilance to curb the drug menace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-police-arrests-nigerian-national-from-delhi-for-supplying-heroin-101634846014736.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP spreading hate to win UP assembly polls: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president Dr Farooq Abdullah on Thursday said that the BJP was spreading hate and using it as a weapon to win elections in India and Uttar Pradesh. Slamming the BJP for its “politics of hate and intimidation”, he said, “We have to fight communalism and bring down the wall of hatred being created between Hindus and Muslims. To save India, we have to put an end to this hate,” he said. “...I have seen this in every election since Independence. Muslim leaders are taken to Muslim areas and Hindu leaders go to Hindu areas,” he said, adding that the BJP had won the last election over the Balakot airstrike and were spreading hate to win polls in UP. “Has the Line of Control changed? Have we taken back any area from Pakistan? The line exists. They were instrumental in shooting down their own plan there,” he said. Claiming that the NC alone can save J&K from disintegration, he said that Jammu is the gateway to Kashmir and Kashmir is the gateway to Ladakh. “There is no threat from outside but from inside, if brotherhood ends. We do not have threats from China and Pakistan. They cannot do anything as long we are strong,” he said. On the NC and its leaders being dubbed as pro-Pakistan, Abdullah said that the party lost 3,000 of its men, including its ministers, to militancy but kept the Indian flag flying high in Kashmir. Without naming Devender Singh Rana and Surjeet Singh Salathia, Abdullah said, “They are purchasing the people. Will it bring them to power? They are just watching their interests.” “They (BJP) promised to make J&K a paradise but made it a hell. Their leaders (union ministers) came, but did they come to your village. No, they went to Pahalgam, Gulmarg, Sonmarg and had a good time before returning to Delhi. For how long will you befool the people?” he asked. Abdullah also accused the BJP of gagging the media and called on the people to stay united in the face of hatemongering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-spreading-hate-to-win-up-assembly-polls-farooq-abdullah-101634846013465.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder was a ‘compromised CM’, says Warring||Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Thursday alleged that former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had a secret understanding with the Akalis and made compromises with them. Calling Amarinder a “compromised chief minister”, Warring expressed regret that the state government could not fulfil in its first four-and-a-half years several poll promises made to the people before the 2017 assembly elections. “He (Amarinder) made compromises with those under whose regime several mafias took birth. The system was totally paralysed,” he claimed at a press conference, blaming the Badal family for the transport mafia. The transport minister said the former chief minister’s plan to set up his separate party was all a part of that compromise. On Amarinder’s charge that he was humiliated by the Congress high command, Warring said the people of the state wanted him to go. Amarinder had resigned as the CM last month after a bitter tussle with Navjot Sidhu. On Tuesday, the former CM said that he would float a new outfit soon and hoped to tie up with the BJP for the upcoming Punjab polls. Warring, who held the press conference to highlight achievements of his three weeks as the transport minister, said there was 17.24% increase in collections of the department from October 1 to 15. The collection of the government-owned buses was up from ₹46.28 crore between September 15 and 30 to ₹54.26 crore between October 1 and October 15, he added. He said the department collected ₹3.29 crore as part of pending government tax from the defaulting bus operators. A total of 258 buses have been impounded or challaned for non-payment of taxes, illegal permits, documents, etc. The minister said that an order for purchase of 842 new buses had been given and these would be on the road within 45 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-was-a-compromised-cm-says-warring-101634845652373.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hospitals celebrate India crossing 1 billion Covid vaccination mark||The Chandigarh health department, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) and Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Sector 32, celebrated the occasion of India crossing the one billion Covid vaccination mark. The healthcare staff were honoured for their contribution in achieving the milestone.According to the latest electoral list and central government’s set target, around 8.4 lakh people are to be immunised in Chandigarh. As of Thursday, 9,21,016 (109%) people, including migrants, have taken their first shot in Chandigarh, while 5,18,239 (62%) are fully vaccinated.To mark the celebrations, a state-level function was organised at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, by the UT health department. Chandigarh health secretary Yashpal Garg, additional health secretary Rubinderjit Singh Brar and director of health services Dr Suman Singh were present on the occasion.“In view of the liberal availability of vaccines, a lot of beneficiaries from neighbouring states also got jabbed in Chandigarh”, Garg said, who also congratulated the health team for their untiring work and excellent vaccination drive undertaken in Chandigarh.The vaccination site at GMCH-32 was decorated with balloons, diyas, and a rangoli. Meanwhile, Dr Jagat Ram, director of PGIMER, said, “Our priority right now is to continue exploring options for children and adolescents, but our thrust is to cover the adult population for which there is no dearth of vaccines anymore.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-celebrates-india-crossing-1-billion-covid-vaccination-mark-101634845595595.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder rakes up tie-up with Shiv Sena to counter Harish Rawat’s ‘secular’ retort||Hours after Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat questioned his secular credentials, former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday hit back at the Congress for its “sheer political opportunism” in joining forces with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra and induction of Navjot Singh Sidhu and others from the BJP and RSS. On Tuesday, the ex-CM said that he would float a new outfit soon and hoped to tie up with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the upcoming Punjab polls. The announcement drew sharp reactions from the Congress, including Rawat who said that if Capt wants to eat crow, he can. “Stop talking about secularism @harishrawatcmuk ji. Don’t forget @INCIndia took in @sherryontopp after he was with @BJP4India for 14 years. And where did Nana Patole and Revnath Reddy come from if not RSS? And Pargat Singh was with @Akali_Dal_ for 4 years!” he was quoted as saying by his media adviser Raveen Thukral. In his no-holds-barred attack, Amarinder also questioned the Congress’ tie-up with Shiv Sena, asking Rawat if it was ok to join forces with so-called communal parties as long as it suited the party’s purpose and what was it if not sheer political opportunism. Amarinder further said that Congress had damaged its own interests by giving the state unit into the hands of an “unstable person like Sidhu” who was only loyal to himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-amarinder-rakes-up-tie-up-with-shiv-sena-to-counter-harish-rawat-s-secular-retort-101634845352168.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||PAU holds awareness camp for farmers on stubble burning||Amid rising concerns over the burning of stubble by farmers, the department of extension education in collaboration with the Skill Development Centre of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) organised a campaign-cum-training camp on ‘crop residue management for farmers at Zirakh village (Dehlon).As many as 60 farmers participated in the training session during which awareness was spread regarding schemes/initiatives being taken up by the department of agriculture and farmers’ welfare for crop residue management. Sharing different techniques and schemes for crop residue management, agriculture officer, Dehlon, Dr Nirmal Singh and extension scientist, Dr Pankaj Kumar called on the farmers to shun paddy straw burning, as it resulted in a number of problems related to ecology, soil and human health.Extension scientist Dr Lavleesh Garg appraised the participants about various services provided by the Skill Development Centre and PAU and asked the farmers to come up with new ideas. He said the conservation of natural resources was a moral, social and religious duty.Head, department of extension education, Dr Kuldeep Singh said various campaigns were being run and steps were being taken to stop stubble burning at the state and local level and the programme was part of the same. More such events will be organised in other areas to stop the practice of burning stubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-holds-awareness-camp-for-farmers-on-stubble-burning-101634845291945.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP’s policies have taken us back by decades: Mehbooba Mufti||After security forces conducted rigorous searches in Kashmir Valley after a series of civilian killings, the Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Thursday accused the BJP-led government of taking Jammu and Kashmir back by decades. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister also shared a photograph of a young girl’s belongings being frisked by paramilitary personnel in Srinagar. “Sums up the current situation in Kashmir where women & even children are suspects now. This is what BJP has brought J&K to. Their policies have taken us back by decades, “ Mufti said in a tweet. Security has been beefed up and searches by the police and CRPF have intensified across Kashmir valley, particularly in Srinagar, after a series of targeted killings, including those of minorities and non-locals this month. Union home minister Amit Shah is also expected to visit the region for a security review over the weekend. The security forces have been seen conducting searches of bikes, cars and passenger vehicles with travellers being asked to de-board for frisking, which was reminiscent of the 1990s when militancy was at its peak. Locals alleged that hundreds of two-wheelers have also been seized by the police. In a first, women paramilitary forces have been deployed in Srinagar, particularly in city centre, to frisk women and children. “The situation doesn’t seem right. There is fear. The bikes have as if vanished from roads, “ said M Amin, an auto driver of Srinagar. Authorities have suspended or reduced the speed of mobile internet services in some parts of the Old City and a few areas of south Kashmir districts, where the attacks by suspected militants were mostly concentrated.Multiple checkpoints and roadblocks have been erected across the city as the strength of security forces have increased to thwart any untoward incident and prevent further attacks.Eleven persons have been killed in targeted attacks by suspected militants this month, including five non-locals, three from local minority communities and the remaining three from the majority community. Seven of the killings were in Srinagar.“Seizing some bikes and shutting down of internet of some towers is purely related to terror violence. It has nothing to do with visit of the home minister, “ IGP Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjps-policies-have-taken-us-back-by-decades-mehbooba-mufti-101634845231994.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Income tax raids over 2 dozen premises of cycle traders in Ludhiana||On suspicion of tax evasion, the investigation wing of the Income Tax (I-T) department carried out raids at over two dozen premises of cycle and parts manufacturers in the city, including Neelam cycles (Seth Industrial corporation), Vishal Cycles, Gurdip Cycle industries (Ashoka) and others, on Thursday. As per information, around 30 teams of the I-T department participated in the raids, which were simultaneously carried out at industrial units, offices and residences of the industrialists. The raids were conducted in the morning and heavy police force was deployed outside the premises where raids were being carried out, to stop the entry and exit from buildings.Over 100 officials from different districts of the state are said to be part of teams which conducted raids in different parts of the city including Focal Point, near Partap Chowk, Dhandari Kalan, Model Town, Atam Nagar etc.It is learnt that during the investigation, the officials also confiscated documents/bills and checked the computerised records of the industrialists. Most of the industries raided by the department have been dealing with each other and have also been participating in government tenders floated for purchase of bicycles in the past. Panic grips industrySoon after the raids were conducted by the department in the morning, panic gripped the bicycle industry. Messages were being floated on social media groups and a few industrialists, who were associated with those on whose premises raids were conducted, had also shut down their units in Focal point area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/income-tax-raids-over-2-dozen-premises-of-cycle-traders-in-ludhiana-101634844999733.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Security forces defuse IEDs in Baramulla, Poonch||A major tragedy was averted as security forces detected and defused an improvised explosive device (IED) in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, officials said. The IED was detected on the Baramulla-Handwara highway, which is used by the army and border security force to take supplies to the frontiers in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district. Officials said that the IED was aimed at targeting security force convoys.An army spokesperson said, “A suspected IED was detected on national highway 701 between Chaklu-Tragpura in Rafiabad, Baramulla by the Road Opening Party of BSF. Traffic including army convoys were halted for safety reasons. A bomb disposal team from the Army Camp, Langait was moved to location. IED was destroyed in-situ,” he said.Soon after the IED was diffused, traffic was allowed to ply on the highway. “The timely detection of the IED averted a big attack,” a senior security officer said. Kashmir is already on high alert ahead of the Home Minister’s visit.In another incident, army troops recovered an improvised explosive device (IED) and later defused it in Jammu and Kashmir’s Poonch district on Thursday, a defence spokesman said. An army patrol party detected the IED fitted in the branch of a tree in the forest area of Sawalkot in Ratangir ridge, he said. The IED was destroyed later, the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/security-forces-defuse-ieds-in-baramulla-poonch-101634844695718.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Cleanliness drive around martyr Sukhdev’s ancestral house||Under the “Clean India Campaign”, officials, youth club members and volunteers of Nehru Yuva Kendra, Ludhiana, carried out a cleanliness drive around the ancestral house of martyr Sukhdev in Ludhiana.Celebrating 75 years of Independence, ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’, the youth started with the cleanliness pledge and promised to keep the iconic places and their surroundings clean. They also sang the National anthem. They paid tributes to martyr Sukhdev and remembered his sacrifices for the nation at the time of Independence. A cleanliness drive was carried out at the martyr’s ancestral house and the market area nearby where the focus was the collection and disposal of single-use plastic. Also, shopkeepers and the public were made aware of the hazards of single-use plastic.District youth officer, Rashmeet Kaur said more cleanliness drives would be carried out at iconic places in Ludhiana to make people aware of the importance of such places and the importance of keeping these clean.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cleanliness-drive-around-martyr-sukhdev-s-ancestral-house-101634844634057.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Educationists should frame policies instead of babus: Pargat Singh||Coming down heavily on the bureaucratic system in the state, education and sports minister Pargat Singh on Thursday said the education policies should be framed by prominent educationists instead of bureaucrats.Addressing the bureaucrats as babus while interacting with the students at Government College for Girls, the cabinet minister said instead of enjoying and investing their creative ability in framing policies, these babus consider every initiative as a “new file”.“I don’t shy away from speaking the truth. I strongly believe that educationists should be part of the top policy making committees. I have directed officials concerned to form three committees, a committee pertaining to school education, a committee concerned with the higher education and the third should comprise educationalists and the industrialists”.The minister added that in order to generate employment for the youth, it was essential to know the requirements of the industry. “Industrialists will suggest to us the skills required in students for their placements post completing their education. To change the education system, it is important to work together as a team,” he said.The former Olympian also answered the queries of students during the ‘Punjab Da Bhavikh’ programme on the campus.On being asked by a student to give his views on the reservations in jobs and allocation of seats in top educational institutes due to which the genuine talent suffers, the minister said instead of giving reservations to students and jobs to candidates, those who are economically weak should be given financial help following which the selection should be done on the merit basis.Another student during the session accused the system of being corrupt. The student said candidates who were financially strong get the seats and many deserving candidates were left out citing one or another excuse.Singh admitted that deserving talent was losing opportunities to get appropriate jobs due to corruption in the education system, but he said the one who was giving bribes was equally responsible for exploiting the system.The minister urged the students to prudently use the internet facility.Meanwhile, former Delhi education minister Kiran Walia urged him to help the needy families in the state. “Many parents can’t afford school fee of their children. Instead of understanding their problems, schools tend to impose late fee penalties adding to their miseries. The government should pitch in for their help, said Walia.Youth Congress chief Brinder Singh Dhillon, National spokesperson of the Indian Youth Congress Gautam Seth along with Punjab Medium Industrial Development Board chairman Amarjeet Singh Tikka were present on the occasion.Meanwhile, addressing a gathering during Founder’s Day of the Sidhwan Group of Institutions at Sidhwan Khurd, Pargat Singh said a joint committee of education experts, academicians, former and present vice-chancellors, principals and teachers at school and college levels had already been constituted to proceed further as per the present needs along with the suggestions of the committee to bring major reforms in the education sector.He said a detailed roadmap was underway to ensure requisite overhauling in the education system, which would be executed within the next 60 days.The minister also called upon the Punjabi diaspora to join hands with the state government in strengthening the education system so that the students could shine at the national as well as the international levels.Hailing the efforts of the management committee of the institutions, he said the founders of institutions were the torchbearers of women education.He announced a grant of ₹5 lakh for the college from his discretionary funds.Later, he also distributed scholarships among students during the function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/educationists-should-frame-policies-instead-of-babus-pargat-singh-101634844455907.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana traders protest, seek rollback of professional tax||Seeking a rollback of professional tax, members of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal staged a protest against the state government by tearing the copies of professional tax notification at Bajwa Nagar on Thursday.The traders and industrialists rued that the government had announced waiver of power and water bills for wooing the voters ahead of the elections, but no relief was being provided to the traders, who had been reeling under losses since the outbreak of the pandemic.The members led by state general secretary, Sunil Mehra and district president Arvinder Makkar said if the government failed to announce a rollback of profession tax by Diwali, the traders would be forced to raise an agitation at the state level.Mehra said,” The traders are also facing financial crisis as the sector has suffered a huge loss due to the ongoing pandemic. Rather than providing any relief, the imposition of professional tax is adding to the misery. The market is already going through a slump as customers from other districts/states are also not visiting local markets due to frequent protests in the state. The government should provide relief to the traders at this time of crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-traders-protest-seek-rollback-of-professional-tax-101634844454474.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu calls Capt architect of 3 farm laws, ex-CM hits back||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Thursday hit out at former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, calling him the “architect” of the three central farm laws. Sidhu took the dig two days after Capt Amarinder announced his plans to set up a political party and have a pre-poll alliance with the BJP if the farmers’ issue was resolved. “The Architect of 3 Black Laws… Who brought Ambani to Punjab’s Kisani… Who destroyed Punjab’s Farmers, Small traders and Labour for benefitting 1-2 Big Corporates!! (sic)” the PPCC chief tweeted with an old video clip of Capt Amarinder as the chief minister talking about inviting private companies to the state. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for the past 10 months against the three farm laws enacted by the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. Responding to Sidhu’s remarks, Capt Amarinder called him a fraud and cheat for trying to pass off an old diversification initiative as being linked with the farm laws. “What a fraud and cheat you are @sherryontopp! You’re trying to pass off my 15-year-old crop diversification initiative as connected with #FarmLaws, against which I’m still fighting and with which I’ve linked my own political future!” he was quoted as saying by his media adviser Raveen Thukral in a series of tweets. The former CM said that Sidhu was clueless about Punjab and its farmers’ interests and clearly did not understand diversification, adding,“…yet you dream of leading Punjab. How dreadful if that ever happens!” He also questioned the timing of the Punjab Congress chief’s tweet as the Punjab government is going all out to promote its ‘Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit’, asking him if he was opposed to that (summit) too. The investors’ meet is scheduled to be held in Ludhiana next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-calls-capt-architect-of-3-farm-laws-ex-cm-hits-back-101634844451597.html
22-10-2021||Mumbai||UK’s Carrier Strike Group warship at Mumbai coast for joint exercises with Indian Navy||The Carrier Strike Group (CSG21) of the United Kingdom, headed by 65,000-tonne HMS Queen Elizabeth, has anchored around 50 miles from Mumbai Port for joint exercises with the Indian Navy in the Indian Ocean. Information sharing and interoperability with the Indian Navy will be the Royal Navy’s focus during these joint exercises.Interacting with the mediapersons on board HMS Queen Elizabeth, Commodore Steve Moorhouse of the Royal Navy said, “We are visiting around 40 countries and will return to the UK in December. The focus will be on inter-operability and communication comparability with the Indian Navy for future joint operations. We are looking at being able to quickly and seamlessly share data with Indian ships and jets”. “CSG’s collaboration with India will build a strong relationship and also strengthen the military collaboration. Perceived as part of the UK-India Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, the aircraft carrier will also host members of the scientific, trade and corporate community in the next few days, as part of the exercise for building a friendly relationship between India and the UK,” added Commodore Moorhouse, who heads CSG.The aircraft carrier started sailing in May and had already visited Japan, South Korea and Singapore on its first journey as a central representation of the Indo-Pacific tilt in the UK’s foreign policy. She had also sailed to Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and the East African coast.“We will be travelling thousands of miles and from a military perspective, it is very important in the 20th century because information sharing is one of the key points. Nearly one third of the Royal Navy’s deployment will be in the Indo-Pacific region and 10% of the time will be spent exercising with the Indian Navy,” said Commodore Moorhouse.“We want the countries to come together, and India, the UK, Japan and many other countries in the region are maritime trading nations. We believe in free flow of trade, and trade is in the DNA of India and the UK. We have a common operating procedure and can come together,” he added.CSG consists of 40 aircrafts, including F-35B lightning strike fighters on board, and is also accompanied by Royal Navy ships, a submarine armed with Tomahawk cruise missiles, naval helicopters and a company of Royal Marines, together with a tailored mix of merlin, wildcat, Chinook and Apache helicopters. The carrier also fitted with a close-in weapon system and force protection machine guns.HMS Queen Elizabeth is the first aircraft carrier in the world designed from the outset to operate fifth generation combat aircrafts. Crucially, a second ship, HMS Prince of Wales, is also in commission, meaning one carrier is always available for operations. At 65,000 tonnes, each carrier can field more than two dozen F-35B strike fighters, operated jointly by the Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force, as well as by UK’s partners in the United States Marine Corps. CSG can also deliver cruise missiles, attack helicopters and naval gunfire. This formidable striking power offers reassurance to friends and allies while deterring would-be aggressors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uks-carrier-strike-group-warship-at-mumbai-coast-for-joint-exercises-with-indian-navy-101634844091496.html
22-10-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata homemaker arrested for smothering daughter hours after birth||KOLKATA: Lovely Singh, the Kolkata homemaker accused of killing her daughter at a private nursing home on Tuesday night hours after the child’s birth, was arrested on Thursday, police said. Police took Singh into custody after she was discharged by Netaji Subhas Nursing Home in the Ekbalpore area on Thursday morning. She was produced before the Alipore court and remanded in police custody till October 25. The woman has been charged with murder. The pillow she used to smother the child and the infant’s clothes have been sent for forensic examination, police said.“The mother told the nursing home staff that she wanted a son and was heartbroken when the girl was born. We registered a case but could not arrest her immediately as she was weak. The woman was kept under watch at the nursing home,” a police officer said on condition of anonymity.The child was born around 7 am on Tuesday. Singh allegedly smothered the baby sometime between Tuesday night and Wednesday morning.Her husband, Ajay Singh, who was present at the nursing home, claimed before the police that he wasn’t aware of the crime. Police officers said he is being questioned.The matter came to light on Wednesday morning when the nurses found the infant’s lifeless body.“The resident doctor declared the baby dead. The infant had no complication till Tuesday night,” Jamaluddin Shams, director of the nursing home, said on Wednesday. Police suspect that the woman’s husband, who left the nursing home for an hour on Wednesday morning to have food, may have known about the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-homemaker-arrested-for-smothering-daughter-hours-after-birth-101634843733377.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||PM Modi lauds Khattar’s ‘innovative governance’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated the Infosys Foundation Vishram Sadan at National Cancer Institute, Badsa in Jhajjar through video conferencing.An official spokesperson said Modi, while inaugurating the centre, said with this facility, patients coming to the National Cancer Institute, Jhajjar will get much relief.The PM also lauded Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. He said the Haryana government, with Khattar at helm, is “the most constructive and innovative government of the last five decades”.“The way the Haryana government is doing innovative work under Khattar’s leadership, the state has become a source of inspiration for other states,” Modi said.The PM lauded the Infosys Foundation for building the Vishram Sadan and AIIMS Jhajjar for providing land, electricity and water for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-modi-lauds-khattar-s-innovative-governance-101634843732223.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tosham MLA accuses Haryana govt of not conducting ‘special girdawari’||Former Congress legislature party leader and Tosham MLA Kiran Choudhry on Thursday hit out at the BJP-JJP government in Haryana, accusing it of not conducting ‘special girdawari’ of crops that were damaged due to unseasonal rain.Addressing a press conference at her residence in Bhiwani, Choudhry said the government had announced to carry out special drives to conduct ‘girdawari’ of crops which were submerged in deep water due to rain.“Neither was the damaged crop assessment process started, nor were farmers paid compensation for the crop loss. Farmers are waiting to get DAP fertiliser but either they are getting just two bags daily or returning empty-handed amid peak mustard cultivation season,” she added.The Tosham MLA slammed the government for including bajra in the ‘Bhavantar Bharpayee Yojana’ from this kharif season.“Due to this, farmers of southern Haryana are suffering a loss of ₹1,100 per quintal. The government has failed on all fronts,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tosham-mla-accuses-haryana-govt-of-not-conducting-special-girdawari-101634843613785.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Saints played significant role in preserving India’s culture, values: Lok Sabha speaker||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla said the saints of India had played a significant role in preserving India’s rich culture and heritage and the teachings of Vedas have brought major changes in the minds of people in the past seven years.“India is a spiritual country and saints are its identity,” the speaker said, addressing a gathering after inaugurating a Ved Vidyalaya and a temple in Panipat on Thursday.He said there is need to preserve and enhance the Vedic knowledge as this could be a “priceless treasure” for the younger generations.He said the Ved Vidyalaya and the Banke Bihari Gyaneshwar temple have been inaugurated and setting up of these two institutions will provide a new identity to Panipat.He said the teachings of Vedas have brought major changes in country in the past as saints carried forward the teachings to past generations to bring change in lives of the common men.The Lok Sabha speaker said the saints played a significant role in preserving the culture and heritage of India even during the rule of foreign invaders including the Mughals and the British.Speaking on the occasion, Haryana governor Bandaru Dattatreya said the Bhagwad Gita teaches the art of living to people and tells them how to face different challenges.He urged people to forward the teachings of the Gita to their next generations.Yoga guru Baba Ramdev, BJP Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia and other BJP leaders were also present on the occasion.Later, the Lok Sabha speaker, Haryana BJP chief OP Dhankar and other BJP leaders jointly flagged-off two trucks carrying relief materials for Uttarakhand flood victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/saints-played-significant-role-in-preserving-india-s-culture-values-lok-sabha-speaker-101634843444063.html
22-10-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj: 51.12 lakh students to appear in UP Board exams-2022||More than 51 lakh students will appear in the UP Board High School And Intermediate Examination-2022, informed state education department officials. Around 27.70 lakh students have registered for the high school exams-2022 including around 14,000 private candidates. Likewise, around 23.42 lakh students have registered for intermediate exams including 1.14 lakh as private candidates, they added. In terms of advance registrations, 31.14 lakh students have registered in class 9 and another 26.04 lakh have registered for class 11 this time, they further said. “The last date for online filling the examination forms of UP Board’s high school and intermediate examination-2022 was October 19. Similarly, the last date for advance registration of class 9 and class 11 for UP Board affiliated schools was also October 19,” informed UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla. With this vital process over, the state government is now expected to release the class 10 and class 12 examination’s centre fixation policy soon according to which the exam centres would be allotted in 2022. UP board had already sent the proposal of this session’s examination centre fixation policy to the state government for approval and sanction, officials shared. As per the registrations for high school and intermediate exams-2022, the number of examinees registered for the 2022 edition of high school and intermediate exams has decreased by around 5 lakh as compared to last year. In the 2021 edition of the exams, a total of 56,03,813 candidates had registered for the board exams including 29,94,312 for the class 12 examination and another 26,09,501 for class 10 exams. The fall in the number of candidates has taken place despite the UP Board has extended the last date for registration once. The last date to fill the forms online for the class 12 and class 10 examinations of 2022 without a late fee was October 16. The forms were accepted till October 19 with a late fee of ₹100. Earlier the last date was October 6. The principals of UP board affiliated schools will now undertake scrutiny of the online filled forms of registered students as the prescribed checklist from October 20 to October 23. There will be an opportunity for amending the incorrect details on the forms by the schools from October 24 to October 30. The schools would be required to submit a copy of the list of students bearing photographs of each student against their names as well as the treasury receipt of the fee submitted by the students to the UP board’s regional offices concerned by November 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-51-12-lakh-students-to-appear-in-up-board-exams2022-101634843372724.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||SKM demands probe by SC judge in Singhu lynching incident||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella organisation of over 40 farm unions protesting against Centre’s three farm laws, on Thursday demanded an investigation from a Supreme court judge in connection with the lynching of a 32-year-old Scheduled Caste farm labourer from Punjab’s Tarn Taran, Lakhbir Singh, at Singhu border on the Haryana-Delhi border on October 15.Members of a Nihang group had allegedly killed the farm labourer, hacked his left arm and tied his body to a metal barricade near the Singhu farm protest site on the outskirts of Delhi on October 15 for allegedly desecrating Guru Granth Sahib.The Sonepat police have arrested four accused in the case and launched a manhunt to nab three others, who are absconding.The decision was taken at a meeting called by 32 farm unions of Punjab. Farm leader Baldev Sirsa said the incident on October 15 was a pre-planned conspiracy to defame the protesters and end the ongoing protest against the farm laws.“After pictures of Nihang leader Baba Aman with agriculture minister Narendra Tomar and his deputy minister Kailash Choudhary were widely circulated, there is doubt that one group of Nihangs was hand-in-glove with BJP leaders. This is an agitation of farmers and not a religious one. Nihangs have no connection with the protest. We have demanded a probe into the murder of the farm labourer by an SC judge,” he added.He said the fact-finding committee of five leaders, including him, are also investigating the case on their own level and will submit their report by October 27.“We have demanded the resignation of Union minister of state home affairs Ajay Mishra Tani and will hold a nation-wide protest on October 26 on completion of 11-months of the farm stir,” Sirsa added.FIR registered against victim Lakhbir SinghThe Kundli police have booked victim Lakhbir Singh, who was allegedly killed by a group of Nihangs under Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) for desecrating Guru Granth Sahib.In a video, the farm labourer had claimed that he had desecrated the holy book in lieu of ₹30,000 and one of his friends was also accompanying him.Karnal man arrested for beating up Bihar migrantThe Kundli police have arrested a man identified as Naveen Sandhu, of Karnal district, for allegedly thrashing migrant labourer from Bihar, Manoj Paswan, who was involved in the business of selling chicken.Sonepat DSP (headquarters) Virender Rao said they have arrested Naveen for beating up the migrant labourer, who was selling chicken at Singhu for years.“The accused had demanded a cock from the migrant labourer. When he refused, the accused thrashed him with sticks,” the DSP added.Nihang Baba Raja Ram alleged that the accused did not belong to Nihang group and was staying in their camp by changing his identity.“We suspect that he belongs to Baba Aman Singh’s camp. He was disturbing peace of the farm stir,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/skm-demands-probe-by-sc-judge-in-singhu-lynching-incident-101634843192811.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Public ways should not be occupied for protests, reiterates SC||Reiterating its October 2020 judgment pertaining to protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in Delhi which led to blocking of public ways, the Supreme Court on Thursday said “roads are not to be occupied, wherever else the agitation may go on.”The apex court bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul is hearing a petition seeking unblocking of highways leading to the national capital by farmers protesting against the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws.A three-member bench also headed by justice Kaul had on October 7, 2020 observed in a case pertaining to blocking of roads by Shaheen Bagh protesters that such kind of occupation of public ways, whether at the site in question or anywhere else for protests is not acceptable and the administration ought to take action to keep the areas clear of encroachments and obstructions.Appearing for the farmer bodies, senior counsel Dushyant Dave said it is the manner of arranging of security which is causing obstruction on the road.“Senior counsel Dushyant Dave also seeks to suggest that prevention of their passage to Ramlila Maidan is what is causing blockage at the site. However, at this stage, when we dictate this order, it is stated that he does not want to state in respect of the former as he is yet to receive a copy of the petition and application, and will place his stand on records by filing an affidavit,” the court said.The apex court had on October 4 issued notice to 43 farmer unions on an interim application filed by the Haryana government seeking their impleadment in the case. The farm unions sought to be made a party to the case are steering the protest over the enactment of the three agri-marketing laws and squatting at the doorstep of the national capital.The SC on Thursday said notices have been served but only four farmer bodies were represented before them.The apex court, while hearing a petition which sought unblocking of the highways leading to the national capital, had on August 23 said the central, Haryana and UP governments must co-ordinate to ensure that the inter-state roads and national highways do not remain blocked due to farmers’ protest.However, when the protesting farmers did not turn up for talks on September 19, the state government moved an application to make them respondents in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/public-ways-should-not-be-occupied-for-protests-reiterates-sc-101634842891037.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers take out ‘ashes yatra’ of Lakhimpur Kheri victims in Ellenabad||Farmer unions protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws took out a ‘ashes yatra’ of four farmers and a journalist who were among eight people killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence, at poll bound Ellenabad on Thursday.Indian National Lok Dal (INLD)’s Abhay Singh Chautala is pitted against BJP’s Gobind Kanda and Congress’s Pawan Beniwal in the assembly seat.Abhay, who is seeking a fourth consecutive term from Ellenabad, paid homage to the Lakhimpur Kheri victims when their ashes reached Ellenabad.“Innocent farmers were crushed down by a car owned by Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra’s son. The minister should resign from his post. The Union government has failed to address farmers’ issues and despite the latter sitting on borders for a year,” he added.Bharatiya Kisan Union youth state president Ravi Azad said the ‘ashes yatra’ of the deceased farmers has covered nearly 35 villages of Ellenabad on Thursday and will cover the entire constituency by Saturday.“We are organising meetings in villages and urging people to vote against BJP-JJP nominee Gobind Kanda in Ellenabad bypolls. We are not campaigning in favour of any candidate but against the BJP-JJP nominee as they have failed to resolve farmers’ grievances,” he said.“Senior leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha will hold village-level meetings in Ellenabad from October 23 to 28 and urge voters to forfeit the security deposit of Kanda,” he added.Abhay slams ex-CM HoodaA day after former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda hit the campaign trail in Ellenabad, INLD nominee Abhay Singh Chautala slammed Hooda for referring to Sirsa MLA Gopal Kanda a friend.“Instead of helping his own party’s nominee, Hooda helped Kanda by terming him a friend. I want to make it clear that both the Congress and the BJP nominees will lose their security deposit in the bypolls and it will be a victory for the farmers,” he added.Former three-time MLA Rampal Majra, who had quit BJP in support of farmers protesting against the three farm laws, campaigned in favour of Abhay.“This is a battle of farmers and Abhay’s win will be a referendum against the three farm laws. It is surprising that JJP chief Ajay Chautala, who was seeking justice for an air hostess in a suicide case and demanding arrest of the then Haryana minister Gopal Kanda, is canvassing for Gobind Kanda. Ajay has lost all morality,” Majra added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-take-out-ashes-yatra-of-lakhimpur-kheri-victims-in-ellenabad-101634842716542.html
22-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of Diwali, air quality of most Haryana cities deteriorates again||Air quality of Haryana’s Ballabgarh reached “very poor” category and that of 15 other cities was “poor” owing to the continuous rise in stubble burning cases in the state.The air quality had improved earlier this week due to rainfall in most parts of the state but it got polluted again with the air quality bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) revealing a jump in the incidents of stubble burning, polluting the air in the region as Haryana had reported 155 incidents of farm fires on Wednesday taking the number of total incidents of stubble burning to 1,237 from September 15 to October 20.Officials of the state pollution control board expressed concerns as they said the poor air quality ahead of Diwali will be a cause of worry.As per the Haryana Space Applications Centre (Harsac), with a maximum of 397 AFL incidents, Karnal is at the top, followed by Kaithal (342), Kurukshetra (216), Fatehabad (71), Ambala (55), Jind (51), and Yamunanagar (46).The air quality bulletin of the CPCB has revealed that Ballabgarh has the worst air quality in state with the air quality index (AQI) of 309.The air quality of 15 cities – Ambala (204), Bahadurgarh (215), Charkhi Dadri (285), Dharuhera (209), Faridabad (203), Gurugram (215), Jind (204), Kaithhal (215), Karnal (207), Kurukshetra (286), Manesar (238), Panipat (244), Rohtak (217), Sonepat (251), and Yamunanagar (243) – was categorised “poor”.The AQI was “moderate” in Bhiwani (125), Fatehabad (149), Hisar (142), Panchkula (154) and Sirsa (151).Of the 20 cities in state chosen for the air quality bulletin, not even a single city had “good” air quality. Only Palwal had “satisfactory” air quality with 61 AQI.Farm fires reach 1,237 in stateAccording to officials of the state pollution control board, the air quality has deteriorated with a sudden rise in incidents of stubble burning.The Haryana chief secretary had earlier issued directions to the deputy commissioners of all districts to check stubble burning in their respective areas. Block-level flying squads comprising BDPOs, tehsildars, agriculture department officials and police personnel were also formed by the district administrations for timely action against erring farmers, but keeping a complete check on farm fires still remains a challenge.Haryana State Pollution Control Board member secretary S Narayanan said, “There are reports that the air quality has deteriorated again after rains. We will hold another meeting in this regard and fresh directions will be issued to DCs, especially in the NCR region, to check illegal activities ahead of Diwali.”Karnal deputy director (agriculture) Aditya Dabas said efforts are being made to check stubble burning. And ₹4.30 lakh fine has been imposed on 171 erring farmers of Karnal. In Kurukshetra, deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said 155 farmers have been challaned for stubble burning incidents in district and a fine of ₹2.02 lakh has been imposed on them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-diwali-air-quality-of-most-haryana-cities-deteriorates-again-101634842534442.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Turned down, stalker Delhi cop kills woman’s husband||A 32-year-old Delhi Police head constable, posted with the crime branch, has been arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy and hiring two “contract killers” to kill the husband of a woman who was allegedly in a relationship with him, but started “ignoring him”, police officers privy to the case details said on Thursday. The policeman, identified as Ghanshyam, was arrested on October 19 (Tuesday), nine days after the woman’s husband, a clerk retired from the army, was shot outside his home in northeast Delhi’s Ashok Nagar area, that comes under the Jyoti Nagar police station limits.“Ghanshyam, who is unmarried, was in a relationship with the woman. However, she moved on and was ignoring him. Despite this, Ghanshyam was pursuing her, and even threatened to kill her husband, Sudhir, if she would not elope with him. He hatched a conspiracy to murder her husband and hired two assailants, who shot the husband dead,” said deputy commissioner of police (northeast) Sanjay Kumar Sain.The head constable’s posting was in the crime branch’s special investigation unit-1 (SIU-1) that has been handing several important cases related to last year’s northeast Delhi riots that claimed 53 lives and left nearly 500 injured. It was not immediately clear if Ghanshyam was handling any of the cases. Incidentally, the brother of the dead ex-serviceman is also posted in the same unit of the crime branch.“Ghanshyam was sent to the district line and has been removed from the SIU-1. We are moving for his dismissal from the police department,” said a senior crime branch officer, who asked not to be named.On October 10, Sudhir was outside his home when two assailants reached there and shot him in his head. Sudhir was first rushed to Guru Teg Bahadur hospital in east Delhi, from where he was shifted to the Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi Cantonment. Sudhir succumbed to the bullet injuries on October 16, DCP Sain said.A case of murder was registered, and the investigators identified the two assailants from the CCTV cameras installed near the spot. The police learnt that the attackers were hired by someone who was yet to be arrested with the police not revealing his name. “The investigators established through technical and manual surveillance that the absconding suspect’s links with head constable Ghanshyam. It was also learnt that Ghanshyam had taken his help to hire the two assailants who executed his murder plan. We arrested Ghanshyam after we had enough evidence against him,” said the DCP.The story that emerged after the investigation and interrogation of Ghanshyam was that Sudhir retired as a storekeeper clerk in Army Supply Core on May 5, 2020 and since then he was living along with his family and parents at Ashok Nagar. As Ghanshyam was a colleague of Sudhir’s brother, he often visited his house, said an investigator.“Ghanshyam was in a relationship with Sudhir’s wife. But after Sudhir’s retirement, his wife started moving away from Ghanshyam. But Ghanshyam did not want to leave her. He threatened the woman that he will kill her husband if she refused to elope with him,” added DCP Sain.Police said that the two killers were already in jail in connection with a separate murder case. Officers said their custody will be secured for interrogation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/turned-down-stalker-delhi-cop-kills-woman-s-husband-101634842110616.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Meetings on excluding Sunder Nagar, Bengali Market from LBZ in Delhi inconclusive||The Delhi Urban Arts Commission (DUAC) on Thursday told the Delhi high court that two meetings held to review the Centre’s decision to reject the panel’s recommendation to exclude eight city neighbourhoods from the Lutyens’ Bungalow Zone or LBZ were inconclusive. The DUAC told Justice Rekha Palli that the meetings were held after the Centre on October 5 informed the court that it has rejected the panel’s recommendation to exclude parts of Jor Bagh, Golf Links, Sunder Nagar, Bengali Market, Mandir Marg, Panchsheel Marg, Sardar Patel Marg and Chanakyapuri from the Lutyens’ Bungalow Zone. The commission said even after the discussion, the matter remained inconclusive and sought more time before any final decision can be taken with respect to the queries raised by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs. He, however, was unable to tell the next date when the commission would next sit to consider the matter.The court, while observing that such conduct is not appreciated, granted two weeks to DUAC for filing an affidavit categorically stating its stand as to whether it would re-consider the report in any manner and if yes, then on what grounds.“Accordingly, while adjourning the matter, the court on the next date would consider whether any interim orders are required to be passed..,” the judge said in an oral order. Spread over an area of over 28 sq km, the LBZ is governed by a strict building law that does not allow construction of basements and caps the number of floors. If these eight areas will be excluded from the zone, it would have meant that property owners there could undertake construction and alterations as per the Delhi Master Plan provisions. However, in LBZ This meant development in these colonies could happen as per the Master Plan of Delhi-2021 (MPD-2021) that allows FAR of up to 300 depending on plot size. However, as per the existing LBZ guidelines, a house owner is allowed the same FAR as the existing house. Due to this the FAR of each different plots in the same locality is different.Several plot owners and residents of Sunder Nagar, Golf Links, Bengali Market, and Panchsheel Marg, who want to reconstruct, or alter existing buildings, have approached the high court seeking a direction to the ministry of housing and urban affairs to implement the recommendations made by DUAC in 2019.The petitioners said the commission had recommended exclusion of these eight areas from the LBZ, and shrinking the zone by at least 5 square kilometres -- from the current 28 sqkm to 23 sqkm.In the petition concerning the Bengali Market area, the petitioner defended the exclusion on the ground that the area comprised small residential plots of land measuring 212 square yards to 500 square yards and the developed properties could not be considered as ‘’bungalows’’ as is commonly understood, and as also described in the report submitted by DUAC.In August, the court directed the ministry to decide on the recommendations made by DUAC within three weeks, while bearing in mind the peculiar bungalow style features of the zone and the fact that the recommendations did not seek to interfere with the LBZ guidelines but only suggested the exclusion of some areas that have modern constructions.The matter will now be heard on November 17.The DUAC, a constitutional body under the central government, advises the Centre in matters of preserving, developing and maintaining the aesthetic quality of urban and environmental design within Delhi, and guide any local body with respect to any development proposal which effects or is likely to affect the skyline or the aesthetic quality of surroundings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/meetings-on-excluding-sunder-nagar-bengali-market-from-lbz-in-delhi-inconclusive-101634841690635.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Ruckus in North Delhi Municipal Corporation House over licence fee hike rollback||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s councillors’ meeting witnessed a disruption on Thursday over the issue of rolling back the fee hike for trade and factory licenses. The House proceedings were suspended twice by mayor Raja Iqbal Singh, as opposing sides of the House engaged in sloganeering. The corporation had hiked the rates of trade and factory licenses by up to 17 times in some categories over the last year. While the Bharatiya Janata Party-led corporation had earlier announced that the rates will be rolled back, the Opposition alleged that the notification regarding the rollback had not been issued yet.North MCD commissioner Sanjay Goel, however, informed the House that the circular regarding reduction in the license fee was issued on Thursday morning. “Traders who have been charged the enhanced license fee will be compensated by adjusting the amount in their next renewal cycle,” he added.The issue of the license fee hike was raised by the leader of Opposition Vikas Goel and the Congress’ head of municipal councillors Mukesh Goel. Opposition leader Vikas Goel said that the civic body directed the municipal commissioner to roll back the increased license fee during the last House meeting on September 22and the mayor provided anticipatory approval, but traders are still being forced to pay the increased fee. Opposition councillors alleged that a similar delay was observed in the MCD’s promise to waive taxes on properties with less than 50sqm area. As the ruckus grew, the House was adjourned till the next meeting. Chhail Bihari Goswami, the leader of the House confirmed that the order of rollback was issued and relief will be extended to the traders. Jogi Ram Jain, the standing committee chairman said that there are several formalities that need to be completed before implementing an announcement. “It may take some time due to court-related matters but the relief will be extended to traders as well as owners of properties with less than 50sqm area. It is our commitment to people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ruckus-in-north-delhi-municipal-corporation-house-over-licence-fee-hike-rollback-101634841450576.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||After alert from Facebook exec in Ireland, cops prevent suicide attempt in West Delhi||A coordinated effort between an Ireland-based executive of social networking site Facebook and officers of the Delhi Police on Thursday helped save the life of a 43-year-old man from west Delhi, who allegedly consumed 40 to 50 bottles of a syrup used in the treatment of thyroid and uploaded a video of the act along with a message, which suggested that he was ending his life. The officers of the cyber cell (CyPAD) and the Rajouri Garden police station took an hour and 15 minutes to locate the person’s address, enter his house and find him alone in a semi-conscious state. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, where timely medical intervention helped save his life, police officers privy to the entire incident said. “The man was depressed over multiple reasons. His wife left him three years ago and shifted to Bhopal. He lost his job recently and his father had retired. Also, he was suffering from various health problems,” said deputy commissioner of police (CyPAD) KPS Malhotra.This is the third such incident in which officials of Facebook in Ireland have coordinated with the Delhi Police since August last year. The previous such case was on September 10 (World Suicide Prevention Day), when a 27-year-old man was stopped from ending his life by jumping off the Signature Bridge in north Delhi. In the latest case, around 2pm on Thursday, the CyPAD officials received an “urgent message” from a Facebook official in Ireland alerting them that a Facebook account holder had posted a message regarding a “suicide attempt”. The official also shared a video of the suicide attempt that the account holder had uploaded on his timeline. “Within 40 minutes, our cyber experts collected details and the location of the user and alerted senior officers of south-west and west districts. In the next 35 minutes, the Rajouri Garden police reached the person’s house and rushed him to the hospital after finding him semi-conscious,” said Malhotra. Malhotra said on inquiry, the man told the police that he had consumed 40 to 50 bottles of a syrup used in the treatment of thyroid allegedly because “he was upset”. In the morning, he spoke to his wife and told her that he wanted to visit her. However, she refused to meet him, the DCP said. “To mount pressure on his in-laws, the man put the suicide attempt video on Facebook. But our timely response to the urgent message from the Facebook official saved his life,” added Malhotra.HT reached out to the Facebook for its version but its officials declined comment on the incident.In August last year, a similar coordinated effort between Facebook and police of Delhi and Mumbai helped save the life of a man in Mumbai. The man was from Delhi but had gone to Mumbai allegedly after an argument with his wife, the police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-alert-from-fb-exec-in-ireland-cops-prevent-suicide-attempt-in-west-delhi-101634841211785.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt receives 3,037 applications for e-autos, just 3% are from women||The Delhi government has received 3,037 applicationsfor registering electric auto-rickshaws ever since it launched a campaign on October 18 and said it aimed to have the highest number of e-autos in the country. Under the campaign, which is in accordance with the city’s electric vehicle (EV) policy, a total of 4,261 e-auto permits are up for grabs in Delhi, and of these, at least 1,406 (33%) are reserved for women.However, data accessed by Hindustan Times showed that from October 18 and until October 21, only 93 (3%) women had applied for permit to drive an e-auto, while 2,944 (97%) were male applicants. At present, Delhi has only one woman auto driver. Since the application window is open only till November 1, the state transport department is now planning to spread the word among the people by organising an “e-auto mela (fest)” from October 25 to 31. The exhibition is being organised simultaneously at two locations — the Institute of Driving Training and Research (IDTR) in Loni and Sarai Kale Khan — between 9am and 4pm. “Even though many are interested in the scheme, they are mostly apprehensive about the viability of electric autos as compared to CNG ones. Doubts about mileage and the number of charging points available for autos are common and these doubts are holding back many interested persons. So, to clear all doubts about e-autos, the Delhi government will be organising this e-auto festival. Everyone is welcome to attend,” said a senior transport official, asking not to be named. At the exhibition, people will get to see and even test drive the models of e-autos available in the Indian market. They will also be advised about the best loan financing schemes available and the one best suited to each individual. Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the government will provide a subsidy of ₹30,000 on the purchase of an e-auto. The average cost of an e-auto will be around ₹2.7 lakh, and after the subsidy, its cost will almost be similar to that of a CNG auto in Delhi. The cost of battery swapping e-autos, after subsidy, will be around ₹1.8 lakh, the minister said.In addition, a 5% interest relief in the loan for the purchase of e-auto will be provided by banks that are empaneled with the Delhi government. Currently, the city has about 95,000 registered auto-rickshaws, all of which run on CNG. There is a cap of 100,000 on the number of autos that can be registered in Delhi.To apply for a permit, all one needs is a Delhi-issued light motor vehicle driving licence (for driving cars), which means the new scheme will give young people a means to be self-employed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-receives-3-037-applications-for-e-autos-just-3-are-from-women-101634841091296.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Senior East MCD workers to issue fines for vector-breeding violations||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has decided to grant challaning (fining) powers to the senior field workers in case they come across violations related to mosquito breeding, a step aimed at controlling the spread of mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue, which is on the rise in the national capital. The powers will rest with them for the next two months, the municipal body officials said on Thursday.Delhi recently witnessed its first dengue death of the year. A total of 723 dengue cases have been officially reported so far, with 243 cases coming in the last week alone.EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand on Thursday reviewed the steps being taken for the prevention of mosquito-borne diseases. “During the review meeting, officials informed the commissioner that senior field workers should be given the right to issue fines so that the breeding of mosquitoes can be controlled effectively. The commissioner has accepted the proposal and the powers has been granted to senior field workers for the next two months,” spokesperson of EDMC said.A senior municipal corporation official said currently, only assistant malaria inspectors and malaria inspectors have the power to issue a fine of ₹500. “We also recover from owners the cost of insecticide used to disinfect large breeding sites; so the overall fine amount turns out to be much higher,” the official said, asking not to be named. This year alone, the east civic body has found mosquito breeding sites in 27,668 houses and 4,579 prosecutions have been launched in this connection.Anand has also ordered deputy commissioners to transfer nala beldars (sewage cleaners) in their respective areas to the public health department to overcome the staff shortage there. Dr Rajni Khandewal, medical superintendent of Swami Dayanand Hospital, said special arrangements have been made at the healthcare facility for treatment of dengue patients. “Ninety patients suffering from dengue have been admitted to Swami Dayanand Hospital. Elective surgeries, except obstetrics, will be suspended for the time being and the 40 bed surgical ward has been converted into a dengue ward,” Dr Khadelwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiedmc-gives-fining-powers-to-senior-field-workers-to-step-up-anti-dengue-efforts-101634841030564.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM meets Polish ambassador, discusses solid waste management||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday held a meeting with Adam Burakowski, the ambassador of Poland to India, to discuss ways to collaborate on proper solid waste management in the city and promote tourism.In a statement issued after the meeting, Kejriwal said the Delhi government especially sought Poland’s expertise in solid waste management: “We are very pleased with the offer we have received from Poland in this matter. The urban development minister of the Delhi government is looking into the issue. In this regard, a discussion can be held in detail between the minister of urban development and the top companies of Poland who specialise in this. They can give their presentations to the ministry.”He also said that Poland will closely help the Delhi government in promoting tourism in the national capital.Burakowski too praised the “development work being done by the Delhi government”. In a statement issued by the Delhi government, Burakowski said, “I have been following CM Kejriwal’s work since the days of India Against Corruption and I am very impressed to see his work. At the same time, I am also very impressed by the historic development work being done by the Delhi government under his leadership. I have visited Chandni Chowk many times. I am amazed at how beautifully the entire area has been redeveloped. Honestly, the work done by the Delhi government in government schools is very inspiring. Poland looks forward to working closely with Delhi to advance the public facilities and we would be happy to collaborate with it in solid waste management.”“Earlier, solid waste used to be a challenge in Poland too, but we worked efficiently towards solid waste management. Today we have beaches on the banks of the river and cleanliness is everywhere in the country. We would be happy to share our solutions to help Delhi in solid waste management. I understand that a large part of the pollution that plagues Delhi comes from other states, but implementing concrete solutions can solve this problem to a great extent,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-meets-polish-ambassador-discusses-solid-waste-management-101634840550692.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||55k admitted in DU so far; 3rd cut-off window closes||At least 55,000 students paid their admission fee by Thursday evening under the third cutoff list to secure admissions to around 60 Delhi University (DU) colleges. The number is expected to increase as students can apply for admission till midnight on Thursday and pay the fee till Saturday, university officials said.Data from the DU admissions branch showed that 167,981 candidates applied to the varsity under the third cutoff list, 55,482 candidates paid their admission fee, and 10,098 candidates received approval from principals of various colleges till Thursday 6.12pm.Although there are around 70,000 sanctioned undergraduate seats in Delhi, many colleges end up admitting more students than the available seats due to DU’s admission policy, which mandates that colleges must admit all students who meet the announced cutoffs. There is no first-come, first-served policy.The university is expected to release a special cutoff list on October 25, subject to the availability of seats, for candidates who were unable to take admission under the first three cutoff lists. Under the special cutoff list, candidates who met the criteria of any of the three cutoff lists, but could not take admission due to some reason, can approach colleges for admission, provided the colleges still have open seats.Candidates eligible for admission under the special cutoff list can take admission between October 26 and 27 and pay their fee by October 29. DU’s fourth cutoff list will be declared on October 30.Of the 11 courses (political science, physics, BA programme, BCom, BCom (Honours), economics and computer science) in eight collegesthat saw 100% cutoff under the first list this year, seven courses were available under the third cutoff list. While Hindu College, Hansraj College and Jesus and Mary College closed admissions to political science, computer science, and psychology respectively under the second list, Ramjas College closed admissions to political science under the third list.The college is likely to keep admissions open to the physics and BA programmes -- the other two courses also had a 100% cutoff. However, college officials said this would depend on the admissions under the special cutoff list.Of the remaining courses, Shri Ram College of Commerce is likely to close admissions to the two courses it offers-- it reduced its 100% cutoff in BCom (Honours) and Economics to 99% and 99.5% under the third list. “The unreserved category in Economics and BCom is already filled. There are some reserved category seats in both the courses and they are likely to remain open under the fourth list. There may be a marginal drop in the number of seats so that there is no over-admission,” said an official from the college, requesting anonymity.DU’s Deen Dayal Upadhyay College and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies – which originally set a 100% cutoff in Computer Science – reduced it to 97% and 97.25% under the third list in the unreserved category. While DDU is yet to fill its seats in the unreserved category and is likely to see a drop in the cutoff percentage under the fourth cutoff list, SSCBS has filled its unreserved category seats in the computer science course.DDU principal Hem Chand Jain said, “There are only have a handful of seats left across reserved and unreserved categories in most of our 15 undergraduate courses except for BCom, which is likely to see a substantial drop in cutoff percentageunder the next list. Computer science too will see a drop in cutoff percentage as we have filled 20 of the 24 unreserved seats.”Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College, which set a cutoff of 100% for its BCom course in the first list, reduced it to 97.25% under the third list. Principal Jaswinder Singh said that while the college had seen over-admissions to the BCom (Honours) course, it was likely to declare a fourth cutoff list for the BCom programme. “There will be a marginal drop in the cutoff for BCom and some Science courses in which there are a few unreserved seats left. However, there will only be a marginal drop in the cutoff, because even a difference of one mark would make many students eligible for the course,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-least-55k-admissions-after-du-third-list-special-cutoff-list-out-in-a-few-days-101634840490394.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi gets more dengue beds as infections spike, 723 cases recorded so far||Only 221 persons with dengue have been admitted to Delhi’s hospitals, 25% of whom are from neighbouring states, the government said on Thursday. In a press release, the government announced it increased the number of beds for dengue patients, in view of the rise in cases of the mosquito-borne viral infection, while reducing the number of beds earmarked for patients with coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in hospitals across the Capital.“The dengue situation in Delhi is completely under control. There is an adequate number of beds in the hospitals of Delhi. Not only that, patients from outside Delhi are also being treated in Delhi hospitals. At present, 25% of the total dengue patients present in Delhi hospitals are from outside Delhi,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain in the press release on Thursday.He added, “Things are still the same as they were in 2019. The number of coronavirus cases was high in 2020. People were at home. Because of this, dengue cases came down rapidly. But this year, the situation is expected to remain the same [as it was in 2019].”The statement added the government reduced the number of beds earmarked for Covid-19 from 30% to 10% at private hospitals in the city, and reduced the number of beds government hospitals such as Lok Nayak from 700 to 400. The rest of the beds will be utilised for the treatment of patients with dengue, other vector-borne diseases, and fevers, said the press release.Delhi recorded 723 cases and one death due to dengue till October 16 this year, the latest data available so far.The Capital had recorded one death due to dengue last year, two deaths in 2019, four deaths in 2018, 10 deaths each in 2017 and 2016, according to official data. In 2015, Delhi witnessed a big dengue outbreak that affected nearly 16,000 people and killed 60.Meanwhile, Delhi has been reporting around 20 to 30 cases of Covid-19 every day since the beginning of October.At the height of the second wave of the pandemic, the Delhi government arranged nearly 30,000 beds in various categories--isolation centres, regular wards, oxygen wards, ICUs. There were over 20,000 hospital admissions at the peak of the wave between April and May. At the time, all 2,000 beds in Lok Nayak Hospital were being used to treat Covid-19 patients, the government said.Now, normal services have resumed at Lok Nayak and all other government hospitals.According to the government, only 25% of the fever patients being admitted to hospitals are testing positive for dengue. The rest are recovering within a couple of days and are being discharged.According to experts, during 2015’s dengue outbreak in the Capital, type 2 dengue associated with a severe drop in platelet count and internal bleeding, was in circulation. For the next couple of years, the milder serotype 3 of the virus was in circulation. According to experts, this year in Delhi, a milder serotype 1 is in circulation along with serotype 2.There are four serotypes of the dengue virus based on the difference in the antigen (the part of the virus that attaches to human cells and against which antibodies are created) – types 1 and 3 are the milder serotypes while types 2 and 4 are associated with severe disease. Patients suffering from serotypes 1 and 3 display symptoms such as fever, headache, body ache, and pain behind the eyes. Type 2 is associated with more severe disease, leading to a drop in platelet count, inability to form blood clots, and internal bleeding. Type 4 is associated with the leaking of fluids from the capillaries, leading to a drop in blood pressure and circulatory shock (not enough blood reaching the organs).“Dengue is cyclic in nature; it increases every three or four years and usually when a new serotype is in circulation. The four serotypes of dengue do not protect against each other; so when many people have been infected with one, other serotypes start circulating. Also, unlike Covid-19, wherein a previous infection protects against severe disease the second time, a second dengue infection is likely to be more severe. Those diagnosed with dengue must also keep a check on their platelet count after they get a fever, because that is usually when the count dips,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gets-more-dengue-beds-as-infections-spike-723-cases-recorded-so-far-101634840311472.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s north body to move TB clinic near Old Delhi rly stn, revamp site||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to shift the municipal tuberculosis chest clinic on the Shyama Prasad Mukherjee Marg near Old Delhi railway station to a new site in Angoori Bagh, paving the way for the redevelopment of the original site into a commercial complex, officials said.The relocation, which is estimated to cost around ₹1.4 crore, is part of the civic body’s plan to generate revenue and its cost will be borne by the commercial complex developer.“Tenders worth ₹86.18 crore have been issued by the City-Sadar Paharganj zone to redevelop this site and the process is likely to be completed by November 9,” said the senior municipal official overseeing the project.Chhail Bihari Goswami, the leader of the house in the north corporation, said that the 2,307 sqm property near the Old Delhi railway station will be redeveloped on a public-private partnership (PPP) basis and the project is being taken up by the remunerative projects cell for revenue generation. “The clinic will not be closed down. We plan to shift it to another location,” he added.Generally referred to as Peeli Kothi clinic in the area, the site has originally housed the tuberculosis clinic from before Independence and was later upgraded to a modern chest clinic in 1999. Currently, the complex also houses other associated public utilities such as a police booth, community toilet complex, a garbage receptacle and municipal store.“North MCD intends to dispose of its property for commercial redevelopment on a freehold basis. The purchaser will be allowed to carry out construction for commercial purposes as per development control norms of the area,” the project report states.The official explained that a maximum floor area ratio -- ratio of the building’s total floor area to the total area of the land -- of 100% is permitted on the site as per MPD-2021 norms.As per the plan, the existing TB Chest Clinic will be shifted to the corporation’s available vacant property at Bagichi Madho Das, Angoori Bagh, near the Shri Rani Sati Ram Ram Mandir. “The purchaser (of the site near Old Delhi railway station) will also have to renovate the property (the new one at Angoori Bagh) to suit the requirements for running the TB Chest Clinic, and the community toilet complex will be shifted to Queens road. The overall relocation cost of various facilities is expected to be ₹2.5 crore which will be borne by the purchaser in addition to ₹86.18 crore,” said the project report.However, there has been some resistance to the redevelopment project from within the BJP. BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that they have appealed to the mayor to intervene in the matter as the clinic is popular among the local residents. “The TB clinic was upgraded in 1999 during the tenure of standing committee chairman Shanti Desai. We should continue its operations and name the facility after him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-north-body-to-move-tb-clinic-near-old-delhi-rly-stn-revamp-site-101634840310063.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Do 5 bricks, an idol make a religious structure: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday observed that if a religious structure can be set up “just by putting up five bricks and an idol”, then the entire city would be encroached upon.Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing a plea to demolish a tiny, makeshift temple in Defence Colony, said the religious committee cannot be asked to look into the relocation of makeshift structures like these. The plea, filed by a resident of Defence Colony, sought the removal of the encroachment which had come up in front of the petitioner’s property in Defence Colony. The plea said during the Covid-19 pandemic, somebody illegally constructed a temple on public land,a footpath, on Bhishma Pitamah Marg, which is right in front of the petitioner’s property.The plea also claimed that taking advantage and shelter of the illegal construction, people gather there and resort to rowdiness and gambling, and that the structure impedes full access to the petitioner’s property. On the last date of hearing, the Delhi government informed the court that it would demolish the encroachment, an illegally constructed temple, and that the authorities are conscious about their duties.However, on Thursday, additional standing counsel Anupam Shrivastava told the court that the religious committee is yet to decide on the demolition. He insisted that the authorities — i.e the public works department (PWD) — is not shying away from demolishing the temple, but due process has to be completed.He said this was required since there might be a law and order issue in the area if the PWD goes ahead with the demolition, adding that the religious committee would look into whether sentiments would be hurt. To this, the judge said, “Just a few bricks put up, you want to get the religious committee involved? If it is a big temple, then the religious committee can be considered. But if anyone puts a few bricks overnight, then will it be considered? If this is your view then you will have whole Delhi encroached upon. Anyone can place anything outside and say it’s over.” “I am not satisfied with your stand,” justice Palli told the additional stand counsel, before adding, “It is not even a proper covered structure that you need the religious committee... It will lead to chaos. Tomorrow, if anyone puts up five bricks and one idol, will you consider the religious committee is all that I want to know.” Senior advocate PV Kapur, appearing for the petitioner, contended that the structure has still not been removed. He described the structure as “tiny” and queried whether its demolition required the religious committee’s intervention.The court too asked Shrivastava whether the intervention of the religious committee was required in the case of such a small structure, which is not even covered properly.It granted time to the Delhi government to file an affidavit detailing the cases in which the religious committee is to be considered and posted the matter to next week for further hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-pulls-up-govt-for-delay-in-removing-illegal-structure-in-defence-colony-101634839830038.html
22-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Building being lifted using jacks collapses in Sangam Vihar||A two-storey building in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar that was being lifted using jacks collapsed against an adjacent house, causing damage to it and an electric pole on Thursday afternoon, police and fire department officials said Thursday.At least four labourers were working in the vicinity of the building when it collapsed. They may have suffered injuries but fled the spot because they feared they would be arrested for their negligence. No casualty was reported till late evening, the officials said.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the fire control room received a call at 1.05pm regarding a building collapse near the gurdwara in Sangam Vihar. Three fire tenders and rescue teams were rushed to the spot.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Benita Mary Jaiker said that after receiving the information, the local police reached the spot and found a building had collapsed and was leaning against another building. An electric pole had also been damaged.Upon inquiry, the DCP said they found that the building owner, Hos Ram, had contracted two brothers-- Sanjeev and Pawan Pandit--to raise the structure.The contractors in turn got labourers and jacks to do so.“Prima facie, it appears that the jacks either malfunctioned or failed to bear the weight of the structure, causing the collapse. Although locals said that no person was trapped under the debris, teams of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), fire, electricity, and municipal departments reached the spot to assist the police in carrying out the search and rescue operation,” said a police officer.DCP Jaiker said that a case was registered in connection with the building collapse.A senior municipal official, requesting anonymity, said that the building was very old and the level of the ground floor was much below the street level. “It had not been identified in the dangerous building survey, however. There are two drains along the base of the building and water seepage might have also weakened the structure. We are carrying out a probe to identify the reason for the collapse,” the civic official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-building-being-lifted-using-jacks-collapses-in-sangamvihar-101634839589943.html
