23-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow district judge prohibits arms on court campus||Lucknow: Now, no one will be allowed to carry arms or fire- arms on the district court campus. Anyone flouting this rule will face stern action. District judge Survesh Kumar has issued an order prohibiting carrying of arms or fire arms on the court campus and warning of stern action for violation of the order. Issuing the order on Friday, the district judge directed the district magistrate, commissioner of police, chief judicial magistrate, officer incharge of court security, officer incharge of Central Nazarat and station house officer, Wazirganj police station to enforce the order. The order clearly states that no one will be allowed to carry any type of arm or fire arm on the district court campus, north block, south block, multi-story court complex and old high court campus. The district judge has also instructed to paste the copy of the order at every entry point of the court. He has also ordered police outpost in charge, district court, to enforce the order strictly. It may be pointed out that lawyer Bhupendra Singh was shot dead inside the court room of additional district judge, Shahjahanpur, on October 18 this year. The district judge has also directed the court administration to issue identity cards to lawyers having certificate of practice. This identity card will have signature of the district judge and it will be mandatory for all lawyers to carry it. The Central Bar Association of the district court had requested district judge Sarvesh Kumar to issue identity cards to lawyers. “The district judge has issued orders to court administration to issue identity cards to lawyers who have certificate of practice. The court administration will issue these ID cards having signature of the district judge,” said Sunil Dwivedi, president, Central Bar Association, district court. “We have received several complaints of unwanted elements roaming on the court campus in lawyers’ uniform. This has to be stopped,” said Sunil Dwivedi,. “Soon, this system will be implemented. At all entry points of the court campus lawyers will have to produce this identity card,” he said. The lawyers’ body also wants strict compliance with the district judge’s order to make the court campus safe and secure for both litigants and lawyers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-district-judge-prohibits-arms-on-court-campus-101635013070910.html
23-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad health dept to conduct Covid tests ahead of festivities||The Ghaziabad health department said on Saturday that it will conduct targeted Covid-19 testing of different groups ahead of the upcoming festive season. However, officials said that they are not expecting any major spike in Covid-19 cases during or after the festival season as the district has a good coverage of Covid vaccination, along with a high rate of seroprevalence. Dr RK Gupta, district surveillance officer, said that the department will conduct survey for targeted groups, such as auto-rickshaw drivers, street vendors, staff of malls and sweets shops, among others, in order to find out suspected cases of Covid infection. “But it is unlikely that the mixing of people during the festival season will result in any high number of Covid cases. It is because we have been conducting Covid tests on daily basis and the positivity rate has considerably declined since July. Besides, our vaccination coverage is increasing day by day, and the rate of seroprevalence is also high in the district,” Dr Gupta said. According to official records of the Ghaziabad health department, about 72% of the total 2,758,526 people eligible for Covid-19 vaccine have got their first dose. So far as Covid-19 cases are concerned, the district has reported 55,669 Covid cases till October 23 and these include only three active cases which are in home isolation at present, the officials said. According to the health department’s data, till July 31, the district had total 55,609 cases which indicate that only 60 new cases were added during the period from August 1 to October 23. According to the last seroprevalence survey conducted by the Uttar Pradesh government in July this year, about 80% people in Ghaziabad have developed antibodies against Covid-19, said an officer from the health department, wishing anonymity.“This means that a major portion of the population has developed immunity against the infection. So, it is unlikely that mixing of population during festivals may lead to spike in Covid cases,” said the officer. The records indicate that the overall positivity rate for Covid-19 cases is 3.24% since March last year, while the rate is just 0.01% this month till date, the lowest so far. “With the high rate of seroprevalence, it is expected that there will be no third wave in near future. Further, the Covid vaccination coverage has also provided protection to senior citizens and other age groups. So, the chances of immediate spike during or after the festivals are slim,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). “Although the situation is encouraging, it does not mean that people shun the use of face mask and other Covid protocols. The preventive measures must continue,” he added. According to the Co-WIN portal figures on Saturday, the district has completed administration of 3,196,508 Covid-19 doses, which include 998,587 second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-health-dept-to-conduct-covid-tests-ahead-of-festivities-101635012291273.html
23-10-2021||Other||Congress indulging in politics of deceit to divert attention from failures: Harsimrat||Faridkot Former Union minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Saturday said the Congress was now indulging in politics of deceit to divert people’s attention from its failures. Addressing a gathering at an event that Youth Akali Dal president Parambans Singh Romana had organised, Harsimrat said, “The Congress government is incapable of delivering on its promises and people of the state should not rely on it. First, one of their CMs surrendered rights of farmers and now another has surrendered half the territory of Punjab to the Border Security Force (BSF),” she said. She said that Congress has failed to develop a sense of security among the people of Punjab, so how the state will prosper? “Every individual is fearing insecure. Gangsters are openly giving threats of extortion and there are attempts to disturb the communal harmony of the border state. This government has not helped anyone,” she added. “During Badal Sahib’s tenure, our leadership was always present at the ground to solve problems of common people. We have always kept Punjab’s interests first. The people of Punjab must choose a regional party instead of people pulling strings from Delhi. We don’t want Begana (stranger) Kejriwal or Looteri Congress,” she told the gathering. “In West Bengal, the BJP lost the elections as the women of West Bengal stood with their didi (Mamata Banerjee) and made their regional party victorious. This is the power of women. I want my sisters to use their power and make their own government in Punjab,” she said. Romana alleged corruption is rampant in this Congress government. “Instead of providing any new benefits to people, this government has taken away all the good work the Akali Dal had done,” he said. While talking about the condition of minorities in Afghanistan she told the media that since the takeover by the Taliban, minorities, whether Sikhs or Hindus, are under serious threat there. “The Centre must make efforts to bring Sikhs and Hindus, who want to leave Afghanistan, to India as soon as possible,” she added, also assuring traders that their interests will be taken care of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-indulging-in-politics-of-deceit-to-divert-attention-from-failures-harsimrat-101635011874064.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||Crop damage: UP govt may have to compensate farmers liberally||Lucknow: A large number of farmers in Uttar Pradesh are all set to be compensated for their crop losses caused by recent widespread downpour as well as floods in several districts, with the state government ready to go the extra mile to please peasants before the coming assembly polls, people in the know of things said. The government, according to them, may announce a relief package for affected farmers once it received the actual estimates of crop losses from districts where the teams of the revenue and agriculture departments are currently conducting surveys. They are expected to submit their findings to the government by early next week. According to people in the agriculture department, the extended monsoon rain and floods are believed to have caused extensive loss to the standing and ripe crops in almost all the districts, requiring a heavy compensation to farmers. “The paddy and the groundnut crops that were ready for harvesting, apart from many vegetables, were washed out by the incessant downpour in most of the districts in September and October and floods in the terai and the eastern parts,” a senior official said. “This poses a big challenge to the government which has to liberally compensate farmers not only by giving them cash but also several other concessions in terms of recovery electricity bills, land revenue etc to preempt the issue falling into the Opposition’s hands in the poll year” he added. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi said that agriculture and revenue departments were making assessment of crop damages in all the affected districts. “Based on the loss assessment reports that we expect to receive very soon, the revenue department will give compensation to all the affected farmers while the agriculture department will compensate farmers covered under the crop insurance scheme,” he revealed. He said around 25 lakh farmers were insured for kharif. The government, it is said, will soon write to the Centre demanding financial assistance under the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) after the actual crop damages assessment is received. However, not all farmers who have lost their crops to rains in September and October may get the compensation from the government since many of them may not qualify for relief under the norms, despite the crop damages that may look to be considerable to them. “For a crop loss to be compensated due to a natural disaster such as drought, heavy rain, flood etc, the damage should be more than 33% and any damage assessed to be below that will be compensated for as per the Centre’s existing guidelines,” a revenue department official pointed out. “But the state government is free to find ways to help such farmers, if it wants to and can afford, from its own resources,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/crop-damage-up-govt-may-have-to-compensate-farmers-liberally-101635011813596.html
23-10-2021||Other||Punjab transport minister Warring inspects Barnala bus stand||Barnala Punjab transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, on Saturday, paid a surprise visit to the Barnala Bus Stand and inspected arrangements. He has directed that the shortcomings he pointed out, must be set right within a month.“I met passengers and found many shortcomings at the bus stand. The flooring needs to be changed, the roof needs repair because there is leakage, washrooms were in filthy conditions and fans are also required,” Warring said.The minister added that the state transport department had been reporting ₹54 lakh daily profit under his change. “If we multiply ₹54 lakh with 15 years, this is the extent of the loot under previous regimes. Officials under such regimes wasted ₹2,700 crore of the department and the money went into the pocket of the transport mafia,” Warring said, adding, “The previous regime ruined Punjab and coined the word mafia. There are many transport companies owned by Sukhbir Badal and Harsimrat Kaur Badal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-transport-minister-warring-inspects-barnala-bus-stand-101635011392286.html
23-10-2021||Noida||Man held for molesting 14- year-old girl on way to school in Greater Noida||A 24-year-old man was arrested on Saturday for allegedly molesting a 14-year-old girl while she was going to school in Greater Noida’s Dankaur on Friday. The suspect was identified as Kapil Bhati, a resident of Kakod in Bulandshahr. He lives in a rented accommodation in Dankaur area. Arvind Pathak, station house officer (SHO) at Dankaur police station, said the girl was going to school on a bicycle on Friday morning. “The suspect reached Chantoli village and intercepted her. The suspect molested her and she fell off the bicycle,” he said. The girl said when she resisted, the suspect also tried to gag her. The girl raised an alarm and some passerby reached there to help her. Bhati fled the spot fearing he would be caught, said police. Police said the girl returned home and informed her family members, who then filed a complaint at Dankaur police station. She was rushed to the local community health centre for her minor injuries. The girl informed police that the suspect had threatened to harm her if she reported the matter to police. Pathak said a case was registered against the suspect under Sections 354 (sexual harassment) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC and under Sections 7 and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. “Police arrested the suspect on Saturday near Kherli canal. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” said Pathak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-for-molesting-14-year-old-girl-on-way-to-school-in-greater-noida-101635011332005.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||6-year-old girl in Delhi raped by neighbour, accused seen on CCTV||A six-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her neighbour in Delhi's Ranjit Nagar, the police said on Saturday. The survivor is currently under observation at Ram Manohar Lohla hospital and her statement is yet to be recorded.According to the police, the incident took place on Friday morning when girl was playing outside her house, news agency ANI reported. The accused took her to a secluded place and sexually assaulted her. When she returned home, she was reportedly bleeding.A CCTV video in the area captured the girl with the man. She could be seen following the accused in the markets.The accused, suspected to be in his twenties, is on the run. He has not been identified yet.Police also said that the accused threatened the girl with dire consequences if she revealed anything about the incident. The victim's father works as a labourer.Two teams of police are investigating the matter. Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/6yearold-girl-in-delhi-raped-by-neighbour-accused-seen-on-cctv-101635009045950.html
23-10-2021||Noida||3 held for robbing truck with mobile phone accessories in Greater Noida||Three persons were arrested on Saturday for allegedly robbing a truck loaded with mobile phone accessories on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in Greater Noida on Thursday. The suspects were identified as Mohit Singh, 25, Irshad Khan, 26 and Vishal, 24, all residents of Khurja in Bulandshahr. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that a truck was going from Ecotech 1 in Greater Noida to Rampur district. “The truck driver, Narendra Kumar, 30, was assigned to deliver the goods to the company’s warehouse. The three suspects in a mini truck overtook the driver and forced him to stop on the way. They held the driver at gunpoint and unloaded the mobile phone accessories and shifted the goods into their vehicle. The suspects also damaged the driver’s mobile phone to ensure he does not call the police, and then they fled,” he said. Pandey said the truck driver managed to call the police with the help of a passerby and a case was registered against the suspects under Section 392 (robbery) of IPC on Thursday. “We scanned the CCTV footage and identified the suspects’ vehicle. On Saturday, we received information about their movement in Kasna area in the same mini truck. A police team reached the spot and arrested the suspects,” he said.The police have recovered a countrymade gun, four live cartridges, two knives and nine cartons of stolen mobile phone accessories worth ₹5 lakh from their possession. The suspects were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-arrested-for-robbing-truck-in-greater-noida-101635011213846.html
23-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 360 more Covid cases, 6 deaths||Pune: On Saturday, Pune district has reported 360 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths due to the infection. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million of which 1.12 million have recovered, 19,921 deaths and 7,059 are active cases who are currently in hospital undergoing treatment or are in home isolation. Pune also saw over 63,000 doses vaccinated on the day. On Friday, the district’s active case count dropped below 7k mark and stood at 6,955. However, this number on Saturday went high up again as more new cases were reported than recoveries and the active cases went up to 7,059. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 202 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 364,495 and the death toll stood at 6,871 as three more deaths were reported. Pune city reported 97 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 520,219 and the death toll stood at 9,198 as one more death was reported. PCMC reported 61 new cases and the progressive count went up to 268,238 and the toll stood at 3,503 as two more deaths were reported. Pune district also saw 63,011 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-WIN dashboard on Saturday and in total 11,869,161. Of which, 7,752,309 are first doses and 4,116,852 are second doses. A total of 685 sites saw vaccination of which 431 were government centres and 254 were private. Pune city’s Covid-19 vaccination count went above the 5 million mark on Saturday. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The fact that the city of Pune has crossed the 50 lakh doses mark is satisfactory and is reassuring for all. Since the commencement of vaccination, a large number of the vaccination drives have been conducted through various means, including centres and special drives. I would like to thank the civic staff, administration, the health department and also beneficiary Punekar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-360-more-covid-cases-6-deaths-101635011212057.html
23-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Kaushambi highly polluted, says govt survey||The second round of monitoring Kaushambi’s air pollution, carried out by the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board on the directions of the National Green Tribunal between October 6 and 9, has revealed that the particulate matter (PM) 2.5 and PM10 were much higher than the standard limits. The special monitoring was carried out at three locations in the township. According to data obtained during the second round of special monitoring, the PM10 levels at the three locations-- Kaushambi police post, near Meenakshi Hospital and Panchmani Apaartments--ranged between 161.59 micrograms per cubic metre (mpcm) and 372.58 mpcm. The standard limit for PM10 is 100 mpcm. Likewise, the PM2.5 levels at the three locations also ranged between 63.10 mpcm and 92.51 mpcm, well above the standard limit of 60 mpcm. “Both PM10 and PM2.5 levels were found to be high at all the three locations. We compared our figures with the pollution levels prevailing on the same days at Anand Vihar monitoring station in Delhi, which is nearer to Kaushambi, and found the PM10 and PM2.5 levels of the township were lower.We will now submit the data of both rounds of the special monitoring to the National Green Tribunal,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. “The present issue with Kaushambi is that due to farmers’ protest at UP Gate, a majority of vehicles are getting diverted through the Kaushambi-Anand Vihar border. So, the PM 2.5 and PM10 will remain high due to higher vehicular movement. The measures under the environmental management plan and the traffic management plan are being implemented to keep the pollution levels under control,” he added. The UPPCB also monitored the noise pollution levels at the three locations and found that the noise levels were high during the day as well as night Kaushambi Apartments’ Resident Welfare Association (Karwa), the umbrella body of Kaushambi high-rises, had moved court in 2015 and filed several petitions, in which they contended that the township was high on pollution levels as the ISBTs of Anand Vihar and Kaushambi were right opposite to the township and the Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area and Ghazipur landfill site are also in the vicinity. “It has almost taken us six years of legal battle to get the agencies to take measures against the pollution sources. After we moved the Supreme Court last year, the agencies started implementing the traffic management plan and the environmental management plan for our township,” said V K Mittal, president of Karwa. “We have already stated our position that Kaushambi suffers high pollution levels. The work done by agencies are underway. There has to be both short-term and long-term monitoring to know if the measures have been able to control pollution or not,” he added. The first round of monitoring the pollution levels was carried between September 17 and September 21. During the first special monitoring, the township was found high on noise pollution and PM10 levels. However, due to rainy days, the correct picture of pollution levels could not be ascertained and a second special monitoring was carried out. UPPCB officials said they will submit the data of the two rounds of monitoring before the tribunal and will conduct more studies if directed by the tribunal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-kaushambi-highly-polluted-says-govt-survey-101635011210583.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to visit Ayodhya on October 26, offer prayers to Ram Lalla||Delhi chief minister (CM) Arvind Kejriwal will offer prayers to Ram Lalla in Ayodhya on October 26 on his maiden visit to the temple town, a party spokesperson said. Arvind Kejriwal, who is also the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor , will visit the historic Hanuman Garhi temple in the pilgrim town as well.Vaibhav Maheshwari, state spokesperson for the party, on Saturday said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will be on a two-day visit to Uttar Pradesh from October 25. This will be his first visit to Ayodhya, added Maheshwari. Kejriwal will visit Ayodhya for ‘Ram Lalla darshan’, informed Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) on Saturday, according to the news agency ANI.Delhi CM Kejriwal will reach Sultanpur district on October 25 and go to Ayodhya from there the next day. Sanjay Singh, Uttar Pradesh incharge of the party, will accompany the Delhi chief minister. AAP has already announced it will contest the Uttar Pradesh assembly election due to be held early next year.On September 14, Aam Aadmi Party leaders Manish Sisodia and Sanjay Singh took out a “tiranga yatra” in Ayodhya, giving a call to establish Ram Rajya and equating it with true nationalism and communal harmony. Union minority affairs minister and BJP leader Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi hit out at Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal over the proposed Ayodhya visit.“When elections are around the corner, people want to offer prayers to Lord Ram. Some would visit Lord Ram temple while some would visit other temples. These people are neither going to be blessed by the voters nor by God,” Naqvi said according to the news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-ayodhya-on-october-26-offer-prayers-to-ram-lalla-101635010970649.html
23-10-2021||Noida||Noida traffic cops launch drive against modified silencers in vehicles||In a bid to check noise pollution, the Gautam Budh Nagar traffic police have launched a drive against illegally modified silencers that are attached to motorcycles. The police are issuing fines and also seizing vehicles for the violation, officials said. Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that in the last one week 700 vehicles have been penalised, while 166 others seized for the violation. “Each such vehicle is being fined ₹10,000. Only those vehicles having modified silencers and no registration papers are seized,” he said. Saha also said that some people drive such vehicles on internal roads in the sectors. “We urge the residents welfare associations and local people to share information about such vehicles to the traffic police helpline – 9971009001. We will take action against the violators and also withhold the identity of the informer,” he said. Meanwhile, Prashant Tiwari, assistant regional transport officer (enforcement), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that a similar enforcement drive is undertaken by the transport department. “We are taking action against vehicles for modified silencers and pressure horns. On Thursday, we seized nine vehicles and issued challans to 42 others. We have also asked the local mechanics to not modify silencers of two-wheelers and cars, which is against the Motor Vehicle Act,” Tiwari said. Velmurugan S, chief scientist, Central Road Research Institute, Delhi, said that enforcement against modified silencers is a good move. “The Motor Vehicle Act prohibits any such modification. The modification leads to endangering safety of other road users as they are mostly caught off guard due to loud noise. In a regular traffic, up to 55 decibel is allowed, while the modification leads to 80 decibel, which is also bad in terms of noise pollution,” he said. On October 7, the district administration had written to the traffic police department to ensure enforcement of the Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) to check pollution during the winter season. The traffic police were also asked to impound diesel vehicles older than 10 years and petrol vehicles older than 15 years. The DCP said that the traffic police are also conducting drives against old vehicles which have failed the permit norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traffic-cops-launch-drive-against-modified-silencers-in-vehicles-101635010610838.html
23-10-2021||Noida||Gzb: UPPCB receives plaints over proposed relocation of air monitoring station||The UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has started receiving objections over the proposed relocation of the air quality monitoring station located at the building of Loni Nagar Palika office to the forest area in Ghaziabad. The Ghaziabad municipal corporation on October 12 proposed relocating the Loni station, stating that Loni’s high levels of pollution affect the overall air quality index (AQI) reading of Ghaziabad. “We have now started receiving objections from residents of Loni. We will route these objections to our headquarters at Lucknow. Once the objections are disposed of, the UPPCB will take a call on whether to relocate the station or not,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad. “The relocation of an air monitoring station cannot be taken up at the local level. It can be relocated only after the UPPCB gives the go ahead,” Sharma added. The corporation officials said that they had written to the Ghaziabad Development Authority for a no-objection certificate for relocating the Loni station to the city forest near Karhera. “We have received the NOC and forwarded it to the UPPCB. Now, the relocation activity will be taken up by the pollution board,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. The UPPCB regional officer said that the NOC received by the corporation will also be sent to the UPPCB headquarters at Lucknow. The issue has also drawn flak from environmentalists who said that the proposed relocation would hide the correct pollution figures of Loni. “I have given a complaint to the Central Pollution Control Board, UPPCB, divisional commissioner and district magistrate against the proposed relocation. It is just an attempt to hide the correct picture of the pollution in the city. I have also demanded that more monitoring stations should come up in the city, especially in industrial areas,” said Sushil Raghav, a city-based environmentalist. “If no action is taken up on my complaint, I will move the National Green Tribunal against the relocation of the Loni station,” Raghav said. Currently, Ghaziabad has four monitoring stations at Vasundhara, Loni, Sanjay Nagar, and Indirapuram. According to records of the CPCB, the monitoring station at Loni recorded the highest levels of PM2.5 and PM10 among all four stations during the years 2019 and 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-uppcb-receives-objections-over-proposed-relocation-of-loni-s-air-monitoring-station-101635010190591.html
23-10-2021||Noida||Noida: 12 fined ₹50,000 each for failing to control dust pollution||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Noida, has recommended slapping a fine of ₹6 lakh on 12 people and establishments who violated dust pollution norms between October 16 and 22 as part of the graded response action plan (GRAP), officials said on Saturday.Of the 12 violators, eight are Noida authority vendors, two are owners of a private plot in Sector 1, one is a private hospital in Sector 50 and one is an under-construction mall in Sector 75. Officials said Noida authority vendors in Sectors 104, 76, 77, 79, 73, 58, 54 and 2 failed to take measures to check the spread of dust and contributed to air pollution. The pollution board recommended slapping a penalty of ₹50,000 on each of them to the district administration.“All the violations were related to dust pollution at the construction sites or other civil works. These are not very big violations, hence a nominal penalty of ₹50,000 was recommended. So far, there have been no incidents of waste burning ever since the GRAP came into effect,” said Utsav Sharma, environment engineer and regional officer (Acting) UPPCB Noida.“Since most of the violators were vendors of Noida Authority, officials of respective department were told over a phone call to tell the vendors on the steps to be taken to control dust pollution,” he added. Earlier this month, the district administration, on the recommendations of UPPCB, spotted eight pollution hotspots in the city including Sector 7X, where the maximum environmental violations were found and penalties imposed. The pollution board had suggested a slew of measures to control the air pollution under GRAP that came into effect this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-12-fined-50-000-each-for-failing-to-control-dust-pollution-101635010011149.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan reading book on Lord Ram, Sita in Arthur Road Jail: Prison authorities||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, who is currently lodged in Mumbai's Arthur Road Jail following his alleged involvement in cruise ship drugs case, has been reading religious books in the prison.According to the jail administration, Aryan Khan was anxious in the jail after his bail had been rejected. The jail authorities suggested him to read the library books.Following this, Khan was given books from the jail library. For the last two days, Aryan Khan has been reading a book written on Lord Ram and Mother Sita. Earlier, Khan had read a book called The Lion's Gate.As per the jail administration, if a prisoner wants, he can get a book of his choice from his relatives, but only religious books are allowed. Apart from this, if a prisoner leaves a book while leaving the jail, then it is also included in the library.Mumbai's Special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on Thursday extended the judicial custody of Aryan Khan and others till October 30 in connection with the cruise ship drug case.Earlier on Wednesday, the special court refused to grant bail to Aryan Khan and two others in connection with the seizure of drugs. Following this, Aryan Khan moved a bail application in the Bombay High Court against the NDPS court order on his bail rejection.The Bombay High Court will hear the bail application on October 26.An NCB team busted an alleged drugs party on the Cordelia Cruise ship which was on its way to Goa at mid-sea on October 2.A total of 20 people, including two Nigerian nationals, have been arrested so far in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-reading-book-on-lord-ram-sita-in-arthur-road-jail-prison-authorities-101635009602125.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Historical places of Mahendragarh to be developed as tourist spots: Haryana CM||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said historical places in Mahendragarh district will be developed as tourist destinations.He said the state government is working in a planned manner for the purpose and added the reconstruction of 'Rani Talab' at Madhogarh fort has been done and the work of 'Rani Mahal' is also in the final stages.An amount of ₹9 crore will be spent on these works, he said.The chief minister was addressing a programme organised at Madhogarh Fort on Saturday after visiting Dhosi mountain, according to an official release.Khattar said Dhosi and Madhogarh have immense potential for tourism.He said it has been planned to develop Dhosi mountains as a pilgrimage site and the fort of king of Madhogarh will also be reconstructed in the coming days to attract more tourists.Khattar said once these places are developed to promote tourism, it will enhance employment opportunities in the area."In the coming time, people from far and wide will come here for trekking,” he said.On the establishment of Industrial Model Township in Khudana, Khattar said a meeting would be held soon to hand over the panchayat land to the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation.The cooperation of the villagers is necessary in this, he added.The state government wants industries to be set up here so as to provide employment to the people of the area.Meanwhile, at a rally in the Sohna assembly constituency in Gurugram, Khattar announced development projects worth ₹125 crore.He laid the foundation stone of a mini secretariat for Tauru and Sohna.An amount of about ₹16 crore will be spent on this project.The CM also inaugurated a community health centre and residential building at Tauru.He also approved the demand for increasing the capacity of the civil hospital in Sohna from 50 beds to 100 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/historical-places-of-mahendragarh-to-be-developed-as-tourist-spots-haryana-cm-101635009057783.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||Three more held, 8 other accused including minister’s son interrogated||The Uttar Pradesh police arrested three more people reportedly present in one of the three vehicles that allegedly mowed down four farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri’s Tikunia village on October 3, on Saturday, senior police officials said. After the incident, violence erupted killing another four people while two vehicles, a Mahindra Thar SUV and a Fortuner SUV were torched.According to Lakhimpur Kheri police, those arrested on Saturday were Mohit Trivedi, a resident of Singahi town, Rinku Rana, a resident of Barsola Kalan, Tikunia and Dharmendra of Chimma Tanda. Trivedi was arrested from Singhai while the other two were arrested from Tikunia Kotwali limits.So far, 13 people, including Ashish Mishra, son of Union minister of state for home Ajai Mishra Teni, and Ashish’s friend, Ankit Das, have been arrested.Ashish, Ankit and his two accomplices, Latif alias Kaale and Shekhar Bharti, whose custody was taken on Friday evening, were brought face to face with four others Sumit Jaiswal, Shishu Pal, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam and Nandan Singh Bisht, already in custody since Friday morning, to get more details from them, said a senior police official privy to the investigation.A senior police official part of the investigation also said that Saturday’s arrests were made after their names surfaced during interrogation of the accused arrested previously in the matter. He said the trio was said to be present in one of the three vehicles in the convoy of Ashish Mishra at the time of the incident.He said all three accused were produced in court and a police remand for 14 days was requested. He said the court would decide over their custody remand.The official said that Ashish Mishra had not answered many questions when he was previously taken into remand for three days. He said Ashish Mishra and the custody of three others was taken to cross-question them in front of four other accused.Two different FIRs of mowing down farmers and killing of four others were registered at the Tikunia police station in this connection. The SIT constituted by the state police is probing the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/three-more-held-8-other-accused-including-minister-s-son-interrogated-101635009350708.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||Swachchta Survekshan prep: Delhi’s south civic body to set up material reutilisation facilities||South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) will set up material reuse units such as bartan (crockery) banks and old book banks in 28municipal wards under its jurisdiction. Rajiv Jain, superintending engineer and nodal officer of the SDMC’s Swachh Bharat mission, said that there are four administrative zones under SDMC and each zone has been directed to set up these facilities in at least seven wards. “Bartan banks, toy banks, old book banks, neki ki diwar (wall of good deeds) and centres where plastic containers and old tyres can be reused for various purposes such as gardening have been finalised under this project. A bartan or crockery bank is a unit where people can borrow steel utensils for a social gathering. It reduces the amount of single-use plastic crockery in use. The onset of the pandemic has reduced the reutilisation of old books, which will be promoted through common book banks. The zonal administration can also set up toy banks, plastic container reuse units and neki ki diwar-- a common covered wall where people can leave clean old clothes and blankets, which can be used by people in need,” Jain explained.A neki ki diwar was opened in the C5A block of Janakpuri on Friday and similar units were set up in Hari Nagar and Subhash Nagar.The preparation for Swachchta Survekshan 2022 has commenced and municipal commissioner Gyanesh Bharti undertook a review meeting on Saturday to finalise the action plan for SDMC. The survey is scheduled to be held in January-February 2022.The reutilisation of materials can help SDMC bag 50 points in the national cleanliness rankings, an official said.The civic body has also decided to initiate online training programmes for its sanitation staff. “The new survey methodology also states that all sanitary workers will have to be provided training courses in waste segregation, waste collection from quarantined homes, and handling of Covid-19 waste. We will first train sanitary inspectors and then sanitation workers in the second phase,” a senior SDMC official said.The lack of proper waste segregation (dry and wet waste) at the household level has been a major hurdle in achieving better rankings for Delhi’s civic bodies. “As an initial target, all deputy commissioners have been asked to start processing at least 60 TPD (tonne per day) wet segregated waste in each zone,” the official said. The civic body also plans to release the sanitation rankings of schools, markets, colonies and hotels during November.The Swachh Survekshan is an annual national survey to assess cleanliness and sanitation conditions in cities and towns across India. It was launched in 2016 as a part of Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. Barring the 2018 survey, when the south corporation had fared relatively well, Delhi’s three municipal corporations have consistently fared poorly in these rankings. During the Swachh Survekshan 2020, EDMC was ranked 46th among the 47 local bodies in its category, the SDMC ranked 31 and the north DMC was at the 43rd position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/swachchta-survekshan-prep-delhi-s-south-civic-body-to-set-up-material-reutilisation-facilities-101635009170721.html
23-10-2021||Patna||Bihar Cong leaders hail break-up with RJD, others feel it’s temporary||A day after Congress in-charge for Bihar Bhakta Charan Das formally announced the break up with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), one of the most trusted allies, many senior leaders of the party said it was a belated yet justified move of the party high command to rejuvenate the organization in the state.“Das’s declaration to contest all 40 seats in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections has rekindled hope among the party’s cadre to prepare, which was a distant reality till the time the Congress remained in the pact with the RJD,” said former Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Anil Sharma.Many leaders of the RJD and the Congress as well as the political analysts feel that the break-up might continue for long and both the parties would join hands together, as they did it earlier, before the next Lok Sabha elections. “All like-minded parties believing in constitutional and democratic framework shall come together to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party-led dispensation,” said RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari.Sharma, who has been critical to the coalition with the RJD, argued that the Congress party’s vote base kept on shrinking ever since it tied up with the Lalu Prasad’s party, whose regime had been symbolized as Jungle Raj, a thriving era of casteism and nepotism in politics and general misrule among the masses. “The Congress had to face mass alienation and crisis of credibility owing to its propensity or dependence on the RJD. This led to the continuous flight of cadres and leaders from the party,” said Sharma.The Congress got the test of RJD’s ‘uncompromising’ approach in 2009 when it made a hard bargain with the former party and offered only three seats out of 40 in the Lok Sabha to contest. In 2005, the Congress had fielded four candidates in the Lok Sabha elections and had won three —Aurangabad (Nikhil Kumar), Madhubani (Shakeel Ahmad) and Sasaram (Meira Kumar). “The party was left with no option but to part ways, as the RJD was unwilling to let us contest the four seats, it had fought earlier. Congress contested the following assembly polls without an alliance with the RJD,” said Congress chief spokesman Rajesh Rathore.A section of party leaders said that the vote share of the party had declined to 6.66% in 2015, as it remained in the coalition with the RJD and the Janata Dal (United), from 8.37% in 2020 when the party had decided to go it alone at the last minutes. “Congress had a vote share of 16.54% in 1995. But it receded to 6.09% in the 2005 assembly elections. Congress’s credibility among the electors suffered as it relied heavily on the RJD,” said AICC member Kishore Kumar Jha.AICC media panellist and MLC Prem Chandra Mishra said that it was a well-thought decision that has infused fresh energy among the party leaders and cadres. “The party has made a start, after analyzing the fallout. Bihar in-charge Das demonstrated a bold step and he is determined to re-invigorate the organization at the grassroots level,” said Mishra.A professor of Patna Science College and political observer, Shakar Kumar, feared that Congress’s decision to opt out of the RJD was taken impulsively. “Both the RJD and the Congress broke up only to team up together. Though it is good that the Congress thought to go for it alone, however, to win the seats it needs to strengthen the organisation at the grassroots level. The party will achieve sustainable growth only if it relied on committed leaders instead of depending on borrowed players,” said Kumar..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cong-leaders-hail-break-up-with-rjd-others-feel-it-s-temporary-101635008930553.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||42-year-old stabbed to death in west Delhi, police suspect snatching incident||A 42-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by a group of unknown people in west Delhi’s Patel Nagar area. Police said they are yet to arrest the perpetraters.A senior police officer said that the deceased man has been identified as Chhotu Ram, a resident of Faridpuri in West Patel Nagar area. DCP (central) Shweta Chauhan said that they received a PCR call on Friday at the Patel Nagar police station regarding the incident. When they reached the spot they found that the man had been stabbed on the left side of his abdomen and, later, when he was rushed to RML Hospital, he was declared dead on arrival.DCP Chauhan said the police have registered a case and an investigation is underway to nab the accused persons. According to the deceased man’s younger brother Bablu, his brother was returning home from work while talking to his wife over the phone when the incident took place.The call got disconnected and, a few minutes later, someone called to tell her that her husband had been injured.Police said that prima facie it appeared that someone tried to snatch his belongings and when he tried to resist, he was stabbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/42yearold-stabbed-to-death-in-west-delhi-police-suspect-snatching-incident-101635008810560.html
23-10-2021||Patna||Bihar State Pollution Control Board asks DMs to ban firecrackers in four cities||The Bihar State Pollution Control Board has sent a letter to the district magistrates (DMs) of four cities, including Patna, Gaya, Muzaffarpur and Hajipur, seeking a complete ban over the sale and use of firecrackers on Diwali. In the letter sent on October 21, the pollution control board informed that during a survey after Diwali last year, even the contents of arsenic, lead and nickel were found to be much higher than the general standards in the air in these cities apart from the high level of Coarse Particulate Matter (PM 10), Fine Particulate Matter (PM2.5), Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and Sulphur dioxide (SO2). These contents are very harmful to human health as these cause diseases like bronchitis and breathing problems. The letter says that as the National Green Tribunal (NGT), a special tribunal created by the Union government to handle the expeditious disposal of the cases related to environmental issues, has directed that the sale and use of firecrackers be completely banned in the cities where air quality index is poor and very poor and that the licence for the sale of firecrackers also be cancelled, the local administration should ensure effective implementation of the ban. Except for the four cities, the pollution board has allowed all other cities in Bihar to use only green crackers for two hours from 8 pm to 10 pm on Diwali. “This year no new licence for the sale of firecrackers will be issued in Patna, Muzaffarpur, Gaya and Hajipur and even the licences issued earlier would remain cancelled, as per the directions of the NGT. The step is taken considering the poor air quality found in these cities last Diwali,” S Chandrashekhar, member secretary, BSPCB, said. Last year also firecrackers were completely banned in Patna, Gaya and Muzaffarpur. This year, there are four cities on this list, he added. The member secretary said all the DMs and SPs have been sent the letter to ensure effective implementation of the ban. “We have also asked the DMs and SPs to provide the board the action taken report on the licences issued earlier and the number of cancelled licenses, raids made on the shops selling firecrackers and the number of shops sealed for illegally selling firecrackers,” he said.Dr Ashok Ghosh, chairman, BSPCB, said that a complete ban on firecrackers is far more important this year. “In fact, the Covid-19 pandemic mainly affected the lungs and respiratory system of the people. Though people have recovered, they are still at the risk because of weak lungs,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-state-pollution-control-board-asks-dms-to-ban-firecrackers-in-four-cities-101635008637366.html
23-10-2021||Patna||Bihar Vidhan Sabha centenary year celebration: PM, V-P, LS Speaker likely to attend||The ongoing centenary celebrations of the Bihar Legislative Assembly building will feature more dignitaries and culminate after the Budget session next year.Bihar Legislative Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, who had also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and extended him an invitation, said he would request Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to address the legislators during the winter session. “I have met him in this regard and I will again go to invite him. We also have plans to invite Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu for the centenary function,” he added.Naidu will be visiting Patna next month as the chief guest at the second convocation of the Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University (RPCAU) at Pusa (Samastipur). The convocation will take place on November 8.Sinha said that the request to the PM would be to grace the concluding function of the centenary celebration. “By then, the Shatabdi Stambh, showcasing the history of the Vidhan Sabha and the foundation stone, which was laid by the President, would also be completed. There is also a plan to set up a Vidhan Sabha museum, highlighting the journey of the House and its landmark events,” he added.During the centenary year celebration on October 21, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had also said that after President Ram Nath Kovind, the Bihar Speaker’s effort is to also invite the PM for the centenary year celebration.The Bihar Legislative Assembly building had hosted the inaugural session of the joint Bihar and Orissa Provincial Council on February 7, 1921, under the presidency of Sir Walter Maude and addressed by then-governor Lord SP Sinha.The inaugural function of the centenary year celebration was held on February 7 this year at the central hall of the extended Assembly building but it was restricted to a one-day event due to the Covid-19 pandemic. After the pandemic subsided, it was decided to organise functions marking 100 years of the iconic building..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-vidhan-sabha-centenary-year-celebration-pm-v-p-ls-speaker-likely-to-attend-101635008636151.html
23-10-2021||Patna||One held for creating fake parliament entry pass||The crime branch of Delhi police raided Gopalganj’s Purani Chowk locality on Saturday and arrested a cyber cafe owner on charges of creating a fake parliament entry pass by scanning the card issued to JD (U) MP from Gopalganj Alok Kumar Suman. Police said that Mahesh Kumar was nabbed after the arrest of Bablu Arya, who is said to be the personal assistant of Bihar mining minister Janak Ram. A police source in the Delhi crime branch, on condition of anonymity, said that the Gopalganj MP had on September 3 this year filed a complaint with the speaker Om Birla as well as Delhi police commissioner Rakesh Asthana that someone made and used fake entry pass of parliament by scanning his original pass. The MP suspected that an unidentified man also misused his letterheads between June 3, 2019, and June 2, 2020, on the pretext of being the MP’s assistant. Acting swiftly, the crime branch of Delhi police lodged an FIR and first arrested Bablu Arya. During the interrogation, he revealed the name of Mahesh, who was arrested on Saturday. Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar confirmed the arrest of Mahesh Kumar and said that the Delhi police have taken him into custody for further investigation of the case..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/one-held-for-creating-fake-parliament-entry-pass-101635008632257.html
23-10-2021||Patna||Lalu set to return to Patna after almost 4 years, may campaign for bypolls||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav is all set to come to Patna on Sunday after almost six months of recuperating from his illness in New Delhi following release from jail on bail post-conviction in fodder scam-related cases in April this year.Since his incarceration on December 23, 2017, Prasad has been away from Patna for over three-and-a-half years and briefly visited Patna for five days on parole in May 2018 to attend his elder son Tej Pratap Yadav’s wedding on May 12.After his release from jail while undergoing treatment at AIIMS, New Delhi on April 30, Prasad had been staying put and recuperating from various illnesses at his eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha MP Misa Bharti’s residence in New Delhi.“I, along with my mother and former chief minister Rabri Devi, will be accompanying my father back to Patna on Sunday. We are planning to take the afternoon flight tomorrow,” Misa Bharti told HT on phone from New Delhi.She said the doctors attending to the 74-year former railway minister would examine him in the evening again. Several tests related to Lalu’s health condition were conducted on Friday, she said.The RJD chief has been ailing from kidney, heart and other ailments for the last many years and his condition had deteriorated during his incarceration since December 2017 post-conviction in fodder scam cases. In total, Prasad has been convicted in four fodder scam cases and got released on bail after completion of formalities on April 30 while undergoing treatment at AIIMS, New Delhi.Earlier, the RJD chief stayed in Rajendra Medical College hospital, Ranchi for medical treatment during his incarceration period of over three years before he was shifted to AIIMS, New Delhi in January this year.While Prasad, during his incarceration, executed a slow transition of power in the party to his younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Prasad Yadav by projecting him as the chief ministerial face in the 2020 assembly polls, the RJD chief continues to call the shots in the party as national president and is facing the challenge of containing growing rivalry between elder son Tej Pratap and Tejashwi.Tej Pratap, of late, has caused much embarrassment to the party by his outburst against senior leaders including state president Jagdanand Singh and had even alleged that his father was being kept ‘hostage’ in New Delhi by a handful of people in the party who were dreaming of becoming the next party national president, which was seen as an attack on younger sibling Tejashwi and his loyalists.However, the ailing RJD chief has tried to dispel such notions and held several meetings in the last few weeks to address party workers from New Delhi virtually and also said to have cautioned Tej Pratap to refrain from making controversial statements.“I will be with you all soon in Patna and tour every district in the state in the coming days. Doctors have asked me to take little water and there are certain restrictions,” the RJD chief said, adding that he was much better in health than previously.However, last week, there were indications that the plans of Prasad to return to Patna had been stalled as Rabri Devi had told media that the RJD chief would not be coming to the state capital soon on health grounds.Admittedly, Prasad’s arrival in Patna is likely to give a morale boost up to the party workers who are expected to give a rousing welcome at Patna airport tomorrow. “We are excited about Lalu’s return. Given the Covid situation, there will be a small gathering at Patna airport to welcome him. His return is a big morale boost up for workers,” said Chittaranjan Gaggan, party’s state spokesperson.A new room equipped with all medical facilities has been constructed at the main quarters of the sprawling 10 Circular Road bungalow where Prasad along with his family has been staying since 2006 after RJD lost power in the state. The bungalow is allotted in name of Rabri Devi incapacity of the leader of the opposition in the state legislative council.People familiar with the matter said there is a possibility that Prasad along with his family might celebrate Chhath in Patna this time after a long gap as wife Rabri Devi has not been celebrating the festival for the last few years.Incidentally, the RJD chief’s return to Patna has raised hopes among the party that the party’s campaign for the by-polls being steered by younger son and leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav would get more momentum and could help in influencing the voters’ mood. The RJD is putting all strength to win the two seats where the contest is multi-cornered with ruling JD(U) and Congress fielding their candidates.People cited above also said there is still no conformity as to whether the RJD chief would be visiting the two constituencies next week by helicopter but a plan could be drawn up depending on Prasad’s health. “We are not sure whether the RJD chief would visit the two constituencies. Everything will depend on his health once he returns to Patna,” said Bhola Yadav, a senior party leader and former MLA.Meanwhile, the ruling BJP and JD(U) have downplayed Prasad’s expected return to Patna stating that it would not make much impact to help the RJD in getting any advantage in the by-polls. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, while talking to reporters at a public event in Patna on Saturday, did not comment on the RJD chief’s expected return to Patna and also asserted he had no interest in the ongoing hostility between RJD and Congress in the grand alliance. “I have no interest in it,” he said.The BJP’s state spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said that Prasad’s return may be an occasion of jubilation for the RJD and its workers but would not give an advantage to the opposition party in the by-polls for two seats. “RJD workers and leaders may be excited about Lalu’s return to Patna but it will have no impact on the by-polls. People of Bihar have lost faith in the RJD chief and they have not forgotten the old days of RJD rule,” said Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-set-to-return-to-patna-after-almost-4-years-may-campaign-for-bypolls-101635008631039.html
23-10-2021||Patna||Nitish announces ₹2 lakh aid for kin of U’khand rain victims from Bihar||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday announced financial assistance of ₹2 lakh each for families of 10 people from the state who died in Uttarakhand rains. “Ten people from West Champaran have died in Uttarakhand rains. The resident commissioner is in constant touch with the state government. Financial assistance of ₹2 lakh will be given to the families of the deceased from the CM Relief Fund,” he said while addressing the media. Speaking about the administration of over 100 crores COVID-19 vaccine doses in the country, he said, “It is a nice achievement.” India achieved the landmark of administering 100 crore Covid-19 vaccines on Thursday.On Bihar’s vaccination drive, Kumar said, “Around 6.5 vaccine doses have been administered in the state out of which over four crore people have received their first dose. We are looking forward to administering the second dose to those who are due. Our target is to vaccinate everyone. A campaign is also underway in rural areas to spread awareness about COVID-19 vaccination and encouraging people to get their vaccination done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-announces-2-lakh-aid-for-kin-of-u-khand-rain-victims-from-bihar-101635008570548.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||2 held from Rajasthan for making obscene videos of online friends, extorting them||New Delhi: The Delhi Police have arrested two persons from Rajasthan in separate cases registered for extortion after making obscene videos, officers said on Saturday.In the first incident, 23-year-old Ijajul, a resident of Rajasthan, was arrested for demanding money from a person after morphing his video. A case was registered on the complaint of a person where he alleged that he received a friend request from a Facebook account. He further stated that he had shared his contact to the said person.Thereafter, he got a video call and Ijajul morphed his video and made it an obscene one. Later, he started threatening and blackmailing him, police said. During investigation, the accused was apprehended from his native place in Rajasthan on Friday.He disclosed that he was the gang leader and adopted this modus operandi to trap the Facebook friends who hail from Delhi and Mumbai, Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said. Ijajul was released from jail earlier this month in a similar case. His brother was also arrested in a similar case. In the other incident, a 25-year-old man was arrested from Rajasthan for allegedly cheating a retired person on the pretext of circulating his obscene video on the internet. The accused has been identified as Nasir, a resident of Bharatpur in Rajasthan. On October 2, a complaint was received from a retired person that he was receiving extortion calls from different numbers and the caller introduced themselves as officials of a social media platform. They were demanding money by stating that they have received a complaint from a woman that he was exploiting her and they have his video. They further instructed him to contact the persons of social media to remove his video from being uploaded on the internet.The fake officials of that social media platform demanded money from him for not uploading his video. Out of fear of his social reputation, he transferred around ₹4 lakh as they told him to pay the money or else, he will be falsely implicated in a rape case and his video will be uploaded on various social media platforms, police said.During the investigation, the extortionists were using more than 100 mobile phones and more than 1,000 SIM cards issued on fake IDs. On October 13, information was received that the kingpin of the gang will visit Nagar in Bharatpur, Rajasthan. Police conducted raids and Nasir was apprehended from Nagar in Bharatpur, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Alok Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/2-held-from-rajasthan-for-making-obscene-videos-of-online-friends-extorting-them-101635008510419.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s child rights body launches bi-annual journal||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Saturday launched a bi-annual journal to cover all aspects of children’s lives ranging from the challenges of online education to lack of socio-emotional learning during the Covid pandemic across India.The first issue of the journal, named Children First: Journal on Children’s Lives, covers a wide range of topics such as experiences of children from low-income communities in Hyderabad, parental support required for continued learning in a post-Covid world, and focus on the mental health and emotional intelligence among children. The journal also makes a case for institutionalising social audits to create accountability towards children’s rights.“This is the inaugural issue of the journal that DCPCR will be publishing half-yearly. The first theme of the issue is the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the lives of the children,” the commission said in a statement on Saturday. “The published pieces range from stories from a government school in Delhi and states such as Andhra Pradesh to struggles of rural tribals of Rajasthan and communities in Assam,” the statement added. DCPCR member Ranjana Prasad said the next issue of the journal would focus on education and health.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who was present at the launch on Saturday, said the name “Children First” was representative of the need for reorganising priorities. “The name brings out the intent of keeping every Children First... In a few decades when we look back at having changed the governance of children, this journal would have played a crucial role,” Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s education minister, said.The commission said it received submissions from over 100 authors. The journal also features 10 illustrations made by children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-child-rights-body-launches-bi-annual-journal-101635007311703.html
23-10-2021||Gurugram||Smartwatches to track govt officials’ steps, record attendance: CM Manohar Lal Khattar||All government officials in the state will wear smartwatches that will track their movement during office hours as well as serve as a tool to mark attendance, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said during the “Vikas” rally at Sarmathla village of Sohna on Saturday.While stating that the biometric attendance system, which was earlier used for attendance at various government offices of the state, was discontinued due to the coronavirus outbreak, Khattar said that GPS-enabled smartwatches will soon be introduced for the purpose.“Earlier, government officials used to go to the office once a week and tick their attendance for all working days. To eradicate this, we introduced biometric machines. As this system required the official concerned to physically touch it, we decided to remove it following the coronavirus outbreak as it could potentially spread the virus,” Khattar said in his speech.Khattar said that the government was also alerted about officials tampering with fingerprints in the biometric machines and getting their attendance marked.“We will be introducing smartwatches that will only track the official it is assigned to. The watch would stop working if somebody else wears it. This way, movement of all government officials in Haryana will be tracked,” Khattar said.Sohna developmental plansDiscussing developmental plans for the region, Khattar also announced the construction of a sports stadium on 6.5 acres in the Gwal Pahari area. Khattar further said that the robust rail and road network in the Sohna region will lead to development and generate employment opportunities.“There are around five railway and road corridors coming out of Sohna, such as the Gurugram-Alwar highway, KMP Expressway, Orbit Railway Corridor, Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, Western Dedicated Expressway, which will strengthen the immense potential of employment along with industrial development in the region. At the same time, with the advent of industrial units, the youth of the area will also get employment and in general, there will be prosperity in the area,” Khattar said.While stating that developmental projects are being expedited through approval of development plans in the area, following the coronavirus outbreak, the CM sanctioned ₹125 crore for around 50 projects in the Sohna region.Some of the prominent developmental projects include the construction of Mini Secretariats at both Sohna and Taoru, at a cumulative cost of ₹16 crore, setting up a community health centre and residential building at Taoru at a cost of ₹5.52 crore, doubling the bed capacity at the Sohna Civil Hospital from 50 to 100 and construction of a primary health centre at Damdama, for ₹3.5 crore, beautification of Fountain Chowk, construction of Pandit Deendayal Park for ₹5 crore, construction of two roads for ₹33.5 crore, upgrading four government schools, construction of nine roads of four kilometres cumulative length at ₹5 crore, construction of a sports stadium on 6.5 acres in Sarmathla village, construction of six new community centres in Sohna for ₹10 crore, construction of seven check dams in Sohna area for ₹2 crore and the construction of eight new roads for ₹10 crore, among others. Khattar also unveiled a 23-foot-high statue of Maharana Pratap near the rally site.The CM said that a definite plan would be made by the Haryana Tourism Department to develop Damdama Lake as a popular tourist destination, which will lead to further development. Also, 41 colonies in Sohna city are likely to be regularised following a survey and the basis of a feasibility report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/smartwatches-to-track-govt-officials-steps-record-attendance-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-101635007013193.html
23-10-2021||Gurugram||Air quality picks up again, rain to ease pollution concerns in short term||After two days of ‘poor’ air earlier this week, Gurugram’s air quality has improved once again over the past two days, recording a ‘moderate’ air quality index (AQI) reading on the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) daily bulletin for a second consecutive day.With rains forecast on Sunday and Monday, the air quality is expected to improve further.According to the CPCB bulletin, which accumulates 24-hour average reading from the city’s four Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) monitoring stations in Sector 51, Gwal Pahari, Vikas Sadan, and Sector 2 of IMT Manesar, the city’s AQI was 150 on Saturday, slightly better than Friday’s reading of 164.Before this, on Wednesday and Thursday, the city’s AQI reading was in the ‘poor’ category, with readings of 235 and 215, respectively.According to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) local weather report and forecast, the minimum temperature on Saturday in Gurugram was 20 degrees Celsius (°C) and the maximum temperature was 30°C. On Sunday, the minimum temperature is expected to be the same while the maximum is expected to drop by two degrees, to 28°C. The IMD also predicted rain in the city on Sunday.As per the ministry of earth sciences’ air quality warning system for Delhi, due to rains and strong winds, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘moderate’ to ‘satisfactory’ categories on Sunday and Monday across the National Capital Territory of Delhi (NCT).“The air quality over Delhi-NCT is likely to remain in moderate category on 23.10.2021 (Saturday) and moderate to satisfactory category on 24.10.2021 (Sunday). Rainfall and strong winds are likely on October 24. The air quality is likely to remain in satisfactory to moderate category on 25.10.2021 (Monday),” the air quality bulletin stated.The bulletin stated that for the rest of the week, the air quality is likely to remain mostly in the ‘moderate’ category.It also stated that the predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from the southeast directions of Delhi, with gusty winds at a speed of 30-40 kmph on Sunday, along with light rain and thundershowers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-quality-picks-up-again-rain-to-ease-pollution-concerns-in-short-term-101635007011760.html
23-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram civic bodies aim to complete road repairs in November||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has started repairing roads damaged due to waterlogging during the monsoon, ahead of the November 30 deadline set by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar for the same. The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is also in the process of fixing damaged roads and is aiming to complete patchwork and filling of potholes by November 15.In this regard, the MCG has floated a ₹22 lakh tender to repair as well as fill potholes in Ward 14 area“Tender has been floated for filling potholes and carrying out patchwork in Ward 14 area. Primarily, the contractor will be responsible for repairing internal roads in sectors 9 and 9A, which were heavily damaged due to rains this monsoon,” Tushar Yadav, the executive engineer of MCG, said.Yadav said that the MCG is hoping to finalise a contractor before Diwali.“Once the work order is allotted, it will take two to three weeks to complete the repair work. We are targeting to fix the roads by November-end, before the CM’s deadline,” Yadav said.Major roads, such as the Golf Course Extension Road, Basai Road and stretches near Dwarka Expressway, besides internal roads have been damaged this monsoon. During a video conference with officials on October 14, Khattar had directed the district officials to fix road damages due to waterlogging by November 30.MCG officials said that they are in the process of drafting tenders for fixing internal sector roads damaged during monsoon.“There are at least a dozen stretches of internal sectors that were damaged due to waterlogging this monsoon. Heavy rainwater accumulation on these stretches resulted in the topmost bitumen layer deteriorating, leading to the formation of potholes. The MCG is in the process of drafting tenders for all such stretches. We are aiming to complete most of the work by mid-November,” a senior official with the MCG’s engineering wing said.According to GMDA officials, work on the Golf Course Extension Road, new sector roads parallel to Dwarka Expressway, roads near the Delhi as well as the Manesar border will be taken up by the authority.“For certain parts of Southern Peripheral Road (SPR), and Basai Road, work orders have already been allocated to contractors to repair these stretches. Due to rains predicted till Monday, we have directed the contractors to start work later next week, when the skies clear up. Overall, there are seven to eight stretches that were damaged by rains, where patchwork and filling of potholes will be carried out by GMDA. Officials have been set a deadline of November 15 to complete the work,” Jaspal Singh, the chief engineer of GMDA, said.It is not the first time Khattar has set a deadline for authorities in Gurugram to fix roads in the city. In September 2016, while laying the foundation stone for construction of underpasses at Signature Towers, Hero Honda Chowk, and Rajiv Chowk, Khattar had directed officials to fix all roads and make them motorable by November 1, 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-civic-bodies-aim-to-complete-road-repairs-in-november-101635007010475.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||Pratigya Yatra: Congress fighting second freedom struggle to protect country, says Pramod Tiwari||Senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari on Saturday said at present, the fight that Congressmen were fighting to protect the constitutional values, democratic principles, farmers and country was like second struggle for freedom.He was addressing a press conference ahead of party’s Pratigya Yatra in Varanasi. “The situation the country is going through today is not hidden from anyone. The government is suppressing the democratic principles and voices of the farmers. The fight which Congressmen are fighting is like the second struggle for freedom,” he said. Tiwari said BJP only made tall promises and fulfilled none of them but the Congress fulfills all promises. “Congress did what it said. We have empowered the country on Green Revolution, White Revolution, MNREGA, space, and economic front. Congress made world class institutions,” he said. He said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi chose Kashi for the beginning of the ‘Pratigya Yatra’ because “the great and enlightened people of the city’ gave immense energy and power to her during a mega rally held in Varanasi recently. “During Pratigya Yatra, we will tell people about the seven promises of the Congress party. The seven promises, include smartphones and electronic scooties to girl students, 20 lakh government jobs to youths, regularization of contractual workers, ending of contract system, loans waiver for farmers and increase in minimum support price of wheat, paddy and sugarcane,” the senior leader said. Earlier, the leaders offered prayers to Lord Ganesh at Bada Ganesh temple here. Senior Congress leader Satish Choubey, Ajay Rai, state secretary Imran Khan, Prajanath Sharma, district president Rajeshwar Patel, city unit president Raghavendra Choubey, Shailendra Singh, Sitaram Kesari, Fasahat Hussain Babu, Manish Choubey were present in the PC. Soon after the press conference, hundreds of Congress workers and leaders took out the Partigya Yatra. On way, the cavalcade stopped at Sant Baba Keenaram Stham where party leaders paid obeisance. Thereafter, they offered prayers at Lord Kardameshwar at Bhimchandi and then to Rameshwar. The yatra passed through five assembly constituencies Rohania, Pindara, Sevapuri, Ajgara and Shivpur and went towards Chandauli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pratigya-yatra-congress-fighting-second-freedom-struggle-to-protect-country-says-pramod-tiwari-101635006830672.html
23-10-2021||Kolkata||Diesel price surpasses ₹100/litre in West Bengal||Amid rapidly rising fuel prices, diesel rates crossed the century mark in West Bengal on Saturday as the price went up to ₹100.09 per litre in Cooch Behar district, recording a hike of 35 paise as compared to the previous day. Petrol price in West Bengal had already crossed ₹100 per litre mark early July this year.Diesel prices are nearly touching a century in Purulia and Alipurduar districts, as the cost per litre is ₹99.99 and ₹99.78 respectively. In the capital city of Kolkata, diesel was priced at ₹99.08 a litre during the day, according to the price list reported by news agency PTI. Similarly, in Murshidabad and Birbhum districts, diesel prices are close to ₹99.50 per litre.The latest fuel price hike has been caused by the unrelenting surge in international oil prices that has pushed fuel rates across the country to record-high levels. Petrol has crossed ₹100-a-litre-mark in all major cities, while diesel has also jumped over the level in more than a dozen states.The constant rise in fuel prices stoked concerns of inflation among consumers especially since diesel, the mainstay fuel used for transporting goods, including agricultural commodities also touched highest-ever levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/diesel-surpasses-rs-100-litre-in-west-bengal-101635002168487.html
23-10-2021||Pune||Pune city sees average 1.7 Covid deaths in 24 hours since October 4||Pune: Pune city has reported average 1.7 deaths a day due to the infection in the past 20 days since October 4. The city has seen 34 deaths in the last 20 days, between October 4 and October 23. The city reports not more than three deaths a day and even zero deaths due to the infection on two days in the past two weeks as the spread of infection has come under control, according to state health authorities. Most of the deaths now being reported in city hospitals are outstation patients. As per the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) health data, the city saw a drastic fall in Covid-19 fatalities and serious virus patients. As the vaccination progressed in the city, the number of patients has been inversely proportional as evident from the data. As per the district health office information, of the 3,157,728 people who got their first dose as of October 20, 5,533 have reported to be infected with Covid-19 and of the 1,779,346 people who have got both the doses, 6,356 people have reported the infection which is only 0.17% who got infected after the first dose and 0.3% of those after both doses, in Pune city. Dr Ashish Bharti, PMC health chief, said, “The number of deaths has fallen and so has the load on the health infrastructure as the requirement for oxygen, medications, special medical care and also staff at the Covid care centre for isolation purpose of asymptomatic patients has gone down. Even those who are infected post vaccination report only mild to moderate symptoms. In addition to this, the number of active cases continues to go down in the city.” Drop in Covid deaths Since October 4, Pune city has reported less than three deaths daily due to the infection. On October 20 and October 21, the city reported zero deaths due to the infection The case fatality rate for the city for the past 20 days has been 1.52 due to the drop in new Covid-19 cases||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-city-sees-average-1-7-covid-deaths-in-24-hours-since-october-4-101635006650479.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||CIDCO to provide water to buildings without OC in Airport Rehabilitation and Resettlement region||CIDCO has decided to provide water connections to buildings that are yet to obtain the occupation certificate in the Airport Rehabilitation area.The buildings in the pocket 1 to 7 in Karanjade and Ulwe nodes will benefit from this decision as the water rates levied on these connections is less than the taxes imposed by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation, Thane Municipal Corporation, Pune Municipal Corporation, Maharashtra Life Authority (Ambernath) and Panvel City Municipal Corporation.Sanjay Mukherjee, CIDCO VC-MD, said, “CIDCO has always made every effort possible to provide basic and necessary facilities to the PAPs from the NMIA project. The PAPs have always extended their co-operation towards CIDCO as well. Keeping in mind the value of their cooperation, CIDCO has taken a decision to provide water connections to the buildings that are yet to obtain the occupation certificate in pockets 1 to 7 in the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) region.”CIDCO has appealed to the tenants whose buildings have completed constructions but are facing problems obtaining the occupation certificate due to administrative issues to contact Water Supply Executive Engineer, 4th Floor, Raigad Bhavan, CBD Belapur, Navi Mumbai 400614 for water connections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cidco-to-provide-water-to-buildings-without-oc-in-airport-rehabilitation-and-resettlement-region-101635006053164.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||Smartphones, tablets will be distributed among youths from November end: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced his government will begin the distribution of tablets and smartphones among the youths by November end.He made the announcement while laying the foundation stone of a government medical college to be built at a cost of ₹ 271 crore in Sultanpur.Yogi Adityanath asserted that his government is working to provide employment to every youth of the state without discrimination.“To equip the youth of Uttar Pradesh with the latest technology, the state government will start providing tablets and smartphones from the last week of November so that they are not deprived of the benefit of online studies,” he said.Yogi Adityanath also launched 126 other development projects worth ₹46.33 crore in Sultanpur and 99 projects worth ₹334.24 crore in Ambedkarnagar.Hitting out at previous non-BJP governments, he said, “The benefits of development schemes were confined to one family only. One family in Delhi and one family in Lucknow used to grab the money of the poor. People used to die due to hunger and lack of basic amenities.”When Narendra Modi became PM, he gave the slogan of sabka saath, sabka vikas, ensuring that benefits of schemes reached all without discrimination, Yogi Adityanath said. Accusing the previous government of spreading anarchy, the chief minister said there used to be frequent riots during festivals earlier, curfew used to be imposed and people could not celebrate.“Now, no riot has taken place in UP in the past four-and-a-half years because the rioters are aware of the consequences,” he said.“If anybody indulges in such designs, his seven generations will have to pay for their acts,” he warned.Yogi Adityanath also gave a warning to members of the mafia, saying, “If you try to flex your muscles, then the bulldozer is ready.”He targeted the previous government for being selfish and supporting the mafia.“Today, no mafia or criminal can threaten anyone, nor can they play with the faith of people,” he said.He further said Sultanpur was getting the maximum benefit of the Purvanchal Expressway and farmers have got four times compensation for their land here.With the industry clusters coming up, the youths of Sultanpur will get employment locally, he noted. An airstrip has been also constructed here, he said.Hitting out at the oppositions for politics over Covid vaccine and Ram temple, the chief minister said, “More than 12.32 crore vaccines have been administered in Uttar Pradesh. One has to be alert about those who mislead people over the vaccine,” he said.He also said had there been governments of the Congress, the Samajwadi Party (SP) or the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the construction of the Ram temple would not have started in Ayodhya.“They used to say that Ram is imaginary. Now, these people say that Ram sabke hain’(Ram belongs to everyone),” he addedUttar Pradesh BJP Swatantra Dev Singh, Uttar Pradesh finance and parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna, BJP MP Maneka Gandhi and state minister Sandeep Singh were also present at the event.Reacting to the chief minister’s allegations, Samajwadi Party state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary said, “The previous Akhilesh Yadav government is known for its revolutionary development works. World-class metro, expressway, or parks. None can match Akhilesh Yadav’s laptop scheme. All this government did in four-and-a-half years of its tenure is change names and re-inaugurate Akhilesh Yadav government’s works.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/smartphones-tablets-will-be-distributed-among-youths-from-november-end-yogi-adityanath-101635005030351.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||Women shouldn't visit police stations after dark, says BJP national vice prez||Former governor and BJP national vice president Baby Rani Maurya has advised women not to visit police stations after dark.Addressing women during a programme organised in Valmiki Basti of Bajardiha area here on Friday, Maurya said women should take a male family member along when visiting a police station."There are female officers present in police stations, but I would say that women should never go to a police station after 5 pm when it is dark. If necessary, take your brother, father or husband to the police station the next morning,” Maurya said.The former Uttarakhand governor also claimed that under the BJP government, a lot of work has been done for women and the system has changed.Meanwhile, BSP MP Kunwar Danish Ali targeted the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh government over Maurya's statement.Sharing a video of Maurya's statement on Twitter, he said, "Police stations have become so unsafe for women under (chief minister) Yogi Adityanath that former governor and BJP vice president Baby Rani Maurya is warning women to not visit police stations after 5 pm as it is not safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/women-shouldn-t-visit-police-stations-after-dark-says-bjp-national-vice-prez-101635002964894.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane district sees overall decline in positive Covid cases||The Thane district has seen an overall decline in the number of positive cases. The daily active cases have come down to 3,600 from 4,000 earlier in the month.In the rural areas, the daily positive cases have reduced to below 30. Similarly, overall civic bodies in the district have witnessed less than 50 cases each. In this week, Thane Municipal Corporation has also recorded hardly 30 positive cases on a daily basis.In the first week of September, the city witnessed a weekly average of less than 55 cases. Now, the weekly average has become less than 45 cases. Despite an increase in testing to around 3,000 on some days this week, the case average has remained consistent.“This has been a relief as the third wave is not lurking. Though, we have all the preparations in place for a probable third wave. It could be the increased vaccination and awareness that has caused the decrease in cases across the city despite relaxation in lockdown rules and festival season going on. We are looking at providing as many as possible with the first shot of vaccination at the earliest,” said Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC.Meanwhile, Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation and Bhiwandi-Nizampur City Municipal Corporation within Thane district have witnessed less than 10 cases daily this week. The rural areas of the city have witnessed an average of 29.4 cases this week.“There are various factors like vaccination, increased awareness and availability of medical facilities that have caused the decline in positive cases. However, this should not be a sign to let our guards down as one needs to be more careful in the upcoming festive season and follow Covid protocols to delay the third wave further,” said Manish Renge, district health officer, Thane Zilla Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-district-sees-overall-decline-in-positive-covid-cases-101635003954299.html
23-10-2021||Pune||Two booked for causing death of 25-year-old man in Nigdi||PUNE Two people were booked for causing the death of a 25-year-old man who was sleeping in a computer shop without any ventilation in the Nigdi area of Pimpri-Chinchwad on Thursday night.The deceased has been identified as Ankit Anil Agarwal.The small room with no ventilation was created illegally by two men who owned it, according to the police.Around 7am on Thursday, a fire engulfed the smaller room, leaving the 25-year-old with 98 per cent burn injuries and eventually killing him.“The two owned a shop and the man worked as a computer repair professional for them. He was completely shut off as they had locked him from outside. He was a native of Nepal and was working for the past year and a half,” said assistant police inspector Vijaykumar Dhumal of Nigdi police station who is investigating the case.“One of the accused owned the entire place and he had illegally built the smaller place and sub-let it to the other accused. They will be arrested after some investigation,” said Dhumal.A case under Sections 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 52 and 53 of Maharashtra Regional and Town-planning Act, 1966 was registered at Nigdi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-booked-for-causing-death-of-25-year-old-man-in-nigdi-101635003650390.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Fuel price hike: Petrol crossed ₹113 a litre; diesel at ₹104 in Mumbai||At an all-time high, a litre of petrol crossed ₹113, while one litre of diesel touched ₹104 in Mumbai, on Saturday.One litre of petrol was priced at ₹113.12, while a litre of diesel was available at ₹104.00.The price of petrol increased from ₹112 to ₹113 in Mumbai in the span of three days. A litre of petrol was priced at ₹112.11 on Wednesday.An increase of 34 paise and 37 paise were witnessed on the prices of petrol and diesel, respectively.Fuel prices surged in the national capital Delhi as well wherein petrol crossed ₹107 and was priced at ₹107.24 for a litre and diesel was available at ₹95.97 for one litre.The hike in fuel prices is different in every city due to Value Added Tax (VAT) charged by the state government, additional cess and fuel transportation charges.In Maharashtra’s Parbhani a litre of petrol was priced at ₹116.08, while one litre of diesel was available at ₹105.55 in Amravati.Transporters have called for a nationwide protest and said they are finalising the date for the same. “Transport associations leaders and members from every nook and corner of the country participated in the meeting and expressed their acute resentment at the current state of affairs. We are finalising the dates and places where we will start the indefinite protest,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-price-hike-petrol-crossed-113-a-litre-diesel-at-104-in-mumbai-101635003110385.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||BJP’s neo-Hindutva is the biggest farce: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday, saying the party used and threw Hindutva for political gains and said that it should stop giving free lectures on Hindutva. An editorial in Saamana said that “neo-Hindutva” of BJP was the “biggest farce”.The Sena mouthpiece further slammed its former ally, stating that the double standard of the BJP is visible as people are attacked over beef in one state, and its sale is allowed in another state.“Hindutva should not be used and thrown for political gains. Attacking people over beef in one state while allowing the sale of beef in another state shows the BJP’s double standards. The BJP’s neo-Hindutva is the biggest farce we can see,” the editorial said.In a response to the editorial, the BJP said that the piece showed “poverty of thoughts”, and that they don’t give much importance to it. BJP legislator Ashish Shelar said, “The editorial in Saamana shows their poverty in thought. With Diwali approaching, they are repainting themselves as Sena’s saffron colour has faded.”The editorial said those who joined the BJP for power are talking about Hindutva and are giving hollow lectures on Shiv Sena that has abandoned Hindutva. “The Hindus are tired of the game of polarising the Hindus for votes, playing the game of dividing the Hindu-Muslims and creating an atmosphere of tension to gain the votes,” it added.The editorial further said, “Those who say that Shiv Sena abandoned Hindutva, have they forgotten the marriage for power with Mehbooba Mufti in Jammu and Kashmir? Instead of advising on what Shiv Sena should do, they should focus on the anger of the Hindus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjps-neo-hindutva-is-the-biggest-farce-shiv-sena-101635002210320.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation begins survey to prevent spread of dengue cases||With around 200 to 300 suspected dengue cases and 24 confirmed ones in Kalyan and Dombivli, the health department of Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has started a survey in the city as a part of the precautionary measures.KDMC has started a house-to-house survey by collecting blood samples, checking water containers with mosquito larvae, cracking on mosquito breeding spots, spreading awareness by distributing pamphlets and creating awareness verbally among the residents.On Saturday morning, dengue survey visit at Anand Bhavan and Jayesh Nivas at Sant Sena Chauk Aahilyabai Chowk in Kalyan (W) was conducted by the KDMC health department. “There are 24 confirmed dengue cases now in KDMC since June and 70 malaria cases. There are around 200-300 suspected dengue cases also for which we have sent samples for testing at the government lab,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.“In order to ensure that there is no outbreak of dengue cases, we have started with preventive measures. Construction sites are being monitored. We have served notice to such sites to take measures,” added Panpatil.Private practicing paediatricians have also claimed that there are several cases of dengue reported among children.Sandip Naik, a paediatrician from Yogidham, Kalyan (W), said, “There have been several cases of dengue arriving at my clinic in the last two to three weeks. Most of the patients need admission too. Parents should ensure that the kids do not play in mosquito-prone areas. They should ensure that kids are provided with mosquito repellent. Also, look out for symptoms like fever, body ache, body rashes, nausea, vomiting at early stages and report to the doctor on time.”A parent of a child who contracted dengue and was admitted for a week from Yogidham locality, said, “When I visited the doctor, I was told that there were many cases of dengue and malaria among children. I would request the civic body to not only visit houses but also big complexes and take measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-municipal-corporation-begins-survey-to-prevent-spread-of-dengue-cases-101635001610284.html
23-10-2021||Pune||SRA survey of Patil Estate slums to begin October 25, decks cleared for more carpet area for dwellers||PUNE: The Pune Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) has initiated a survey of the Patil Estate slums at Shivajinagar, scheduled to begin on Monday, October 25. The SRA officials held a meeting with the residents of the Patil Estate slums and the management of the College of Engineering Pune (COEP). The survey is the first step towards the pending slum redevelopment project.Rajendra Nimbalkar, chief executive officer of SRA Pune, said, “We want to complete the redevelopment of the Patil Estate slums in the next four years. From Monday, we are starting a survey of all the shanties in the area. A plan will be prepared thereafter. We are aiming to float tenders for the developers in January 2022 and start the development work by April 2022.”The land on which the slums have come up was allotted to the COEP in the late 1980s but could not be brought to use because of the encroachments. Gradually, the number of shanties on this land has increased substantially, prompting the COEP to approach the SRA to implement the redevelopment project. The actual picture with regard to the redevelopment project will be clear once survey data is obtained, according to the COEP authorities.B B Ahuja, director of the COEP, said, “That land belongs to the COEP. SRA is conducting this survey. Through the survey, we will get to know how many shanties are there and how many people are eligible for the redevelopment scheme. Also, we will get an idea about the availability of land for the COEP. Once data from the survey is obtained, the picture will be clear.”Comparing the upcoming survey with an earlier one carried out by the COEP through a private NGO, Mr Ahuja said, “The SRA is now conducting the survey and the data obtained from it will be authentic as it has been carried out by a government agency.”The state government approved the Pune SRA’s new development policy on September 23, clearing the decks for the slum dwellers to get more carpet area as desired by them. Developers too are set to get some benefits as free sale will be allowed and they will be less dependent on the transfer of development rights (TDR). Under the new policy, a timeframe of 18 to 48 months has been assigned to the developers depending on the number of homes. This decision is expected to benefit the approximately 600 slums in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.Nimbalkar said, “Residents in this area were demanding a carpet area of 300 sq ft. It will now be possible as we will be able to implement the new development policy. I request the residents to cooperate with us in the survey and in future as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sra-survey-of-patil-estate-slums-to-begin-october-25-decks-cleared-for-more-carpet-area-for-dwellers-101635001010230.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation clears encroachments around Lotus Lake in Nerul||Following the Public Interest Litigation against the illegal dumping on Lotus Lake in Nerul, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has cleared the encroachments around the lake and is also in the process of removing the debris dumped.The residents of Sector 27, Nerul around the lake have also been demanding the removal of the chestnut plantation that is suspected to be done illegally and restore the lake with the lotus plantations.In July, a PIL was filed by advocate Pradeep Patole with respect to restoring the Lotus Lake, to which the court had orally directed the corporation to remove the debris which was dumped by CIDCO.During heavy rains, the clearing of the debris was stalled and now it has resumed. The footpath alongside the lake has now been repaired and the illegal hutments have also been cleared by the encroachment department of NMMC.“The bigger problem now is the plantation of chestnuts in the lake. We are demanding the removal of the same from NMMC. The volunteers and activists have also decided to have a plantation drive on Sunday alongside the lake to protect it,” Patole said.NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said, “We have repaired the footpath and the encroachment is also cleared. The chestnut issue is still pending and we will clear that as well. It is important to stop the access to the lake in order to avoid any kind of dumping and encroachment near it. A solution will be figured out.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-municipal-corporation-clears-encroachments-around-lotus-lake-in-nerul-101635000234397.html
23-10-2021||Pune||Filthy Katraj upper lake irks residents||PUNE Once a top attraction in the city, Katraj upper lake is in a filthy condition and daily morning walkers and citizens have expressed anger for the sorry state of the lake.Despite enough rains, the lake doesn’t have enough water and plastic and other waste can be seen floating on water in large quantities.Upper Katraj lake had become one of the attractions in the city due to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj statue, highest Indian flag, Phool rani train for kids and unique structure of Patil wada along with walkway around the lake.Ravindra Mane, who used to visit the lake frequently, said, “It is sad that citizens throw plastic waste in the garden. Not only the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), but citizens are also responsible for it.”“People from the neighbouring slum throw waste in the lake. The waste is spread all over on both the sides of walls,” he said.Sarika Patil, another resident in the area, said, “It is one of the identities. Our friends and relatives used to always visit the garden but now we avoid it.”Despite good rains, there is not enough water in the lake.Askok Ghorpade, head, PMC garden department, said, “The gardens are maintained by the garden department and water body and drainage is maintained by the health department. It is true that there are some issues, but I would ensure that the plastic waste and other garbage in the water body and around the garden would be cleaned soon.”Ghorpade said, “As gardens were closed, many gardens have a maintenance issue. As the train for kids was closed, there are chances that the track and other areas might get damaged. We would rectify it soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/filthy-katraj-upper-lake-irks-residents-101635000050350.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||Covid deaths: Uttar Pradesh government issues guidelines for compensation||Days after chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced that ₹ 50,000 compensation would be given to the families of each person who died due to Covid, the revenue department of the Uttar Pradesh government released detailed guidelines regarding the ex gratia to the next of kin for Covid deaths. As many as 22,898 people have died of Covid in the state.“The list of Covid victims is updated till October 18,” read an order issued by Manoj Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, on Saturday.To avail the compensation for Covid deaths, it would be mandatory to get “death due to Covid-19” listed in the death certificate. A Covid death ascertaining committee (CDAC) comprising the additional district magistrate, chief medical officer, additional chief medical officer, principal or head of the department of medicine in medical college and a subject expert would be set up at the district level. This committee would ascertain the cause of death and testify the same.All applications received at the office of the district magistrates would have to be uploaded on the relief commissioner’s website rahat.up.nic.in after which, on completion of all the necessary formalities, the ex gratia would be electronically transferred to the account of the kin of the Covid victim. To avail ex gratia, an application in the prescribed format, along with death certificate stating Covid as the cause of death, would have to be made before the district magistrates who would be required to set up a cell to receive such applications. In his detailed order, Singh also said that the state government is paying ₹30 lakh each to those employees on panchayat election duty who died of Covid. “Additionally, ₹50 lakh each for the kin of those who died while being deployed on Covid-19 duty too has been sanctioned,” Singh’s order said while making it clear that the ₹ 50,000 ex gratia order won’t be applicable on them. Earlier this week, Yogi Adityanath had said that the state government will soon issue guidelines for rolling out compensation and that each district will have a committee under the district magistrate to execute the scheme.“Make sure that no potential beneficiary is left out,” Yogi Adityanath had directed the officers after the Supreme Court approved the Central government’s proposal of paying ₹50,000 to the next of kin of those who died due to Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-deaths-uttar-pradesh-government-issues-guidelines-for-compensation-101634999810164.html
23-10-2021||Other||Punjab legal services authority executive chairman holds event on free legal aid||Chandigarh Punjab and Haryana high court judge justice Ajay Tewari, who is also the executive chairman of the Punjab State Legal Services Authority, visited Dharamgarh and Bakarpur villages in Mohali to sensitise people about Free Legal Aid. The executive chairman informed residents about the remedy of Free Legal Aid by participating in Legal Awareness Programmes. Those present were informed that under Section-12 of the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987, a woman, child, any person in custody, the specially-abled, Schedules Castes/Scheduled Tribes and any person having annual income of less than ₹3 lakh can avail the benefit of an advocate to be paid by the Authority. The authority can be reached at its toll-free number 1968.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-legal-services-authority-executive-chairman-holds-event-on-free-legal-aid-101634999510069.html
23-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM visits rain-hit areas of Champawat, assured help to the affected||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Saturday toured rain-hit Telwada village of Champawat district in the state, and assured the affected people of all help from the government.He also prayed for peace to the soul of those killed in rain-related incidents in the district and commiserated with their family members.The Champawat district has reported 11 deaths in the downpours that hit Uttarakhand from October 17-19 -- the maximum after Nainital which reported the highest casualty of 35 in Kumaon region.  Dhami asked officials to expedite payment of compensation to the next of kin of the deceased and step up relief and rescue operations in the affected areas.Leader of Opposition in Uttarakhand Assembly Pritam Singh also toured the rain ravaged areas of Kumaon and criticised the state government for not responding to the crisis as quickly as required."Despite a red alert issued by the MeT department well in advance, the state government did not respond as quickly to the disaster as it should have," the Congress leader told reporters at Nainital Club.The state government still does not know the extent of the damage, he said.Singh also accused the BJP-led state government of hiding the real number of the dead and razed houses in the three days of incessant rains.He said Union Home Minister Amit Shah had disappointed the people of the state by not announcing a relief package and demanded that it should be announced immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-cm-visits-rain-hit-areas-of-champawat-assured-help-to-the-affected-101634988943793.html
23-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan zila parishad, panchayat samiti polls: Over 55% voter turnout recorded||Over 55 per cent voter turnout was recorded till 5 pm in the second phase of polling for zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections in Rajasthan's Dholpur and Alwar districts on Saturday, the State Election Commission (SEC) said.The first phase of polling was held on October 20.An SEC spokesperson said that 55.97 per cent voter turnout was recorded till 5 pm in the second phase of voting in Dholpur and Alwar.State Election Commissioner P S Mehra said that in the second phase, 9.73 lakh voters were eligible to exercise their franchise in both districts and 1,312 polling stations had been set up.The zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections in Dholpur and Alwar are being held in three phases. In the first phase, 64.24 per cent voter turnout was recorded. Polling for the third phase will be held on October 26.Counting of votes will be done at district headquarters on October 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-zila-parishad-panchayat-samiti-polls-over-55-voter-turnout-recorded-101634998919322.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||70-year-old woman attacked by brokers in Ulhasnagar, 1 held||A 70-year-old woman in Ulhasnagar was attacked with a blade by two brokers who visited her to settle a deal to sell her house on Friday evening.Vithalwadi police have arrested one of the accused and further investigation is on.The victim is seriously injured on her head, hands and neck, and is undergoing treatment. The victim was identified as Madhu Golani, 70, resident of Alankar Apartment of Camp No. 4 of Ulhasnagar. She lives alone and for the past eight months, she has been searching for a buyer for her house. She informed a few brokers for the same. Police said that on Friday evening, two brokers, Ganesh Suhanda and Ravi Talreja, visited her house with a deal that was rejected by the Golani. They forced her to give the original documents of the flat, which again she refused.An officer from Vithalwadi police station said, “The accused then indulged her in talking and went to the bedroom balcony. They called her to show leakage over there and after Golani went inside, both held her and beat her up holding her mouth. They attacked her with a sharp blade and knife on her head, neck and cut her left wrist four times before fleeing. Some residents took Golani to the hospital. She is undergoing treatment and the condition is serious. We arrested Suhanda and search is on for Talreja.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/70yearold-woman-attacked-by-brokers-in-ulhasnagar-1-held-101634998789966.html
23-10-2021||Other||Citing ₹15 cr dues, Punjab private hospitals refusing care to poor under Ayushman scheme||Moga In a state-wide development, all 500-odd private hospitals, empanelled with the Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY), have stopped attending to unprivileged and poor patients under this cashless health insurance cover, citing the state government’s failure to clear dues. Private hospitals say they have not been reimbursed for the past two months, with dues climbing up to ₹15 crore to date. The AB-SSBY scheme was among the Congress’ poll promises before the 2017 assembly elections. Punjab has enrolled 55 lakh families in the scheme and offers an insurance cover of ₹5 lakh to beneficiaries at empanelled public and private hospitals. It has also announced the extension of the insurance cover to include 15 lakh more families.Nirmaljeet Singh, 58, of Moga, said, “I had visited the Mittal Hospital and Heart Centre for treatment of hernia on Saturday. They told me that they are not providing treatment under health insurance under the AB-SSBY, claiming that they were protesting against the state government.”Sources said private hospital owners had met Punjab health minister OP Soni and officials of the insurance company a week ago. Then too, hospitals had warned the state government of their decision to boycott poor beneficiaries, if their dues were not cleared, but to no avail. Dr Kuldeep Singh Arora, state president, Indian Medical Association (IMA), said, “All empanelled private hospitals have boycotted the treatment of patients under AB-SSBY from Saturday. This is a collective decision of all private hospitals and the IMA is with them. The state government has not cleared any claim of private hospitals under this health cover, since its collaboration with SBI General Insurance Company. For two months, no claim has been passed and dues have gone up to ₹15 crore.” “We are not willing to halt the scheme, but have been compelled to do this, as meetings with the health department yield no results. Pending payment is leading to derailment of health infrastructure and facilities at hospitals. The insurance company is also harassing us with unnecessary inspections and audits,” he added. Dr Sanjiv Mittal, owner of Mittal Hospital And Heart Centre, in Moga, said, “We are struggling to run our hospital. We do not have money to buy medicines and to give salaries to staff with dues piling up.” Punjab health department principal secretary Vikas Garg said, “I have spoken with the representatives of IMA on the issue. Now, we are releasing payment to private hospitals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/citing-15-cr-dues-punjab-private-hospitals-refusing-care-to-poor-under-ayushman-scheme-101634998670036.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Nation functions on rights, not on individual’s will, says CM Uddhav Thackeray||In an apparent jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the nation runs on rights and not on the will of an individual. Thackeray reiterated the issue of sovereignty of the states and sought guidance from legal luminaries on the rights of the Centre and state. Thackeray was speaking in Aurangabad at the inauguration of the two wings of the annexe building of Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court, where Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, Union law minister Kiren Rijiju, minister of state for finance Dr Bhagwat Karad, supreme court judge DY Chandrachud, chief justice of Bombay high court Dipankar Datta, were also present.The chief minister added that while we celebrate the Amrut Mahotsav (75th year) of independence, there needs to be a “brainstorming” on what has been achieved in these seven and a half decades after independence. Raking the issue of federalism in India for the second time in eight days, Thackeray said the celebration of freedom should not be limited to 75 years, but freedom is to be maintained permanently.Speaking in front of the legal experts on Saturday, the CM asked, “What is our country’s democracy and is there a federal structure in it. What has been written in the Constitution about Centre and states’ rights? At the time of making the Constitution, the questions were raised by some experts on the powers of states and the Centre. Babasaheb Ambedkar had clearly said that except few rights, the states too are sovereign like the Centre. Are these rights being encroached upon?”He further said that he was speaking what was in the minds of the common man. “If we feel that slavery should not be our destiny again, then I humbly request that all the legal experts should discuss and guide the nation on the issue. What does freedom mean? Who has how many rights? Yes, you hold an office, but being in office does not mean that your will can become your right. Your authority is separate, and your will is different. Someone should tell us.”“I am confident that the legal experts will soon throw light on these matters and everybody will get to know the framework of the constitution,” he added.Last week, in a speech during the Dussehra rally of Shiv Sena — the party he heads — Thackeray had said that the architects of the Constitution gave equal sovereignty to the State and Centre under the federal structure. He had also that if the Centre interfered in the workings of the State then it is “unconstitutional” and “cannot be tolerated”.Thackeray on Saturday also took a jibe at former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, who remains absconding in the money laundering and Antilia bomb scare case. Justice Chandrachud during his speech had referred to a case from 1958 where an accused was absconding.“Chandrachud saheb, you mentioned that one accused has been absconding since 1958, and his case is still pending. Here (Maharashtra), the complainant is missing, but the case is still going on. Nobody knows where the complainant fled away after levelling the allegations. But, the allegations are dug up, inquiries and raids are conducted. There is a need to bring in some framework for such methods,” he said.Stating that crime against women has now become a major issue in the country, Thackeray said that the government has decided to build shelters for the safety of homeless women and orphan children. “As part of the decision, a survey has stated in Mumbai for the shelter of homeless and orphaned women and children that will help prevent injustice to such vulnerable groups,” he added.Thackeray said that his government will work to give justice to the people as providing justice is not one man’s job but teamwork. The chief minister said that the government will soon allocate land for a new building of the Bombay high court. He asked CJI to remain present for the foundation laying ceremony. “We will try to inaugurate the building in our term only,” the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nation-functions-on-rights-not-on-individual-s-will-says-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101634998430142.html
23-10-2021||Kolkata||'4-0’: Abhishek predicts scoreline ahead of Bengal bypolls; slams BJP for ‘dishonouring’ people’s verdict||Trinamool Congress general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday accused BJP leaders Jagannath Sarkar and Nisith Pramanik of ‘dishonouring’ the people’s verdict by choosing to retain their parliamentary seats. He also predicted that in the upcoming bypolls Trinamool will make a 4-0 sweep.“Winning BJP candidates Jagannath Sarkar and Nisith Pramanik resigned as MLAs even after being elected by people. They dishonoured the verdict of people to retain parliamentary berths. The BJP is seeking votes again in those two seats. They will be rejected by people,” Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.He pointed out that the bypolls in Gosaba and Khardah were necessitated due to the deaths of Trinamool Congress leaders but the bypolls in Shantipur and Dinhata were thrusted upon the electorates.He also attacked the BJP by saying that the party is trying to win the Shantipur bypolls riding on the issue of recent communal violence in Bangladesh. “The BJP state president (Sukanta Majumdar) has said that his party will win by-elections in Shantipur because of the violence in Bangladesh. Isn't he ashamed? You (Majumdar) are trying to gain political mileage out of communal violence in Bangladesh where Hindus were tortured,” Banerjee said.He also applauded West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee claiming that she has risen as the ‘undisputed leader’ all over the country. Banerjee expressed confidence that the TMC will defeat the BJP government in Tripura in the upcoming elections and condemned the alleged attack on Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev when she was on a visit to Agartala. He said that with the TMC making forays into Goa and Tripura, the party is rising as an alternative to the PM Modi government in the Centre.He also took a jibe at the Congress and Left Front saying that voting for these parties is akin to pressing the NOTA (none of the above) button in the EVM machine. He said voting for them will also strengthen the ‘hands of the BJP’.Bypolls will be held in Gosaba, Dinhata, Khardaha and Shantipur on October 30. Dinhata seat will go into polls as Lok Sabha MP and Union minister Nisith Pramanik vacated it. He won by 57 seats in a close contest earlier this year during the polls. Jagannath Sarkar also did not quit his Lok Sabha seat despite winning from Shantipur. The deaths of Kajal Sinha and Jayanta Naskar necessitated the bypolls in Gosaba and Khardaha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/40-abhishek-predicts-scoreline-ahead-of-bengal-bypolls-101634997375550.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Railway Crime Branch arrest man for murder registered with Vashi GRP||The Railway Crime Branch has busted the murder registered with Vashi Government Railway Police (GRP) by identifying a body found a week ago near the tracks. The accused has been arrested.A body, identified to be that of Anil Suresh Thakur Singh (19), was found on September 12 under the Palm Beach flyover between Vashi and Sanpada railway stations. Preliminary investigation had revealed that the deceased was killed by thrashing a stone on his head.After that, Vashi Railway Police had registered a case of murder against the unidentified accused and started efforts to identify the deceased. The police then started searching for the missing persons in all the police stations in Navi Mumbai, Mumbai, Thane and Raigad.In the process, they learned about Singh, who had gone missing from Digha in Airoli. After the identification of the deceased, Vashi GRP and Railway Crime Branch started the investigations.While examining the CCTV footage of the railway station on the Harbour and Trans Harbour Railway, the police found footage of a man along with the deceased, walking towards Sanpada from Vashi Railway Station the day before the murder.According to the Railway Police, the man was identified as Shubham Ramashankar Shukla alias Pikachu, a friend of the deceased Singh.“After the identification of the man seen in the footage, he was nabbed and during the interrogation, he confessed to the crime and was then arrested,” Vashi GRP senior police inspector, Vishnu Kesarkar said.Police said that the deceased had killed a man around two years ago when he was a minor and had started bullying people in Digha area. Meanwhile, Shukla, who, too was a bully of the area, was arrested in a theft case and when he was released from the jail, he learnt that Singh was now known as the ‘bhai’ of the area. This irked him. So as to not lose his status as the ‘bhai’ of the area, Shukla decided to kill Singh. Shukla had brought to the spot after getting him drunk and then killing him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railway-crime-branch-arrest-man-for-murder-registered-with-vashi-grp-101634997171437.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka flags off yatras, promises farm loan waiver, halving power bills in Uttar Pradesh||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday flagged off three pratigya yatras and made five more promises, including farm loan waiver and halving power bills, ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly election.The promises also include 20 lakh government jobs in Uttar Pradesh, minimum support price of ₹2500 per quintal for wheat and paddy, state advisory price (SAP) of ₹400 per quintal for sugarcane, bringing down power bills to half, waiving dues of the Covid-19 period and financial assistance of ₹25,000 to Covid-19 affected families if the Congress comes to power in the state.With this, the Congress has made seven promises in the run-up to the assembly polls so far. Earlier this week, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra promised 40% party tickets to women for the assembly polls, smartphones to class 12 pass girls and scooties to women graduates.“We will not be able to bring about development and resolve some issues unless the women make progress and participate in the government. The Congress wants to give 40% tickets to women to ensure they are capable of fighting their battles. We are bringing out a separate manifesto for women, and the announcement of smartphones and electric scooties for girls is one of the promises made in the manifesto for women to be released in a week,” said Priyanka Gandhi while speaking briefly at the programme in which one of the pratigya yatras was flagged off from Harakh Bazar in Barabanki, about 40 km from the state capital.The pratigya yatras have been given the slogan “Hamari saat pratigyayen, hum vachan nibhayenge (Our seven promises, we will fulfil our commitment).”The two other yatras began from Varanasi and Saharanpur. The yatras will cover major cities, towns and villages of the state till November 1. The Congress’ s fourth yatra will be launched from Gorakhpur after Diwali.Priyanka used the occasion to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi for what she described as the “bad” state of affairs of farmers and not dismissing union minister of state for home Ajay Kumar Mishra Teni whose son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with violence in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3.The minister and his son have repeatedly denied the latter’s alleged involvement in the incident.“You are aware how farmers have been killed by the son of a minister of the Narendra Modi government. This incident speaks of how the Modi government treats the farmers. The father of the accused continues to be a minister in the Modi government. We waived loans of ₹72,000 crore earlier. We will waive loans of farmers again and bring down power bills to half. The Chhattisgarh government is buying paddy for ₹2500 per quintal. We will buy paddy at the same rate. We will also give SAP of ₹400 per quintal to sugarcane growers,” she said.She said a number of contractual workers have met her in the past two years and the party, when voted to power, would regularise their jobs. Before making the seven promises, Priyanka had a brief interaction with a group of women in a paddy field in Barabanki. The women were seen offering her jaggery and food there.“I have come here to understand their problems and the state of affairs here,” she said.Reacting to the Congress’s promises, Uttar Pradesh BJP vice-president Vijay Pathak said, “The Congress has named poll promises as its pratigya. The people will take a call as the party has not been able to keep its promises in the past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-flags-off-yatras-promises-farm-loan-waiver-halving-power-bills-in-uttar-pradesh-101634997170107.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||291 hectares of forest land to be diverted for Kondhane dam||Just over 291 hectares of forest land (equal to 32 Oval Maidans) in Raigad and Pune districts are likely to be diverted for the controversial Kondhane Dam project which is proposed to be built across the Ulhas River and will provide 245MLD (millions of litre per day) of water a day to emerging localities in the southern end of Navi Mumbai. The City Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco), which is executing the project, applied for stage-1 forest clearance on October 16, official documents show. The project’s total land requirement (including non-forested area), is 400 hectares. At a per capita water requirement of 135 litres per day, the dam is expected to benefit a population of 1,850,000 people. Construction work is estimated to take five years, though it is yet unclear when construction will resume.Ganesh Phadke, executive engineer (Kondhane-Balganga), Cidco, did not respond to calls seeking comment on Saturday. However, a senior official in Cidco’s environment office said, “The project is very much on the cards, but it is starting with a clean slate. The earlier contractor has been blacklisted, and even the detailed project report was prepared afresh by Cidco. Some portion of the water will be used for irrigation, but the majority will go to the Navi Mumbai Airport Influence Notified Area (Naina) region and also Pushpak Nagar, which are expected to see a big boom once the Navi Mumbai International Airport is constructed.”The Kondhane dam was the first of several irrigation projects sanctioned during the Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) regime and had come under the scanner for alleged corruption and cost escalations during the Maharashtra irrigation scam. The Konkan Irrigation Development Corporation (KIDC) was to initially build the dam at a height of 39 metres at a cost of ₹56.16 crore. The first detailed project report was prepared in 2006-07.The state water resources department had tried to push the project twice earlier with a much higher cost of ₹443.94 crore and a height of about 71 metres, but could not pass the scrutiny of government agencies. Within months of the KIDC taking up the project, its scope was widened and the cost escalated. Construction began in 2011, and by 2012 the project cost climbed to ₹614 crore from ₹56.16 crore, as per an investigation by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB). The previous contractor had completed about a quarter of the work, as per previous design specifications. The cost of the revived project, Cidco submitted to the forest department, now stands at ₹155,000 lacs ( ₹1,550 crore).The subsequent Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in 2017 revived the project and handed it over to Cidco, this time as a drinking water project for the 644 sq km Naina, which is located 35kms away from the proposed dam. In 2017, Cidco paid ₹99 crore to the water resources department to acquire the project. Presently, the rest of Navi Mumbai draws water from the Hetawane Water Supply Scheme MJP’s Patalganga Project, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s Morbe Dam and MIDC’s Barvi Dam. “The ultimate saturated water demand of present Cidco and Naina area in 2034 is likely to be 1275MLD,” Cidco said in a project brief submitted to the forest department.As per current specifications, the Kondhane Dam project “envisages construction of 80m high dam across River Ulhas at Kondhane Village with a full reservoir level at EL (elevation). Around 140.0 metres and corresponding storage of 115.98 million cubic meters (MCM)”, the project note clarifies. The dam will displace two villages, Kondhane and Chochi, and 118 families are proposed to be relocated to about 8kms away. Other villages affected include Udewai, Kune and Nandgaon. As per information submitted to the forest department by Cidco, the process for settlement of rights under the Forest Rights Acts (2006) has been completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/291-hectares-of-forest-land-to-be-diverted-for-kondhane-dam-101634995909797.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||One Avighna Park fire: Short-circuit likely cause, says Mumbai Fire Brigade||A day after a fire incident killed one person in a 60-storeyed One Avighna Park, Currey Road, the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) has said that the preliminary cause of the fire is likely to be a short circuit on the 19th floor and the subsequent fire caught by wooden furniture. The MFB, has said that had the firefighting system in the building got operational automatically, the fire would have come under control much earlier. However, the fire brigade had to manually activate the system leading to losing crucial time, said MFB officers.The MFB has allowed residents of both the wings of the high-rises to go back to their apartments and have also restored electricity, except on the floor that caught fire.The MFB has said the primary cause of the fire is a short-circuit and subsequently the furniture on the 19th floor of the B wing catching fire, however, the exact cause will be known after a thorough investigation, said MFB officials.Hemant Parab, chief fire officer of the MFB said, “We went in 15 minutes after the call and activated the firefighting system manually. But had the system activated on its own automatically, the fire would have been brought under control much earlier.”Parab added, “We are investigating further and the final cause of the fire will be out only when our investigation is concluded. For now, a short circuit is expected to be the reason behind the fire. We have also submitted our statement to the police. Also, we have not traced the form B, which is a six-monthly fire compliance report to be submitted by the builder yet.”On Friday, a level four fire was reported at One Avighna Park, in which dozens of citizens were rescued safely. However, a 30-year-old security guard lost his life.A viral video surfaced on Friday of one of the residents, Rohit Rathod, whose apartment caught fire alleged that the fire-fighting system did not work efficiently. Rathod could not be reached for his comment on Saturday.Kailash Agarwal, chairman of Avighna Group denied all allegations to be true. Agarwal said, “There is a possibility that due to fire everyone was in shock and the pump operator due to shock could not manage to look for starting the system. The fire officers have also said that the firefighting system was operative but the pressure was low, though it was increased later.”On Form B or fire compliance reports, Agarwal said, “I have submitted Form B both in January and July 2021 via online platform. There is no scope of us not complying with the rules and regulations.”A letter shared by Agarwal claiming to have been submitted to the Mumbai Police reads, “While as developers we have provided the best quality fire-fighting equipment and the system even within the flat premises if the internal/ interior work carried out by the residents is not in compliance with the installed system, the system can malfunction due to the disruption during the interior work. Ensuring the functioning of internal equipment like sprinklers is the responsibility of the flat owners and in this case, it must be investigated if any interior work carried out by the 19th floor resident has tampered with the functioning of the installed sprinklers. Similarly, it should also be investigated if the excessive wooden interior work which is non-resistant to fire was instrumental in increasing the intensity of the fire.”Meanwhile, Swapnaja Kshirsagar, assistant municipal commissioner of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said, “We do not have any concerns relating to the structure at the moment considering it was legal and an occupation certificate was issued in 2018. However, the municipal commissioner will take a call on Monday regarding a further course of action. It will also depend on the investigations by the fire brigade and the Mumbai Police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-avighna-park-fire-short-circuit-likely-cause-says-mumbai-fire-brigade-101634995731435.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Man from Nepal attacks fellow countryman in Thane for not giving food, shelter; arrested||In a fight in Thane between two natives of Nepal, one attacked the other with a vegetable cutter such that the internal organs came out. Thane Nagar police immediately arrested the accused after locals informed them about the same. The victim died on Saturday night.The incident occurred at Neelam Cooperative Housing Society near the Kharkarali area on Friday. A video went viral in which a man recording it is asking the accused, “what happened and why blood stains on your body”?The person couldn’t narrate clearly and suddenly an injured man comes out walking with intestines in his hands. Passers-by stopped a rickshaw to take them to hospital.According to Thane Nagar police, the victim, identified as Padma Bahadur Thapola, 49, lives with his family in Neelam CHS and works there as a watchman. On Friday, at around 4pm, the accused, Indramohan Bharmule Buda, 40, visited Thapola’s house and asked him to make arrangements for his stay and food at his place. An officer from Thane Nagar police station, said, “The accused was searching for a stay, job and food, and asked Thapola for a favour. As Thapola refused, the furious Buda stabbed Thapola on the stomach in such a way that Thapola’s intestines came out. He was immediately taken to Kalwa Hospital and underwent a surgery. The accused has been arrested immediately under IPC Section 307.”Thapola succumbed to death on Saturday night after the surgery. A police officer said, “He had a deep cut in the stomach and due to serious infection he couldn’t survive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-from-nepal-attacks-fellow-countryman-in-thane-for-not-giving-food-shelter-arrested-101634994529771.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi 'very close to winning' the battle against dengue, says Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed that the national Capital is now "very close" to winning the battle against dengue and urged citizens to participate in '10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute' campaign on Sunday to help defeat dengue.“Like previous weeks, this Sunday too at 10 am, let us all spend 10 minutes, inspecting our homes and surrounding areas, for any sign of stagnant water. If you do find such water, drain it, replace it or cover with a small layer of oil. Together, let us all make Delhi dengue-free," Kejriwal said."We all have to work together to stop mosquito-breeding. We all have to do this for 10 weeks, and defeat dengue," he added.The chief minister’s comment comes amid a sudden spike in the daily tally of dengue cases since the beginning of October. Delhi has been reporting 20 to 30 dengue cases everyday since this month began. The national capital has recorded 723 dengue cases and one fatality this year, government data collected till October 16 shows, of which 382 cases were recorded in this month alone, reported PTI.On October 21, the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government had announced an increase in the number of dengue beds in hospitals and a reduction in the number of beds reserved for coronavirus patients, due to the rising number of dengue cases.“The dengue situation in Delhi is completely under control. There is an adequate number of beds in the hospitals of Delhi. Not only that, patients from outside Delhi are also being treated in Delhi hospitals. At present, 25% of the total dengue patients present in Delhi hospitals are from outside Delhi,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said.“Things are still the same as they were in 2019. The number of coronavirus cases was high in 2020. People were at home. Because of this, dengue cases came down rapidly. But this year, the situation is expected to remain the same [as it was in 2019],” he added.The government has brought down the percentage of beds earmarked for coronavirus patients from 30% to 10% in private hospitals, while reducing the number of reserved beds in government hospitals like Lok Nayak to 400 from 700, claiming that the rest of the beds will be kept aside for dengue patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-very-close-to-winning-the-battle-against-dengue-says-arvind-kejriwal-101634993700754.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||‘There’s a case in Maharashtra where complainant himself is missing’: Thackeray’s dig at ex-Mumbai cop Param Bir Singh||Shiv Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday took a jibe at former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh as he remains absconding in the money laundering and Antilia bomb scare case. “Justice DY Chandrachud pointed out that a case is pending in Maharashtra since 1958 as the accused is absconding. But today we have a case where the complainant is missing,” Thackeray was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.The Sena chief made the remark at the inauguration of two wings of the annexe building at Bombay High Court’s Aurangabad bench. Emphasising his apparent dig at Singh, Thackeray said that the complainant made “serious allegations, but is now missing.” “We do not know where he is. This is something that also needs to be looked into,” he added, according to PTI.The event was attended by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, Supreme Court Judge DY Chandrachud, and Union law minister Kiren Rijuju, among others.Singh has been untraceable since May when he went on leave, citing health reasons. A lookout notice was issued against him in July for his continued absence in the police summons pertaining to the allegations he levelled against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in the money laundering case. He has also named dismissed Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze in the case.Also Read | Param Bir Singh untraceable; not inclined to continue no coercive action statement, state tells HCNotably, Singh was removed as the Mumbai Police chief following his handling of the Antilia bomb scare case and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiren.Last week, law enforcement agencies in Maharashtra said that they have no hint regarding Singh’s whereabouts. This development came after a Maharashtra Crime Investigation Department (CID) team visited Singh’s known addresses, including his official residence in Mumbai, family home in Chandigarh and a house in Haryana’s Rohtak, among many other venues.Earlier, reports suggested that Singh may have fled India either by using a forged passport or before the lookout notice was issued against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thackeray-takes-jibe-at-param-bir-singh-with-complainant-is-missing-remark-101634992236017.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai sees drop in daily Covid cases by 15%; testing down by 8%||Navi Mumbai has seen a decline in per-day Covid cases by 15% over the last two weeks while the testing has declined by 8% in the same period.Till two weeks ago, the average daily Covid cases reported was around 55. This came down to 48 last week and currently is at 47. At the same time, the testing done two weeks ago was 7,895, which came down to 7,005 last week while it has risen to 7,253 this week.“The Urban Health Primary Centres (UHPC) and the labs are doing the tests in full capacity. The minor decrease seen would be due to the decrease in cases. Since around 33 contact tracing is done against one positive case, as the cases decrease, the overall number of targeted testing also decreases, which reflects on the total number of tests,” said a medical officer from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC).The active cases currently in Navi Mumbai are 493, which is 0.46% of the total number of cases – 1,08,023 –in the city till date.The average recovery of patients daily is about 37 and till date, 1,05,585 people have recovered. The recovery rate of cases under NMMC is 98% while case fatality rate is 1.80%.Currently, the doubling rate of cases is 1,983 days. Two weeks back, the doubling rate was 1,812 days with active cases being 481.“Targetted testing and contact tracing has played an important role in stabilising the daily Covid cases. During the festival season, it is expected that people maintain all Covid protocols strictly and not take the pandemic lightly yet. Those yet to be vaccinated with both the doses are also urged to come forward and get the vaccination done,” NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, said.In October, there were more than 10 days with zero deaths reported while it was 12 days in September, which is an indication of the mortality rate going down. “With low number of cases, the health facility too does not have any pressure on the oxygen beds and the ventilators,” Bangar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-sees-drop-in-daily-covid-cases-by-15-testing-down-by-8-101634991591904.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||One Avighna Park fire: Firefighting system didn’t work efficiently, says fire brigade in FIR||The in-built firefighting system of One Avighna Park, Currey Road, did not work efficiently, hence the fire could not be doused in time, leading to the unfortunate incident, the fire department has said in the first information report (FIR) registered by Kalachowkie police, late Friday night against the owner of the high-rise and the contractor responsible for maintaining its firefighting system. However, no specific person has been named in the FIR. On Friday morning, a level four (serious emergency call) fire was reported in the 60-storey high-rise at Currey Road, claiming the life of a security guard. The guard, Arun Tiwari, who had rushed to rescue residents, fell to his death from the 19th floor as fire and smoke engulfed apartment no. 1902 on the floor. The fire brigade rescued 16 residents trapped in smoke-filled corridors. After dousing the fire, the fire department carried out a preliminary inquiry, based on which a police complaint has been filed. The complainant, assistant fire officer Charandas Pawar, in his statement to the police, said that the firefighting system of the building didn’t work on time, and when it started to work, the force of the water was not enough. As a result, the fire could not be controlled in time, said the police. “Based on the fire department’s complaint, we have lodged an FIR under sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 336 (act done rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others) of Indian Penal Code and 3(1) and 3(3) of Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act against the owner of the building and the agency, which was given the responsibility of fire safety and system maintenance,” said Vijay Patil, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 4. The police have so far recorded the statement of seven to eight witnesses including the elder daughter of the owner of flat 1902 and his maid. “From the statements of the witnesses that include the residents as well as the security staff, it is not yet clear when and how security guard Arun Tiwari went inside the flat no. 1902 where the fire erupted. He got trapped inside the smoke-filled flat and later in an attempt to go to the lower flower from the balcony of the flat, he lost grip of the ledge and fell,” said Anand Mulay, senior inspector of Kalachowki police station. “We would also check if the fire safety alarm system of the building worked or not at the relevant,” said DCP Patil. Kailash Agarwal, chairperson of Nish Developers, which constructed One Avighna Park, on Friday had said, “The building’s fire safety is one of the best in the world. We have procured the system from Norway by spending around ₹10 crore. We have also been regularly conducting fire drills and submitting fire audit reports to the competent authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/one-avighna-park-fire-firefighting-system-didn-t-work-efficiently-says-fire-brigade-in-fir-101634991350033.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||BJP’s Baby Rani Maurya asks women not to visit police station after 5pm||Former Uttarakhand governor and BJP national vice president Baby Rani Maurya has advised women not to visit police stations after 5 pm and after it gets dark. Maurya said this while addressing a group of women in Bajardiha area of Varanasi on Friday about the steps taken by BJP government in state to improve security of women.“A woman officer and a sub-inspector definitely sit (at the helpdesk) in the police station. But I will definitely say one thing that never go to a police station after 5 pm and after the dark. Go (to police station) next morning and take your brother, husband or father along, if it is necessary.”She said a number of steps have been taken for the safety and security as well as development of women.The senior BJP leader also asked people to lodge a complaint with district magistrate or chief minister if the ground level officer didn’t listen to them. Citing an example, she said recently a farmer called her to complaint that he was not getting fertilizer. “After I spoke to the officer concerned on mobile and asked him to address the problem, the official said the matter will be sorted out immediately. However, next day he refused to give fertilizer to the farmer,” she said.Her comment was criticized by opposition saying that this exposed the state of affairs in Uttar Pradesh.Aam Admi Party’s Uttar Pradesh in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh attaching news related to this topic, said in a tweet, “Beti Bachao” (save the girl child).” AAP UP spokesperson Mukesh Singh said “Maurya has exposed the reality of the state. The BJP government in UP has failed in controlling crime. Everyone knows how cops behave with ordinary citizens when they visit a police station with a complaint. Maurya is acquainted with this reality.” However, Maurya defended her comments and said: “I was in a Dalit settlement in Banaras recently on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti. There were Dalit and Muslim sisters in that programme. I was giving them information about chief minister Yogi ji’s and PM Modi ji’s government schemes. I also told that there is also a system of fast track courts where women get quick justice. Yogi government and PM Modi-led government are working continuously for women’s safety and self-reliance. The opposition simply twisted my statement,” she added. (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjps-baby-rani-maurya-asks-women-not-to-visit-police-station-after-5pm-101634991229917.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan, Dombivli report drop in Covid cases, fewer people go for testing||A dip in daily cases is being seen in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) over the last two days with less than 50 daily cases reported.Meanwhile, the testing has also reduced as less people arrive for testing and there are fewer low or high-risk contacts, claimed the health department. KDMC, however, has appealed to citizens to follow the necessary precautions during the upcoming Diwali festival.KDMC saw the highest peak of Covid cases in April this year with around 2,500 cases and had the highest progressive cases in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), crossing the one lakh mark.“The daily cases are below 50 now. This means fewer cases are reported. However, it is our appeal to the people to not avoid precautionary measures like maintaining social distance or wearing masks, especially when they visit crowded markets during the festival,” said Dr Pratibha Panpatil, epidemic officer, KDMC.KDMC also claimed that the testing has reduced from around 2,500-3,000 to 1,500-2,000 daily. “The testing will naturally come down as the cases have reduced a lot. Even if we do a contact tracing of 30 people for one infected person, the positive cases reported are less. The testing will increase even if there is a slight rise in the low or high-risk contacts,” added Panpatil.The positivity rate in KDMC has been fluctuating in the last two weeks. Sometimes, the positivity rate has crossed 3% while at other times it is under 2%. With only 31 cases recorded on October 18 and 2,077 tests conducted, the positivity rate was 1.49%, while on October 22, 49 positive cases were recorded and 1,593 tests conducted to give a positivity rate of 3.07%.“Even if the cases have come down, KDMC should ensure the crowding at the markets and public places are under control. There is a need to take extra efforts to control it. The civic body should also emphasise on precautionary measures to avoid a surge post Diwali. At the same time, citizens should follow all the norms as a responsible citizen,” said Sreeniwas Ghanekar, founder of Alert Citizen Forum, Kalyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-dombivli-report-drop-in-covid-cases-fewer-people-go-for-testing-101634989915285.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal byelections: Will carry forward Virbhadra’s legacy, says wife Pratibha||Pratibha Singh, 67, the wife of six-time Himachal Pradesh chief minister, the late Virbhadra Singh, has represented Mandi in the Lok Sabha twice and lost to BJP candidates twice. She is contesting her fifth election from Mandi, which Virbhadra Singh represented four times, hoping to win over voters with the promise to carry forward his legacy. Also read: 3 dead, 1 injured in Jammu and Kashmir after tent comes under landslide debrisQ. Which three issues will be priority if you are elected? A. The three issues that the masses are facing is inflation, unemployment and autocratic policies of the Narendra Modi-led central government. I will work to provide relief to the public from rising prices and unemployment. I will also raise my voice against the Modi government’s anti-people policies at every possible platform. Were you willing to contest this election or was it forced on you as the Congress lacks a formidable face in Mandi? Nobody forced me. I respected the sentiments of party workers and the decision of the high command, who chose me to represent Mandi. My objective is to carry forward the legacy of my late husband and former chief minister Virbhadra Singh and realise his dreams that have been left unfulfilled. Mandi was his workplace. He represented this constituency four times and I have been an MP from here twice. Your opponents say that you were a failure during your previous tenure as MP and now you are seeking votes in the name of your husband. The BJP runs such false propaganda against opponents. As an MP, I allocated the MPLAD fund equally across the parliamentary constituency. Whatever proposals were submitted from whichever assembly constituency or panchayat was approved without any discrimination. I have every right to seek votes in the name of Virbhadra Singh. The credit for whatever development has taken place in Himachal goes to him. So, I have every right to seek votes in the name of his achievements. People of Mandi will vote for the Congress to pay homage to Virbhadra Singh. The Rohtang tunnel project was sanctioned when I was the Lok Sabha member. There are many projects that were sanctioned for Mandi during my tenure whether it was the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) or water supply scheme for the town. Your remark on the Kargil War and army has not gone down well with people. It is the BJP and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who are trying to cash in on army sentiments. They are banking on the army’s valour in the Kargil War. It was the chief minister’s statement that the BJP candidate had won the Kargil War and will also win the Mandi byelection. So, they are comparing the Mandi byelection with the Kargil War for political gains. I salute the BJP nominee for his bravery as an army officer. However, it is the chief minister who is trying to present the Kargil War victory as his and his party’s achievement. Kargil War was fought on our soil, in which many of our soldiers sacrificed their lives. I pay my tributes to them. Don’t you think the real issues have been put on the backburner amid the controversy? The BJP is running away from the real issues. It is serving its political interests by creating a divide in society on the basis of region, religion, caste and creed. They deliberately create controversy to divert attention from the failure of its government at the Centre and the state. But these nefarious designs will not succeed and people will give the BJP a befitting reply in the elections. Will the Virbhadra family continue to dominate the Congress party politics in Himachal? Now, that Virbhadra Singh is no more among us, not only me but every person in the state who loved him is also hurting. My family will remain dedicated to the service of the masses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-byelections-will-carry-forward-virbhadra-s-legacy-says-wife-pratibha-101634987810978.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Thane man arrested for attempting to murder hotel owner||The Rabodi police have arrested a 38-year-old Thane resident for allegedly stabbing a hotel owner over a petty reason earlier this month. A video of the attack, where the drunk accused is seen slashing at the victim more than 20 times with a dagger, had gone viral after the incident last week.According to the police, the accused, identified as Ashok Marsale, is a driver by profession and stays on Amberkar Road in Thane. Police said that on October 15, Marsale, under the influence of alcohol, went to Ruchi Chinese Center near Castle Mill in Rabodi and ordered food.“Marsale asked the hotel owner, Prashant Pujari (39), to serve him his order on a concrete ledge outside the hotel instead of at a table inside like everyone else. Due to the ongoing restrictions placed in the city in light of the pandemic, Pujari refused and this angered Marsale,” police inspector Ramchandra Valatkar of Rabodi police station said.A furious Marsale allegedly whipped out a dagger from under his shirt and slashed at Pujari 24 times. As Pujari reflexively raised both his hands above his head to shield himself, he sustained most of the injuries to his arms and only a few to his head. The entire incident was captured on a nearby CCTV camera and a clip found its way to WhatsApp.The police have registered a case of attempt to murder against Marsale under the IPC and launched a manhunt for him. On Thursday evening, the police received a tip off that Marsale had returned home after being on the run for several days. He was picked up from near his residence and placed under arrest.“Inquiries have established that Marsale and Pujari had a similar argument in the past, and on the day of the incident, Marsale had gone to Pujari’s restaurant armed with a dagger intending to teach him a lesson. Marsale has been remanded in our custody for 10 days,” Valatkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-man-arrested-for-attempting-to-murder-hotel-owner-101634987089447.html
23-10-2021||Patna||Lalu set to return to Patna after almost 4 years, may campaign for by-polls||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav is all set to come to Patna on Sunday after almost six months of recuperating from his illness in New Delhi following release from jail on bail post-conviction in fodder scam related cases in April this year. Since his incarceration on December 23, 2017, Prasad has been away from Patna for over three-and-a-half years and briefly visited Patna for five days on parole in May 2018 to attend his elder son Tej Pratap Yadav’s wedding on May 12. After his release from jail while undergoing treatment at AIIMS, New Delhi on April 30, Prasad had been staying put and recuperating from various illnesses at his eldest daughter and Rajya Sabha MP Misa Bharti’s residence in New Delhi. “I, along with my mother and former chief minister Rabri Devi, will be accompanying my father back to Patna on Sunday. We are planning to take the afternoon flight tomorrow,” Misa Bharti told HT on phone from New Delhi. She said the doctors attending to the 74-year former railway minister would examine him in the evening again. Several tests pertaining to Lalu’s health condition were conducted on Friday, she said. The RJD chief has been ailing from kidney, heart and other ailments for the last many years and his condition had deteriorated during his incarceration since December 2017 post-conviction in fodder scam cases. In total, Prasad has been convicted in four fodder scam cases and got released on bail after completion of formalities on April 30 while undergoing treatment at AIIMS, New Delhi. Earlier, the RJD chief stayed in Rajendra Medical College hospital, Ranchi for medical treatment during his incarceration period of over three years before he was shifted to AIIMS, New Delhi in January this year. While Prasad, during his incarceration, executed a slow transition of power in the party to his younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Prasad Yadav by projecting him as the chief ministerial face in the 2020 assembly polls, the RJD chief continues to call the shots in the party as national president and is facing the challenge of containing growing rivalry between elder son Tej Pratap and Tejashwi. Tej Pratap, of late, has caused much embarrassment to the party by his outburst against senior leaders including state president Jagdanand Singh and had even alleged that his father was being kept ‘hostage’ in New Delhi by a handful of people in the party who were dreaming of becoming the next party national president, which was seen as an attack on younger sibling Tejashwi and his loyalists. However, the ailing RJD chief has tried to dispel such notions and held several meetings in the last few weeks to address party workers from New Delhi virtually and also said to have cautioned Tej Pratap to refrain from making controversial statements. “I will be with you all soon in Patna and tour every district in the state in the coming days. Doctors have asked me to take little water and there are certain restrictions,” the RJD chief said, adding that he was much better in health than previously. However, last week, there were indications that the plans of Prasad to return to Patna had been stalled as Rabri Devi had told media that the RJD chief would not be coming to the state capital soon on health grounds. Admittedly, Prasad’s arrival in Patna is likely to give a morale boost up to the party workers who are expected to give a rousing welcome at Patna airport tomorrow. “We are excited about Lalu’s return. Keeping in view of the Covid situation, there will be a small gathering at Patna airport to welcome him. His return is a big morale boost up for workers,” said Chittaranjan Gaggan, party’s state spokesperson. A new room equipped with all medical facilities has been constructed at the main quarters of the sprawling 10 Circular Road bungalow where Prasad along with his family has been staying since 2006 after RJD lost power in the state. The bungalow is allotted in name of Rabri Devi incapacity of the leader of the opposition in the state legislative council. People familiar with the matter said there is a possibility that Prasad along with his family might celebrate Chhath in Patna this time after a long gap as wife Rabri Devi has not been celebrating the festival for the last few years. Incidentally, the RJD chief’s return to Patna has raised hopes among the party that the party’s campaign for the by-polls being steered by younger son and leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav would get more momentum and could help in influencing the voters’ mood. The RJD is putting all strength to win the two seats where the contest is multi-cornered with ruling JD(U) and Congress having fielded their candidates. People cited above also said there is still no conformity as to whether the RJD chief would be visiting the two constituencies next week by helicopter but a plan could be drawn up depending on Prasad’s health. “We are not sure whether the RJD chief would visit the two constituencies. Everything will depend on his health once he returns to Patna,” said Bhola Yadav, a senior party leader and former MLA. Meanwhile, the ruling BJP and JD(U) have downplayed Prasad’s expected return to Patna stating that it would not make much impact to help the RJD in getting any advantage in the by-polls. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, while talking to reporters at a public event in Patna on Saturday, did not comment on the RJD chief’s expected return to Patna and also asserted he had no interest in the ongoing hostility between RJD and Congress in the grand alliance. “I have no interest in it,” he said. The BJP’s state spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said that Prasad’s return may be an occasion of jubilation for the RJD and its workers but would not give an advantage to the opposition party in the by-polls for two seats. “RJD workers and leaders may be excited about Lalu’s return to Patna but it will have no impact on the by-polls. People of Bihar have lost faith in the RJD chief and they have not forgotten the old days of RJD rule,” said Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-set-to-return-to-patna-after-almost-4-years-may-campaign-for-bypolls-101634986971300.html
23-10-2021||Pune||Bits’n’bytes: Know about business events in Pune||FITTR raises US $11.5 million in Series A Health and fitness community platform, Fittr, announced that has raised $11.5 million in a Series A funding round. The round was co-led by Dream Capital, the corporate venture capital and M&A arm of Dream Sports and Elysian Park Ventures, the private investment arm of the LA Dodgers ownership group. Existing investor Sequoia Capital’s India Surge also participated in the funding round. The new capital will enable India-based Fittr to accelerate its growth and expansion into new markets, including North America, the UK and Singapore, which currently accounts for 30 per cent of the company’s overall revenue, while continuing to educate the Indian population around health and fitness. “Fittr has always been committed to democratising fitness, and raising awareness around physical, mental and emotional well-being. The investment raised will assist us to make strategic headways in achieving this goal,” said Jitendra Chouksey, CEO and founder, Fittr. Nikhil Bahel, managing partner, Elysian Park Ventures, said, “The fitness market has changed dramatically over the last year, and we believe the demand for digital fitness training will only continue to grow. Fittr’s community-based model is well positioned for success, and we believe it has the ability to become a dominant global fitness and health brand.”ConveGenius raises $5 million in venture capital fundingConveGenius has raised $5 million in venture capital funding to launch its conversational AI platform, ConveGenius AI in India and global markets. The pre-seed round was led by new investors, BAce Capital, Heritas Capital and 3Lines Venture Capital as well as existing investor, Michael and Susan Dell Foundation.Convegenius.AI aims to expand its products on a Whatsapp ecosystem and other conversational AI-based channels horizontally, to service more customers across different verticals and allow developers to launch their solutions on the platform. Jairaj Bhattacharya, CEO, ConveGenius Group, said, “We are aiming at making quality education accessible for middle- and low-income groups across India and make quality education accessible to 100 million marginalised children in India.”Pallab Chatterjee, chairman 3 Lines VC Rocket Fund, said, “ConveGenius has focused on the broad and hitherto unserved market of 235 million students who belong to the first-generation mobile internet users with households using smartphones and mobile devices for the first time. Its focus on mass market users and democratisation of personalised content distribution by building conversational user experiences for mobile devices has created a niche segment for innovation and value creation.” Sixth Element Finserv launches setup services in PuneSixth Element Finserv has launched ‘Setup Services India’ (SSI) a one-stop financial services solution for next-gen entrepreneurs to facilitate their business registration, compliance management and to make the advisory processes robust, transparent and cost-effective.Nishant Arora, founder, Setup Services India (SSI), said, “Pune has consistently ranked among the top-5 cities in software and IT startups. The city has an edge in the probability to give India the next-gen startups and making unicorns. It will help founders/ entrepreneurs focus on their core business activities and grow instead of being tied up in managing their financial processes and wasting time on something that can be outsourced and managed with ease.”The company says that it is trying to replace accounts dept and not the CA; SSI is introducing CRM in financial services so that startups feel secure while being associated with a consulting firm. Blockchain startup Arcana raises $2.3 millionBlockchain startup Arcana Network has raised $2.3 million from leading investors in the Blockchain ecosystem. The strategic round of funding was led by Republic Crypto and Woodstock Fund, and also saw participation from Digital Currency Group (DCG), Hyperedge, Sahil Lavingia’s shl.vc, Fenbushi Capital, LD Capital, and Paradigm Shift VC. The $2.3 million round also saw participation from Ganesh Swami, CEO of Covalent, Ajeet Khurana, Buidlers Tribe, Nishal Shetty of WazirX, Ajit Tripathi from Aave, along with Arcana’s seed investors AU21 and Arcanum Capital who’ve also invested in this round.Founded by Mayur Relekar (CEO) and Co-founders Aravindh Kumar, and Abhishek Chaudhary in 2019, Arcana can expect to expand its squad, strengthen its product portfolio and soon launch Arcana’s XAR token after this fundraise.Mayur Relekar, CEO of Arcana believes, “Data privacy and security will be first-class citizens in every app’s stack. Privacy and ownership of data will be a necessity for every product and developers need easy to use tools to fulfil this. With a vision to be privacy-first and developer-friendly platform, Arcana is working with developers across sectors from DeFi, NFT platforms, Social Networks, and Wallets, to traditional web 2.0 products in Fintech, Healthcare, and Enterprise SaaS, to bring privacy and security to their data.”Registrations open for MCCIA annual awardsMahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) has announced it is now accepting registrations for nominations for its annual awards .The MCCIA Annual Awards cover contributions in areas of Innovation and Entrepreneurship, Green Initiatives, Corporate Social Responsibility, Defence Production and Women Entrepreneurship, amongst other verticals.Those applying for it can apply online at https://www.mcciapune.com/awards/mccia-annual-awards/. The last date for submitting the application is October 30. DIAT Innovation and Incubation Centre has first startup on the roadDefence Institute of Advance Technonology (DIAT) Innovation and Incubation Centre hosted its first start-up firm Navyukti Innovations, that launched its first nanomaterial based indigenous product, Silvo-Kavach on October 20.The product is developed under Sangeeta Kale, and co-director, along with market experts including DIAT alumni. The product is a nanoparticles-based antimicrobial solution and a water-based solution which protects spaces from microbial infection and can be used at large public spaces, complexes, industrial premises and public targeted areas.The start-up company is also working in the field of biosensors and other industrial sensors . FBGaming presses start in IndiaFacebook hosted its first-ever gaming event FBGamingPressStart in India. Spread across two days, the virtual event saw sessions from developers, publishers, and creators on how to build and scale their gaming presence on Facebook, find new audiences and grow their community. The event’s opening address was made by Gio Hunt, VP of Gaming Business and Operations, Facebook, Ajit Mohan, managing director and vice-president, India, and Manohar Hotchandani, business development director, Facebook.Hotchandani said, “India is emerging as one of the largest gaming markets in the world and we have seen an increased focus on gaming on Facebook, especially gaming video with viewership of live gaming video growing by over 530% over the past year. We are committed to building the gaming ecosystem in India and creating value for people who love gaming content and the businesses that drive the industry.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bitsnbytes-know-about-business-events-in-pune-101634986490103.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM announces 1 cr grant for construction of stadium ‘in memory of farmers’ who lost their lives protesting farm l||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced the construction of a sports stadium at Haripur village in “memory of farmers who sacrificed their lives during the agitation against farm laws”. Channi has approved a grant of ₹1 crore for this purpose, his office said on Saturday.Channi’s announcement comes weeks after Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni's son Ashish allegedly ran over protesting farmers in Tinkonia village in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3, killing eight. The farmers who were protesting the three farm laws had gathered in Lakhimpur that day to oppose Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya’s visit.More farmers have perished due to suicide, road accidents, and other causes while protesting the Centre’s three “black laws” for close to a year now. The Punjab state government had verified and reported deaths of 220 farmers and farm labourers till July 20 and provided ₹10.86 crore as compensation to their families. Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, has claimed that 400 farmers have died while protesting these laws.The Centre, however, said in Parliament in late July that it has no record of farmers dying during protests. In response to the Member of Parliaments asking for details on farmer deaths, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had said that the government of India has "no such record".Channi has also announced the construction of a stadium and a memorial gate in honour of slain Naik Mandeep Singh who died in the line of duty during an anti-insurgency operation in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-announces-1-cr-grant-for-construction-of-stadium-in-memory-of-farmers-who-lost-their-lives-protesting-farm-laws-101634986078176.html
23-10-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: iCardin, a med-tech startup grassrooting neurocare||For a population of 1.4 billion, there exists 2,500 neurologists in India; one neurologist per 560,000 people, as against the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) recommendation of one neurologist per 100,000 people. Most neurologists are in tier-1 cities in India. This massive gap in neuro-care prompted Sameer More to launch iCardin, a healthcare discovery platform that offers end-to-end care for patients with any neurological disorder, such as epilepsy, Alzheimer’s, dementia, Parkinson’s, and migraine, among the many. iCardin (Nuclius Health) is now on a mission to build the maximum number of stroke-ready centres as part of a patient-centric neuro-care programme across Maharashtra and India.In the beginningSameer More comes from an IT background with core experience in software product building, marketing and business development. After a short stint in some software companies, More founded Teevra Infosystems which helped early-stage startups and mid-sized tech companies with product marketing, sales enablement and design services. Says More, “I was consulting with a couple of healthcare companies in the US and one of my friends there was looking for second opinion on paediatric neurology for his baby’s treatment. I could connect him to one a neurologist from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS) in India. During that time, I felt, a ‘second opinion’ is a critical aspect which is sought by people.”Second opinion, firstBeing from a non-medical background did not deter More from starting a medical-services company. He says, “Neurology, cardiology and cancer are chronic critical illnesses which usually lead to disability or death. So, in June 2020, we started a company providing the ‘second opinion’ to patients or their families for cancer, neurological and cardiological problems. We were doing consultations in five countries – South Africa, Dubai, Saudi Arabia, Malaysia and India. In seven months, we did 5,000 second opinion consultations. We realised during this period that 65% to 70% of consultations were about neurological disorders or problems, and most of these were from India. Further analysis of the calls revealed that more than 50% of neurological consultations were related to ‘strokes’ (commonly referred to as paralysis) by people who were suffering from it. This analysis helped us realise that besides a ‘second opinion’, there is a bigger problem that is largely unaddressed.”The Second Opinion was purely an online model. It was successful due to aggressive digital marketing, especially during Covid.“We could manage and control the medium and hence, we could create a good level of awareness. Our multilingual call centre got maximum calls from Mumbai, Kolkata, NCR Delhi region, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai within India. We had an eight-member team and tied up with several consultants and pathology labs,” More added.PivotMore and his team were primarily focussed on cardiology and neurology. Hence, their startup was named iCardin - Card stands for cardiology, N stands for neurology and i stands for online/remote operations. While the bigger problem of cardio-neuro consultations (second opinion) still exists, More had to make a hard choice. While he was deliberating his strategy and future plans, the Covid-19 pandemic had also forced some changes in mindsets. A lot of hospitals and doctors had started offering consultation services online and hence, the second-opinion problem was being addressed to a certain extent. Says More, “We observed that nobody talked about paralysis prevention. So, we started reinventing the wheel and we brainstormed about ways in which we can prevent paralysis. We started studying this problem in December 2020 and in next two months we realised that the ‘paralysis prevention’ aspect is missing. Although a lot of neurologists and hospitals are suggesting that paralysis can be prevented if the patient is attended to within the first four hours, almost none were working rigorously on that aspect and there was no ecosystem built around it.”Problems identifiedMore and his team identified three main problems while working on the paralysis issue. First, that people were not aware of the medical conditions and primary steps to be taken if a person suffers from stroke. Even if the patient is taken to a physician or a small hospital, a lot of time is lost and there was lack of medical infrastructural facilities to diagnose and treat. Says More, “Usually, the first call is made to a physician and by the time he checks and advises treatment a lot of crucial time is lost. Staff in smaller hospitals and their setup is inadequate to treat patients suffering from stroke since there are no dedicated neurologists and CT Scan facilities in case of critical or emergency cases. Statistically speaking, In India, of 20 people suffering from paralysis strokes, only one gets proper treatment in time, which means only five per cent get treatment on time. Hence, we thought of venturing into this space dedicatedly.”Building an ecosystemWith just 2,500 neurologists in India, they simply don’t have the reach to cater to patients, especially in tier 2, 3 cities like Satara. Emphasising this point, More says, “Paralysis prevention is a core aspect and comprehensive neurological care is our vision. We are trying to build an ecosystem around paralysis prevention and comprehensive neurological care. Not only we lack neurologists in numbers, but we lack awareness about medical conditions like epilepsy, migraine, Alzheimer’s, shaky hands... At our call centre, three-to-four of 10 complaints are about such conditions which only a neurologist can treat properly.”Stepping his game up, More also observed that big hospitals have a dedicated setup, but they don’t have geographical reach for paralysis prevention. Sensing a business opportunity here, he decided to tie-up with boutique hospitals. Collaborating with boutique hospitals, iCardin started expanding its network of stroke-ready and neurological care facilities. iCardin partners with leading neurologists, neurosurgeons and physicians in India to provide emergency care as well as other services for patients dealing with neurological disorders. ‘Incubating’ neurology centresMore and his team met experts with the Maharashtra Neurology Association and 30 hospitals from December 2020 to February 2021. Says More, “At any hospital in India, the average yearly occupancy is not more than 70%. So the remaining 30% remains unused. Although dedicated neurologists are not available in smaller cities and hospitals, they have the required infrastructure and healthcare to cater to neurological patients. We came up with a business model in which we use the vacant infrastructure and healthcare staff at such facilities and we provide them with dedicated neurologists, physicians, investigation, awareness and marketing activities. Small 100-bedded hospitals, which usually get their business through one specialty, can easily get additional revenues with this model. “Now we are extremely laser focussed on paralysis prevention. When people call on our numbers, our physicians’ guide them and become their care managers. We call them ‘Care Buddy’. The treatment for patient is then suitably decided. This way we ‘incubate’ our own neurology centres. We started our first centre in Lokmanya Hospital, Nigdi, on March 17, 2021. The second and third centre was started in Pune city in June and September 2021, respectively,” More added.Asset-light, but operations heavyNeurologist Dr Amitkumar Pande, with 15 years of experience as a practising doctor, was closely involved in iCardin from its initial days. It was Dr Pande’s suggestion to focus on paralysis or stroke patients that More picked up on. Says More, “He is now a co-founder and heads clinical operations and neurological research. Dr Pande brought in a very strong clinical background and iCardin had strong marketing and medical operations. We have an asset-light business model, but we are operations heavy. Apart from our core team of eight members, we have another seven-member team of medical experts on our panel, including three neurologists and two neurosurgeons. We are also talking with the Maharashtra Neurology Association as some of members have shown interest to be on our panel.”“We are closely associated with Boehringer Ingelheim, a pharma company with strong presence in Europe and Asia and manufacturer of an injection called TPA for thrombolysis on stroke patients,” adds More. iCardin plans to go pan-India within three years. “Big and small hospitals from Indore, Gwalior, Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad are already approaching us. In next five years, we are aiming to build a full-stack healthcare organisation in neurology, where patient experience is an extremely important aspect,” More claims.“The hospital where we run our centres provides us with requisite medical infrastructure, healthcare professionals (intensivists in ICU, RMOs in casualty) and other healthcare staff. iCardin is responsible for arranging neurologists, neurosurgeons, neuropathy, physicians trained under neurologists at the centre,” More says.What the docs say“Electromyography and Nerve Conduction Velocity - EMG NCV is an extension of a clinical examination when clinicians, physicians and neurologists need any confirmation for their clinical observations of a stroke patient. In both, neuropathy (nerve degeneration) and myopathy (muscle degeneration), we detect abnormal sounds and waveforms through EMG machine which indicates worsening muscles and nerves connection. The accuracy of this machine can be around 95 per cent. Nowadays portable machines are available due to which patient need not be shifted for merely conducting this test,” says Sudarshan Wankhede, Neuro Intervention Specialist; NIMHANS, Bengaluru.Advisor speak“iCardin is aiming to address a very relevant area in healthcare, the severity of which is unknown to a majority of the population. I am happy to be a part of the iCardin story where we are targeting the neurology space in order to create a meaningful and sustained impact in peoples’ lives, says Madhurjya Lahkar, advisor, iCardin.FundingMore primarily comes from a B2B background. Commenting on his experience about venture capital funding, More says, “Right networking helped me a lot. Initially I was talking to healthcare professionals, doctors, neurologists who had the domain expertise from clinical and patient perspective. However, venture capital is very important for a B2B2C business model like iCardin.”“VCs are someone who could trust our vision and team at this early-stage. I also spoke to Anand Deshpande of Persistent Systems, who is one of my mentors. In April 2021, I met Madhurjya Lahkar, who is an investment banker and also an investor in early-stage start-ups with special interest in tech. We had discussions over three months and then in July 2021 he introduced iCardin to our investor Jitendra Patel. Patel is an UK-based investor and operates the Grandbydale drugstore business in Liverpool. We pitched him and we signed our termsheet in the next 1.5 months,” More says.•Bootstrapped (till September 2021) – Rs30 lakh•$100k invested by Jitendra Patel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-icardin-a-med-tech-startup-grassrooting-neurocare-101634986009527.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro: Services on section of Yellow Line unavailable for few hours on Sunday||Services on a section of Delhi Metro's Yellow Line, between the Vishwavidyalaya and the Model Town stations, will not be available for a few hours on Sunday morning due to maintenance work, the DMRC said.The Yellow Line connects Samaypur Badli in Delhi to HUDA City Centre in Gurgaon."Public Service Announcement There will be no service between Model Town & Vishwavidyalaya on Yellow Line  tomorrow (Sunday) till 7:30 AM due to pre planned maintenance work. GTB Nagar Station will remain closed during this period. Services will be normal on rest of the network," the DMRC tweeted.GTB metro station, which is located in Kingsway Camp area of north Delhi, falls in between Vishwavidyalaya and Model Town stations."To ensure connectivity between this section during this period, free feeder bus service will remain available," the Delhi Metro also tweeted.Services begin early morning on most corridors of the DMRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-services-on-section-of-yellow-line-unavailable-for-few-hours-on-sunday-101634982698910.html
23-10-2021||Pune||2 held in Pune for ganja production, over 200 trees worth ₹11 lakh recovered||The Anti Narcotics Cell of Pune City Police on Saturday arrested two people who were allegedly involved in the commercial production of ganja.As per the information shared by police, some quantity of ganja was recovered from the house of the accused who, on being interrogated, revealed the location of their farm where the drug was being grown for commercial sale.A total of 250 trees and saplings of ganja worth ₹11 lakhs were recovered from the possession of the accused.The accused will be produced before the court today.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2-held-in-pune-for-ganja-production-over-200-trees-worth-rs-11-lakh-recovered-101634978777257.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||Faizabad railway station to be known as Ayodhya Cantt, announces Yogi Adityanath||Almost three years after the Uttar Pradesh government renamed the Faizabad district as Ayodhya, its railway station, too, has been named after the neighbouring temple town. "UP CM Shri @myogiadityanath has decided to rename Faizabad railway junction as Ayodhya Cantt,” the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) informed in a tweet on Saturday. #UPCM श्री @myogiadityanath जी ने फैजाबाद रेलवे जंक्शन का नाम "अयोध्या कैन्ट" करने का निर्णय लिया है। @spgoyal@sanjaychapps1@74_alok pic.twitter.com/P8qg4Gc2P3This is yet another name-change exercise undertaken by the Uttar Pradesh government. Besides renaming Faizabad as Ayodhya, which it did in November 2018 on the occasion of Diwali, the ruling dispensation, in October that year, changed Allahabad's name to Prayagraj. Similarly, in June 2018, the over century old Mughalsarai railway station was renamed after Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue Deen Dayal Upadhyay.Also Read | After Allahabad became Prayagraj, clamour grows for name changes in UPThe RSS is the ideological mentor of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which is in power both in the state and the Centre.In recent years, several groups in Uttar Pradesh have demanded the change in names of various other districts as well. These include Azamgarh to Aryamgarh, Aligarh to Harigarh, Agra to Agravan etc.Saturday's announcement by the UP CMO comes just months before the northern state goes to polls. One of the major issues during the assembly elections, which are expected to take place in February-March 2022, is likely to be the Ram Mandir, currently under construction in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/faizabad-railway-station-to-be-known-as-ayodhya-cantt-announces-yogi-adityanath-101634976437447.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices soar in Mumbai, Petrol crosses ₹113-mark for a litre||At an all-time high, fuel prices surged in Mumbai on Saturday. A litre of petrol crossed ₹113 while one litre of diesel touched ₹104 in the city. A litre of petrol was priced at ₹113.12 while a litre of diesel was available at ₹104.00.The price of petrol increased from ₹112 to ₹113 in Mumbai in three days. A litre of petrol was priced at ₹112.11 on Wednesday.An increase of 34 paise and 37 paise were reported in the prices of petrol and diesel respectively. A litre of petrol was priced at ₹112.78 on Friday while one litre of diesel was available at ₹103.63 on Friday.Fuel prices surged in the national capital as well wherein petrol crossed ₹107 and was priced at ₹107.24 for a litre. Diesel was available at ₹95.97 for one litre.The hike in fuel prices is different in every city due to Value Added Tax (VAT) charged by the state government, additional cess and fuel transportation charges.In Maharashtra’s Parbhani a litre of petrol crossed ₹116 on Saturday, the costliest in the state at ₹116.08 while one litre of diesel was available at ₹105.55 in Amravati.Transporters have stated that they would organise a nationwide protest on the rise in fuel prices. “It has been a unanimous decision of the transport fraternity to declare indefinite chakkajam to register a protest,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, the All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-soar-in-mumbai-petrol-crosses-rs-113-mark-for-a-litre-101634974010341.html
23-10-2021||Bhopal||MP govt extends 5-day week arrangement in offices till March 2022||The Madhya Pradesh government has decided to extend the arrangement of five-day week in its offices across the state till March end next year in view of the coronavirus pandemic, an official said. The state government's general administration department issued an order to this effect on Friday, he said. "The arrangement of five-day week (from Monday to Friday) in government offices across the state has been extended till March 31, 2022 for protection and to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic," the order said. Earlier, the state government had ordered the five-day week in its offices till October 31. The arrangement of five-day week was implemented in the state government offices from July 22 this year when the offices reopened after a lockdown during the second wave of pandemic. The COVID-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh on Friday rose to 7,92,729 with eight fresh cases. The death toll remained unchanged at 10,523, while the recovery count stood at 7,82,126, leaving the state with 80 active cases, a health department official had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-extends-5-day-week-arrangement-in-offices-till-march-2022-101634970180060.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Police register FIR in Mumbai high-rise fire||Police have registered a first information report (FIR) in connection with the fire in a 61-storey residential building in Currey Road area of central Mumbai, which resulted in the death of a security guard as he fell from its 19th floor, an official said on Saturday. "A case has been registered against the owner of the building, its occupant, the fire safety maintenance contractor and others under IPC sections 336 (rash or negligent act that endangers human life or personal safety of others), 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) and under sections of the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act at Kalachowki police station here," the police official said. The blaze had erupted on the 19th floor of the One Avighna Park building around 11.45 am on Friday. The fire brigade had categorised it as Level-4 (major) fire. Arun Tiwari, a 30-year-old security guard of the building, had got trapped in a flat on that floor and in order to save himself, he held on to the railing of the flat's balcony for some time before falling to death. The fire brigade personnel had rescued 16 stranded persons. "Initially a case of accidental death was registered," the official said. Police are probing the incident, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/police-register-fir-in-mumbai-high-rise-fire-101634967963424.html
23-10-2021||Jaipur||Internet suspension called in Bikaner on Oct 23, 24. Check timing||The internet services in Rajasthan's Bikaner district will be temporarily suspended for two days in view of the scheduled Patwari recruitment exam, reported news agency ANI. According to the divisional commissioner order, internet services will be suspended on Saturday and Sunday from 6am to 6pm. The internet suspension has been called to avoid “the Law and Order situation might arise during the examination due to fake news or rumours about accidents and paper leak”, the order read.“2G/3G/4G/Data, Internet service, Bulk, SMS/MMS, Whatsapp, Facebook, Twitter and other Social Media by Internet Service Providers will be temporarily suspended between 06:00 am to 06:00 pm on 23 and 24 October,” read the order passed by Bikaner divisional commissioner, BL Mehra, on Friday."Voice calls of all landline, mobile phones, all lease line and broadband and as far as possible for hospitals, banks and industries" falls under the exceptions to the order, ANI further reported.This comes days after five people were arrested in Bikaner as they were found with slippers fitted with Bluetooth devices to be able to attempt cheating in the Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers (REET)-2021. Even then, to curb the possible cheating in the exam, mobile internet services were suspended in many districts, including Jaipur, as a precautionary measure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/internet-suspension-called-in-bikaner-on-oct-23-24-check-timing-101634962768304.html
23-10-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka reports 378 new Covid cases, 11 deaths more in last 24 hrs||Karnataka reported 378 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths in the last 24 hours, said a bulletin from the health department on Friday.The southern state also recorded 464 recoveries in the past 24 hours. There are 8891 active cases of Covid-19 in the state.The total number of cases stands at 29,85,227, total recoveries at 29,38,312 and death toll at 37,995.Bengaluru Urban reported 195 cases, the highest number of new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka out of all the districts, followed by Dakshina Kannada (24).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-reports-378-new-covid-cases-11-deaths-more-in-last-24-hrs-101634962839380.html
23-10-2021||Other||Darbhanga airport: Nearly 5 lakh air travellers take UDAN flights||Nearly half a million passengers have availed of the Modi government’s regional air connectivity scheme — Udan — since its launch of flight operation on November 8 last year from Darbhanga airport, data compiled by the Airport Authority of India revealed. Despite the lack of adequate amenities, Darbhanga airport is getting busier. On Friday, the airport handled 2240 passengers onboard 14 flights. The total number of passengers travelled to and from Darbhanga airport to date since flight operation was launched here is 4,91,199. Likewise, as many as 3402 flights were operated since its launch with the inaugural flight on the Bengaluru-Darbhanga route.Darbhanga airport is connected with Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Ahmadabad, Hyderabad, Kolkata sectors and has become the best performing RCS airport across the country. Low-cost carrier SpiceJet is the selected airline operator under the UDAN scheme. Later on, another popular airline, IndiGo, also started flight operations from here a couple of months ago.Meanwhile, former professor in the department of social science and humanities at IIT Madras, Shreesh Choudhary, a Darbhanga native, said, although there is a lack of passenger facilities, yet new employment opportunities have been created in North Bihar either directly or indirectly. However, some small things need to be changed quickly. “Passengers are now stopped on the road outside and from there, they have to walk about several hundred meters on foot to reach the terminal. This road inside is not even walkable, dragging luggage on it, bringing wheelchairs for disabled passengers to the terminal, keeping them standing at the gate till then could be a terrible experience for passengers,” he asserted.It is unfair to stop them on the road itself, obstructing the traffic there, he quipped further adding, Darbhanga experiences high rainfall, scorching summer and chilly winter which affects sick people and senior citizens who also travel by air for treatment. When contacted, Darbhanga district magistrate (DM) Thiyagrajan SM said the district administration is conscious of the rapid development of issues with regard to the airport and adjoining areas. “We also understand the priorities of state government in this regard”.The DM informed that the state government has sanctioned a significant project to directly link NH-527B with a 60ft wide gate of the airport to provide access to the current civil enclave. The work on the new project has already been taken up and construction is likely to be completed by the year-end. The measure will obviate the need for entry to civil enclave through Air Force gate no. 2. Thus, passengers no longer will have to depend on a long walk to reach the civil enclave.The DM also pointed out that upon the personal instruction of the chief minister, work on raising the boundary wall of the airport in view of security reasons is about to start within 15-20 days. The view cutter will be installed. On the other hand, to do away with the menace of blue bull, the state government has also sanctioned a scheme for erecting chain link fencing around the runway stretching up to 10 kms. The work on this score will start in November for which the tender process is on.The DM asserted that the land acquisition issue has been accorded top priority and efforts will be made to complete the process in the shortest possible time frame. Early this month, the state cabinet gave a budgetary fillip to the proposal for the construction of a permanent terminal building for the civil enclave at Darbhanga airport by giving its nod to the expenditure of over ₹336 crore for the acquisition of 78-acre land. The acquired land is to be handed over ‘free of cost’ to the AAI for setting up a permanent civil enclave at Darbhanga airport, which is under the control of the Indian Air Force....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/darbhanga-airport-nearly-5-lakh-air-travellers-take-udan-flights-101634962909058.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||AAP to celebrate ‘Valmiki Jayanti’ on grand scale at Thyagaraj Stadium today||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will celebrate ‘Valmiki Jayanti’ on a grand scale at Delhi's Thyagaraj stadium on Saturday. “On October 23, ‘Pragat Diwas’ will be celebrated on a big scale by the Delhi government at Thyagaraj Stadium,” a statement quoting AAP convenor and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Wednesday.Kejriwal made the announcement after paying a visit to the Valmiki temple at Mandir Marg on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti. He was accompanied by Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia.“Valmiki Jayanti marks the birth anniversary of Maharishi Valmiki, who authored Ramayana. This day is also commemorated as Pragat Diwas,” Kejriwal said, adding that Maharishi Valmiki apprised the world about Lord Ram and his legacy by writing the Ramayana, according to news agency PTI.“If we adopt the path shown by Maharishi Valmiki even fractionally in our lives, then we will be able to lead much better lives,” the Delhi chief minister further said. He pointed out that the Ramayana tells society about the ‘dharma’ of each and every person in the world.Kejriwal also said that his government has been providing financial assistance to people who wanted to celebrate the day in their colonies across Delhi, PTI also reported.“We started doing this in the last three-four years. But for the first time at a central level, we are celebrating it on behalf of the Delhi government,” he said and urged people to participate in Saturday’s ceremony in maximum numbers.Maharishi Valmiki is worshipped by sections of the Dalit community. The call to hold celebrations is interesting because Kejriwal often commences AAP’s campaigns ahead of polls from Mandir Marg in the national capital.Assembly elections are due in many states next year, including Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, and AAP is looking to strengthen its base outside Delhi by launching poll campaigns in some of these states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-to-celebrate-valmiki-jayanti-on-grand-scale-at-thyagaraj-stadium-today-101634948740590.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab chief electoral officer reviews poll preparedness||In order to review the election preparedness, Punjab chief electoral officer (CEO) Karuna Raju on Friday convened a meeting with local officials at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) here.A technical team was also accompanying Raju to check the EVMs and VVPATs. He said the number of sensitive assembly constituencies and booths will be increased after analysing the situation.He briefed about Garuda App, which has been designed to capture the information of polling stations. Raju said due to the pandemic, the number of polling booths has been enhanced to 24,659. He said through the app, officials would be able to upload photos and location of the polling stations from their registered mobile numbers. He said that app would also minimise the paper works and officials would be able to add, delete or modify voters’ names and addresses. Raju added that in the next three days, the election commission would complete the entire process in Ludhiana. He instructed the officers concerned to run extensive awareness activities in their areas under Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) to encourage the voters to participate in the polls besides deleting dead voters and omitting other logical errors. On the issue of deployment of paramilitary forces, Raju said the commission was keeping a close watch on the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-chief-electoral-officer-reviews-poll-preparedness-101634945625495.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir slams Channi for ‘surrendering federal structure of Punjab’||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said Punjab and Punjabis were being penalised for standing up against the mighty Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre on the issue of controversial farm laws. He accused the Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi for surrendering the state and its autonomy. “First Channi timidly agreed to the extending the jurisdiction of central forces to 10 districts of Punjab and now accepted the discrimination being done unto Punjab by reducing the status of Punjabi to a minor language for classes 10 and 12,” Sukhbir said.The SAD chief, who was here to convene meetings with his party workers, traders and various factions of the society, was visiting the house of senior lawyer and SAD leader Parupkar Singh Ghuman to hold a dialogue with advocates.Sukhbir said it was shocking that the chief minister was refusing to even register a forceful protest against the Centre which was striking against Punjab one after another.He criticised Channi for the “rampant corruption and deteriorating law and order situation” in the state. “Police officials are offered plum postings in lieu of kickbacks. We will reveal the names of such cops at an appropriate time,” he added. Claiming that former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had colluded with the BJP, Sukhbir said, “We have been maintaining since Day 1 that Amarinder is hand in glove with the BJP. This is the reason why the BJP always remained soft with him and never targeted him on any issue. He also returned the favour by giving the go-ahead to the draft of the three farm laws as a member of the committee of chief ministers. Now, Captain is talking of getting the farm law issue resolved. What stopped him from doing this earlier and preventing the loss of 800 lives?”The Akali Dal president also asserted that it did not suit home minister Sukhjinder Randhawa to project himself as a “saviour of the state” when everyone knew that he had been the blue-eyed boy of Amarinder Singh. “Randhawa had also gained the most during the Captain’s regime as he was given top portfolios. Scams done by him including the seed scam were overlooked. He was also not taken to task for allowing jails to be used as extortion dens by gangsters,” Sukhbir alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-slams-channi-for-surrendering-federal-structure-of-punjab-101634945385362.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||9 booked for thrashing man over 10-year-old rivalry in Ludhiana||A resident of Ayali Khurd village and his eight accomplices have been booked for assaulting a man from New Kitchlu Nagar against whom he reportedly had been nursing a grudge for the past 10 years, police said on Friday. The accused thrashed the victim on Thursday and fled after leaving him injured. The PAU police have registered an FIR against Ravi Ghoda, his accomplices Jaggi, Lal Singh, Mithu, Deepak (residents of Ayali Khurd), Prince (of Dashmesh Nagar), Bobby, Harman (of Chhoti Ayali) and Lovejot Singh (of Baranhara village).The FIR has been lodged by Ravinder Singh, 28. In his complaint, Ravinder mentioned that when he was going towards Chara Mandi, the accused intercepted him and assaulted him with sticks, iron rods, and sharp-edged weapons.The accused had also injured his colleague Gurkewal Singh, he added. The complainant stated that he had 10 years ago indulged in a scuffle with Ravi Ghoda over some issue, but they later struck a compromise. However, Ravi nursed a rivalry against me and executed this attack, Ravinder told the police. ASI Gian Singh, who is investigating the case, said the FIR has been registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC. A hunt is on to nab them, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/9-booked-for-thrashing-man-over-10-year-old-rivalry-in-ludhiana-101634945205297.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi may get rain today: IMD||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast light to moderate showers over the Capital on Saturday and Sunday. Intense rain in parts of Punjab will keep stubble burning smoke from deteriorating the city’s air, forecasters said.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi on Friday was 170, in the moderate category. On Thursday, the overall AQI reading was 199, also in the moderate zone.An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.Forecasters said the air quality is likely to improve during the weekend as the winds blowing into the Capital will change from westerly to easterly from Saturday under the impact of a western disturbance. This will also cause light to moderate showers in parts of Delhi on Saturday and Sunday.“On Friday, Delhi received winds at moderate speed from the west. This led to an improvement in the pollution levels,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change), Skymet.The IMD forecast also said that while the western disturbance will result in a slight rise in temperature over the weekend, from Monday, the temperature in Delhi-NCR will start reducing. The falling temperature and northwesterly winds carrying stubble smoke could lead to the Capital’s air quality worsening in the coming days.On Friday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 33.4 degrees Celsius, two above normal. The minimum temperature was 17.7°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-may-get-rain-today-imd-101634944755068.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Five held for ATM fraud; 41 debit cards recovered||Jamalpur police on Friday busted a gang of fraudsters with the arrest of its five members on Thursday, while two others are at large. Forty-one debit cards and two cars have been recovered from the possession of the accused, who were active in multiple cities and states. Those arrested are Naveen Kumar, Rakesh Kumar of Bhamian Kalan, Surinder Bansal of Tibba Road, Ajay Kumar of Jassian Road and Rocky of Moti Nagar. Their absconding accomplices are Paramjit Singh of Dera Bassi and Rakesh Kumar of Tajpur Road.ASI Surjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said they were nabbed near Old Ishwar Colony following a tip-off. “We had information that few persons involved in ATM frauds are coming towards Ludhiana from Chandigarh side in two cars,” he added. The ASI said the accused had multiple accounts in fake names and addresses in different banks. “The accused used to withdraw money through specially designed hooks which they would attach to the money dispensing tray of ATMs. When the cash was dispensed, they used to switch off the power supply to the ATM and withdraw the bills,” he added. “The accused then used to register an online complaint to the bank for a refund claiming that their money was stuck in ATM,” the ASI said. A case under sections 465, 467, 468, 471, 420 and 120-B of the IPC has been registered against them. More important information is expected to be extracted from the accused during questioning, the ASI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-five-held-for-atm-fraud-41-debit-cards-recovered-101634944845208.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||Delayed monsoon exit may mean ‘severe’ smog: Report||Intense and heavy monsoon spells this season have helped Delhi breathe relatively cleaner air this October compared to previous years, an air quality analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has shown. However, the analysis also warns that the late withdrawal of monsoon in north India could also lead to “severe peak in smog” during winter as farmers rush to burn crop remnants in the shorter window they will now have to clear their fields.The findings are in line with remarks by other experts, who said they fear a last-minute spike could push Delhi’s air into severely polluted category, as reported by HT on Thursday.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), CSE, said the pre-winter air this year has been relatively cleaner, primarily because of the impact of intense and prolonged monsoon. “The objective was also to understand the starting line of the onset of the winter pollution season or pre-winter levels in this region, and also to understand the longer-term trends in seasonal variations,” she said.“While winter pollution cannot be predicted at this moment, the evidence of rising summer pollution in 2021 despite the lockdown and the evidence of a synchronised effect of winter pollution across the Indo-Gangetic Plain add to our concern. How soon and intensely the winter pollution will hit us will depend on the scale and speed of action across the region and leveraging it for more sustained air quality gains.”The analysis warned that while the prolonged and intense monsoon might have temporarily averted the city’s annual air emergency, this could also cause more intense smog episodes.“This winter we may get a much severe peak in smog, as farm stubble fire counts may get more concentrated due to the delayed effect of the rains. To counter this, action must be scaled up right away,” said Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager at the urban data analytic lab, CSE.The report said that normally, the first phase of winter smog is triggered by large-scale stubble burning in the agrarian states of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh. It said that the peak contribution of stubble smoke this year was registered on October 16 when 14% of Delhi’s PM2.5 was attributed to stubble fire smoke.“Heavy rains in the following days washed out the first build-up of the season. The smoke season generally peaks around the cusp of October and November, with contribution spiking to over 40% on the worst days,” said Somvanshi.In 2020, during the stubble burning season October 1-November 29, an average 12.2% per day of Delhi’s PM2.5 pollution came from farm stubble fire smoke. This was considerably higher than in previous years – in 2019, contributions stood at 8.9% per day, while it was 10.9% per day in 2018. The findings of the report showed that the city-wide PM 2.5 average for the monsoon this year stood at 41ug/m3, with 96 days meeting the 24-hour standard. There was a progressive increase in the number of cleaner days with an average 6% annual improvement since 2018.“In Delhi, Dr Karni Singh Shooting Range recorded the lowest seasonal average of 33ug/m3, while the National Stadium had 100 days that met the daily standard. Anand Vihar, with a seasonal average of 61ug/m3 had 54 days meeting the standard and was the worst hotspot in the city,” the report read.It added. “The start of the monsoon’s retreat date almost perfectly coincides with the start of bad air days in Delhi—when the daily PM2.5 average breaches the standard and mostly remains above for rest of the season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delayed-monsoon-exit-may-mean-severe-smog-report-101634944498014.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: College student among three caught by STF with opium, heroin||The Ludhiana unit of special task force (STF) has arrested three drug peddlers, including a BCom student, and recovered 2.5kg heroin, 5kg opium, and ₹66,500 drug money. The STF also seized a car being used in the crime.The accused are Mangat Singh, 55, of Satjot Nagar on Dhandra Road, Satinder Singh, 57, of Dugri Phase 1 and Madhur Gupta, 23, of Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Mangat is a realtor, while Satinder is a deed writer. Madhur is pursuing his bachelor’s degree from a university in Uttar Pradesh. Snehdeep Sharma, AIG, STF (Ludhiana Range) said on October 18, a team led by STF incharge Harbans Singh had arrested Mangat from Shiv Chowk in Moti Nagar area on the basis of a tip-off and recovered 1.5kg heroin, 1.5kg opium and ₹14,500 drug money from him.During questioning, Mangat revealed that he worked as a realtor and entered the drug trade around four years ago. The court had sent him to three-day STF custody on October 19 and then during further investigation, he informed the team about Satinder and Madhur.Following the information provided by Mangat, the STF arrested Satinder from his residence on October 19 and recovered 500g opium and ₹52,000 drug money. During his questioning, Satinder told the STF that he worked as a deed writer and had a habit of consuming opium for the past over a decade. Third accused Madhur was arrested on October 21 from GT Road at Shambu village in Patiala when he was travelling towards Ludhiana from Ambala side.“The accused was travelling in a Maruti Swift Dzire car and had pasted a sticker of ‘Crime Intelligence Force’ on the windshield of the vehicle in an attempt to avoid getting checked at nakas. The team had recovered 1.5kg heroin and 3kg opium which was hidden in the car of the accused,” the AIG said. A case under section 21 and 18 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at the STF’s Mohali police station. 6 nabbed for smuggling drugs, liquor Jagraon police initiated a special drive against drugs and liquor smugglers and recovered a cache of contraband with the arrest of six persons in four different cases on Thursday. In the first case, the CIA staff of Jagraon police arrested Avtar Singh alias Matari and Daljit Singh alias Golu of Kothe Sher Jung village for drug peddling. The police recovered 100gm heroin from their possession and also confiscated a Royal Enfield motorcycle which the accused were riding. A case under sections 21 and 25 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at the Jagraon City police station. In the second case, the police arrested Hardeep Singh alias Bhana of Jagraon and recovered five cartons of illicit liquor from his possession. A case under sections 61, 1 and 14 of the Excise Act has been registered against him. In the third case, Gurjeet Singh alias Laddi of Dhatt village was caught during a special checking. The police recovered 3,000 intoxicant pills from his Maruti Swift Dzire car. A case under sections 22 and 25 of the NDPS Act has been lodged against him.Jagraon Sadar police have also arrested Swarn Singh and Sikandar Singh of Galib Kalan village with 40 bottles of illicit liquor. A case under sections 61,1 and 14 of Excise act has been lodged against the accused.They have also been booked under similar provisions of the Excise Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-college-student-among-three-caught-by-stf-with-opium-heroin-101634944365268.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||After nat’l landmark, Delhi to touch 20mn vax doses today||The national capital is on the cusp of administering 20 million jabs of the Covid-19 vaccine to its residents, according to government data, an important landmark for the city in its fight to overcome the pandemic, even as daily vaccinations have slowed down over the past month.As of 10pm on Friday, according the Centre’s CoWIN dashboard, Delhi had administered 19,972,789 jabs to its residents, just 27,211 doses short of the 20-million mark, a difference the city is likely to cover on Saturday.Of the three Saturdays this month so far, the city administered 137,466 shots on the first (October 2), 154,364 on the second (October 9) and 112,435 on the third (October 16), and if the trends continue, Delhi will on Saturday become the 18th state or Union Territory to surpass the 20-million figure for Covid-19 jabs.Of the total shots administered in the city, over 5.7 million have taken the first jab of the shot, and 7.1 million have been fully vaccinated.Delhi has an adult population of around 15 million, according to January 2021 electoral data.This means that 38.2% of the city’s adults have been partially vaccinated, while another 47.1% have received both shots. The national average for both these statistics is 44.1% and 31.8% respectively.The landmark figure for Delhi will come two days after the country completed administering the billionth vaccine dose on Thursday morning, just over nine months after the country began a massive inoculation programme to protect all its adults against Covid-19.In a statement, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said on Friday evening said, “As a responsible and sensitive, the Kejriwal government rapidly working on vaccinating the entire population of Delhi and will leave no one behind in this drive. The Delhi government is about to touch the two-crore [20 million] mark thanks to our highly motivated front line workers and our rigorous infrastructure, which helped accelerate our efforts even when we had low vaccine stocks.”However, despite hovering close to the 20 million milestone, Delhi’s vaccination rate has dropped through October, which is particularly evident against a substantial spike in the pace of shots administered through September. The seven-day average of daily jabs in Delhi touched a peak of 166,545 for the week-ending September 26, has dropped nearly 55% in the past weekTo be sure, Delhi is not an outlying region to have witnessed such a drop – it is visible at the national level as well. The seven-day average of daily vaccinations in India, which touched a peak of 9.7 million for the week ending September 23, has dropped nearly 60% in the past week.The Capital has so far in October handed out 2,093,202 doses of Covishield, Covaxin or Sputnik V – the three shots currently on offer across the country, at a monthly average of just over 95,000 shots a day.This vaccination rate is a sharp drop from the 4,360,224 jabs in September that came at an average of over 145,000 doses every day.However, the Covid-19 infection numbers in Delhi continue to persist at record lows, levels not seen since late-March last year, which was just weeks after the pathogen set foot in the Capital.The city added an average of 27 cases each day over the past seven days, a sharp fall from the average of 25,294 cases it added in the seven days ending April 23. Delhi endured its most brutal wave of Covid-19 between April and May this year.“For a city like Delhi, we can say the pace of vaccination has been satisfactory,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-nat-l-landmark-delhi-to-touch-20mn-vax-doses-today-101634944032017.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour: Amateur Avani walks away with title, Amandeep finishes second||Amateur Avani Prashanth won her second title of the season as she held off the seasoned Amandeep Drall by a shot to win the 11th leg of the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour at the Panchkula Golf Club on Friday. Avani and Amandeep played even par rounds, which helped Avani stay ahead to emerge the victor. Avani totalled 2-under 214, while Amandeep aggregated 1-under 215.Three players, Pranavi Urs (76), Jahanvi Bakshi (73) and Vani Kapoor (73) were tied for third place at 4-over 219. Seher Atwal (75) was sixth at 221 and Rhea Jha (73) was seventh.Saaniya Sharma, amateur Kriti Chowhan and Hitaashee Bakshi occupied the eighth to 10th places.Amateur Avani, who is playing both the Hero WPGT circuit and the amateur tours won the third leg in Mumbai and was also a runner-up at the DLF Golf and Country Club in Gurugram in the eighth leg and was again second in the 10th leg last week in Chandigarh. So, the win in the 11th Leg was even sweeter.Another piece of cheerful news was that Avani’s 66 in the second round, as also that of Saaniya Sharma were confirmed as the ladies scoring record at the Panchkula Golf Club.Starting the final day one shot behind Avani, experienced Amandeep bridged that narrow gap with a birdie on the second hole. However, a dropped shot on Par-5 fifth gave the lead back to Avani, who parred the first six holes.Avani landed her first birdie on the seventh, but gave away that gain on the next hole. So, when the players reached the turn, Avani was still one ahead. The others had been way behind, and the contest was now between Avani and Amandeep.On the back nine, while Avani birdied 11th and 12th, Amandeep birdied 11th and bogeyed 12th. That meant Avani was now three shots clear.There was another twist as Avani dropped shots on Par-3 13th and Par-4 15th, while Amandeep birdied 15th to pull level with the young amateur.With two holes left, it was now about holding nerves. Amandeep bogeyed the 17th, while Avani parred the 17th and 18th and won the title.Pranavi had a disappointing final day as she bogeyed first and then double bogeyed Par-5 seventh. On the back nine she had three bogeys in a row on 15th, 16th and 17th. Her two birdies of the day were on fifth and sixth as she carded 76 and fell into a tie for third with Vani Kapoor and Jahanvi.Saaniya Sharma, who opened with 79 and then had a superb 66 in the second round to set a ladies course record jointly with amateur Avani, who also shot 66 in the second round, once again went to 78 in the final round to fall to eighth.Amandeep Drall continues to lead the Hero Order of Merit, while Vani Kapoor remains second.Amandeep has now won ₹15.01 lakh, while Vani has amassed ₹13 lakh and Jahanvi became the third player to cross the ₹10 lakh mark as she has earned ₹10.67 lakh. Hitaashee, Seher and Saaniya are fourth, fifth and sixth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hero-women-s-pro-golf-tour-amateur-avani-walks-away-with-title-amandeep-finishes-second-101634939265655.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh allows school buses to ferry students at full capacity||The Chandigarh administration has allowed schools to ferry students in school buses at full passenger capacity. An official spokesman said that on August 18, the administration had withdrawn the order restricting passenger capacity in public transport at 50%. “Now, after reopening of schools, the management of private schools can run school transport as per the above orders, subject to adherence to Covid protocols, including wearing of masks, social distancing, thermal screening, sanitisation etc,” said the official, adding that other guidelines issued by Centre and administration from time-to-time relating to public transport during Covid-19 should be followed strictly. The schools have been fully opened for Class-1 onwards since October 18. On August 18, besides revocation of restrictions on public transport, UT had withdrawn night curfew order and restaurants and bars were allowed to run up to midnight post restrictions imposed during second wave of Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-allows-school-buses-to-ferry-students-at-full-capacity-101634939264379.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||11 new Covid cases in Chandigarh tricity area||The tricity reported no new Covid-19 death for the 17th day in row on Friday, even as the fresh infection count climbed to 11. It was last on October 5 when Panchkula and Chandigarh had reported one Covid-fatality each.On Friday, five fresh infections surfaced each in Chandigarh and Mohali while Panchkula recorded one new case. Those found infected in Chandigarh are residents of Sector 18, 30, 32 and 42. In Mohali, three cases were reported from Dhakoli, while one each surfaced from Gharuan and Boothgarh. In Panchkula, the infected man is a resident of CRPF. Meanwhile, the tricity’s active case count climbed to 78 on Friday. Of the 78 people still infected, 36 are in Mohali, 28 in Chandigarh and 12 in Panchkula. Chandigarh has so far reported 65,320 positive cases, of which 64,472 have been cured and 820 have died.In Mohali, 68,798 cases have been reported till date. Among these, 67,694 patients have recovered and 1,068 have died. Panchkula’s caseload of 30,757 includes 30,367 recoveries and 378 casualties.Micro-containment zone in UTThe UT administration declared a locality in Sector 28 a micro-containment zone on Friday. UT district magistrate Mandip Singh Brar said regular screening and monitoring will be done and frequent sanitisation of the area will be carried out. “Residents are advised to follow social distancing norms, wear masks and take care of hand hygiene,” he added||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11-new-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-tricity-area-101634939024451.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||At ₹95.33/litre, diesel price reaches all-time high in Chandigarh||Almost two weeks after the petrol price crossed the ₹100-mark in city, the rate of diesel reached an all-time high of ₹95.33 per litre on Friday. This is for the first time that the price of diesel in Chandigarh has soared past ₹95 per litre, increasing by almost ₹3 per litre over the past two weeks. On Thursday, the price of diesel was at ₹94.99 per litre. Petrol prices too have been on a continuous rise, going from ₹100.24 on October 10 to ₹102.88 per litre on Friday. In the tricity, Mohali has the highest fuel rates with diesel priced at ₹98.77 per litre and petrol at ₹108.97 per litre. In Panchkula, the price of diesel is ₹96.15 per litre while that of petrol is ₹104.26 per litre.Both Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have been organising protests ever since the price of petrol touched ₹100 per litre in Chandigarh. The prices have gone up as the global price of crude oil has gone up, but petrol pump owners point out how the prices continued to stay high even when the crude oil prices had dipped a few months ago, before surging again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-95-33-litre-diesel-price-reaches-all-time-high-in-chandigarh-101634938784305.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||One more succumbs to dengue in Mohali, 101 fresh cases in tricity||One more patient succumbed to dengue in Mohali on Friday, health officials said while adding that the deceased is a 68-year-old male from Mata Gujri Enclave in Kharar. He died during treatment at Max Hospital in Phase-6.So far, Mohali has witnessed 21 dengue deaths this season, of which 19 were logged in October alone while two were recorded in September. Chandigarh has so far recorded three dengue deaths but no new fatalities were reported on Friday. Panchkula has not reported any dengue death so far this year.Meanwhile, as many as 101 more people got infected with dengue in the tricity in the last 24 hours. Of the total, 48 cases were reported from Mohali, followed by 37 in Chandigarh and 16 in Panchkula.The cases of dengue, a mosquito-borne viral disease, started spiraling in September. Dr Sonu Goel, Professor, department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, said, “Only collective efforts of citizens, the health department and government can control dengue spread. Being responsible citizens, people must take preventive measures and not let mosquito breeding by cleaning the stagnant water.” Mohali mayor takes stock of situation Mohali mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu on Friday took stock of the dengue situation in the district. A team of sanitation department was formed to conduct door-to-door fogging. Deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi was also present on the occasion. Sidhu said all efforts are being made to control dengue spread in Mohali. He said besides fogging, it is important to create awareness among the people. He urged people not to allow water to accumulate around their houses. He said any negligence on the part of officials will not be tolerated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-more-succumbs-to-dengue-in-mohali-101-fresh-cases-in-tricity-101634938604410.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue outbreak: Lone platelet extracting machine at Mohali dist hospital lying defunct||Amid an unprecedented surge in dengue cases, the sole platelet apheresis machine at Mohali’s district hospital, which was bought about three years ago, is lying defunct, resulting in patients being referred to government hospitals in Chandigarh or private ones.In just two months, Mohali has recorded around 1,900 dengue infections while the count stood at 471 last year. The district has also lost 21 patients to the virus, transmitted by the Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. The civil hospital had bought an apheresis machine at a cost of around ₹30 lakh three years ago, but has never been able to make use of it. The machine, if functional, can extract 30,000-40,000 platelets from a single unit of blood. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said a part of the machine has been damaged. “We have already informed the authorities concerned about it. An engineer will come next week and hopefully, it will be functional soon.” She further said, “We have one machine in Kharar, which is functional, and we get the platelets from there as and when we require. Also, for use of the machine, the kit has to be provided by the patients only. One kit costs around ₹8,000.” A senior official of the hospital said, “Most patients go to private hospitals for platelets, which is very expensive.” UT health secretary Yashpal Garg, had earlier issued a statement, which read, “The patient count in Chandigarh hospitals has increased manifold due to patients coming from adjoining areas. In the past one week alone, 80% of patients from adjoining areas who were suffering from acute fever were admitted at Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32. Most of the patients who are referred to our hospitals are non-critical and can be treated in their respective hospitals only.”What the machine does? An apheresis machine is a device which receives blood removed from a patient or donor’s body and separates it into its various components: plasma, platelets, white blood cells and red blood cells. Depending on the reason for apheresis, one of these components is isolated and collected by the instrument, while the others are returned to the body. The machine at the Mohali district hospital can extract 30,000-40,000 platelets from a single unit of blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-outbreak-lone-platelet-extracting-machine-at-mohali-dist-hospital-lying-defunct-101634938364238.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||108 more virus cases in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 108 fresh coronavirus cases on Friday.Of the total cases, 87 were reported in Kashmir valley, while Jammu division saw 21 infections. The active positive cases reached 870, which is 64 more than Thursday.At 446, Srinagar has the highest number of active cases, followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 97 and 80 active cases, respectively. With 47 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by no or single-digit cases in 17 districts. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,26,195, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.41%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,31,494 and the death toll stands at 4,429.With 1,145 deaths, Jammu has seen the highest number of fatalities, followed by Srinagar with 844 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/108-more-virus-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101634937529586.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||26 PSA prisoners from J&K to be shifted to Agra Central Jail||Amid a spike in terror attacks and selective killings, the Jammu and Kashmir government has ordered the transfer of 26 overground workers lodged in different prisons across Jammu and Kashmir to the Agra Central Jail . In an order dated October 21, the Jammu and Kashmir home department said 26 detenues, “who have been detained under the provisions of the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, 1978, from the present place of lodgement to Central Jail Agra with immediate effect.” The order that was issued by principal secretary home Shaleen Kabra was also marked to UP’s additional chief secretary, home, DGP prisons and the superintendent of the Agra Central Jail. The inmates are lodged in Baramulla, Srinagar, Kupwara, Kot Bhalwal in Jammu, Rajouri and Poonch. After a series of civilian killings in targeted attacks in Kashmir, police had detained over 500 people who were either over ground workers or had been associated with Pakistan-sponsored terrorism in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/26-psa-prisoners-from-j-k-to-be-shifted-to-agra-central-jail-101634937284295.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala man held for his fiancée’s murder turns out to be ‘serial killer’||A 40-year-old man from Patiala city’s Urban Estate Colony, who buried his fiancée in his house after allegedly killing her recently, has turned out to be a serial killer as he also confessed to have murdered his first wife last month, police claimed. The investigators are also probing a possible link of the suspect with a 2014 case of purported suicide wherein a woman residing opposite his house had allegedly set herself ablaze, officials familiar with the matter said. The accused, Navninder Preet Singh who is in police custody following his arrest on Thursday, was in a relationship with at least three women, they said. The matter came to light during investigation into the murder of Chapinderpal Kaur (28) of Bathinda who was asphyxiated to death on October 14. Chapinderpal was to marry Navninder on Wednesday (October 20) but he allegedly killed her and buried her body in his bedroom after she discovered that he was already married to another woman. Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harcharan Singh Bhullar said Navninder married Sukhdeep Kaur (39) of Sangrur in February 2018 and started staying with her in a rented accommodation. “The two started quarrelling after Sukhdeep in September came to know about his marriage with one Lakhwinder Kaur of Sangrur’s Bhawanigarh. Lakhwinder, who married the accused in October 2018, has been living near his residence,” the SSP said. Sukhdeep was expecting her first child, he added.“The accused hatched a conspiracy to eliminate Sukhdeep. On September 20, he brought home a nitrogen cylinder and told her that it contained oxygen inhaling which would help the foetus grow. She died as soon as she inhaled the gas,” Bhullar said. The accused, the SSP said, took Sukhdeep’s parents into confidence saying she died of cardiac arrest. “Believing Navninder’s claim, the family performed her last rites,” he said. Patiala crime investigation agency (CIA) incharge Shaminder Singh said that in the meantime Navninder got engaged to Chapinderpal. “She (Chapinderpal) didn’t know anything about his marriage to Sukhdeep but she discovered that he had tied the knot with Lakhwinder. On this, he planned to kill Chapinderpal and called her for wedding shopping on October 11. Three days later (October 14), he also asked her to inhale the poisonous gas from the cylinder saying it would make her face glow,” the CIA incharge said. The accused had already dug a four-foot deep pit in his bedroom and buried her body in it, he said. “He covered the pit with tiles and placed a couch on it,” he added. “The suspect has been residing with his elderly parents, aged 80 and 75. His father retired as a colonel from the army. Navninder is law graduate and a postgraduate in sociology and was taking online classes with a US-based institute. We are also probing whether his parents and second wife Lakhwinder had any knowledge of his crimes,” the SSP said. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered in this connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-man-held-for-his-fianc-e-s-murder-turns-out-to-be-serial-killer-101634936985697.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls | Scams are developmental works for Congress, says CM Jai Ram Thakur||Training his guns at the Congress ahead of the Himachal bypolls, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Friday said leaders of the Grand Old Party consider scams and corruption as legit work, and do not count providing free gas connections or medical treatment to the poor, as done by the BJP government, as welfare work. Speaking at the Rampur assembly segment of Shimla district, which falls in the Mandi parliamentary constituency, he said, “The Congress cannot come to terms with the fact that the BJP has fielded an ex-serviceman and a war veteran from Mandi. Congress leaders call the Kargil a small conflict and say army personnel should not be in politics. However, we need people who will work with honesty and integrity and who better than a soldier?”Campaigning for Brigadier Khushal Thakur, who has been pitted against former MP Pratibha Singh, he said, “Our government has made a provision to provide pension to over four lakh elderly people and has provided free gas connections and stoves. Lakhs of people are being given free treatment under the Himcare Scheme. However, for the Congress only scams fall in the category of developmental work.” On the issue of inflation, he turned the tables on the Congress, saying, “The Opposition claims that whatever development has taken place in the state is because to them and so they must also accept that they were also responsible for inflation. They ruled the state for over five decades. What did they do to control inflation and unemployment?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hpbypolls-scams-are-developmental-works-for-congress-says-cm-jai-ram-thakur-101634936984466.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Channi failed to provide real benefit to people: Majithia||Shiromani Akali dal (SAD) MLA Bikram Singh Majithia on Friday said Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi promised development works and projects to the tune of ₹15,000 crore in the last one month but failed to give any real benefit to people as no money was allocated to fulfill these commitments.Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, Majithia said, “The promises he made will remain on paper only and it will be left to the next SAD-BSP alliance government to fulfill them. The government owes ₹8,000 crore to the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) alone. Of this, ₹4,500 crore is on account of power subsidy for agriculture and ₹2,500 crore pending dues of government departments.” ₹1,505 crore is needed to waive power bills of people with a load of less than 2 kilowatt besides thousands of crores on other promises like increasing subsidy for scheduled caste (SC) and backward class (BC) power consumers, he said. “The government also needs ₹2,400 crore to clear the SC scholarship scheme backlog and ₹550 crore is to be paid to the landless labourers,” he added. On allegations levelled by deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa against former CM Amarinder Singh, Majithia said, “Randhawa enjoyed plum ministries under Amarinder and was never tired of praising his former boss and his associates. If he has issue with anyone he should recommend a central probe or one by a Supreme Court judge to look into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/channi-failed-to-provide-real-benefit-to-people-majithia-101634936265041.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal bypolls | Virbhadra Singh failed to develop Arki, says Anurag Thakur||Campaigning for the BJP ahead of the Himachal Pradesh bypolls, Union minister Anurag Thakur on Friday said former six-time Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh, who had been an MLA from Arki, had done nothing to develop the assembly segment. Speaking at election rallies at Jayanagar, Dhundan and Karada, Thakur said , “The BJP nominee, Rattan Pal, has played an important role in the development of Arki. It is the work of a legislator to develop his assembly area. Former chief minister Virbhadra Singh could have developed the assembly segment if he wanted to, but did nothing. It was Rattan Pal who relentlessly raised the demands of people of Arki.” He also praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s handling of the coronavirus crisis. “The Covid pandemic brought most developed countries to their knees as their economies crumbled. However, under the strong leadership of the Prime Minister, not only did India bravely fight the virus, but also created history by vaccinating one billion people.”“The Centre had carved out a budget of ₹35,000 crore for vaccination and the vaccine was provided to the people free of cost,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bypolls-virbhadra-singh-failed-to-develop-arki-says-anurag-thakur-101634935844111.html
23-10-2021||Kolkata||At BJP’s East Burdwan unit meet, rival factions hurl chairs at each other||KOLKATA: Infighting in the Katwa unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Bengal’s East Burdwan district came to the fore on Friday when members of two factions hurled chairs at each other at a meeting convened by state president Sukanta Majumdar and his predecessor Dilip Ghosh. The incident took place in Dainhat town. The chaos started before Majumdar and Ghosh reached the venue of the meeting.Majumdar and Ghosh, who is now a national vice-president, tried to calm the 30-odd local leaders and their followers. One of the factions owes allegiance to Krishna Ghosh, president of the BJP’s East Burdwan district unit, said local BJP leaders. Krishna Ghosh was allegedly slapped by members of the rival camp. Discontent has been brewing in the BJP’s East Burdwan unit ever since Trinamool Congress (TMC) swept the March-April assembly polls in the district. Sunil Mondal, the TMC’s East Burdwan Lok Sabha member who joined BJP along with Suvendu Adhikari in December last year, also distanced himself from the saffron camp after the ruling party demanded his dismissal as a member of Parliament under the anti-defection law.Majumdar and Ghosh are jointly touring Bengal’s districts to take stock of organizational weaknesses before the formation of new district and community block-level committees. They started the tour two days ago in the adjoining Birbhum district. “The quarrel started because many in the anti-Krishna Ghosh faction feel that they may not find a place in the new committees. Security personnel accompanying Dilip Ghosh drove them out of the hall where the meeting took place and locked the door,” a BJP leader from Katwa said on condition of anonymity. Since Krishna Ghosh was appointed by Dilip Ghosh, some leaders opposed to the district president shouted ‘go back’ slogans at the national vice-president. “If people have anything to say against me, they can always write a complaint to the new state president. They cannot breach discipline. A handful of people joined the BJP with high aspirations. After the poll defeat, they are feeling frustrated. There is nothing wrong with our organisation,” said Ghosh.Majumdar accused the TMC of engineering the chaos.“TMC was behind the chaos we witnessed. Dedicated BJP workers do not behave in this manner,” said Majumdar.The TMC was quick with its comeback.“You cannot expect anything more when a sheep is replaced by a goat,” TMC’s Birbhum district unit president Anubrata Mondal, who is also in charge of the organisation in East Burdwan, said, a remark seen to allude to the mid-September reshuffle in which Majumdar replaced Ghosh as BJP state president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/at-bjp-s-east-burdwan-unit-meet-rival-factions-hurl-chairs-at-each-other-101634935484098.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Vigilance team inspects Sangrur civic body office, buildings||Probing into illegal construction sites and colonies in the town, a vigilance team of the local bodies department inspected the Sangrur nagar council office on Friday.The vigilance team claimed that civic body officials failed to provide documents related to the constructions due to the transfer of the previous executive officer (EO). Later, the team visited DC Road, Guru Nanak Colony, Uppli Road and other areas to inspect the ongoing constructions.“We have received many complaints regarding illegal colonies and commercial constructions. We sought records from the Nagar Council office, but the staff failed to produce them,” said Sudhir Sharma, senior vigilance officer, local bodies.EO Rakesh Kumar said the records will be provided to the team, but it will take some time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vigilance-team-inspects-sangrur-civic-body-office-buildings-101634935373944.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Drip irrigation: Punjab offers up to 90% subsidy to farmers||With an aim to save groundwater, the Punjab government is offering farmers subsidies up to 80 to 90% on drip irrigation projects. Punjab minister for soil conservation and water resources Rana Gurjeet Singh said a comprehensive plan in the drip irrigation sector was direly needed as many blocks in the state fell in “dark zones” in terms of depletion of groundwater. Under the Micro Irrigation policy, farmers will be able to get subsidies on first-come, first-serve basis. Farmers belonging to Scheduled Castes and marginal categories, besides women farmers, will get up to 90% subsidy, and others up to 80%.Singh said drip irrigation not only saved 40 to 60% water in agriculture sector, but also helped supply pesticides directly to the root zone of crops. ‘Plan sustainable projects’ Singh, who also holds the technical education and industrial training, employment generation and land conservation portfolios, also presided over a meeting of the Barnala district administration on Friday.Taking stock of ongoing developmental projects in the district, the minister said developmental projects conceived should be sustainable and in tandem with needs of masses.He said the local government ITIs and employment generation department should be in touch with industry heads to impart industry-specific skills and make local youth more employable.On the occasion, the minister also handed over government job letters to four kin of farmers, who have died during the farmers’ agitation against Centre’s agriculture laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drip-irrigation-punjab-offers-up-to-90-subsidy-to-farmers-101634935372660.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC asks Punjab to convey decision on release of buses to operator||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday directed the Punjab government to convey its decision on a plea from a bus operator on release of buses and allowing payment of taxes in instalments. The direction came on the plea of New Deep Bus Service, a bus operator that approached the court with a plea that it had submitted an application to the government on October 12, but the Regional Transport Authority, Faridkot, had not taken a decision. In its representation, the bus operator company had said that it had not paid taxes for the period between January and October. It demanded that the dues be allowed to be paid in instalments and its buses impounded by the transport officials be released. It had cited reasons, such as less passengers due to Covid-19 restrictions and losses owing to free bus travel facility for women by the Punjab government, etc., in its application. The government in response had told the court that the October 12 representation had been rejected through an October 21 order. The government had claimed that 26 buses of the operator were impounded for not paying taxes and on account of other violations during the statewide drive against tax defaulters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-asks-punjab-to-convey-decision-on-release-of-buses-to-operator-101634935371349.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Post-matric SC scholarship scam: Verka orders FIR against accused||Punjab social justice, empowerment and minorities minister Raj Kumar Verka has issued directions to register a case against the accused in the post-matric scholarship scam. In a statement here, Verka said under the leadership of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the Punjab government was committed to rooting out corruption and no one involved in the scam will be spared. Verka said around 100 colleges were involved in this case and recovery of more than ₹100 crore was pending against them. The matter had been discussed by the Cabinet and the opinion of the advocate general had also been received in this regard. He said as per Supreme Court directions, a case was to be registered if recovery was more than ₹50 lakh. In this context, orders had been issued to register an FIR against those who cheated the students. Notably, five officials have already been chargesheeted on the directions of Verka. These include deputy director Parminder Singh Gill, deputy controller finance and administration Charanjit Singh, section officer Mukesh Bhatia, superintendent Rajinder Chopra and senior assistant Rakesh Arora. Verka said he will ensure fair and transparent action in the case. “Strict action is being taken against the colleges that misappropriated scholarship funds and failed to repay the outstanding amount. Any injustice to minorities will not be tolerated. The government is committed to extending the benefits of social welfare schemes to the beneficiaries,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/postmatric-sc-scholarship-scam-verka-orders-fir-against-accused-101634935370202.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sarpanch’s husband fakes suicide to grab cousin’s money, booked||Police are hunting for the husband of a Ludhiana village sarpanch who allegedly faked his suicide to grab his cousin’s ₹1 lakh.According to the complainant, Joginder Singh, the accused, Joga Singh, was alive and well, but with the conspiracy of his wife, Jasvir Singh, had faked his suicide in July to disappear with his money.On his complaint, Joga and Jasvir, who is the sarpanch of Burj Pawat village, Machhiwara, Ludhiana, have been booked under Sections 182 (false information, with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 194 (giving or fabricating false evidence with intent to procure conviction of capital offence) of the Indian Penal Code.Joginder told the police that he had lent his cousin ₹1 lakh, but he was not returning the money. When he pressured Joga for it, he threatened to implicate him in a false case of abetment to suicide.On July 24, he recorded a suicide video message, claiming that he was going to jump into Sirhind Canal due to monetary issues with Joginder and a panchayat member. He had also claimed that the accused had encroached upon panchayat land and were forcing him to record his statement in their favour in court.Meanwhile, Jasvir filed a complaint about her husband’s disappearance and shared she had received his suicide video message.She had claimed that her husband had received ₹3.25 lakh from the sale of some panchayat land in the village. Joginder had borrowed the money and promised to return it in four days. But later, he refused to return the money and started threatening her husband along with a panchayat member.Sub-inspector Santokh Singh, who is investigating Joginder’s complaint, said an FIR had been lodged against Joga and his sarpanch wife at Machhiwara police station and they will be arrested soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sarpanchs-husband-fakes-suicide-to-grab-cousin-s-money-booked-101634935368664.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu border lynching: Haryana Police record statements of victim’s kin in Tarn Taran||A team of the Haryana Police visited Cheema Kalan village in Tarn Taran on Friday to record the statements of the family members of Lakhbir Singh, who was brutally murdered by Nihangs at the Singhu border on October 15. The team, led by inspector Sikandar Singh, took a written statement of Lakhbir’s sister Raj Kaur, who told the police that she came to know about her brother’s death on October 16. Kaur, who had alleged that her brother was allured by some unknown persons and taken to Singhu, stated that she was not aware about who accompanied him.On Wednesday, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota had formed a special investigation team (SIT) for a “thorough and expeditious” inquiry into the matter. The team includes Varinder Kumar, additional director general of police (ADGP)-cum-director, Bureau of Investigating (BOI); Ferozepur deputy inspector general (DIG) Inderbir Singh and Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harwinder Singh Virak. None of the team members had so far reached the village, but were expected to visit on Sunday, said police sources.Meanwhile, uncertainty remains over how Lakhbir reached the Singhu border. “We heard that one of the accused, Sarabjit Singh, who had surrendered after the murder, was seen in a village cowshed some days before the incident. But there is no evidence,” said Lakhbir’s brother-in-law Sukhchain Singh. Raj Kaur, however, said her brother was never in contact with any Nihang. Dilbagh Singh, head of the Dhan Dhan Baba Sheikh Brahm Peer Ji Gaushala, said, “A police team had visited us on Wednesday and collected the CCTV footage. We have nothing to do with Sarabjit. It is just a rumour being spread by a local political leader to malign our image.”Village sarpanch Awan Kumar Sonu Cheema said he didn’t know anything about Sarabjit’s movement in the village before the incident. SSP Virak refused to comment until the investigation was completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singhu-border-lynching-haryana-police-record-statements-of-victim-s-kin-in-tarn-taran-101634935367406.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab FM meets Union minister, seeks pharma park in Bathinda||Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Friday met Union minister for chemicals, fertilisers and pharmaceuticals Mansukh Mandaviya in Delhi, seeking establishment of a pharmaceutical park in Bathinda. Manpreet said the pharmaceutical park will serve the entire country, particularly the northern region, including Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, western Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. “Being a border state, Punjab must employ its youth productively to avoid them falling victim to sinister designs emanating from our hostile neighbours,” said Manpreet, while adding that the establishment of a pharmaceutical park at Bathinda will provide direct employment to around 100,000 people and indirect employment to nearly 200,000 people.He stressed that the presence of a fully operational “A” level railway station, availability of over 1,350 acres and proximity to the Bathinda Oil Refinery made this site ideal for establishing a pharma park. “134 acres of water bodies, lakes and ponds bolster the land cluster greatly, providing many additional benefits for establishing, maintaining and operating a pharma facility,” Manpreet said. He assured that the pharma industry here will receive substantial support from some of the largest USFDA-approved pharmaceutical companies, such as Sun Pharma, Centrient and IOL Chemicals. “Bathinda will also benefit from an R&D ecosystem comprising NIPER, IISER and Institute of Nano-Technology in Mohali, besides AIIMS and Institute of Microbial Technology at Bathinda,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-fm-meets-union-minister-seeks-pharma-park-in-bathinda-101634935366315.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||More powers to BSF: Punjab CM urges PM to restore status quo||Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore the status quo that existed before the central government expanded the Border Security Force’s jurisdiction in Punjab.In his letter, Channi also urged the Prime Minister to give him an appointment for a meeting on the issue. On October 11, the Union ministry of home affairs had amended the Border Security Force (BSF) Act, 1958, to extend the jurisdiction of BSF from 15 kilometres to 50 kilometres in areas along the international borders in Punjab, Assam and West Bengal. Channi wrote that while the BSF was trained to guard and secure the international border as the first line of defence, policing in the hinterland was the duty and responsibility of the state/local police. Moreover, the Punjab Police was a professional force fully competent to handle any law and order situation within the state. The chief minister shared that Punjab Police dealt with terrorism effectively in the past, which would not have been possible without effective coordination between Punjab Police and central agencies. He said joint operations had been conducted successfully against drug traffickers and terrorist modules because of excellent coordination between BSF and Punjab Police in the recent past. Making a strong plea to review the entire matter, the chief minister said there were no justifiable reasons for unilaterally changing the existing arrangements by the Government of India. He said authorising BSF to undertake search, seizure and arrest without consulting the state governments amounted to encroachment upon the powers and role of the state by the Centre and an attempt to disturb the federal structure of the Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-powers-to-bsf-punjab-cm-urges-pm-to-restore-status-quo-101634935365173.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar doctor alleges ₹1-crore ransom demand by gangster||Police have launched a probe after a city-based doctor allegedly received a ransom call from gangster Jagdeep Singh, alias Jaggu Bhagwanpuria. In a written complaint to the Civil Lines police station, the doctor stated that the caller claimed to be Bhagwanpuria and demanded ₹1 crore from him. Police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said, “Bhagwanpuria is lodged in the high-security Tihar jail and it is not possible to make a call from there. However, we have started a probe and are verifying the call details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-doctor-alleges-1-crore-ransom-demand-by-gangster-101634935363925.html
23-10-2021||Kolkata||2 men, hired for ₹50k to rob Subir Chaki, arrested for his murder: Kolkata cop||KOLKATA: Two men have been arrested in connection with the murder of Subir Chaki, 61, the managing director of Kilburn Engineering, and his driver Rabin Mondal, 65, at his ancestral house in south Kolkata’s Gariahat area on October 17, police officers associated with the murder probe said on Friday.The arrested men were identified as Jahir Gazi and Bapi Mondal. They were picked up from the remote Patharpratima area of South 24 Parganas district and brought to Kolkata by officers of the detective department. With this, the number of arrests in the case has gone up to three.“Gazi and Mondal said during interrogation that they accompanied Vicky Haldar, the principal accused and elder son of Mithu Haldar who was arrested from her home in South 24 Parganas district’s Diamond Harbour on Wednesday,” an officer said on condition of anonymity. Vicky is still missing.Investigators believe that Gazi and Mondal, the two men arrested on Friday, accompanied Vicky on the evening of the murder. Mondal and Gazi were allegedly offered ₹50,000 for taking part in the crime.Chaki and his driver were murdered after the top executive reportedly recognized Vicky who came to rob him posing as a buyer for Chaki’s three-storey ancestral house. Vicky met Chaki for the first time around 10 months ago posing as buyer.“Mondal and Gazi have claimed that Mithu Haldar contacted them on September 16 and persuaded them to take part in the robbery that she and Vicky had planned. She offered the duo ₹50,000. Their statements are being verified. The investigation will be complete only after Vicky’s arrest. Bapi Mondal’s wife told us that after returning home he said it was Vicky who killed Chaki,” said another officer. Mithu Haldar, who worked as a nurse, was remanded in police custody for two weeks by a Kolkata court on Thursday. The police told the court that she and Vicky planned the robbery that led to the murders.Mithu Haldar and her husband Subhas Haldar had an estranged relationship and used to live separately, the probe has revealed.South 24 Parganas district police officers said that in 2021 Subhas Haldar filed a complaint against his wife and Vicky saying they tried to kill him. Mithu Haldar and Vicky were arrested and remanded in judicial custody before being released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/2-men-hired-for-rs-50k-to-rob-subir-chaki-arrested-for-his-murder-kolkata-cop-101634934343823.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Randhawa orders probe into ‘ISI link’ of Capt’s woman friend from Pak; baseless, says ex-CM||Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa on Friday said the government will probe whether Aroosa Alam, a defence journalist from Pakistan and former chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s friend, has any links with the Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), that country’s spy agency. Randhawa, who also holds charge of home department, announced this on Twitter. “Have given directions to DGP Punjab to probe Aroosa Alam’s alleged links with ISI. Aroosa was given shelter at Chief Minister’s government residence by Captain saab even as he was repeatedly alerted throughout four and half years against it,” said Randhawa in the tweet. Singh hit back immediately, saying Randhawa was now resorting to personal attacks. “You were a minister in my cabinet@Sukhjinder_INC. Never heard you complain about Aroosa Alam. And she’d been coming for 16 years with due GoI clearances. Or are you alleging that both NDA and @INC India led UPA govts in this period connived with Pak ISI?” the former chief minister’s media adviser quoted him as saying on Twitter. The Congress has stepped up its attack on Singh after his announcement that he would leave the party, form a new one, contest the coming state elections, and have an understanding with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress first appointed Navjot Singh Sidhu as the president of its Punjab unit against Singh’s wishes, and subsequently forced him to resign as chief minister. Randhawa was not available for comment to clarify his tweet, although he also made a reference to Alam on Thursday in an interaction with the press, and pointedly said Singh has been raising concerns about drones from Pakistan dropping weapons and drugs across the border in Punjab. On Friday, Singh added, “So now you’re resorting to personal attacks @Sukhjinder_INC. One month after taking over this is all you have to show to the people. What happened to your tall promises on Bargari & drugs cases? Punjab is still waiting for your promised action.” He said instead of focusing on maintaining law and order, the deputy chief minister has put the DGP on a “baseless investigation”. Singh has repeatedly raised the security issue and said that Sidhu is a threat to the country’s security because of his close relationship with the ISI and Pakistan. This is not the first time that Alam’s name has been dragged into Punjab politics. In August this year, Sidhu’s then advisor Malvinder Singh Mali , too, did so in a Facebook post.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/randhawa-orders-probe-into-isi-link-of-capt-s-woman-friend-from-pak-baseless-says-excm-101634934104250.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Harish Chaudhary replaces Rawat as Punjab Congress in-charge||The Congress on Friday appointed AICC secretary and Rajasthan revenue minister Harish Chaudhary as the in-charge of party affairs in poll-bound Punjab. Chaudhary, who replaces AICC general secretary and former chief minister of Uttarakhand Harish Rawat, has also been made in-charge for Chandigarh. Rawat had urged the party high command to be relieved off his duties in Punjab. His home state is also going to polls along with Punjab in less than four months. “Congress president has appointed Harish Chaudhary as AICC in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh with immediate effect. Harish Rawat is being relieved from his current responsibility as AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh,” general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal said in a statement, adding that Rawat would continue to be a member of the Congress Working Committee. Rawat was made in-charge of Punjab about a year ago. His tenure was quite an eventful one as the state Congress was rocked by factional feud that saw Navjot Singh Sidhu, several ministers and MLAs revolt against then chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. Sidhu was appointed the state chief despite strong opposition from Amarinder who was made to resign last month. However, the change of guard has failed to end the strife as the new chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, and Sidhu have not been on the same page on senior appointments, cabinet appointments and allocation of some portfolios. Chaudhary’s appointment was expected as he has been holding parleys with Channi, Sidhu and other party leaders for the past several days to resolve their differences. He had worked as Punjab affairs co-incharge in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harish-chaudhary-replaces-rawat-as-punjab-congress-incharge-101634933743686.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue: 50 test positive in Ludhiana, one succumbs||One person died, while over 50 people tested positive for dengue for the third consecutive day on Friday.This year, 631 residents have been tested positive for the disease, while the number of suspected cases is 2,161. Four people are suspected to have succumbed to the infection, but no fatality has been confirmed.Civil surgeon Dr SP Singh cautioned residents, particularly women, to take precautions while visiting busy market to apply mehendi on the occasion of Karva Chauth.Meanwhile, only Covid case was reported from the district on Friday, taking the district’s total tally to 87,591.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-50-test-positive-in-ludhiana-one-succumbs-101634933443653.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Commuters hassled as protesting teachers block airport road||With protesting 646 unemployed Physical Training Instructors (PTI) Teachers’ Union members blocking the airport road near Sohana Gurdwara, commuters were at the receiving end.Their five teachers are already atop the water tank near Sohana over their long-pending demand. The protesters blocked the road from 9 am and continued protesting till the filling of the report.On the other hand, the police had a tough time in diverting the traffic and at several traffic lights and intersections, a massive traffic jam was witnessed.These teachers belong to specialised categories like BEd or Physical Training Instructors (PTIs). Before the 2017 state assembly polls, the Congress had promised ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ (a job for every household). The president of the union, Gurlabh Singh, alias Bhola, said, “We were promised by Pargat Singh when he was an MLA to get our appointments regularised and said if he becomes a minister he will get it done at the earliest. But it is a sorry state of affairs that an honest politician like Pargat Singh also eats up his words as after being sworn in as a minister in the Punjab cabinet, he has forgotten what he promised. We have also presented a memorandum in this regard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/commuters-hassled-as-protesting-teachers-block-airport-road-101634933325936.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Man arrested for stealing friend’s car||A man was arrested after his friend alleged that he had stolen his car from outside a hotel at Dariya village in Chandigarh.In his complaint, Abhinesh Chouhan (29), a resident of Aerocity, Sector-66, Mohali, told the police that he worked as a sales executive in a private company in Panchkula. He said on Wednesday, he and his friend Vipin Mehla checked into a hotel at Dariya village. He said he had parked his car (registration number CH01BS 1467) outside the hotel. After having dinner, they went to sleep. When he woke up at 4 am, his friend was not there and his car keys and mobile were missing. He went to see his car, but it was missing. He called up Vipin, but he did not respond. He alleged that Vipin had taken away his car and phone. A case under Section 379 of the IPC was registered and Vipin has been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-arrested-for-stealing-friend-s-car-101634933324945.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman’s gold chain snatched at Sector 37||A 68-year-old woman lost her gold chain to motorcycle-borne snatchers at Sector 37, Chandigarh, on Friday. Savita told the police that she was standing outside her house when two motorcycle-borne persons came and snatched her gold chain. The accused have been caught on the CCTV camera and the police are looking for them on the basis of the footage. Both accused were wearing helmets. A case has been registered under Section 379 b of the IPC at the Sector 39 police station, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-woman-s-gold-chain-snatched-at-sector-37-101634933323741.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||No irregularities in Jarandeshwar sugar factory auction: Ajit Pawar||Claiming that many of the cooperative sugar factories which were sold to private firms were sold for ₹3 crore - ₹8 crore during the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) regime but nobody questioned them about it, deputy chief minister (CM) Ajit Pawar said the Jarandeshwar cooperative sugar factory was auctioned after following all the set rules. Pawar and his firm, who have been facing allegations of irregularities in the Jarandeshwar cooperative sugar factory deal, said that at least in four court cases, the verdict was in their favour. “The [Jarandeshwar] sugar factory was bought by Guru Commodities for ₹66.75 crore and handed over BVG [another firm] to run, but they gave it to some other firm after a year. The Bombay high court had ordered a probe into the auction of the sugar factory. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is probing the auction and the truth will come out after it,” he said. “The auction of Jarandeshwar sugar factory was done as per the court order after the management failed to repay the debts despite two opportunities given to them. A special leave petition filed against the auction was struck down by the Apex and high courts,” he said. Pawar said though there are allegations levelled against the auction of the cooperative sugar factories, multiple agencies have already probed the deals and found nothing. There were 65 cooperative sugar factories of which eight were auctioned or given on lease by the respective banks or the state government. Many of these factories were sold during the BJP rule between 2015 and 2019 for paltry amount, but nobody is talking about it. Many agencies such as CID (crime investigation department), anti-corruption bureau, economic offences wing as well as a court-appointed committee have probed into these allegations, but found nothing,” he said. The deputy CM said that the major noise was being made only against selected few sugar factories to mislead the people. ED had attached the property of Jarandeshwar sugar mills worth ₹65 crore in July. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya has claimed that the factory was purchased by a firm owned by Pawar and his family. He had also alleged that the district cooperative banks give loans to the firm by flouting the norms. Reacting to the clarification given by Pawar, Somaiya said, “Pawar has tried to misguide the people of Maharashtra through his statement but he has not answered the questions raised by us. He has acquired Jarandeshwar as a benami property. He has been running the factory for the past 10 years. The Income Tax has been raiding the premises owned by him, his son Parth and sisters for the past 10 days. The agency has found [total] benami transactions worth ₹1,000 crore and benami transactions of ₹100 crore in Pawar’s accounts. We are not against the auction of the factories, but are raising questions over the corrupt and benami practices involved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-irregularities-in-jarandeshwar-sugar-factory-auction-ajit-pawar-101634933204946.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records large variation in day and night temperatures||With the minimum temperature dropping to this month’s low at 22.6 degrees Celsius on Friday and the maximum temperature rising to 36.1 degrees Celsius, Mumbai recorded a significant diurnal variation in temperature of about 14 degrees Celsius. Officials with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) attributed this to a flux in meteorological conditions, which is typical as the city transitions from monsoon to winter.“As relative humidity drops and landward sea breezes start to have more influence in the late evenings, it causes night time temperatures to fall. But during the day, because there are clear skies after monsoon withdrawal, there is penetration of sunlight and the maximum temperature tends to be on the higher side,” said an official with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.Such a wide variation in temperature throughout the day can have health implications. Physician Dr Hemant Gupta said, “The body’s thermostat takes time to adjust when there is a wide temperature fluctuation throughout the day. We typically see a spurt in respiratory issues and viral infections during such periods. Some parts of the city have smog accumulation in the morning which triggers respiratory allergies and worsens existing asthma conditions.”According to Dr Gupta, the energy levels of people have gone down tremendously as many have been confined to their homes during the past several months due to the pandemic. “Along with viral infections, we are getting a lot of complaints of muscle cramps, low energy level and tiredness. People are finding it difficult to fight the fatigue, and the weather is making it worse for them to cope,” he said. As per IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, the minimum temperature is expected to drop even further, to 21 degrees Celsius, by Monday. With the onset of winter season approaching, maximum temperatures are also expected to drop significantly before the end of the month. Forecasts suggest that Mumbai will see a maximum temperature of 32 degrees Celsius by October 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-large-variation-in-day-and-night-temperatures-101634933203774.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Have we completed a billion doses: Shiv Sena questions vax numbers||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the country on Friday for completing a billion vaccine doses, the Shiv Sena, expressing its doubts over the figure, asked if 100-crore doses have been administered. Stating that an “event” is being created over the vaccine administration, Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that there are contradictory figures about the country’s inoculation drive.Addressing the country a day after the cumulative vaccine doses against coronavirus crossed the landmark figure of 1 billion, Modi said our country has succeeded in its Covid-19 campaign and that 130 crore citizens are behind it. “It’s their success. I congratulate all,” he said.The Sena lawmaker said that so far only 33 crore people are fully vaccinated, while many have not got their second dose.“Have we administered 100 crore doses?” If we have done so, then it is a matter of joy. But contradictory figures are being spoken on this. Some people say only 33 crore [people] are fully vaccinated, some say many have not got their second dose,” Raut said on Friday.The Sena leader also criticised the celebrations organised to recognise the landmark figure. He said, “Some people are saying that we have not completed 100 crore [doses], [but] an event is happening... It has become a new tradition to celebrate [such things]. Therefore, all participate in Modi’s utsav [celebration]. If the government had decided to celebrate this, then let them, we will participate. It is our country after all.”Responding to the doubts raised by the Sena leader, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar said if Raut has doubts over the vaccination numbers, then he must go and count the doses individually.Bhakhatkar added that the ruling coalition in Maharashtra has made it a habit to criticise the Centre. “Health minister Rajesh Tope in a press conference today said that 70% vaccination has been completed in the state. This means the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi’s allegation of not getting enough number of vaccines is untrue. He [Raut] should apologise to the people for making false allegations against the Central government,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/have-we-completed-a-billion-doses-shiv-sena-questions-vax-numbers-101634933144944.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Theatres in Maharashtra witness lukewarm response on Day 1 of reopening||On the first day of reopening on Friday, theatres and multiplexes in Maharashtra witnessed less than 20% patrons, even as only 30% of the single-screen theatres opened their doors for movie goers, associations representing the cinema hall owners said. Maharashtra has 532 multiplexes and 470 single-screen theatres. Of these, 259 multiplexes and 65 single-screen theatres are in Mumbai.“Less than 20% of patrons visited theatres on the first day. Most single-screens were shut because no mega-star movie released on Friday. We expect the business to pick up during the Diwali weekend. However, we request the Maharashtra government to allow 100% occupancy inside the auditoriums,” said Nitin Datar, president of Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India.On October 13, the Maharashtra government had issued guidelines for reopening of cinema halls, theatres and auditoriums from October 22 with 50% capacity. The guidelines allow access only to people with Covid-19 vaccination certificates or with the Aarogya Setu app showing their status as ‘safe’. Cinema owners also have to follow a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP) before allowing visitors inside the cinema halls. The associations have stated that the SOPs are stringent and following them would be difficult.“The SOPs are difficult to follow every time. We have been asked to check the temperature of visitors and report to the authorities in case a visitor has temperature. It is difficult to do everything manually,” added Datar. Multiplex owners are hopeful that people will visit cinemas during the weekend. “Until Friday evening, the business has been nearly 35% across all the halls. We are hopeful that people will visit cinema halls during the weekend,” said Manoj Desai, executive director of G7 Multiplex and Maratha Mandir Cinema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/theatres-in-maharashtra-witness-lukewarm-response-on-day-1-of-reopening-101634933143803.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Annual Research Day: PGI awards 47 doctors for exemplary work||The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) awarded 47 doctors of the institute for conducting exemplary research work in the field of medical education, including three doctors for conducting the best Covid-based researches, during its 8th Annual Research Day on Friday.With various departments of the PGIMER concluding 576 research papers on medical education in the last three years, including 58 researchers on the Covid-19 pandemic, the annual research event witnessed the institute’s highest number of entries.The awards, given in the medical, surgical, pre and para clinical, innovation and Covid-19 categories, were based on the H-Index which measures both the productivity and citation impact of the publication. Two eminent medical scientists of the country, Prof YK Chawla, former director, and Prof Digambar Behera, former dean (research) of the PGIMER, graced the event as chief guests.“The research intends to monitor the institute’s strengths as well as areas of improvement in the domain of research. The research brings in more innovations and helps in providing the best clinical services to patients. Research and innovation is the only way forward to ensure affordable health care for all in our country where only 8% are having medical insurance and 39 million falls in the BPL category,” said Dr AK Gupta, dean (research) and medical superintendent, PGIMER, adding that in view of the quality of research conducted, it was a humongous task to judge the best 47 award-winning entries.“We received the highest number of entries this year. The enthusiasm shown brings out the enormous research output of our institute. The past few years have seen a lot of us dive into Covid duties and battle the pandemic, but that hasn’t deterred meaningful research into this dreaded disease. This is exemplified by the high impact research put up by the faculty in the special Covid section this year,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.Institute’s 3 best researches on Covid-19In the Covid-19 category, a total of 58 researches were concluded at the PGIMER, of which three were awarded for their excellence and for contributing in saving the lives of the people through clinical services.The three researchers included ‘Should anti-diabetic medications be reconsidered amid Covid-19 pandemic?’ conducted by Dr Sanjay Bhadada, head of the endocrinology department; ‘Drug targets for Coronavirus’ conducted by Dr Bikash Medhi, professor, department of pharmacology; and ‘Covid-19, diabetes mellitus and ACE2’ conducted by Dr Rimesh Pal, assistant professor, endocrinology department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/annual-research-day-pgi-awards-47-doctors-for-exemplary-work-101634933092379.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Gang of vehicle lifters busted, three held with 27 stolen bikes||The police claimed to have busted a gang of vehicle lifters involved in stealing two-wheelers with the arrest of three members.The accused have been identified as Sharanjit Singh (23) of Ambala, Gurveer Singh (22) of Shampur village in Mohali and Mandeep (22) of Pinjore. The police recovered 27 stolen motorcycles from their possession. On October 18, the police had arrested Sharanjit and Gurveer with a stolen motorcycle from Sector 42 and a case was registered under Section 379 of the IPC. The accused were sent to four-day police remand. Later, Mandeep was arrested on October 20. The police said the accused were active in the Tricity and used to steal vehicles parked at various parking lots of the city. Sharanjit and Gurveer used to steal motorcycles and sell them at throwaway prices to Mandeep. The police said Mandeep used to sell the stolen motorcycles with fake number plates in rural areas. He used to tell buyers that these motorcycles were impounded after owners defaulted on payments to auto financers. While Gurveer is a drug addict, Mandeep used to buy stolen motorcycles to meet his daily needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-of-vehicle-lifters-busted-three-held-with-27-stolen-bikes-101634933091125.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Income tax raids on cycle manufacturers continue||Raids by the income tax department on cycle and parts manufacturers in Ludhiana continued for the second consecutive day on Friday. Raids were conducted on the premises of Neelam Cycles (Seth Industrial Corporation), Vishal Cycles, Gurdip Cycle Industries (Ashoka), Raka Cycle Industries, Arpan Cycles and Willpower Cycle industries among others. As per information, IT officials remained inside the buildings at night and police were deputed outside the units to stop entry and exit from the building. Over 100 officials from different districts of the state were part of the teams which conducted raids in areas like Focal Point, near Partap Chowk, Dhandari Kalan, Model Town and Atam Nagar.It is learnt that during investigation, officials confiscated documents/bills and checked computerised records of industrialists. Most of the industries raided by the department have been dealing with each other and been participating in government tenders floated for purchase of bicycles. UCPMA delegation visits industrial unitsA delegation of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturers Association (UCPMA) visited industrial units where raids were being conducted on Friday. However, they were not allowed to enter. General secretary of the association, Manjinder Sachdeva, stated that the industry is already reeling under crisis and the raids will further impact it negatively and might result in reduction of working capital. The department had on Thursday raided over two dozen premises of cycle and parts manufacturers situated in different parts of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-income-tax-raids-on-cycle-manufacturers-continue-101634933089811.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU former senator writes to chancellor over vacant posts||Dr Subhash Sharma, state general secretary of the BJP and former senator of Panjab University, said on Friday that Panjab University was suffering as various important positions were lying vacant for years.While taking a strong note of the vacant positions, Dr Sharma wrote to the chancellor of Punjab University, Venkaiah Naidu, and said significant posts like registrar, dean college development council, controller of examination, chief security officer, NSS programme coordinator, chief librarian, director, university business school, director, university institute of management studies, and director, sports, were being run on ad hoc basis.“Since 2018, the post of the registrar is vacant. The premier university has not filled the post of dean college development council which directly affects 195 colleges affiliated with the university. The post has been vacant since 2016,” said Dr Sharma.The university had invited applications twice in 2018 and 2020 and a few names were also shortlisted but unfortunately, no interviews had yet taken place. The post of NSS programme coordinator has been vacant for the last one year. The chief security officer’s post is also not filled and the post of the chief librarian is vacant since April 2020. The director, sports, post is also vacant since October 2020.“The lackadaisical attitude in running this university will have far-reaching ramifications and immediate appointments of meritorious persons for the vacant posts in the university should be made,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-former-senator-writes-to-chancellor-over-vacant-posts-101634933023810.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Process to provide financial aid to athletes set in motion||Acting on the directions of Punjab sports minister Pargat Singh, district sports officer Ravinder Singh on Thursday sought the names of athletes belonging to economically-weak backgrounds from local coaches by Monday.To promote the culture of sports in Punjab, the sports minister had held a meeting in Chandigarh with all DSOs from the state and the Punjab sports director and directed them to pay special attention to players belonging to economically-weaker sections. The minister has directed the DSOs to buy sports equipment for the players instead of giving them cash.“The minister has assured his support for budding players of Punjab. We have been directed to pay special attention to players who do not have adequate financial resources,” said Ravinder. He added, “Once we submit the list with the Punjab sports director, the budget will be allocated accordingly.”The minister has also asked the DSOs to provide sports equipment including playing kits and tracksuits to the needy players practising in private clubs, academies and schools and not only the sports centres affiliated with the government sports department.“If our coaches train players in a private academy or club or if they know players who take private training and need financial support, we have requested them to inform department about their requirements. The aim is to strengthen the foundation of the players, so that they can bring laurels for the country at the international level,” stated an official.Meanwhile, Ravinder chaired a meeting with coaches from the district at Guru Nanak Stadium on Thursday and sought a list of equipment required for games like football, hockey, baseball, cricket, athletics, handball, cycling, wrestling, judo, softball, gymnastics and shooting. Pargat has directed the DSOs increase the sports centres in the district at par with the coaches.An official said that there are total of 35 coaches in the district appointed by the sports department, but only 30 sports centres. The minister said that each coach should have a centre to run so that more players can benefit.As per the officials, the minister expressed concern over the diet of the players, following which DSOs have made it mandatory for coaches to provide morning and evening meals to the players. Ravinder also warned the coaches of surprise checks by him and the Punjab sports director at local sports centres.Meanwhile, a few coaches expressed uncertainty over the allocation of the budget for their sport requirements, citing the high cost. “A few required equipment for my sport costs in lakhs. I doubt that the government will allocate the budget for us,” said a coach, on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-process-to-provide-financial-aid-to-athletes-set-in-motion-101634932905101.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Active Covid cases in Mumbai go up to 5K from 2,800 in August||The active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai have increased by 78% between August 21 and October 21 after shooting up to over 5,000 active cases this month, from the average of 2,800 cases in August. On August 21, Mumbai had 2,988 active Covid-19 cases, which shot up to 4,583 on the same date in September and then to 5,328 on October 21. This comes at a time when the daily Covid-19 cases flat-lined to around 450-500 cases per day in October, with an exception of October 6, when Mumbai had reported 624 Covid-19 cases – the highest infections reported in a single day in over two months.On Friday, Mumbai reported 420 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths, taking the tally to 753,653 and the toll to 16,202. Of total deaths, 13,845 are of those among 50 years of age. The case fatality rate at present is 2.1%. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday conducted 38,242 Covid-19 tests, and the positivity rate for the day is at 1%. The overall positivity rate in the city is 6.7% now. Positivity rate is the number of positive cases as a percent of the total number of Covid-19 tests. So far, BMC has conducted a total of 11,134,004 Covid-19 tests.The recovery rate in the city at present is 97%, and the overall growth rate of Covid cases is 0.05%. The doubling rate – the number of days taken for the total cases to double – is 1,375 days.There are 37 sealed buildings and 1,727 sealed floors across Mumbai but no active containment zones in slums or chawls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/active-covid-cases-in-mumbai-go-up-to-5k-from-2-800-in-august-101634932903708.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai high-rise fire: Challenges in firefighting||The fire at Mumbai’s Avighna Park that claimed one life has once again turned the spotlight on fire safety in high-rises buildings. In cases where a tall building’s internal firefighting system is not working, the Mumbai fire brigade has to rely on its own firefighting equipment. Experts say the major challenge in this is physically carrying the equipment to the top floors of the building. If the fire breaks out on higher floors which are not within the reach of the fire brigade’s turntable ladders, external support (from outside the building) to control a raging fire is non-existent, and rescue operations become tougher, according to them. The tallest turntable ladder available with the Mumbai Fire brigade is 90m long, which can access up to 30-32 floors of a high-rise. However, the city is rapidly seeing a spurt in 60-70 storey buildings. “In such cases, the building’s own robust internal firefighting system is the only way to effective fight fires, or prevent them,” said Hemant Dattatray Parab, chief fire officer of the Mumbai fire brigade. Another senior officer of the Mumbai fire brigade said, “The tallest firefighting ladder in the world is 112m long. This vehicle weighs 72 tonnes. Mumbai’s roads are not made to handle this weight. Even if they were, this is not tall enough for the tallest building in Mumbai. What can you do?” The 90-m ladder owned by the Mumbai fire brigade weighs 52 tonnes. Mumbai’s roads and flyovers are designed to handle a load of around 60 tonnes, as there are utility chambers under all of them, the officer quoted above said. Some roads in the island city have century-old arch drains under them. An officer of the Mumbai fire brigade told HT a few months ago: “When my 90m ladder is out on the field, parked under a building and in use for a rescue operation, I am constantly mindful that I do not know the condition of the road below. I have no time to assess this condition in the little time I have as a first-responder during a fire. What if it caves while my firemen or citizens rescued from a fire are still mounted on the ladder?” Velocity of wind is another challenge. “Even if the fire is at an accessible height from a turntable ladder, the wind displaces the water from a high-pressure hose-pipe,” another fire brigade officer said. Smoke detectors and sprinklers are the real first responders in case of high-rise fires, according to a fire official. Sprinklers, too, play a crucial role containing a local fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-high-rise-fire-challenges-in-firefighting-101634932783834.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||NGT directs Ludhiana authorities to ensure installation of rain water harvesting systems||With rising concerns over depleting groundwater level, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Punjab chief secretary and principal secretary of the local bodies department to comply with its bylaws and ensure installation of rainwater harvesting systems in public, commercial and industrial buildings with area above 100 square metres.Last month, the Council of Engineers had filed a petition with the NGT, slamming the municipal corporation (MC) and other development authorities for their failure in enforcing the bylaws.The Punjab chief secretary; principal secretary of the local bodies department ; principal secretary of department of housing and urban affairs, Ludhiana municipal commissioner; chairman of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) and chief administrator of Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) were made party to the petition.The petitioner claimed that the civic body charges a refundable fee of upto ₹50,000 while approving a building plan to ensure rainwater harvesting. However, the owners don’t bother to install it and the MC doesn’t take any action either. Ultimately, the fee is forfeited, but no steps are taken to ensure rain water harvesting. The petition added that only a few building owners in the entire city have installed the system and the authorities have even failed to install the system at their offices, including all four zonal offices of the civic body. President Kapil Arora stated that as per the information, around ₹50 crore has been charged by the civic body from residents for rainwater harvesting, but those funds have been diverted for some other work. No steps are being taken to ensure rainwater harvesting and it is against Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, as well as sustainable development.Vice-president Kulwant Singh Rai stated that Ludhiana receives an average rainfall of 680mm in a year. If a roof top rain water harvesting system is installed in a building, more than 50,000 litres of water can be collected.Disposing of the petition in its orders dated October 18, the NGT ordered, “There is no denying the requirement for water harvesting systems to replenish groundwater. The matter having already been dealt with by this tribunal and directions having been made applicable throughout India, no further adjudication is required. The statutory rules of the state of Punjab acknowledge the requirement. Implementation has to be ensured by the authorities and citizens must cooperate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-directs-ludhiana-authorities-to-ensure-installation-of-rain-water-harvesting-systems-101634932723556.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Made to seem drugs from whole world are in Maharashtra: CM Uddhav Thackeray||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that an atmosphere has been created as if drugs from the whole world have been brought only in Maharashtra and the attempts to discredit the reputation of Mumbai Police need to end. In a related development, state home minister Dilip Walse Patil ruled out any probe by state government against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Thackeray made the remarks while virtually inaugurating three fast-track DNA testing units under the Nirbhaya scheme to test human DNA samples, which will help in gathering concrete evidence and increase the efficiency of criminal investigations. He also launched the country’s first wildlife DNA testing laboratory in Nagpur.Since the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June 2020, the NCB has arrested many celebrities from the film industry in drug abuse cases. The central enforcement agency has recently arrested Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, along with two others from a rave party on a cruise. “Nowadays, there is a wave of drug activities in Maharashtra. An atmosphere has been created as if drugs from the whole world have been brought only in Maharashtra and are being produced here as well. It is also not true that only the special team (NCB) can crack down on drug abuse cases. In Mumbai, four days ago, heroin worth ₹25 crore was caught by Mumbai police (anti-narcotics cell) but since it was just heroin and no name of any heroine (actress) was involved there is no news. No one knows about the names of those who took the action. But for us it is a matter of pride and they need to be felicitated. Maharashtra Police is the most efficient and competent force and attempts going on to disrepute its reputation, need to be destroyed,” Thackeray said.Walse Patil on Thursday said that there was no question of a probe against Sameer Wankhede, NCB zonal director. The statement came in response to an allegation made by Nawab Malik, chief spokesperson of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), that Wankhede has filed false cases against many people including celebrities. “There is no question of launching a probe against Sameer Wankhede. I will take information from my colleague Nawab Malik (skill development minister) about the NCB official,” Walse Patil told reporters in Nagpur late Thursday evening.A senior official from the home department also said that they will have to take legal opinion for taking action against Sameer Wankhede as he is working for a central government agency. On Friday when asked about Malik defending Aryan Khan, Walse Patil said both the issues are different. “It is more like a complaint on the functioning of a government department, minister or a government office. Malik too has complaints against NCB,” the home minister said.On Friday, Malik claimed to have received a threat call from Rajasthan for which an official complaint will be filed with the Mumbai police. Responding to this, home minister said he will take information and if Malik has received any threat call, a decision regarding his security will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/made-to-seem-drugs-from-whole-world-are-in-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101634932663669.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: DEOs asked to take responsibility for NAS exam preparations||With the National Achievement Survey (NAS) examination scheduled for November 12 throughout the country, newly appointed Punjab secretary of school education, Ajoy Sharma recently held a meeting with all district education officers of the state via videoconferencing. He asked them to take responsibility for ongoing NAS preparations in the state.Acting on the directions, Ludhiana DEO Lakhbir Singh Samra directed the field teams appointed to check NAS preparations at schools to take their visits seriously. The DEO has directed the deputy DEO, secondary; block nodal officers (BNOs), district mentors, block mentors and principal of District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) to stay in touch with school heads and teachers to find out their requirements so that they can effectively train students.An official said that the new school education secretary said that visits of the DEOs and teams to the schools should not be a mere formality and they should sincerely work to secure the top spot for Punjab. The education department has moreover distributed NAS booklets to teachers and special quizzes for officials, school heads and teachers have been prepared. The teachers have been asked to rigorously follow the weekly schedule released for the students by the education department Meanwhile, training for private schools which are participating in the NAS for the first time, being conducted by government school teachers and officials. According to the officials, over 1,200 private schools in the district have been trained.“A few private schools were not interested in availing the training or even participating in the NAS. School heads of a few private schools didn’t even revert to the phone calls or the mails sent to them regarding the training,” said a senior official deputed with the education department.He added, “Our teams trained over 1,200 private schools during offline sessions and workshops. They were made aware of the pattern, syllabus and the methods of preparing students for the exam. We shared plenty of PPTs and videos regarding NAS with them. Their participation is important, since the result will be based on the performance of students of both government and private schools”.Davinder Singh Chhina, principal-cum-nodal officer (media) for the education department said that the officials and teachers are giving their best shot to train students for NAS and regular weekly tests are being conducted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-deos-asked-to-take-responsibility-for-nas-exam-preparations-101634932546662.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy arrival finally picks up in south Punjab dists||BATHINDAAfter a delay of 10-12 days caused by unseasonal rains this month, harvesting of the non-basmati rice crop has finally started gaining momentum in southern Punjab. State agriculture department joint director Gurvinder Singh said on Friday 2.15 lakh metric tonne (MT) of paddy arrived in mandis of seven districts of south Malwa. From Monday, peak arrival of paddy is expected as harvesting is now in full swing across the region.A visit to mandi revealed that farmers have to wait for days for the government agencies to buy their produce due to a spurt in paddy arrival.Karamjit Singh, a marginal farmer from Bathinda’s Phoosmandi village said he has been waiting at the purchase centre since Sunday. “I harvested 30 quintals of paddy. After waiting for six days, I was assured on Friday that my crop would be bought tomorrow. I am keeping my fingers crossed for favourable weather in the coming days,” said Singh at the Bathinda grain market.According to the Punjab Mandi Board data, all seven districts of south Punjab have recorded slower arrival of paddy than the last season.Fazilka chief agriculture officer Hardev Singh said to date, only 30% area under paddy has been harvested in the district. “Untimely rains slowed down paddy harvesting entire southern Punjab. Fazilka will take another two weeks to complete kharif harvest season,” he said.On Friday, with the briskest arrival of 46,000 MT, Ferozepur registered season’s maximum purchase record of 5.45 lakh MT in the region. The district registered 20.4 lakh MT arrival till October 22 last year.Similarly, Moga’s total arrival data on Friday was 36,000 MT and the total arrival tally reached 1.57 lakh MT. In 2020, Moga had reported 16.75 lakh MT paddy in the corresponding period.Bathinda’s paddy arrival record reached 1.7 lakh MT after various mandis of the district reported 36,000 MT kharif crop on Friday. By October 22 in 2020, the district already had received 16 lakh MT paddy.Bathinda district mandi officer Preet Kanwar Singh Brar said to date 10 procurement centres in the district have recorded procurement of 1.42 lakh MT by various government agencies.“After a slow arrival for several days, the district witnessed peak arrival since Thursday. All facilities are in place for smooth procurement,” said Brar.Weather concerns“The ideal sowing time for wheat is between October 25 and November 15 after which the yield decreases. The prolonged harvesting schedule of the kharif crop may further delay the sowing of wheat in south Malwa districts. The metrological department has forecast light to moderate rain/thundershower activity at many places over Punjab, particularly Pathankot, Gurdaspur and Hoshiarpur districts. Any further unfavourable climatic condition in the southern region will have a direct impact on paddy as well as wheat,” said joint director Gurvinder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-arrival-finally-picks-up-in-south-punjab-dists-101634932426234.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||HC asks Saibaba Sansthan CEO to explain misconduct||Taking cognisance of a confidential report of the principal district judge (PDJ), who is heading the HC appointed ad-hoc committee which is overseeing the day-to-day affairs of the Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, wherein the objectionable behaviour of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Trust has been highlighted, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has called on the CEO to explain her behaviour and other actions attributed to her by the judge. The CEO will have to appear before the bench on October 25. A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Sanjay Mehare while hearing two public interest litigations filed by an activist Uttamrao Shelke and another which challenged the constitution of the new managing committee of the Saibaba Sansthan Trust by the state government in September was informed that the ad-hoc committee appointed by the HC in 2019 had submitted a confidential report. The report dated October 19 by the PDJ, Ahmednagar has highlighted the conduct of Bhagyashree Banayat, CEO of the Trust. The bench while noting the objectionable behavior of the CEO has referred to the specific instances mentioned in the report by the PDJ. “About 7 instances of her behavior and steps initiated which may amount to over bearing the authority of the Principal District Judge, are set out. Further instances are listed out which would indicate her actions to be contrary to the directions of this court dated October 14. He has also annexed a copy of the letter dated October 14 addressed by her to the PDJ and the last paragraph of the said letter amounts to taunting the judicial officer and showing disrespect to him,” reads the order. On October 14, the bench had restrained the new panel from taking charge of the Trust till October 19. However, before the new committee could take charge its composition was challenged and the bench asked the state to cure the defects in the composition and only allow it to take charge after approval from the bench. On the same day the PDJ wrote the confidential report to the bench. The bench observed, “We were inclined to direct the presence of the CEO Banayat in the Court so as to explain her behaviour.” At the request of advocate AS Bajaj for the Trust, the Court said that it will deal with the aspect of confidential report on October 25. The bench further allowed the state government to file a detailed affidavit in reply to the PILs till October 27. The state has sought to justify the nomination of the candidates who have been named by it in September. The affidavit will be heard on October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-asks-saibaba-sansthan-ceo-to-explain-misconduct-101634932423616.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police solve 7 snatchings with the arrest of three men||The CIA staff-1 solved seven snatching cases with the arrest of three men on Friday. Eight mobiles, a pair of gold earrings, a sharp-edged weapon and a motorcycle have been recovered from them. The accused have been identified as Shirja, 27, of Kasabad village, Salem Tabri; Shivam Parcha, 19, of Bhattian Colony and Gurdeep Singh, 27, of Bahadurke village. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP, investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said the accused are drug addicts and committed snatchings and robberies to meet their need for drugs. They were arrested from Bhattian following a tip-off.He added that they were active in areas like Moti Nagar, Jamalpur, Division Number 7, Daresi and Focal Point. They used to target labourers returning from factories and robbed them after threatening them with sharp-edged weapons. The motorcycle recovered from them had a fake number plate and the police found that the registration certificate had also been forged.“Shiraj and Shivam are already facing trial in two snatching cases. They were lodged in jail and had got bail in February and March, respectively. After coming out, they got involved in crime again and involved Gurdeep Singh also. The accused are school drop-outs,” said the DCP.A case under Sections 379-B (snatching using force), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 467 (forgery for valuable security, will etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal etc) , 34 (Act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and 412 (dishonestly receiving property stolen in the commission of dacoity) of Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Salem Tabri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-solve-7-snatchings-with-the-arrest-of-three-men-101634932303786.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Powai Lake a wetland, needs to be conserved accordingly: Maharashtra forest department||The state forest department’s mangrove cell upheld the status of Powai Lake as a protected wetland, in line with previous orders of the Bombay High Court and the Supreme Court, in a letter to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) earlier this month. As such, the forest department voiced objections to MCGM’s proposal to build a cycle track within the boundary of the lake, which has come under fire from citizens and environmentalists. India is a party to the Ramsar Convention, an international treaty which pledges the country’s commitment to wetland conservation. The convention defines wetlands as “areas of marsh, peatland or water, whether natural or artificial, permanent or temporary, with water that is static or flowing, fresh, brackish or salt, including areas of marine water the depth of which, at low tides, does not exceed six meters”. Wetlands across India are known to be extremely diverse in terms of their origins (natural or man made), water source (freshwater or brackish) and the biodiversity they sustain. Powai Lake itself is a man-made wetland, planned as an anti-famine measure for Mumbai and sanctioned by the Standing Committee in November 1889. It was built in 1891. Since its creation, the water in Powai Lake has been severely polluted and has remained so despite several remediation measures. The water was declared unfit for drinking purposes in 1893. The lake continues to remain polluted due to entry of raw sewage and siltation, which has led to growth of invasive water hyacinths across the water spread. Activists said that this development is significant. “The forest department, which is entrusted with the conservation of wetlands, has confirmed on record for the first time that Powai Lake is indeed a wetland and needs to be protected as such. They have stressed on the importance of conserving its biodiversity and also said that work on the BMC’s cycle track should not proceed further,” said Stalin D, director of environment group Vanashakti, who obtained under the concerned letter (signed by Neenu Somraj, deputy conservator of forests (DCF), mangrove cell) via a Right to Information (RTI) request this week.Somraj’s letter was written to the collector, Mumbai suburbs and the MCGM’s assistant commissioner, S Ward, pursuant to a complaint from Vanashakti regarding the proposed cycle track, which allegedly flouts MCGM’s own development control regulations, in addition to the Centre’s Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2017, and the Indian Wildlife Act (1972), seeing as it is also the habitat of the Indian marsh crocodile, a protected species.“According to the National Wetland Atlas of the Supreme Court, Powai Lake is an important wetland in terms of biodiversity and should be protected for the purpose of conserving wetlands,” Somraj’s letter states, translated from Marathi. “If the work is going on in this place, it should be stopped immediately,” Somraj has instructed, seeking clarity on the nature of the construction, which includes reclamation of the lake’s water spread area using a gabion structure (made of stones and not concrete). An official with BMC’s S Ward office said that the work has presently been halted, and that a BMC committee comprising independent experts has been formed to deliberate on the feasibility of the project. Responding to public outrage over these alleged violations, BMC on October 12 issued a clarification stating that “Powai Lake reservoir is demarcated as a Natural Area (NA) in the Development Plan for Greater Mumbai (2034). The repairs, remodeling and extension works around Powai Lake are in line with part VII of Regulation 3.7 of the DPR.”BMC has also clarified that the committee has “deliberated in detail the environmental issues of Powai Lake, assessed various technologies and upon weighing their respective pros and cons, considers the gabion wall technology as the most adaptable method of construction, one which will be least intrusive to the natural environment of the lake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/powai-lake-a-wetland-needs-to-be-conserved-accordingly-maharashtra-forest-department-101634932245366.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t immediately rush to us if FIR not registered by police: HC||ChandigarhThe Punjab and Haryana high court said that on non-registration of a criminal case by police, an aggrieved person should not directly approach high court. He is first required to approach the superintendent of police (SP). If the grievance still persists, he should approach the magistrate instead of rushing to the high court, the HC said while dismissing a plea from an Amritsar resident terming it non-maintainable.The petitioner, Rajan Kumar, in this case had sought direction to local police for the registration of an FIR against a person, who as per the petitioner, forcibly threw his belongings out of a shop after breaking it open. Further, he submitted that the local police were approached but did not act in this case despite there being a stay from a civil court in his favour.The high court bench of justice Vikas Behl said that Supreme Court has time and again cautioned against the practice and held that the petition under Section 482 of CrPC (inherent powers of high court to issue order to secure ends of justice) should not be entertained for registration of the FIR as there are several alternative remedies available to the petitioner. The bench also referred to a matter in which upon directions from a high court for registration of FIR, the Supreme Court had set aside the order passed by the high court observing that in case, such like petitions are entertained then the high courts will be flooded with such petitions and will not be able to do any other work except dealing with such petitions. The HC bench referred to the provisions of the CrPC, which says if a person has a grievance that his FIR has not been registered by the police station his first remedy is to approach the Superintendent of Police under Section 154(3) CrPC (upon non investigation of a complaint, powers of superior officer to launch probe on a complaint) or other police officer referred to in Section 36 CrPC (powers of a superior officer in police). If despite approaching the superintendent of police or the officer referred to in Section 36 his grievance still persists, then he can approach a magistrate under Section 156(3) CrPC (under which a magistrate can take cognizance of a complaint on failure on the same by police).The magistrate has very wide powers to direct registration of an FIR and to ensure a proper investigation, and for this purpose he can monitor the investigation to ensure that the investigation is done properly (though he cannot investigate himself). The high court should discourage the practice of filing a petition under Section 482 CrPC simply because a person has a grievance that his FIR has not been registered by the police, or after being registered, proper investigation has not been done by the police. For this grievance, he should approach a superior officer and in case still dissatisfied a magistrate or by filing a criminal complaint under Section 200 CrPC (examination of a complaint by a magistrate) but not the high court, the apex court judgment had said while dealing with the issue at hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-immediately-rush-to-us-if-fir-not-registered-by-police-hc-101634932244173.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sahnewal govt girls’ school gets new basketball court||A basketball court was inaugurated at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Sahnewal, on Friday. The court has been built with assistance from the town’s NRIs and municipal council president Sukhjit Singh Hara. The students of the school played an exhibition basketball match on the occasion.Yurinder Singh Hayer, IPS, and senior vice-president of Punjab Basketball Association was the chief guest on the occasion. He inaugurated the court along with Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary, PBA; DBA officials, school teachers and students.NRIs including Charanjit Singh, Baljit Singh,Gurjit Singh,Dharamjit Singh,Bhupinder Bindi,Nirmal Randhawa , Mohinder Singh, Satinderjit Singh and Goldy Sandhu had contributed for the basketball court and were honoured. The town’s councillors, Ramesh Kumar,Shamsher Singh,Harprit Singh and Jagdish Singh; Block Samiti member Purshottam Singh and sarpanches Avtar Singh and Gurdip Singh were present on the occasion.Hayer thanked the NRI fraternity and MC president and said that PBA will provide support for promotion of basketball in every village school. A poster stating “say no to drugs and yes to sports” made by DBA treasurer Brij Goyal was released on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sahnewal-govt-girls-school-gets-new-basketball-court-101634932184162.html
23-10-2021||Mumbai||Fire at 60-storey in Mumbai; 1 dead||A Level Four (serious emergency call) fire in the 60-storey One Avighna Park at Currey Road in central Mumbai claimed the life of the building’s security guard on Friday morning. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced an administrative probe following residents’ complaints. A 30-year-old man, identified as Arun Tiwari, fell to his death from the 19th floor as fire and smoke engulfed an apartment on the same floor. A fire was reported in an apartment on the 19th floor at 11.51 am on Friday. No other casualty was reported. The Mumbai fire brigade rescued 16 residents trapped in smoke-filled corridors, gave each of them breathing apparatus, and brought them to safety using the building’s staircase. A video of Tiwari falling to his death was shared multiple times on social media on Friday. In the video, shot by an unknown person and shared on WhatsApp, Twitter and Facebook, Tiwari is seen clinging onto the parapet outside the 19th floor window as smoke billowed from an adjoining balcony. He lost his grip over the concrete and, according to eye-witnesses from the Mumbai fire brigade, Tiwari fell on the fire truck parked below, and then fell on the ground. He was rushed to the nearby KEM hospital in an ambulance, where he was declared brought dead. “At 12.55 pm, we clinically evaluated the casualty, conducted an electrocardiogram, and declared the person dead. His body was handed to the police,” said Pravin Bangar, chief medical officer of KEM hospital. Tiwari’s death occurred a few minutes after fire engines and equipment, including a turntable ladder, reached the spot. The turntable ladder entered the premises from the main gate, which was parallel to where Tiwari fell from. A fire truck was stationed on the side Tiwari was trying to escape the fire from. By the time the fire brigade directed the turntable ladder for this rescue, Tiwari fell off the building onto the fire truck, a fire officer said. Another senior officer from the fire brigade said, “It is unclear why Tiwari went up to the 19th floor during or immediately after the fire, or whether he was already there before the fire broke out. It is also unclear if he went to rescue any trapped residents, or went to check if the floor was clear, and then got stuck there due to smoke.” The fire was fanned further by the high wind speed on the 19th floor, and thick smoke had engulfed the corridor. “This may have compromised his visibility, and made breathing difficult. Imagine the state of the person trapped in such a space,” the fire official said. As there is no other eyewitness, it is also unclear how he accessed this area. The senior fire official quoted above said, “The fire was reported in apartment 1901, which was occupied. The security person is seen at the window of this flat itself. It is likely he went to check if there were any residents still trapped in the flat. More details are awaited.” Another security person from the building said, “The window on the floor below was open. It looks like Tiwari must have thought he could access that window from the parapet, jump into the flat below, and escape. But he missed and fell to the ground.” Tiwari hails from Prayagraj (earlier Allahabad) in Uttar Pradesh, and had worked as a security guard with Stealth Management Solutions for more than six years. Tiwari’s brother-in-law Jitendra Tripathi said, “Tiwari’s father died a few years back. His mother lives with his elder brother in UP. The family is poor, and this forced Arun to pick up a security job in Mumbai. It’s an unfortunate incident. The security company and the (residential) society should help his family.” Tiwari’s uncle Dinesh Pandey said, “Tiwari supported his family which won’t be able to take the body to his home town. It’s the security firm and local administration’s responsibility to help the family get his body,” said Dinesh Pandey. A colleague of Tiwari said that he was a good human being and was hard working. “It’s a very sad and unfortunate event. Our security firm said they are helping the grieving family and relatives, and ensuring that they are not harassed over paperwork.” The relatives after post mortem report will take the body to the native place for final rituals. Hopefully his family gets some compensation,” the guard said. Kalachowki police station’s senior police inspector Anand Muley said, “The police have not received any complaint against anyone. Therefore, an accidental death report is being registered. To ascertain the exact sequence of events, our officers are recording statement of colleagues of the deceased person.” One Avighna Park has two wings, A and B; the fire was reported in the latter. According to a member of its maintenance and management team, the building has approximately 60% occupancy. Each floor has two to four flats. “The fire alarm went off after the fire, and residents vacated the building,” he said. “Some were trapped due to smoke, and were rescued by the fire brigade.” The firefighting system of the building was functional, but was not operational as soon as the fire occurred. The fire brigade manually started the fire fighting system, which helped douse the fire. The senior fire brigade officer quoted above said, “Fortunately, the fire was on the 19th floor. The fire brigade’s 90-metre ladder was used to contain the fire with a high-pressure hose pipe. This allowed us early entry and to fight the fire from within. Due to wind velocity at that height, it is difficult to match the speed of the spread of fire with our firefighting operations. Had the fire been on any floor higher than the 25th, it would have been challenging.” Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, and Mayor Kishori Pednekar visited the building. Chahal said, “I have ordered an administrative probe into the fire, following complaints from residents. Based on the report of this probe, appropriate action will be initiated.” Pednekar said, “Arun Tiwari, one of the security person’s jumped out of a window and tried to save his life after a fire broke out on the 19th floor of One Avighna Park. Unfortunately, this led to his death. Tiwari’s life could have been saved if the building’s security or similar personnel had provided emergency assistance before the fire brigade arrived.” Pednekar also said residents of the building have complained to the developer that there is a lot of work pending due to non-transfer to the society residents and this has led to the fire. The mayor directed the administration to take necessary action after conducting a proper inquiry into the complaint. Kailash Agarwal, chairperson of Nish Developers, the company that constructed One Avighna Park, said, “The building’s fire safety is one of the best in the world. I had procured the system from Norway by spending around ₹10 crore. I have also been regularly conducting fire drills and submitting fire audit reports to the competent authorities.” Chief Fire Officer Hemant Dattatray Parab said, “The most recent fire safety compliance documents (form B) of the building, which is supposed to be submitted between January and July each year, cannot be found in the fire brigade’s records at present.” However, a fire drill was conducted in the building in the first week of October this year. Aaditya Thackeray, state cabinet minister and guardian minster for Mumbai suburbs, also visited the spot. He tweeted, “Visited the spot of the unfortunate fire incident at One Avighna Park and met with the rescued residents of the building. Fire has been doused and cooling ops are underway. I met and thanked the brave jawans of the Mumbai Fire Brigade for their swift response.”In another tweet, Thackeray said, “This incident in a high rise building only reiterates how important fire safety drills, fire safety norms like sprinklers, fire refuge areas are in every building.” At the time of going to press, Kalachowkie police had registered a case of negligence against those concerned under relevant sections of IPC and Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act. Unverified video surfaces on social mediaIn a video doing the rounds on social media on Friday night, a man named Rohit Rathod identified himself as the owner of flat 1902 at Avighna Park, one of the houses affected by the fire. In the video, that originated from an unknown source, Rohit said, “There was a fire in my house of Friday. My daughter called and informed me of the fire in our house. I returned home from my store, and saw that the entire entrance was engulfed by the fire. We tried to extinguish the fire with an extinguisher but that did not help.” Rohit added, “We tried to use the firefighting system of the building, and thought only water will douse the fire. But the system did not work and there was no water in it. The sprinklers were not working. None of the firefighting systems in the building worked and the fire rapidly spread - to the kitchen, bedrooms, everywhere. My neighbours saved my children. The fire alarm did not go off.”Reacting to it, Kailash Agarwal, Chairman of Avighna Group said, “He (the one who alleged) is protecting himself as fire was in his house and he left his house, asked facility team on ground floor to assist and went out of building and came back at 5pm. He is saying there was fire at the gate, when the fire was in the house. The basic question is that if the fire system didn’t work, how was the fire doused? Firefighting system was 100% in place and worked very well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-at-60-storey-in-mumbai-1-dead-101634932003679.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi, all other regional languages kept in minor subjects category: CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday clarified that all regional languages have been kept in the category of minor subjects for first term exams for class 10 and 12.The clarification by the CBSE came following objection by Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to keeping Punjabi out of the main subjects. “I firmly oppose the CBSE’s authoritarian decision to keep Punjabi out of the main subjects. This is against the federal spirit of Constitution, violating the right of Punjabi youth to learn their native language. I condemn this biased exclusion of Punjabi,” Channi had tweeted. Responding to his objection, a senior board official said, “As it is known, the CBSE has declared the date sheet of the major subjects of classes 10 and 12 for term – I examinations. It is clarified that the classification of subjects has been done purely on administrative ground for the purpose of conduct of first term exams based on the number of candidates appearing in the subject and in no way reflects the importance of subjects as major or minor.”“Every subject is equally important from academic point of view. Punjabi is one of the regional languages being offered. All the regional languages have been put under the minor category for the purpose of administrative convenience in relation to the logistics required for the conduct of examinations,” the official added.The board had on Monday announced that the first term board exams for class 10 will begin from November 30, while the exams for class 12 are scheduled from December 1.While the exams for minor subjects for class 10 will be conducted from November 17 to December 7, those for class 12 will be conducted from November 16 to December 30.Bifurcating the academic session, holding two term-end exams and rationalising the syllabus were part of the special assessment scheme for class 10 and 12 CBSE board exams for 2021-22, which were announced in July in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-all-other-regional-languages-kept-in-minor-subjects-category-cbse-101634931943547.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 29 fresh Covid cases||ChandigarhPunjab reported 29 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday that took the infection tally to 6,02,163, according to a medical bulletin.No Covid-related fatality was reported in the past 24 hours, and the death toll stands at 16,551, it said. Of the new cases, Mohali reported five, followed by four in Rupnagar and three each in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur, according to the bulletin.The number of active cases in the state stands at 230, it said.Twenty-four people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,85,382, according to the bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-29-fresh-covid-cases-101634931703457.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL waives power bill arrears worth ₹77 cr||On the directions of chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) has cleared arrears of electricity bills worth ₹77.37 crore of 96,911 domestic consumers having load below 2 KW. Disclosing this on Friday, a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said these consumers from five zones across the state --- Border zone comprising sub-urban Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Tarn Taran, city Amritsar circles, central zone (East Ludhiana, West Ludhiana, Khanna, sub-urban Ludhiana), North zone (Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr), South zone (Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Ropar, Mohali) and West zone (Bathinda, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Muktsar) have as many as 15.85 lakh beneficiaries with total liability of ₹1,505 crore, of which the arrears worth ₹77.37 crore has been waived so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-waives-power-bill-arrears-worth-rs-77-cr-101634931523465.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad bypoll: Sunaina Chautala starts canvassing for INLD nominee Abhay||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) women wing general secretary Sunaina Chautala, who is wife of Abhay Chautala’s cousin Ravi Chautala, has started a fierce campaign for party nominee Abhay Chautala, who is seeking a fourth consecutive term from Ellenabad which will go to polls on October 30.Ravi, son of INLD supremo Om Prakash Chautala’s younger brother late Partap Singh Chautala, has always had a bittersweet relationship with cousins Ajay and Abhay, claim experts.After JJP was formed, Ravi and his wife Sunaina have been showing loyalty towards OP Chautala and Abhay.When Naina Chautala contested from Dabwali constituency in 2014, Ravi had campaigned for her as her husband Ajay was in jail at that time.Sunaina, is the second bahu of the Chautala clan after JJP’s Naina (Badhra MLA and mother of Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala), to enter active politics.Ahead of the Ellenabad bypoll, Sunaina is holding regular village-level meetings to mobilise the female voters in favour of Abhay.After farmers began protesting against Centre’s three farm laws, JJP’s women face Naina Chautala has been missing from the public scene while Sunaina is making all efforts to strengthen her party which was reduced to one seat from 19 in the 2019 assembly polls.With folded hands, the family’s second bahu was spotted urging voters to support Abhay, who had resigned from the state assembly in favour of the farmers protesting against the three farm laws.“I am seeking votes for the man who sacrificed his MLA’s post to strengthen the farmers’ protest. This election is a referendum to the three farm laws and farmers will elect Abhay with a huge margin,” she said.“The BJP-JJP leaders are struggling to enter villages and are unable to visit even a single village without a security cover. This shows the huge resentment among the farming class against the BJP-JJP coalition,” she added.While canvassing in Ellenabad, Sunaina said, “The voters are enthusiastic to see bade saab (OP Chautala). He is working as a centripetal force for the party as well as for the family. I am doing my duty by holding meetings in village chaupals and close-door meetings with women.”“The women voters have a clear view regarding the three farm laws and are all set to teach the BJP and Congress nominees a lesson in the bypoll,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-bypoll-sunaina-chautala-starts-canvassing-for-inld-nominee-abhay-101634930743443.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue cases on the rise in Haryana, patients accuse private hospitals of fleecing||Dengue cases have been increasing significantly in many parts of Haryana, especially Sonepat and Hisar districts, raising concerns for public health. As many as 117 cases of dengue have been reported from Hisar, 75 from Jhajjar and 273 from Sonepat, so far.‘Prescribing unnecessary tests, overcharging’Amid this rise, many patients are complaining that private hospitals and diagnostic centres are seeing this as an opportunity of fleecing.These institutions are prescribing unnecessary tests for blood platelet count even for patients suffering from viral and normal fever, they claimed.A 32-year-old patient from Sonepat, pleading anonymity, said he visited a private hospital in district for dengue test.“After checking my body temperature, the doctor prescribed tests for dengue, malaria and chikungunya. They charged ₹5,000 for these tests. Later, the doctor told me that my platelets are declining and if I do not get single-donor platelets (SDP), I will be in trouble,” the patient added.Jyoti, of Jhajjar, said a private hospital charged ₹4,000 from her when she went there for dengue confirmation.“The doctors performed many tests, apart from the dengue confirmation one. Fortunately, my platelets were at 2.30 lakh,” she added.Senior doctors from Hisar and Sonepat districts also claimed that private hospitals and clinics are collecting exorbitant amounts for admitting dengue patients.“Some are even creating panic among kin of the patient by stating that the patient will die if they are not admitted to the hospital immediately for recovery of platelets count. These hospitals are charging hefty amounts from the families of patients to inject platelets. Also, there is a shortage of kits needed for blood transfusion,” they added.Hospitals overcrowded: Two patients on one bedA senior doctor posted at Hisar civil hospital, requesting anonymity, said cases of dengue are on the rise and hospitals are overcrowded.“Two patients are sharing one bed. There is a shortage of kits required for blood transfusion,” the doctor added.Jhajjar chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Dahiya said a healthy person has 1.5 lakh platelets and during the dengue, the number drops.“There is no shortage of platelets. We are getting platelets from four hospitals. As per guidelines of the government, private blood banks have been directed to provide single-donor platelets (SDP) at ₹11,000 and random donor platelets at ₹400 per unit. If any hospital or blood bank is found violating these guidelines, we will take strict action against them,” he added.Dr Ramesh Punia, in-charge of dengue and malaria of Hisar, wrote to Haryana health minister Anil Vij and other senior officials asking them to reduce the prices of single-donor platelets, which cannot be afforded by a common man.“The government should create a special ward for dengue patients at Maharaja Agrasen Medical College in Agroha. The government should issue guidelines to private hospitals as well so that patients are not overcharged,” he added.Dr Anvita Kaushik, nodal officer of dengue and malaria at Sonepat, said 273 cases have been reported and they are issuing notices to owners of the premises where mosquito larvae are detected.“We are yet to receive any complaint that private hospitals are fleecing patients. The health department has established a special micro plan to detect mosquito larvae in district,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-cases-on-the-rise-in-haryana-patients-accuse-private-hospitals-of-fleecing-101634930443548.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana issues transfer orders of 26 IPS officers||The Haryana government on Friday issued transfer and posting orders of 26 IPS officers, shuffling district police chiefs of 11 districts.As per the orders, Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Hamid Akhtar was posted as SP State Crime Branch. Sonepat SP Jashandeep Randhawa replaced Akhtar as SP Ambala.Rohtak SP Rahul Sharma was posted as Sonepat SP. Jhajjar SP Rajesh Duggal was posted as SP Palwal, while SP Rewari Abhishek Jorwal was posted as SP State Vigilance Bureau (SVB). SP Palwal Deepak Gahlawat was posted as SP Charkhi Dadri.SP Kurukshetra Himanshu Garg was posted as SP State Vigilance Bureau. SP Jind Waseem Akram was posted as SP Jhajjar. SP Fatehabad Rajesh Kumar was posted as SP Rewari. SP Nuh Narender Bijarniya was posted as SP Jind.SP telecom Udai Singh Meena was posted as SP Rohtak. DCP South Gurugram Dheeraj Kumar was posted as SP Kurukshetra. SP security, CID Surinder Singh was posted as SP Fatehabad.Principal secretary (transport) with additional charge of ADGP, CAW Kala Ramachandran was given additional charge of ADGP, SVB(H).IG Ambala range Bharti Arora was given additional charge of IG women safety PHQ. DIG State Crime Branch(H) Shiv Charan was posted as DIG SVB, Hisar. DIG fourth battalion, HAP, Madhuban Kirat Pal Singh was posted as DIG, State Crime Branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-issues-transfer-orders-of-26-ips-officers-101634930143469.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Free education for those with family income less than ₹1.8 lakh: Haryana CM||The children of a driver and a cobbler who have cracked the Civil Services Exam-2020 and JEE Advanced 2021 (under Super-100 programme) were among the students who were felicitated at a state-level programme held in Panchkula on Friday.“My family’s economic condition cannot support my education. When my brother got admitted to ITI, all I could think of was joining ITI while IIT was out of question,” said Anju Dohan from Rohtak, whose father works as a driver. “I urge Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to provide support with my fee,” added Anju, who is part of the Super-100 programme of the Haryana government.“My family could not support my coaching,” said Hari Kishan, hailing from Mewat. His father polishes and mends shoes on the roadside. Hari has two sisters. “It was my headmaster who asked me to appear for an exam to qualify for free coaching. Now, I can fulfil my family’s dream,” said Hari.“I want to become a civil servant. My teachers took extra effort to coach me and now I have cleared JEE,” said Sahil, of Government Senior Secondary School, Rewari.During the event, CM Khattar announced free education for those with verified family income of less than ₹1.80 lakh per annum under the state government’s ambitious ‘Parivar Pehchan Patra’ scheme.Boosting the morale of 29 students coming from poor backgrounds who have cracked JEE Advanced 2021, the CM said, “These children as a great example of the fact that if you have talent, nothing and no one can stop you from achieving your dreams.”Khattar said as per the New Education Policy-2020 such educational institutions are being set up in state where education will be provided from kindergarten to postgraduate level.“Initially, we are going to make an arrangement of imparting education from KG to PG in four universities. Kurukshetra University has already started preparing for admissions under the KG to PG scheme from 2021-22 academic session,” the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-education-for-those-with-family-income-less-than-1-8-lakh-haryana-cm-101634929844007.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A Ram temple in Mianwali||The Ram Mandir has three shikhar, or spires. Each spire is topped with a series of kalash, the filial. Scores of sculpted pigeons are installed (see photo) in almost every landing spot along the surface of these spires. The 1pm breeze is making these motionless birds look helpless, as if they were imprisoned in invisible cages and couldn’t fly. The birds appear to be of grey stone. Suddenly, these dozens of sculptures stir together in a synchronised movement, and fly into the air.The birds are real.Just to cherish this sight is a good reason to come all the way to Mianwali. No, not the town in the Punjab of Pakistan but the township in the Gurugram of Haryana. The cool October is the most idyllic time to aimlessly wander about this cosy habitat.Mianwali Colony is said to have got its name owing to a large number of people here who were obliged to leave their hometown of Mianwali as refugees during the partition. Walking along its lanes is suspenseful for the history-minded. Are there still people living here who lived through Partition? You’ll have to knock on every gate to find that out, but Mianwali Colony for sure continues to be the address of at least one woman with vivid memories of her pre-partition youth—the spirited Meera Sachdeva, 94, has already been profiled on these pages.There is no knowing to what extent Gurugram’s Mianwali resembles its original namesake. This afternoon the place is as calmly as dry fallen leaves lazily drifting along the footpath. In this peaceful world of double-storeyed bungalows, the balconies and porches are inadvertently staging scenes of quotidian domesticity. A pair of blue salwar kurta is hanging on a wash-line, three pickle jars are lined up on a window sill, a white-haired couple are sitting face-to-face with newspapers and chai, a man is engaged with a subzi walla, a woman is holding a jhadoo in one hand and a mobile phone in another. These sights are accompanied by unrelated sounds. A laughter emanates out from one of the houses, a pressure cooker whistle from another. And is that a mobile phone tune, or someone is playing Mozart on a piano? The locality’s primary music, however, is of the twittering of birds.The alternative to walking the lanes is to sit in the neighbourhood’s park, just beside the Ram Mandir. A woman is knitting socks on a bench. A couple of kids are playing about a dinosaur-shaped slide.Meanwhile, one wonders how this same afternoon must be unfolding in the other Mianwali, in Pakistan. To which Ram Mandir do the pigeons there go to when they are tired of flying?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-ram-temple-in-mianwali-101634928780027.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath distributes appointment letters to technical assistants||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday distributed appointment letters to newly appointed technical assistants in the state agriculture department. A total of 1863 technical assistants (Group-C) got the appointment letters. He hoped the newly appointed technical assistants would help farmers update their technical know-how about agriculture methods.Yogi Adityanath said 4.50 lakh youths had got government jobs through a transparent recruitment process in the state in the last four and a half years of his regime. His government had established an honest, fair and transparent work culture because of which the state was progressing fast, Yogi Adityanath added. The chief minister said the youths recruited through a transparent process were devoting themselves wholeheartedly to the development of the state. “UP’s economy that was on the 6th position in the country four and a half years is India’s second biggest economy today,” Yogi Adityanath pointed out. “Similarly, UP also improved its ease of doing business rank from 14th four years ago to 2nd in 2021,” he added.The chief minister said that his government had taken a lot of measures for the welfare of farmers helping them enhance their income.Agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi said UP was on top in food grain production in the country, adding that the state government had also broken all previous records of wheat and paddy procurement at the minimum support price (MSP) from farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-distributes-appointment-letters-to-technical-assistants-101634928222892.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest man with 1,115kg firecrackers in Rohini||In one of the largest seizures of banned firecrackers this year, the Rohini district police on Friday said they recovered 1,115 kilograms of non-green and green firecrackers from a warehouse in Sector 24, Rohini on Thursday. The owner of the warehouse was arrested for stocking the banned crackers for illegal sale during Diwali, the police said.This is the fifth such seizure of illegal firecrackers in Delhi since September 15, when the Delhi government announced a “complete ban” on the sale, use, and storage of firecrackers in the Capital this Diwali. This pre-emptive ban was imposed in view of the city’s deteriorating air quality over the past three years, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said that on Thursday, the district’s special staff received information regarding a stock of illegal firecrackers in Rohini’s Sector 24. Accordingly, a raid was conducted and the team arrested Amit Mittal, 44, while he was unloading the banned crackers at his rented warehouse.“The total weight of the seized crackers was 1,115 kilograms. Mittal failed to provide us with any legal document and valid license authorising the possession and storage of the firecrackers. He was storing the crackers in a residential area, which could be hazardous to the local residents,” said DCP Tayal.According to the DCP, Mittal’s interrogation revealed that he ran a firecracker business and had an expired license, which could not be renewed because of the government’s ban on firecrackers in Delhi last year and well as this year.“The warehouse where the crackers were being stored also did not have a license for storage. We are now trying to trace the source of crackers,” he added.Between October 7 and 13, the north district police conducted two operations, seized nearly 900 kilograms of banned firecrackers, and arrested three persons. Earlier this week, the Shahdara district seized 68 kilograms of illegal crackers while the central district police seized 90kg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrest-man-with-1-115kg-firecrackers-in-rohini-101634927863684.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||East Delhi corporation reduces construction waste dumping sites||Trying a new approach to tackle illegal dumping of construction and demolition waste, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to reduce the number of designated notified spots where the debris can be dumped.This is in contrast to the approach taken in the last few years wherein civic bodies have attempted to expand the number of such sites.Vikas Anand, the east corporation commissioner, issued directions on Friday to reduce the number of such designated spots from 61 to just 17. A senior municipal official, who was part of the review meeting, said that the civic body will focus on round-the-clock monitoring and vigilance at the 17 sites. He said expanding the number of such sites has not led to the desired result in the last year.“In the last few years, we noticed that it is difficult to man so many sites, which leads to even more illegal dumping of construction waste. In many cases, the owners and builders dump the debris 100-200m away from a designated site, which increases the problem. The idea behind the new order is to push the bulk generators of construction waste to directly deposit the C&D waste in the Shastri Park processing plant. There will be round-the-clock monitoring of the limited number of sites,” the official said requesting anonymity. The two administrative zones under the jurisdiction of EDMC-- Shahdara North and Shahdara South-- generate 750-800 tonnes of C&D waste every day, and the civic body operates a 1,000 TPD (tonne per day) construction waste processing plant in a 2.5-acre facility in Shastri Park.The north corporation has 104 designated sites for C&D waste collection (one per ward), and the south corporation has 65 such sites. The New Delhi Municipal Council has 25 sites and the Delhi cantonment board has one C&D waste dumping station.After the east corporation’s order on Friday, Delhi will have 212 notified construction waste dumping sites. The city is estimated to generate 3,711 TPD construction waste and has four processing plants in Jahangirpuri, Shastri Park, Mundka, and Bakkarwala. The plants utilise construction waste to create recycled materials such as interlocking tiles, kerbstones, and other construction materials.On October 6, 2021, the civic body announced punitive action will be taken against developers and builders who fail to deposit the construction waste at the Shastri Park facility, adding that their approved building plans could be cancelled. Each area’s Junior Engineer will visit major construction sites fortnightly to collect and check C&D waste deposition slips.Rakesh Gupta, the spokesperson of the EDMC, said that separate inspection teams have been deployed for dedicated monitoring of biomass burning, unauthorised dumping of C&D waste, and polluting industries. “Unlike previous years, these teams will be deployed in two shifts for round-the-clock for monitoring and penalisation of defaulters. Special attention is being paid to pollution hotspot areas of Anand Vihar and Vivek Vihar,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/east-delhi-corporation-reduces-construction-waste-dumping-sites-101634927802857.html
23-10-2021||Pune||Pune railway’s ‘Restaurant on wheels’ to open at Baramati, Chinchwad, Akurdi, Miraj||PUNE The Pune railway division is all set to launch a “Restaurant on Wheels”, where old railway coaches will be turned into restaurants for people visiting the railway stations to eat at.“Pune railway division has planned to start the facilities at four places – Baramati, Chinchwad, Akurdi and Miraj. The tender has been floated, once it is finalised it will be taken forward,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.Generally, the practice is to scrap old train coaches, however, this initiative will give the Railway a chance to make money off old coaches.Every coach refurbished into the “Restaurant on Wheels” is expected to bring in Rs2.5 to Rs3 lakh per month.In Mumbai, the first restaurant on wheels at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) was opened on Monday. It has 10 tables and its interiors have been painted with a suburban railway theme and images of local trains and the city’s suburban railway network.The restaurant has been from a retrofitted discarded rail coach and can accommodate 40 people.The Eastern Railway division was the first to start a restaurant on wheels in February 2020 at Asansol railway junction in West Bengal.“The coach will be completely renovated with tables and chairs replacing berths. Once service starts at the four stations we will involve other stations as well ,” said another official from Pune railway division, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-railway-s-restaurant-on-wheels-to-open-at-baramati-chinchwad-akurdi-miraj-101634927744269.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||After two years, panel reviews all parking plans in Delhi||Two years after the Delhi Maintenance and Management of Parking Places Rules were notified in the city, the Apex Monitoring Committee, mandated under the policy, held its first meeting on Friday. The committee reviewed all area parking plans prepared by municipal corporations and discussed new ideas, such as the inclusion of parking spaces for electric vehicles (EVs).The parking policy, aimed to decongest Delhi and reduce pollution by charging a higher fee for surface/on-street parking and peak-time parking and a lower free for multilevel and off-peak parking, was first proposed in 2017 and notified on September 25, 2019.The committee is headed by Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot.Senior officials, who attended the meeting, said the government is unlikely to hike the parking fee anytime soon as people are financially hit by the Covid-19 pandemic.They said the minister advised the transport department and enforcement agencies to be sensitive to the plight of the public due to the pandemic. “It is likely that some amendments will be made to the rules regarding hefty penalties for parking. Overnight parking was also discussed and authorities were directed to share data on major roads to optimise checks and enforcements,” said an official, requesting anonymity.He said the minister directed authorities to identify parking spaces so that buses and goods vehicles do not park along roads at night and add to the city’s congestion. According to the transport department, there are 7,624 buses and 44,533 goods vehicles with valid permits on Delhi roads.On Friday, the government, in a statement, said that area parking plans prepared by civic agencies will be notified soon. They will be published on the municipal corporations’ respective websites after the Apex Monitoring Committee approves the plans. A few area parking plans have already been prepared by the MCDs for locations such as Kamala Nagar, Lajpat Nagar markets, and a few other commercial areas. The remaining plans are being prepared based on guidelines from the transport department, in consultation with residents’ welfare associations, and market associations (to take into account last-mile connectivity). Gahlot also directed South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to compile all the plans and expedite the process of procuring no-objection certificates (NOCs) from enforcement agencies and the police.A senior south corporation official said that parking management plans of 16 areas have been prepared and added to the municipal corporation’s website for public feedback. The parking plan for Lajpat Nagar has been implemented, he added. The official said the pandemic has slowed down the implementation of the parking management plans in some areas and added that the support of local RWAs is crucial for successful implementation. The 16 areas include Anand Lok, Aurobindo Marg, Geetanjali Enclave, Green Park Extension, Gulmohar Park, Kailash Colony, Kailash hills, Malviya Nagar, Neeti Bagh, Nizamuddin, SDA, Soami Nagar and Siddharth Extension. A north corporation official said that the implementation of the plan prepared for Kamla Nagar has been delayed due to lack of financial resources.In the meeting, Gahlot said area parking plans are not just about parking vehicles, but also about improving the public’s quality of life and making their life easier. “Vendors, non-motorised transport, parks, and recreational spaces find a crucial place in these plans. The focus is on decongesting our roads and increasing walkability, and I’m sure that once all stakeholders start working towards this shared goal, we will have a more breathable Delhi that belongs to motorists, cyclists, and pedestrians alike,” he said.“I also urge citizens to park responsibly and try to switch to EVs, and most importantly use more public transport, which will address a lot of these issues from the grass-root level,” the minister added.On Friday, the government decided to tweak parking rules to accommodate more facilities for EVs. It asked authorities to ensure reserved parking for EVs in a push to promote EVs in the Capital. The Delhi EV policy 2020 also mandates that 5% of parking space in all new construction sites will be reserved for electric vehicles.Another senior official said the government is also considering inserting a provision for the reservation of EV parking spaces in existing buildings.“The MCDs informed the minister that about 200+ EV charging points at various locations are already being made operational across Delhi. The possibilities of using geospatial data to map EV user coordinates, and plot influence area with owner coordinates to develop private charging clusters was also discussed,” the government said in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-two-years-panel-reviews-all-parking-plans-in-delhi-101634927743002.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||With rise in dengue cases, Lucknow hospitals forced to increase beds||LUCKNOW: With rise in dengue cases, hospital beds reserved for patients are getting fully occupied and some hospitals have been compelled to increase the number of beds. “We had reserved 30 beds for dengue patients in early September but with rise in the number of patients in need of admission, we increased the beds. At present we have 45 patients in the dengue ward,” said Dr Ajay Shankar Tripathi of Lok Bandhu Raj Narayan Hospital. The state capital has reported over 700 dengue cases till now, with about 620 reported since September 1 onwards or in the past 7 weeks. On Friday, Lucknow reported its single day highest of 32 fresh cases. On Thursday, there were 29 fresh cases. At least 100 patients in the OPDs of different hospitals are being suspected of having dengue daily and an average of 20 patients testing positive. Over a dozen are getting discharged daily from hospitals. Doctors said the threat of dengue would lurk for the next 15 days due to the recent rain. “Preventing mosquito bite is the ultimate precaution. Using mosquito net protects at night and wearing clothes that cover the body well is another precaution. If the surroundings are free of stagnant water, there is little chance of getting dengue,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. At present, dengue patients are admitted to Balrampur hospital, Lok Bandhu hospital , King George’s Medical University and Civil hospital. The most serious once are admitted to the KGMU. Platelet demand goes up The demand for platelets has gone up, particularly in the past three days. Doctors say most of the attendants who are panicky, want to get platelet transfusion done for their patient. “Platelets are lifesaving but very few dengue patients need transfusion. However, in panic, attendants are forcing medical staff for platelet transfusion and hence the demand has gone up,” said Prof Tulika Chandra, HoD, transfusion medicine at the King George’s Medical University. The KGMU blood bank is issuing over 100 units of platelets every day for the past three days. The normal demand here remains between 25 and 35 units per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/with-rise-in-dengue-cases-lucknow-hospitals-forced-to-increase-beds-101634927504754.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||HC seeks Delhi govt response after plea challenges jabs for school staff||The Delhi high court on Friday asked the city government to respond to a plea challenging a decision making it mandatory for all teachers and school staff to be vaccinated to attend school. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the city government, its education and health departments and the school on the plea by a teacher who sought exemption from the rule, pointing out that an earlier allopathic treatment to cure a hand disorder had led to impotency.The Delhi government’s circular made it mandatory for all teachers and school staff to be vaccinated by October 15 to be allowed to attend school. It warned that their absence would be treated as on leave.The Delhi government, on the last date (October 12), had told the court that they recently received requests from parents of primary school children too to reopen the school at the earliest and if due precautions are not taken then it may lead to the spread of Covid-19.The petitioner said that in 2015, he started encountering the problem of hand dystonia and was diagnosed in 2018. The plea said that he took allopathic treatment for the same but his condition worsened due to medication. It said that due to the allopathic way of treatment, he started showing symptoms for impotence. It further said that his condition improved through meditation and ayurvedic medicines.The matter would be heard in February 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hcseeks-delhi-govt-response-after-plea-challenges-jabs-for-school-staff-101634927445940.html
23-10-2021||Pune||Research projects need to be encouraged: Uday Samant||Research projects made by students, and that end results of such research needs to be public. Also, students need to be encouraged to do research in various fields,” said state technical and higher education minister Uday Samant. He was speaking at the inauguration of the Progressive Education Society (PES) in Shivajinagar on Friday.Vice-chancellor Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) Prof Nitin Karmalkar and PES executive director Prof Gajanan Ekbote were present.“Colleges should try to get industry experts and talented people from society to act as guides. The main objective of the new education policy is to make each and every student self dependent. Also it is necessary to take this new policy to every student,” he added.Later, a session on “Cyber Suraksha” in the context of online and blended education was held at the Suryadatta Institute at which education minister Samant participated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/research-projects-need-to-be-encouraged-uday-samant-101634927444767.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: As dengue cases rise, North civic body’s chemical stocks plummet sharply||At a time when Delhi is ramping up the drive against mosquito breeding to combat the uptick in dengue cases, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation is running abysmally low on larvicide and insecticides needed to control vector populations, a status report from the civic body has said.The report, filed by the public health department on October 21, shows that the corporation has run out of several insecticides used in anti-mosquito drives. According to the report, the civic body uses seven types of insecticides — diflubenzuron, BTI, mosquito larvicidal oil (MLO), alpha-cypermethrin, cyphenothrin, temephos granules, and malathion technical — for its mosquito control measures. Of these, the corporation has no more stocks of diflubenzuron, BTI, mosquito larvicidal oil (MLO), alpha-cypermethrin, the report said. Even the three insecticides available with the corporation are fast depleting, with only 20kg of temephos granules, 890kg of cyphenothrin and 500 kilos of malathion technical left, the report stated.According to a civic report on vector-borne diseases, released this Monday, Delhi recorded one dengue death and 723 dengue cases till October 16, 2021, which is the highest count the city has seen since 2018. Of the 723 dengue cases, the north corporation has registered 166 cases till the week ending October 16, which is the highest the municipality has seen in the last four years. The civic body had 109 dengue cases during the corresponding period in 2020, 60 cases in 2019, and 62 cases in 2018.Data submitted by the public health department shows that since April 2021, diflubenzuron stock has gone down from 5,500kg to nil, BTI from 2,100kg to nil, and MLO from 6090kg to nil while cyphenothrin stock has reduced from 2,330kg to 890kg. A senior public health official said these insecticides are used to kill larvae and adult mosquitoes in various stages of development by mixing the chemicals in stagnant water and spraying them in high mosquito density areas using sprinklers and fogging machines. “While insecticides like diflubenzuron, BTI and MLO are used as larvicides (in water), a pyrethroid insecticide agents like alpha-cypermethrin are mixed with petrol/diesel and then sprayed through high pressure nozzles to create “the fog” during the fogging drives,” the official said, asking not to be named. The public health department said it is trying to procure the insecticides and the tender process is currently on. “In case of diflubenzuron, the testing of the drug is being carried out and the results are expected in the next couple of days,” the department said in a report to the house.Jogi Ram Jain, standing committee chairman, north corporation, said anti-mosquito drives have not been affected so far as the zonal level staff have enough insecticides. “The matter has been duly noted by us. The figures represent the situation of the central stock. We can continue the drives for another two weeks with locally available chemicals. The anti-mosquito drives will not be affected by any shortage,” he said.Vikas Goel, leader of the opposition, however, said drives have been affected at the local level due to shortage of insecticides. “The corporation is facing a shortage of drugs and insecticides while officials keep saying that the matter is under process. Why is the tendering process being carried out now when dengue cases are on rise? This should have been done in April,” Goel said. He alleged that a similar shortage is being faced in the case of basic medicines such as paracetamol tablets as well. But the hospital administration report states that the medicine stocks are adequate to serve its hospitals, dispensaries and clinics. According to the report, the north corporation has a stock of 8,900 chloroquine tablets, 500 chloroquine syrup units, 1,095 paracetamol injections and 350 paracetamol tablets.This stock is meant for the north corporation’s five major hospitals of Hindu Rao Hospital, Kasturba Hospital, Rajan Babu Hospital, MVID hospital, and Girdharilal Hospital as well as its dispensaries and clinics, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-as-dengue-cases-rise-north-civic-body-s-chemical-stocks-plummet-sharply-101634927142976.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||‘Pink booths’ in vulnerable areas in Delhi to curb crimes against women||For the first time, the Delhi Police have introduced ‘pink booths’ in the most crime-prone areas of the central district to curb crime against women and ensure policewomen patrol more actively.DCP (central) Shweta Chauhan, said that earlier, only men were deployed in traditional policing beats but now the central district will deploy more women in such beats. “Prashakti beat staff” and “veera squad” comprising policewomen will be deployed to control street crime, crime against women and children, she said. “They will perform intensive and visible patrolling in sensitive areas on ERVs, QRTs, motorcycles, and scooties to control crime and make streets safer.“Apart from this, a pink booth manned by women staff has been set up at the Karol Bagh police station. This booth will cater to women’s grievances and the policewomen will take immediate legal action on their complaints. The booth is an attempt to provide a safe complaint redressal mechanism for women in a busy marketplace instead of them needing to visit a police station. The purpose is to sensitise citizens about crime and obtain their feedback. The policewomen will also motivate women and girls to report cases of violence against them,” said DCP Chauhan.The aim of this initiative, police said, is to bring women officers to the forefront in traditional policing roles. “Traditional policing roles of crime prevention and detection, which were earlier considered male bastions, will see increased participation of women officers at every level. They will play an important role in crime prevention, detection and investigation of crimes such as robbery, snatching, pickpocketing, burglary and organised crime,” DCP Chauhan added.She said that earlier women officers were deployed mainly for tackling crime against women, but now, they will also tackle hardcore crime and criminals, as well as participate in community policing. Women staff has also been posted to Cyber Cell and Special Staff of central district.“We are hopeful that with the successful implementation of this new initiative in the central district, residents of Delhi will feel more secure, and these women cops will become role models for women and girls,” added the DCP.This initiative comes four months after ‘Tejaswini’, an initiative centered around women empowerment and their safety, was launched in northwest district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pink-booths-in-vulnerable-areas-in-delhi-to-curb-crimes-against-women-101634926902742.html
23-10-2021||Delhi||DDMA to take a call on Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi on October 27||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) is scheduled to meet on October 27 to take a call on Chhath Puja celebrations in the Capital and regarding the phased reopening of classes for students in classes 8 and below.The official notice for the meeting issued on Friday, which HT has seen, said: “the agenda/discussion points for the meeting are... considering of opening of classes below 9 in school. Decision on celebration of Chhath Puja festivities.” Other items in the agenda include review of Covid-19 numbers in the Capital, management strategies concerning the viral disease, vaccination drive and awareness programme campaigns.The ban on Chhath Puja celebrations in the Capital had turned into a political slugfest between the BJP and the AAP. The BJP accused the Delhi government of singling out Chhath Puja even as it allowed other celebrations including Durga Puja and Dussehra in the city. While chief minister Arvind Kejriwal initially justified the ban and hit out at the Opposition for “playing dirty politics”, it later changed its stance, and claimed that the decision was taken by the DDMA which is headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. Kejriwal even wrote to Baijal on October 14, urging him to allow Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi, in adherence to Covid-19 protocols.Regarding schools, in-person classes are only allowed for students of classes 9 to 12 in Delhi. At its last meeting on September 29, the DDMA said that schools in Delhi are likely to open after the festive season. Festivals in the coming days include Diwali (November 4) and Chhath Puja (November 10).The October 27 meeting of the DDMA will take place through video conference facility at 12.30pm, said the notice. The meeting will be attended by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who is also the DDMA chairperson; chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, the vice chairperson; revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, a DDMA member; and chief secretary Vijay Dev, who is the chief executive officer. The meeting will also be attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana, and Delhi’s divisional commissioner Sanjiv Khirwar, in addition to a group of medical experts, including Niti Aayog member Dr VK Paul, AIIMS director Dr Randip Guleria, and Indian Council of Medical Research director-general Dr Balram Bhargava.“The meeting was supposed to take place this week, but it got postponed. However, it can’t be postponed much as drafting protocols for school reopening is likely to take some time, and, if Chhath Puja is allowed, the government will need time to make the ghaats (riverbed areas) ready,” said a senior DDMA official.On September 30, DDMA issued an order prohibiting the celebration of Chhath Puja at riverbanks, near water bodies, open grounds, in temples, and other public spaces, even as it imposed limited restrictions on other festivals like Durga Puja and Dussehra.Chhath Puja in public spaces was prohibited last year too because of the pandemic. The festival, which falls on November 10, involves collective dips in water bodies and worshipping the Sun. It is a major festival for Purvanchal community from Bihar, Jharkhand, and Uttar Pradesh, who have a sizeable presence in Delhi.According to migration data from Census 2011 records, 40% of Delhi’s population (recorded at 16.4 million then) were migrants. Of the migrant population of 6.56 million, roughly two-thirds were from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand.The Bharatiya Janata Party, led by MP Manoj Tiwari, has protested against restrictions on Chhath Puja celebrations and organised several protests in the last three weeks.On October 9, Kejriwal said the DDMA prohibited the celebrations because of the inherent risk of transmission in the rituals which involve gathering in large numbers.On October 12, Tiwari organised a protest outside Kejriwal’s residence in Civil Lines. Three days later, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia wrote to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, urging the Centre to draft protocols and issue necessary orders with regard to the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-to-take-a-call-on-chhath-puja-celebrations-in-delhi-on-october-27-101634926785402.html
23-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh 2020 Road Safety report: Zebra crossing most common offence, speeding saw 250% increase||Stopping on the Zebra crossing and speeding were the top two traffic violations that motorists indulged in last year, according to the Road Safety in Chandigarh 2020 Report. Overall, there was a decrease in the number of challans, which can be attributed to lower traffic during the pandemic year. The report adds that 55,255 challans were issued for zebra crossing violations and 32,497 challans were issued for speeding. In total, 2020 saw 1.77 lakh challans over 2.7 lakh challans issued in 2019. The number of impounded vehicles saw an increase to around 16,870 from the 2019 figure of 15,723. Vehicles impounded for curfew violations added to the load. Challaning on zebra crossing is usually done through an online fine receipt issued by the cameras in use by the traffic police or people who click pictures of the infraction and send it to the traffic police through the social media.Data shows that such surveillance has had a positive effect. Twelve pedestrians lost their lives in 11 fatal accidents in 2020, but none of them were on a zebra crossing. There were only three minor incidents with pedestrians on zebra crossing as compared to 31 total incidents including grievous injuries on roads with no pedestrian infrastructure in 2019.Challans for speeding zoomed from 8,814 in 2019 to 32,497 in 2020. The increase came after the traffic police started issuing Traffic Violation Information Slip (TVIS) challans for speeding using Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) systems.National Road Safety Council member Kamaljeet Soi said, “There is a perception among people in Chandigarh now that if we break the traffic rules we will get caught. The new camera system being installed at intersections will further bolster this perception.”Officials claim results are visible. The number of challans issued for some infractions, including jumping red lights, and dangerous driving have greatly reduced over previous years. Challans for drunken driving dipped in 2020 over 2019, as the traffic police weren’t too keen on using breath analysers with the Covid-19 pandemic a grave threat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-2020-road-safety-report-zebra-crossing-most-common-offence-speeding-saw-250-increase-101634925582926.html
23-10-2021||Gurugram||Entire Gurugram will have to be demolished: Haryana govt on ‘forest’ land||Every building in 11 districts of Haryana, including Gurugram and Faridabad, will have to be demolished if the authorities were to remove all structures from “forest land” as defined and mandated by a 2018 Supreme Court judgment, the state government said on Friday, cautioning that such an exercise could create a “serious and unparalleled law-and-order problem”. Expressing its inability to implement a July order by the top court to raze structures from forest land, the Manohar Lal Khattar-government said that “the task is beyond its capacity” because nearly 40% of land in the state is considered forest land in the terms of the Supreme Court’s 2018 judgment. Therefore, carrying out this exercise, the state said, will lead to a mammoth demolition of buildings, schools, colleges, government offices and residential buildings in 11 districts, which includes all of Gurugram and Faridabad. On July 23, a bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari, directed the Haryana government to ensure that all unauthorised structures standing on Aravali forest land should be cleared. “Our direction to remove all structures on forest land applies to all structures without any exception,” stated the directive. Abiding with this direction, state authorities demolished the slum colony of Khori Gaon, and issued show-cause notices to owners of 129 farmhouses, banquet halls, schools, religious institutions, and commercial structures. Several among these 129 owners claimed that their properties fell outside forest area, but the state forest department dismissed the objection on the ground that these lands were notified under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), 1900, and had to be considered forest land. The decision of the forest department was based on the September 2018 judgment of the Supreme Court which declared that land falling under PLPA was to be treated as forest land. It was on this reasoning that the top court in 2018 ordered the demolition of all buildings in Kant Enclave, a residential colony in Faridabad. Submitting its affidavit, the state on Thursday contended that all land under PLPA cannot be treated as “forest land”, taking a stand different from what it told the court in 2018. The state said that a total of 1,739,907 hectares of land in the state has been notified under PLPA, and this accounts for 39.35% of the geographical area in the entire state, including the whole of 11 districts – Gurugram, Faridabad, Palwal, Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar, Rewari, Bhiwani, Charki Dadri, Mahendergarh, and Mewat. It further stated: “In terms of the September 2018 decision and July 23 order, all areas notified under Sections 3,4,5 of PLPA are forest land. The land included under PLPA includes both government and private land and structures that have come up on these lands include schools, colleges, hospitals, police stations, roads, transmission lines, government buildings, defence establishments, infrastructure and residential houses.” The affidavit added: “The demolition required is on a massive scale and beyond the capacity of the state government and is bound to create serious and unparalleled law and order problem… Besides, it raises a very pertinent issue regarding constitutional rights of the people to such land, particularly where construction have been undertaken after taking requisite approvals in accordance with law.” The state informed the court that it has declared forest land under the Indian Forest Act, 1927 and this covers over 1.46 lakh hectare, accounting for about 4% of the state’s territory.In the 2018 Kant Enclave case, the Supreme Court said in its judgment: “We have no doubt that land notified by Haryana under provisions of PLPA must be treated as ‘forest’ and ‘forest land’ and has in fact been so treated for several decades by the state of Haryana. There is no reason to change or alter the factual or legal position.” The court placed reliance on an affidavit filed by the state authorities treating PLPA land as forest land. In its latest affidavit, though, the state took a stand that land notified under PLPA was for the purpose of conserving and restoring erosion of soil, and was applicable for a limited period and not in perpetuity. During this period, when the notification is in force, there is prohibition of specified non-forest activities and that prohibition ceases once the notification expires, it explained. “Intention of PLPA has never been to create or convert notified land into forest land in any manner. The closure or prohibition which is sought to be enforced as a temporary measure solely as a measure to regulate, restrict or prohibit certain activities during the period of such closure which is lifted upon the expiry of the said period,” the state forest department’s affidavit said. During the proceedings on Friday, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the state, argued that the 2018 judgment of the court has gone “slightly wrong”. The bench, however, asked Mehta: “Is this argument now available to you after the 2018 judgment? This judgment (Kant Enclave matter) was the final word on this, unless you are asking us to set it aside.” Lawyers appearing for Khori Gaon residents and owners of properties served with show-cause notices sought time to file response to state’s affidavit. The court posted the matter for hearing on November 15. The Haryana government’s affidavit mentioned that, in 2014, the state government approached the Supreme Court in the MC Mehta batch of cases where the Court was considering protection of Aravali forest land. The state moved an application seeking clarification that land notified under expired notifications or orders passed under Section 4, 5 of PLPA should not be treated as forest. This plea is still pending consideration of the top court. In February 2019, following the Kant Enclave judgment, the Haryana assembly passed an amendment to PLPA by excluding certain land out of the ambit of PLPA notification for purposes of construction. But this law was stalled by the Supreme Court, on March 1, 2019, and seen as an attempt to override its decisions to protect forest land. “No action is to be taken by the Haryana government in furtherance of the the PLPA (Amendment) Act, 2019,” the court said at the time, and the matter is also pending before it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/entire-gurugram-will-have-to-be-demolished-haryana-govt-on-forest-land-101634925042131.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||None would have dared to fire at Ram bhakts in 1990 if BJP had been in power: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath again played up the issue of firing on “Ram bhakts” (kar sevaks) in Ayodhya during the Samajwadi Party (SP) rule in 1990 at one of the two caste outreach meetings that the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) organised in Lucknow on Friday. “Remember the Ayodhya firing on Ram bhakts in 1990s? Had a BJP government been there then, none would have dared to do so,” Adityanath said at a meeting featuring Dalits.“Will you forgive those who opened fire on Lord Ram devotees?,” the chief minister asked. Yogi Adityanath was referring to the police firing on kar sevaks gathered in Ayodhya on the saffron outfits’ call in 1990 when SP leader Mulayam Singh Yadav was the Uttar Pradesh chief minister.Now, with the BJP in power at the Centre and the state, a grand Ram temple is being constructed in Ayodhya, he said, adding it is an opportunity for 135 crore Indians to hold their heads high before the world.On Thursday, too, Adityanath had raised the same issue during a caste outreach meet. While Adityanath played up the firing issue during a meeting of the Loniya Dalit community, the other caste outreach meet featured Yadavs, a dominant Other Backward Classes (OBC) group considered loyal to the main opposition Samajwadi Party. The BJP has named these caste outreach meetings as samajik pratinidhi sammelan (social representative meeting). At the second meeting, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh presented the party’s state secretary Subhash Yaduvansh as a leader of the future. “He is a young turk and a community leader of the future,” the UP BJP chief said at the meeting reflecting party’s plan to groom Yaduvansh, a former youth BJP chief, now promoted to the party’s main state body. “We have few leaders from the community but in Yaduvansh, who has featured in the party’s scheme of things in the regime of three successive party chiefs shows the party’s desire to groom home grown young Yadav community leadership,” a party leader said. On his part, Yaduvansh targeted the Samajwadi Party claiming that Yadavs believe in ‘roti-beti’ (bread-daughter) connection, something which the SP leadership has failed to do.“They are five-star people, cut off from us,” Yaduvansh said in his speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/none-would-have-dared-to-fire-at-ram-bhakts-in-1990-if-bjp-had-been-in-power-yogi-adityanath-101634922822611.html
23-10-2021||Lucknow||No politics in chance meeting between Akhilesh, Priyanka on flight: Samajwadi Party, Congress leaders||Samajwadi Party (SP) and Congress leaders have said there are no political overtones in the chance meeting between SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on a flight from New Delhi to Lucknow on Friday, ahead of the 2022 assembly election in Uttar Pradesh.Those aware of the matter said besides the brief encounter on the plane, Akhilesh Yadav and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra exchanged pleasantries after deboarding the flight.Samajwadi Party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said leaders do have chance meetings and no political significance should be attached to the exchange of pleasantries.“Akhilesh Yadav was sitting in business class while Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s seat was a few rows behind him in the economy class. As a courtesy, Yadav stopped for a while after de-boarding and both of them exchanged pleasantries. We did not get what transpired between the two leaders in the brief meeting. Before leaving the airport, Akhilesh Yadav, however, said ‘let’s meet’ and Priyanka replied ‘sure, we will meet’,” said an eyewitness.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) spokesman Ashok Singh also said this was only a chance meeting. He said Priyanka Gandhi Vadra arrived here on Friday to launch the Congress Pratigya Yatras in Barabanki on Saturday.Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ said there was nothing political about the meeting. Exchange of pleasantries is obvious when two leaders meet, she added.On the other hand, political observers have been left guessing about the significance of the meeting.“A chance meeting should not be ignored in politics as sometimes such an encounter may lead to serious business. It will be in the interest of the state if the Samajwadi Party and the Congress come close. Uttar Pradesh needs a strong opposition and aligning with smaller political outfits does not serve any purpose. Both the parties should explore the possibilities of an alliance,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.The Samajwadi Party and the Congress contested the 2017 UP assembly election in alliance with each other but parted ways soon after the polls in which the BJP won power. The SP lost power as it won only 47 seats and the Congress got just seven.Later, the SP aligned with the BSP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections after good results in by-polls in 2018 but the alliance between the two former political rivals ended soon after the parliamentary election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-politics-in-chance-meeting-between-akhilesh-priyanka-on-flight-samajwadi-party-congress-leaders-101634920602750.html
