24-10-2021||Pune||History enthusiasts call for conservation of heritage sites in Pune city||PUNE: Not only Sinhagad fort and Shaniwar Wada, Pune city is home to a host of historical places, many of which are fast disappearing. One such is the graveyard of 100 British officers who were killed during the Anglo-Maratha war of 1818 by Maratha army general Bapu Gokhale. The cemetery houses not only the black marble tombstones of these martyrs but also the tombstone of another influential poet, Shahir Saganbhau. Despite being protected heritage sites under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and finding mention in the Pune Gazette, these tombstones have all but disappeared. So much so that a Pune-based history enthusiast, Sameer Nikam, has written a letter to the chief of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), ASI and Pune police to restore these tombstones and protect the city’s rich heritage.Nikam said, “These tombstones are a part of Pune’s history. And it is sad to see that a part of our history has disappeared from the city and the authorities are not aware of it. The tombstones of British officials and Shahir Saganbhau are protected heritage sites and are mentioned in the Pune Gazette. In such a case, the local bodies should do everything in their power to maintain these heritage tombstones.”Nikam said that Shahir Saganbhau was a famous poet of his time. “Shahir Saganbhau wrote poems and powadas (Marathi ballads) celebrating the heroic deeds of the patriots of yore. He wrote powadas before and during the time of the Peshwas. His powadas on Pratapsingh and Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj are also very famous. Such a figure was buried in the heart of the city. However, due to neglect by several stakeholders, the tombstone is no longer where it was once located. Restoring these historical tombs will give a new lease of life to our rich and varied history,” he said.Pune-based senior historian Pandurang Balkawade said that our heritage sites speak to the new generation and inspire them. “There are some tombstones around Khirkee war cemetery. The tombs are located near the river. All heritage sites should be conserved and protected. The community and local government bodies should spread more awareness in this regard. We should learn from other states in India how they have developed and maintained their heritage sites to attract tourists from all over the world,” he said.Meanwhile, Gajanan Bandore, conservation officer for the Pune division, ASI, said that he is unaware about the location of these tombs. The PMC heritage cell too informed that they are not aware of the location of the tombs. An official from the heritage cell said, “We are looking into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/history-enthusiasts-call-for-conservation-of-heritage-sites-in-pune-city-101635100081835.html
24-10-2021||Pune||Half of 56 deaths on this killer highway 35 km stretch due to human error: Police||A majority of the deaths since 2014 on the killer stretch between the new tunnel on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway and Navale bridge have been recorded by local police as being due to human error, officials said on Sunday. The stretch between the new Katraj tunnel and Navale bridge chowk has seen 56 fatal accidents till since 2014, half of them due to “human error” the police department has claimed, adding that the remaining the accidents were mainly due to errors in road design, absence of rumblers and no signboards. On Friday night a tanker rammed into an SUV, another four-wheeler and a container, killing two and injuring two. Despite all the precautionary measures taken by the Pune traffic police department and National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), a major concern about these accidents is people not following traffic rules. “One of the main human errors is traffic violation - switching off the vehicle to drive in neutral gear and allow speeding. This is too dangerous to do on a slope like this, and in the past also there have been several accidents that happened due to this same reason,” said senior inspector Devidas Gheware of Sinhgad road police station. “Of the total 56 deaths reported between 2014 and 2021 on the 3.5km stretch starting from the new Katraj tunnel to Navale bridge chowk, half are due to human error. Apart from switching off the engine of vehicles, many drivers suddenly try and take U-turn on the highway, or a number of vehicles including two-wheelers go where there is no-entry or the wrong side of the road. All this counts as human error and there is a need for public awareness amongst daily commuters on this road,” added Gheware. It has been noticed by the traffic police that to save fuel, often drivers shut the engine on the slope, leading to a failure of the breaks and accidents. A few ago, back several boards were installed near Navale bridge alerting drivers to the dangers of shutting down the engine. Meanwhile, local residents are afraid. Several residential areas like Narhe, Ambegaon Budruk, Dhayari and Vadgaon Budruk are connected to this spot. Sandeep Kute a local resident said, “I often travel through this road for my work and daily, thousands of people pass through the highway and service road. In the past also several accidents have happened here and people have died.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/half-of-56-deaths-on-this-killer-highway-35-km-stretch-due-to-human-error-police-101635099781910.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Now, surveillance committees to help prevent vector-borne diseases||Uttar Pradesh has decided to revive surveillance committees to fight vector-borne diseases just as they did for Covid infection.“Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed revival of surveillance committees to prevent vector-borne diseases. Over 73,000 surveillance committees will carry out door-to-door tracing to bring down infections in UP,” said a state government spokesperson on Sunday.To ensure proper watch through the surveillance committees that played a vital role in timely identification, isolation of Covid patients and distribution of medicine kits, thereby controlling the spread in the state, chief minister has issued directives to reactivate them in view of rising cases of infections in other states. Earlier on October 19, CM Yogi had launched a month-long state-wide communicable disease control drive. The campaign has been rolled out in all 75 districts of the state to educate the public about the measures to prevent communicable diseases.Under this campaign, health workers are paying door-to-door visits to identify patients with viral fever, vector-borne diseases and other symptoms. People are also being made aware of avoiding mosquito breeding near their homes and keep cleanliness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-now-surveillance-committees-to-help-prevent-vector-borne-diseases-101635099182385.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Congress to launch fourth pratigya yatra from Gorakhpur after Diwali||The Uttar Pradesh Congress will launch its fourth pratigya yatra from Gorakhpur after Diwali, said senior Congress leaders at a press conference in Lucknow on Sunday.On Saturday, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had flagged off the party’s three pratigya yatras at an event in Barabanki.Former Union minister Pradeep Jain Aditya, former MP PL Punia, former MLA Rakesh Sachan, and ex-UP minister Naseemuddin Siddiqui made the announcement about the fourth pratigya yatra at a press conference at the Uttar Pradesh Congress office in Lucknow.The party leaders said the Congress was committed to working for the progress of the unemployed youth, farmers, women and all sections of the society.Siddiqui said three pratigya yatras were under way and the one that began from Barabanki will end in Jhansi via Lucknow. The one that began from Saharanpur will end in Mathura. The third pratigya yatra that began from Varanasi will conclude in Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress president Sonia Gandhi. The fourth one will begin from Gorakhpur.Sachan said that the objective of the yatras is to tell people about the seven promises, including 40% reservation for women in party tickets for 2022 UP polls, that Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has made to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-congress-to-launch-fourth-pratigya-yatra-from-gorakhpur-after-diwali-101635099130021.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: Minister’s son down with dengue, could not be quizzed||Lucknow/Lakhimpur Kheri: Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, an accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, was shifted to the district hospital on Sunday after tests on Saturday evening showed that his blood sugar had reached “critical level”. “Some changes” were also seen in his electrocardiogram (ECG) after he was found infected with dengue while in two-day police custody, a senior medical officer said on Sunday. A police official said Ashish Mishra’s illness had interrupted the investigation as the investigators were unable to continue with his cross -examination before seven other accused taken on remand along with him. He said Mishra’s cross-questioning could not be done even on Saturday due to his illness. Ashish Mishra was sent back to the district jail on Saturday evening itself for treatment at its healthcare facility after he was diagnosed with dengue, he said. He said Mishra, his friend Ankit Das, his driver Shekhar Bharti and gunner Latif alias Kaale were taken on two-day custody remand for the second time since Friday evening. He said the investigators, however, cross-examined the other seven accused and the police would seek the custody of Mishra again after his recovery. Another police officer said a panel of senior-most physicians from the district hospital, led by the chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Shailendra Bhatnagar, examined Ashish Mishra in the jail on Sunday morning and referred him to the district hospital for treatment “under observation”. He said Mishra was moved in an ambulance to the Lakhimpur Kheri district hospital and kept in a “safe room” in the emergency OPD ward amid tight security. The CMO said Mishra’s body temperature was normal but his “critical sugar level of 9.1 HbA1c and changes in the ECG required better care and treatment” by experts at the district hospital and that it was not possible in the jail hospital. “At the district hospital, a panel of doctors will attend him under six-hourly observation and subsequent follow-up will be made thereafter,” the CMO said. “Ashish Mishra’s fresh samples have been sent to Lucknow for confirmation,” he said. Ashish Mishra alias Monu is the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case in which eight people, including four farmers, a local journalist, a driver and two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers were killed on October 3 after a convoy of vehicles allegedly led by Ashish Mishra rammed into a group of farmers returning from a protest against the three Central farm laws. Four farmers and the local scribe were crushed to death, while one of the drivers in the convoy and the two BJP workers were lynched by angry farmers in retaliation. A total of 13 arrests have been made in the case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-minister-s-son-down-with-dengue-could-not-be-quizzed-101635098404231.html
24-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man held for raping minor a repeat offender, say police||Suraj, 20, had to appear before a magistrate in the Tis Hazari court on Friday in connection with a case of sexual harassment case with a minor girl registered against him four months ago. Instead, he went to Ranjeet Nagar in central Delhi, where he allegedly raped a seven year old girl, police said on Sunday after arresting the repeat offender in connection with the second incident. On Friday, Suraj allegedly lured the seven-year-old girl with ₹10 when she was playing with her friends near her home, and took her to a room nearby, and raped her, according to the police. Investigators said Suraj, known by his first name, was earlier arrested for allegedly sexually harassing a five-year-old girl in west Delhi’s Khyala. He was on interim bail when he targeted another minor girl in Ranjeet Nagar, police said.Investigators said nearly 800 CCTV cameras were scanned to identify and nab Suraj, who is a resident of Raghubir Nagar in west Delhi.“Instead of appearing before the court, Suraj boarded a bus from Raghubir Nagar and reached Ranjeet Nagar to eat biryani. He found the minor girl playing near the market, and picked her as his target. He lured the girl to a vacant first floor factory after promising to give her ₹10, buy her sweets, and give a ball to play. He raped the minor girl and fled, leaving her injured,” an officer associated with the investigation said, adding that CCTV cameras captured the suspect taking the girl towards the factory building.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Chauhan said the girl’s father, in his complaint to the police, said that his wife informed him that their daughter’s health was “in a bad condition”. They admitted her to a local hospital, where the medical staff told the parents about the sexual assault. A case of rape and sexual assault was registered under Indian Penal Code’s sections 376AB and 377 and section 6 of protection of children from sexual offences (POCSO) act.“The case was totally blind because the suspect was unidentified. He was neither related to the girl nor lived in her neighbourhood. Also, his mobile phone number as well as identification document was not available. We formed many teams of the district’s anti-auto theft squad (AATS), special staff and the local police. They scanned nearly 800 cameras to identify the suspect,” said DCP Chauhan.First lead and the chaseInvestigators said the cameras installed within a radius of nearly 10 kilometers were scanned between Ranjeet Nagar and Moti Nagar, the last place where the suspect was seen boarding a bus going towards west Delhi’s Raghubir Nagar. It gave them an idea that the suspect could be from that area, or nearby localities. The police activated their human intelligence network in those areas and shared the video footage of the suspect with their informers as well.On Saturday, the AATS team learnt that a man of almost the same age and physical appearance was arrested four months ago in a case of sexual harassment with a five-year-old girl in Khyala. The team visited Khyala and showed the suspect’s image from the video footage to local residents who identified him as the same man arrested in the harassment case.Since the man was found to be on interim bail, his dossier was accessed and it helped the police identify his residential address. The police raided his house but found him missing along with his family members. The clothes he was wearing during the crime with the seven-year-old girl were found at his house. Local residents told the police that the family goes around selling utensils on streets. They also told the police that the suspect’s parents and siblings had gone to Rajasthan for business. He did not go with them because he had to attend the court hearing in the Khyala case, said an investigator.“From his relatives and neighbours, we got a mobile phone number that the suspect was using. Through technical surveillance, we found that the suspect was moving towards Haryana. He had left home around 8.30pm on Saturday . We scanned more CCTV cameras along the route, and found that he reached Peeragarhi in an e-rickshaw and boarded a bus for Haryana. Our teams chased the bus for nearly 130 kilometres and caught him in Rohtak,” added the investigator.During interrogation, the officer said, Suraj disclosed that he visited Ranjeet Nagar because he loved to eat biryani sold in that area. On Friday, he left home around 8am for the court hearing, but went to Ranjeet Nagar in a bus instead of attending the hearing.“He found the minor girl playing there and lured her to the vacant factory, where he assaulted her,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-held-for-raping-minor-a-repeat-offender-say-police-101635098401705.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Prime Minister Modi to launch projects worth over 5K cr in Varanasi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch 30 development projects worth ₹5,229 crore during his visit to Varanasi on Monday. He will also launch “Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana” on the occasion. “At around 1.15 pm in Varanasi, Prime Minister will launch Pradhan Mantri Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana. He will also inaugurate various development projects worth more than ₹5200 crore for Varanasi,” PMO said in a statement.Prime Minister Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana will be one of the largest pan-India schemes for strengthening healthcare infrastructure and will be in addition to the National Health Mission, the PMO said. Its objective is to fill gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. It will provide support for 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high focus states. Further, 11,024 urban health and wellness centres will be established in all the states.The PMO said critical care services will be available in all the districts of the country with more than five lakh population through exclusive critical care hospital blocks, while the remaining districts will be covered through referral services.People will have access to a full range of diagnostic services in the public healthcare system through a network of laboratories across the country, and integrated public health labs will be set up in all the districts. Under the centrally sponsored scheme, preference is given to underserved, backward and aspirational districts. (With Agency Inputs)PM to address rally near Kallipur villagePM Modi will also address a public rally in Varanasi. People in large numbers are expected to participate in the rally to be held near newly-constructed Ring Road near Kallipur village. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has made special arrangements for the rally. Party workers went door to door and invited people to the mega event.On Saturday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath inspected the rally venue and instructed the officials to ensure foolproof arrangements. Divisional commissioner, Varanasi, Deepak Agarwal gave a presentation before the CM about the 30 projects to be gifted by PM Modi to the nation. Additional director general of police, Varanasi zone, Brij Bhushan, apprised the CM of the security arrangements.ADG said necessary checking was being done in Varanasi and adjoining districts. Tight security arrangements had been placed at the venue, he said. The entire rally venue is now under the close watch of the special protection group (SPG).Commissioner of police, Varanasi, A Satish Ganesh on Sunday reviewed the preparations related to PM Modi’s programme in Varanasi through videoconferencing. He said, “Cops have been instructed for strict action against all anti-social elements and for effective checking at city limits.”Checking at all public places would be done, he said, adding that all the station officers and outpost in-charges would patrol their areas and not allow traffic jams there.Additional deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Varanasi, DK Puri said special arrangements had been made for smooth movement of traffic. “Over 253 traffic police personnel have been deployed at different intersections to streamline traffic. Diversion of the traffic will also be done on certain routes,” Puri added.Moreover, Kashi region BJP president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava said the projects that the PM was proposed to launch in Varanasi included 16-km long Varanasi Ring Road phase-2 package-1 worth ₹1,011.29 crore, Varanasi-Gorakhpur NH-29 package 2 and Varanasi-Virnon Ghazipur road, both worth ₹3,509 crore, newly-renovated and beautified eight major ponds of Kashi, newly renovated multipurpose hall, bio-CNG plant at cow shelter centre in Shahanshahpur, renovation and beautification of lanes of Kashi in Shahanshahpur among others. HTC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prime-minister-modi-to-launch-projects-worth-over-5k-cr-in-varanasi-today-101635098341876.html
24-10-2021||Gurugram||Authorities on the lookout for illegal firecrackers sale||Following instances of firecracker sales in the city, despite an environmental ban that allows only the use of green crackers, authorities have started raiding warehouses and other suspected spots, officials said on Sunday.Last Thursday, the chief minister’s flying squad, along with a team of police officials from Sector 10, raided a firecracker warehouse in Gadoli village and found that besides green crackers, older versions were also being sold. The team seized 22 types of crackers that are not allowed to be sold in the National Capital Region.“We are continuously checking firecrackers shops and warehouses to ensure that no illegal sale is being done in the district. Only green crackers are allowed, but people are selling off their old stock also. We are also trying to keep a tab if any resident is illegally selling crackers after purchasing from these licensed shops,” Harish Budhiraja, an inspector with the CM’s flying squad, said.On September 30, the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) had issued an order prohibiting the sale and use of crackers in the National Capital Region based on an advisory issued by the Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM).In guidelines for NCR states, the CAQM, last month, said, “Ensure total ban on sale and use of all kinds of fire crackers, during the Covid-19 pandemic, where the ambient air quality falls under ‘poor’ or more than poor category.... Ensure that the crackers that do not fall under the category permitted by Supreme Court/NGT are not allowed to be sold and used; ensure, complete prohibition on manufacturing, sale and use of joined firecrackers; strictly regulate the use of green crackers...”Meanwhile, the city reported ‘moderate’ air quality on Sunday with an air quality index of 138 according to Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. The prominent pollutants were particulate matter, both PM2.5 and PM10, and CO.According to the weather bulletin issued on Sunday by Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, on Monday, the air quality in the national capital territory will remain in ‘moderate’ category to ‘satisfactory’ category, owing to rainfall and strong winds, following which it is expected to remain in the ‘moderate’ category on Tuesday and Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/authorities-on-the-lookout-for-illegal-firecrackers-sale-101635098167809.html
24-10-2021||Gurugram||Police deploy traffic management teams on roads till Diwali||Anticipating traffic snarls during the festive season, the Gurugram traffic police identified 15 high-traffic volume spots and decided to deploy rapid action teams for traffic management until Diwali (November 4).Officials said that each rapid action traffic team (RATT) has at least six police traffic police marshals, 10 road safety officers (RSOs), and a traffic police inspector, equipped with a crane, to tow vehicles.The deputy commissioner of police (DCP), traffic, Ravinder Singh Tomar, said that the teams will be deployed at these points at least till November 4, and would continue to be deployed thereafter if necessitated by the traffic situation. He said that the rapid teams will be working in coordination with 1,500 traffic police personnel deployed on regular duties.“In view of the festive season and to ensure minimum traffic congestion and hassle-free rides to commuters, Gurugram traffic police has constituted RATTs which will be deputed in each zone of the city. These teams will act immediately and address the traffic jam situations to ensure that the commuters face the least possible inconvenience and their travelling time is saved,” Tomar said.The 15 high-traffic volume points are Galleria Market, Sirhaul toll, roads located near Good Earth Mall, Mayfield Gardens intersection, Huda City Centre (HCC), Daulatabad Flyover, Badshahpur-Vatika Chowk stretch on Sohna Road, Sadar Bazar and its connecting roads, Basai Chowk, Himgiri Chowk-Pataudi Chowk stretch, Artemis Hospital Road, Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg, Sector 15 road, roads near Supermart, and the sector 17/18 dividing road.Administratively, Gurugram traffic police have three zones in the city, namely east, west, and highways. Old Gurgaon areas and new sector areas along Dwarka Expressway falls under the east zone, while the west zone covers the remaining parts of the city; National Highway 48 (from Sirhaul toll to Kapriwas at Gurugram-Rewari border) and the Gurugram section of Sohna Road come under the highways’ zone.A team of police officials would also be monitoring realtime traffic movement through Google Maps at the traffic police control room to alert the RATTs regarding possible congestion, Tomar said.According to a senior traffic police official privy to the matter, the traffic police will also concentrate on traffic management at Sadar Bazar and its approach roads.“During the Diwali season, Sadar Bazar and its approach roads witness the heaviest traffic congestion across the city. Officials and RATTs deployed in the west zone have been directed to keep vigil over the area. RATTs have also been given special emphasis to keep a lookout for vehicles parked in no-parking zones,” the official cited above said.The official cited above further said that during the festive season, traffic police officials observed that it is common for residents to park their vehicles near a marketplace on the main road, which causes heavy snarls. Hence, each RATT has been given a crane to tow away such vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/police-deploy-traffic-management-teams-on-roads-till-diwali-101635098166480.html
24-10-2021||Gurugram||Three new dengue cases, tally expected to peak in next fortnight||Even as the number of dengue cases in Gurugram has hit a six-year high in 2021, reaching a tally of 212 cases with three new cases on Sunday, officials of the health department are expecting more cases to be reported over the next fortnight.Officials said that they have also increased the bed capacity at the dengue ward in Civil Hospital, Sector 10, due to an increase in the number of hospitalisations.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram district, said, “We will see a rise in dengue cases for another 10-15 days. As hospitalisations have also increased, we have increased the bed capacity at Civil Hospital in Sector 10 with 12 new beds added to the emergency (ward). The hospital already has a 30-bed dengue ward.”Prior to 2021, the dengue cases in Gurugram were highest in 2015, when over 470 cases of the vector-borne disease were reported in the city. According to the health department data, subsequently, 86, 66, 94, 22 and 51 cases of dengue were recorded in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively.According to the daily dengue and malaria bulletin issued by the district administration on Sunday, a total of 13,061 notices have been issued in the district so far for larvae breeding. On Sunday, larvae breeding was found in 72 houses across the district.The chief medical officer said that the intermittent spells of rain that the city is receiving will help reduce cases.“Although there is a fear of fever cases increasing due to rain, these rains can prove to be helpful as it will help in decreasing the temperature, which will further lead to killing of larvae. With winter approaching, cases will reduce naturally,” Yadav said.Earlier this week, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) started its citywide fogging drive from Sector 4. Officials said that on Wednesday, the civic body procured around a dozen new fogging machines to launch the drive.During a House meeting on October 11, the MCG decided to procure fogging machines as well as start a citywide fogging drive, after councillors raised the issue of poor fumigation due to broken equipment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-new-dengue-cases-tally-expected-to-peak-in-next-fortnight-101635098164015.html
24-10-2021||Gurugram||Light rain recorded, air quality may improve||The city received a light spell of rainfall on Sunday evening, recording around 1.5mm of rainfall until 9.30pm, according to the automatic weather system (AWS), which is expected to improve the air quality.The city reported ‘moderate’ air quality on Sunday with an air quality index of 138 according to Central Pollution Control Board’s daily bulletin. The prominent pollutants were particulate matter, both PM2.5 and PM10, and carbon monoxide (CO).According to the weather bulletin issued on Sunday by Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, on Monday, the air quality in the national capital territory will remain in ‘moderate’ category to ‘satisfactory’ category, owing to rainfall and strong winds, following which it is expected to remain in the ‘moderate’ category on Tuesday and Wednesday.The maximum temperature on Sunday was 30.5 degrees Celsius (°C), which was one degree below normal, and the minimum temperature was 19.5°C, which was five degrees above normal. On Sunday evening, the humidity level was recorded at 68%. According to the weekly forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperature is likely to be around 29°C over the next five days, while the minimum temperature is likely to drop by three degrees, to around 16°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/light-rain-recorded-air-quality-may-improve-101635098161705.html
24-10-2021||Delhi||Heavy rains bring down mercury in Delhi, cause waterlogging||Heavy rains in the national capital on Sunday brought the mercury down with the maximum temperature settling at 31.5 degrees Celsius while some parts of the city witnessed waterlogging, officials said.Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police informed that the Mehrauli-Badarpur Road in south Delhi was closed due to waterlogging at Pul Prahladpur underpass and asked commuters to take alternate routes."Due to waterlogging at Pul Prahladpur underpass, MB road is closed. Please avoid this route. Kindly take alternate route MB Road-Maa Anandmai Marg towards Badarpur," the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted.
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Crucial ABAP meeting to elect new chief in Prayagraj today||The meeting of Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), the top decision-making body of the 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders in the country, will be held at 11 am at Niranjani Akhara in Prayagraj on Monday. After the death of its chief Mahant Narendra Giri on September 20, senior saints will attend the meeting to elect the new ABAP president. The general secretary of the ABAP, Mahant Hari Giri has already reached Prayagraj from Vrindavan. The crucial meeting is being held at a time when the ABAP has already witnessed a split. A faction of Akhadas in Haridwar recently announced their own office bearers of ABAP.“The meeting on Monday will discuss the development in Haridwar and also elect a new president of the Akhada Parishad,” said Mahant Hari Giri.Seven akhadas openly rebelled and announced a new president, general secretary and the working committee on October 21 and distancing themselves from the October 25 meeting in Prayagraj.Rebel Akhadas led by Shri Panchayati Maha Nirvani Akhada and backed by three Bairagi Akhadas, who are believed to be playing a major role in the split, have claimed a majority of akhadas were on their side, and prominent seers were supporting their move and recognising the new working committee of Akhada Parishad. Since Mahakumbh 2021, three Bairagi Akhadas have been demanding due representation in the Akhada Parishad working committee, general secretary post, land allocation and other facilities at par with other major Sanyasi akhadas led by Juna and Niranjani Akhadas. Mahant Ravindra Puri has been appointed the new Akhada Parishad president by these akhadas, a move which has been rejected by the six dominant akhadas, which are the largest in terms of saints and seers under them.It is not the first time that ABAP has witnessed a split. In 2010, the Akhada Parishad had split into two factions, but by 2013 Allahabad Kumbh, the rebel faction led by Mahant Balwant Singh retracted and re-joined the Akhada Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/crucial-abap-meeting-to-elect-new-chief-in-prayagraj-today-101635098043775.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Consumer body seeks govt intervention to get power tariff reduced||The UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad, a body representing electricity consumers in the state, on Sunday sought government’s intervention in getting existing power tariff reduced in lieu of the ₹20,596 crore that the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) has overcharged consumers over the years.Parishad chairman Awadhesh Kumar Verma said the government intervention was necessary because the UPPCL was dilly-dallying in doing justice to the consumers despite the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) having said it in its order two years ago that the corporation got the power tariff raised more than it needed by showing high losses and more expenses during a last one decade.“Acting on our petition seeking tariff reduction, the UPERC on September 17 issued a notice to the UPPCL asking it to respond to our demand within two weeks,” he said adding “But the UPPCL has sent no reply even after more than a month of the notice was served on it.”He said the Upbhokta Parishad did not favour the demand as raised by some political parties for free power considering the size of the state and the precarious financial state of the UPPCL.“But the BJP government in the state can give a good message to people and also neutralise Opposition’s offer for free power by getting the tariff reduced,” he suggested adding “And reduction of tariff will be no favour to consumers because doing so is UPPCL’s legal and moral obligation,” he said.Verma demanded the government to direct the UPERC under Section 108 of the Electricity Act, 2003, asking it to reduce the tariff in public interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-consumer-body-seeks-govt-intervention-to-get-power-tariff-reduced-101635097861726.html
24-10-2021||Bangalore||‘Karnataka doctor allegedly kills wife to get treasure’: Police||Karnataka police have arrested a doctor for allegedly murdering his wife by injecting high doses of drugs in Davanagere district on Sunday. The arrest comes nine months after the woman’s death and police said that the murder was carried out as part of a black magic ritual. Police have identified the suspect in custody as 45-year-old Dr Channakeshappa who was practising medicine in Rameshwara village in Nyamathi taluk. His wife, Shilpa, died on February 11 following an alleged overdose. Following her death, in his statement to police, Channakeshappa claimed that Shilpa was suffering from low blood pressure. On February 11, he gave her an injection of Dexamethasone following which Shilpa became too sick and died on the way to the hospital. Shilpa’s parents lodged a complaint alleging their daughter was murdered. In the initial police investigation, the doctor was able to evade arrest but policemen later raised suspicion about his movements. The investigation later found that he was practising black magic in recent years and had been visiting several black magic practitioners in the past year. It was during one such interaction when he was advised to sacrifice his wife to access tressure, said police. The doctor then decided to offer his wife as a human sacrifice and killed her with an overdose, police said. The Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) confirmed Shilpa’s death as a result of a drug overdose, following which the police took the accused into custody. The doctor has been charged with murder. This incident comes weeks after Belagavi police started a probe into a suspected case of black magic after a two-year-old girl, who was found unconscious in a sugarcane field in Halyal village near Athani on September 23, died on October 1. Police said that there were signs of torture, especially burn marks on the girl’s body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-doctor-allegedly-kills-wife-to-get-treasure-police-101635097682896.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi: Work on to give new identity to Bhadohi carpet industry||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the state government was working seriously to give a new identity to the carpet industry of Bhadohi district through the “One District, One Product” (ODOP) scheme.He said so while addressing a public meeting in Bhadohi district where he launched 74 development projects worth ₹373 crore. Yogi said Bhadohi district was moving ahead with its new identity. A medical college will also be established there, he added. He said artisans and carpet weavers of Bhadohi had given new heights to the carpet industry. “Carpets worth thousands of crores od rupees are exported to different countries and markets of the world thereby making Bhadohi an export hub. Various employment opportunities are developing in the district,” Yogi said. He said the schemes of the central and the state governments had been fully implemented in Bhadohi district having a population of over 15 lakh. “The number of families benefiting from these in the district is 10.6 lakh,” CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-work-on-to-give-new-identity-to-bhadohi-carpet-industry-101635097444398.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Kasganj police to probe Agra custodial death||Agra An inspector rank officer of Kasganj police will now investigate the custodial death case, wherein a sanitation worker allegedly died in police custody here on Tuesday night. Additional director general (ADG) Agra Zone Rajeev Krishna had ordered that probe into police action would not be undertaken by Agra police and the investigation was transferred to Aligarh police. DIG Aligarh Deepak Kumar assigned the investigation to Kasganj police on Saturday. “We have received the orders and investigation in regard to the alleged custodial death would soon begin. An inspector level officer will conduct the investigation,” said superintendent of police (SP) Kasganj, Rohan Pramod Botre on Sunday. Sources revealed that Kasganj police had been asked to submit the investigation report within 180 days. “Investigation was transferred to a district other than Agra to maintain transparency in the probe, as the matter was against the Agra police. So it was found fit that police from another range should conduct the investigation,” said additional director general of police (Agra zone) Rajeev Krishna while ordering transfer of investigation earlier last week. The sanitation worker Arun Valmiki had allegedly died in police custody on Tuesday night, during a raid at his house. Arun was a suspect in the theft of ₹25 lakh from Jagdishpura police station of Agra. During interrogation, he had admitted to the theft. Police took him to his house for cash recovery, where ₹15 lakh was allegedly recovered. However, Arun’s health deteriorated and he was rushed to hospital but was declared “brought dead” by the doctors. Five policemen, including an inspector, were suspended for the alleged custodial death. A case for murder was registered against unidentified cops after the death of Arun.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kasganj-police-to-probe-agra-custodial-death-101635097321641.html
24-10-2021||Other||UP Board Exam 2022: Last date to submit form extended again||PRAYAGRAJ: Uttar Pradesh Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad (UPMSP), also known as UP Board, has once again extended the last date for submission of form for the high school and intermediate examinations - 2022, from October 19 to November 8. Besides, last date for advance registration of Class 9 and 11 has also been extended till November 8, informed UP Board officials. “Now, the principals of UP Board affiliated schools will undertake scrutiny of the online filled forms of registered students as per the prescribed checklist and amend the incorrect details on the forms between November 9 and 4, said UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla, citing a government notification issued in this regard. The schools would be required to submit a copy of the list of students with photographs of each student against their names as well as the treasury receipt of the fee submitted by the students to the UP Board’s regional offices concerned, by November 18, he added. The second extension of form submission date comes amidst demands from principals of the affiliated schools.Even Suresh Kumar Tripathi, teacher MLC (Allahabad-Jhansi Division) has written to the UP Board secretary in this regard. According to the board officials, more than 51 lakh students had filled forms for UP Board high school and intermediate examination-2022 by October 19. Around 27.70 lakh students had registered for these, including the 14,000 private candidates. Likewise, about 23.42 lakh students had registered for intermediate exams including the 1.14 lakh private candidates. Meanwhile, in terms of advance registrations, 31.14 lakh students had registered for Class 9 and 26.04 lakh registered for class 11 by October 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-board-exam-2022-last-date-to-submit-form-extended-again-101635097201804.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Delhi chief minister on two-day Ayodhya visit from today||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor Arvind Kejriwal will offer prayers to Ram Lalla in Ayodhya on Tuesday during his two-day maiden visit to the temple town beginning Monday, said an AAP spokesman here on Sunday. Earlier, Delhi CM was to reach Ayodhya on Tuesday for a daylong visit.“After reaching Lucknow at around 8am on Monday, Arvind Kejriwal will leave for Sultanpur for some court related work. From there, he will reach Ayodhya in the evening and will attend Saryu Aarti,” said state AAP spokesman Vaibhav Maheshwari. “Delhi CM will spend Monday night in Ayodhya. The next day (Tuesday), he will pay obeisance to Lord Hanuman at Hanuman Garhi temple and Ram Lalla at Ram Janmabhoomi,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/delhi-chief-minister-on-two-day-ayodhya-visit-from-today-101635097021698.html
24-10-2021||Other||FSDA: 50% of paneer samples fail test in Lucknow, unfit for human consumption||LUCKNOW: Ahead of the festival season, around 50% of paneer samples, collected by the Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA) since January 2021 in the state capital, have failed the quality standard and were found ‘unfit for human consumption’. Besides, 30% of khoya, 25% of milk and around 10% of edible oil samples also failed the quality test. Designated officer of FSDA, Lucknow, SP Singh said, “This year the FSDA has collected around 103 paneer samples from various shops in the city, around 50% of them were found adulterated and having low fat percentage or foreign fat. Converting powdered milk into paneer is allowed but paneer must contain at least 50% fat. However, most of the shopkeepers use substandard powdered milk with low fat to earn more profit and also inject foreign fat into the paneer which gets detected in the test. This year, the FSDA will conduct special drives against adulterated sweets, khoya and edible oil from Monday.” Last year, the FSDA had collected around 1,200 samples of various edible items from different corners of the city, out of which 42% samples failed the test, said Singh. Meanwhile, a shopkeeper said, “Around 20 litres of milk is required to produce just 4kg of paneer, the actual cost of 1kg paneer costs over ₹330, if any shopkeeper is selling less than that then he must be compromising on quality.” During the marriage or festive season, the demand of paneer crosses 20 tons per day and no one purchases branded paneer on such occasion. “Most paneer come from milk vendors or sweet shops, where there is no one to monitor the quality of paneer produced,” said an official of the milk producer unit. “There is a need to regulate the sale of paneer, curd, milk and oil,” said the FSDA official. The high amount of adulteration in edible items is a cause of worry, said Medical Director Medanta hospital Dr Rakesh Kapoor. He added, “Any adulteration in edible items affects the human health, adulterators must be given harsh punishment.” Paneer adulteration An official of Pradeshik Cooperative Dairy Federation said that the country produces roughly 15 crore tonnes of milk annually. If all of it were only to be used to make paneer, the country would produce 7 lakh tones only. However, the country consumes 5 lakh tonnes of paneer annually. Since only a small percentage of milk is turned into paneer, then the million dollar question is where does this paneer come from? The officials admitted that the local vendors make paneer from a mixture of maida, palm oil, baking powder, old discarded skimmed milk, some use detergent, bicarbonate of soda and some also use sulphuric acid which is very harmful for health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fsda-50-of-paneer-samples-fail-test-in-lucknow-unfit-for-human-consumption-101635096481597.html
24-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Police to educate slum kids to stop them from begging, open six schools||The Noida police has launched a campaign -- ‘Sab Paden Sab Baden’ -- with an aim to educate children who have been accidentally engaged in begging, usually at traffic intersections in the city. Police officials will teach these children at slum clusters, and road stretches where they beg daily.According to the police, they have also roped in Genpact in its “outreach campaign” as they want to educate and bring these children into the “mainstream of society” so that they do not waste their lives begging on the streets. They have also roped in the basic education department to get these children enrolled in nearby schools.“We have a mission to bring these children back into the mainstream of society through our outreach campaign, and ensure that they do not get involved in crime or other anti-social activities. As of now, we have set up six schools in slum clusters, and more such schools will be opened in the near future to reach out to those children in need,” said Alok Singh, commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar.The six schools have been opened at slum clusters in Noida sectors 14A, 44, 63, 76, 84, and the Noida Extension as both parents of the target children go to nearby construction sites or factories for work, said the officials.“Anti-human trafficking units have conducted a survey on areas where the children were seen begging on roads. After the survey was completed, we decided to set up schools in these slum clusters, taking their parents on board. We are teaching at least 300 children at these six sites. We will conduct another survey on other such areas to reach out to the children there too,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, who is also heading the project.“These children are in the age group of 5-12 years, and have not gone to school ever. We have a target to teach and prepare them for schools in a year’s time as they have no exposure to any school earlier. Once they finish this period at our facilities, we will send them to nearby schools as the basic education department is also supporting us. We will keep a track of each child via facial mapping, to ensure that they continue their education at those schools,” Shukla added.Police are also providing books and food to these children on a daily basis, and engaging their families in this mission, so that they do not get involved in anti-social activities and spoil their lives, said the deputy commissioner of police of Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday.“Parents of these children are happy with the system. They were worried about the future of their children, as they either get involved in crime cases or get addicted to drugs, along with other beggars,” said Shukla, adding that each school at the six sites has at least five to six teachers who teach them through videos, storytelling, and games to keep up their interest in the school.“Genpact has, via corporate social responsibility, donated funds for tents, chairs, laptops, food, and other required services at these facilities,” said Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-to-educate-slum-kids-to-stop-them-from-begging-open-six-schools-101635096241688.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to mark a first with inauguration of nine medical colleges by PM Modi in one go||Uttar Pradesh will become the only state in the country to inaugurate nine medical colleges simultaneously when Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi opens these institutions from Siddharthnagar on Monday, said a state government spokesperson on Sunday.These medical colleges will add over 3,000 beds and 900 MBBS seats in Uttar Pradesh. After inauguration by PM Modi, admission in the MBBS course will start from this session.These new Uttar Pradesh medical colleges are in Siddharthnagar, Deoria, Etah, Hardoi, Ghazipur, Mirzapur, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur and Jaunpur.“Before 2017, there were a dozen medical colleges in the state, and, in just four and a half years, UP is on the way to create a new record with number of new medical colleges coming up. In UP, the government has already started seven state medical colleges between 2017 and 2021 followed by nine medical colleges to be inaugurated on October 25. Fourteen new medical colleges are to be set up in Amethi, Auraiya, Bijnor, Bulandshahr, Chandauli, Gonda, Kanpur Dehat, Kaushambi, Kushinagar, Lakhimpur Kheri, Lalitpur, Pilibhit, Sonbhadra and Sultanpur districts by 2022-23,” said the spokesperson.Apart from the existing 30 private medical colleges in the state, there are four central medical institutions — two AIIMS, one each at Rae Bareli and Gorakhpur, IMS-BHU (Institute of Medical Sciences-Banaras Hindu University) and a medical college in AMU.The Yogi Adityanath government has also cleared the policy and floated the tender to establish medical colleges under the PPP (public private partnership) model in 16 districts, thus paving the way to hit a century of medical colleges in the state.The medical college in Siddharthnagar will be named after Madhav Prasad Tripathi and the one in Deoria after Maharishi Devraha Baba. The medical college of Ghazipur will be set up in the name of Maharishi Vishwamitra. The medical college in Mirzapur will be named after Maa Vindhyavasini and the one in Pratapgarh after Dr Sonelal Patel. The Etah medical college will be named after Veerangana Avantibai Lodhi and the medical college at Jaunpur will be run in the name of former Minister Umanath Singh. The Fatehpur medical college will be named after Amar Shaheed Jodha Singh Ataiya Thakur Dariyaon Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-to-mark-a-first-with-inauguration-of-nine-medical-colleges-by-pm-modi-in-one-go-101635096003319.html
24-10-2021||Noida||2 booked for crime against women in in Greater Noida, one held||Police have arrested a 20-year-old man for molesting a woman, and another 24-year-old man has been booked for stalking and criminal intimidation in Greater Noida in the past 24 hours, said officials on Sunday.The first victim is a 25-year-old resident of Sunpura village in Greater Noida. The 20-year-old suspect -- Himanshu (goes by first name) -- who is a native of Atai Muradpur village, lives at a relative’s house in Sunpura.The woman on Saturday said that she was going to a nearby field when the suspect stopped her and molested her. “When I resisted his advances, he slapped and abused me. He told me to give divorce to my husband and then marry him,” she said.On the basis of her complaint, a case was registered against Himanshu under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 354 (sexual harassment), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at the Sector Ecotech 3 police station on Saturday.Bhuvnesh Kumar, station house officer (SHO), Sector Ecotech 3 police station, said, “Police have arrested the suspect on Sunday, and will be produced before a court and sent to judicial custody on Monday.”In the second case, the Dadri police booked a man for molestation the victim in Shahpur Khurd village in Greater Noida on Saturday. The 24-year-old suspect -- identified as Atul (goes by first name) -- is a resident of Shahpur Khurd in Greater Noida.The 20-year-old victim said, “I was going to fetch water from a nearby tube well when Atul, who had been following me for a few days, started throwing pebbles at me. When I objected to his behaviour, he threatened to harm my family members,”A case has been registered against Atul under IPC sections 354D (stalking) and 506 (criminal intimidation) at the Dadri police station on Saturday, said the station house officer (SHO), Pradeep Tripathi. “We have launched a search to arrest the suspect,” Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/2-booked-for-crime-against-women-in-in-greater-noida-one-held-101635096001458.html
24-10-2021||Noida||Four Ghaziabad cops among 6 booked for extortion, illegally confining three men||Four policemen from Ghaziabad and two others have been booked for alleged extortion and illegal confinement of three Noida residents on Saturday. The three victims said they were released nearly after six hours on producing signed cheques of ₹5 lakh each. Complainant Lilu Parcha (50), a resident of Gadhi Chaukhandi village, works as a sanitation worker in Delhi. Lilu’s nephew Arun Parcha said five years ago, Lilu had borrowed ₹5 lakh from one Rajendra Yadav, a resident of Behlolpur in Noida. “Rajendra had given the loan in lieu of fixed monthly instalments with interest. My uncle has cleared the loan in the last five years but Yadav claims he still owes him money,” said Arun. In the complaint registered with police, Lilu said, “Around 8:30am on Saturday, Rajendra, his son Amit, accompanied by four police personnel, reached my house in a Mahindra Bolero. They forcibly pushed me, my brother Salekh Chand and nephew Jitendra in the police van and brought us to Indirapuram,” he said. Arun alleged that the trio was kept at the Indirapuram police station till 3pm. “Rajendra and Amit, along with the police personnel, demanded money for their safe release. Lilu said he had no money with him. The police personnel asked him to visit his house and bring two cheques of ₹5 each. Lilu returned home, brought two signed cheques and gave them. The police personnel then released the trio,” Arun said. Lilu has also mentioned the cheque numbers in the FIR copy. Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said a case has been registered against four unnamed police personnel and two others under Sections 342 (illegal confinement) and 384 (extortion) of the IPC at Phase 3 police station. “Primary investigation shows Lilu and Rajendra had some monetary dispute. The victim and the suspect are residents of Noida and had no connection with Ghaziabad police. Rajendra, in connivance with the Ghaziabad police personnel, picked the three illegally and got two cheques from Lilu,” said the DCP adding that the police are investigating the matter from all angles. Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city), Ghaziabad, said he has not received information about the matter from Noida police. “Noida police will be able to comment as they have registered a case,” he said. The SP did not comment if the four police personnel were attached to Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-ghaziabad-cops-among-6-booked-for-extortion-illegally-confining-three-men-101635095884665.html
24-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj police to assist CBI in attaching assets of Atiq’s son||PRAYAGRAJ: After the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court orders to attach the properties of Mafiosi turned politician and former MP Atiq Ahmad’s son Umar, Prayagraj police will now assist the investigating agency in identifying the assets owned by him in the district. “All assistance will be extended to the CBI team in tracing Umar and taking further action as ordered by the court,” said Virendra Yadav, inspector and station house officer (SHO) of Khuldabad police station. According police, Umar, wanted in abduction and assault on a Lucknow-based realtor at Deoria jail some years back, is at large since CBI Lodged an FIR against him and a reward of ₹2 lakh was declared on his arrest. Umar is the eldest son of former MP Atiq Ahmad and has carried out canvassing for him when Atiq contested bypolls for Phulpur Loksabha constituency some years back while in jail. However, some months later, a Lucknow based realtor Mohit Agarwal alleged that Umar and his associates abducted him from his residence in Lucknow and took him to Deoria Jail where he was assaulted and forced to transfer his properties by Atiq. An FIR was lodged at Lucknow but Umar’s name was removed during investigations. However, the Supreme Court handed over the investigation to CBI in April 2019, following which a fresh case was lodged in connection with the incident against 12 persons including Atiq, his son Umar and associates Zaki, Faruq, Gulam Sarwar, Zafar Ullah and others. In the crackdown against Atiq Ahmad and his gang members, many of their properties were attached while dozens of residential and commercial buildings owned by them were razed by joint teams of administration, police and PDA officials under Gangster Act. While, police investigation revealed about many properties of Atiq and his close associates, none of Umar’s properties were identified or seized. Police officials said that properties, owned by Atiq and his associates and some of his relatives against whom gangster act was lodged, were identified and action was taken against them. Umar was not part of the investigation as no case was registered against him here in Pryagaraj. CBI officials have carried out separate investigations about Umar and might have identified movable and immovable assets owned by him, police officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-police-to-assist-cbi-in-attaching-assets-of-atiq-s-son-101635095822412.html
24-10-2021||Patna||Lalu Prasad is a big leader, can’t comment on his remarks, says Bhakta Charan Das||All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, on Sunday gave a polite but telling response to the remark on him by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad. “Lalu Prasad is a big leader and I have always had great respect for him. But I am not capable of responding to his remarks on me the way he has made it,” he said, making it clear that he would not like to let the war of words degenerate further. Talking to HT over the phone in the midst of campaigning in Tarapur assembly constituency, Das said Prasad had been the voice of Dalits and deprived sections and he had acquired a bigger stature in politics. “The culture of Congress prohibits me to reply to the comments of Prasad,” added the AICC leader. Earlier, he had alleged that the RJD was hand in gloves with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said that it won’t be surprising if both the parties team up to form the next government by dumping Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal (United) after the by-elections. Das claimed that the RJD chose to bruise the political dignity by dumping the decades-old coalition with the Congress and walked out of the united front against communal forces only after it reached some kind of an understanding with the BJP. Rubbishing the allegations that he opted out of the coalition owing to his ‘little understanding of political pulse of Bihar’, Das clarified the Congress never betrayed the RJD. “It was the RJD, which dumped the coalition by fielding their candidates on both the seats without consulting the Congress. That was an assault on the self-respect of the party’s 19 legislators. It made the Congress to decide which way it should go,” said Das. Regarding his understanding of the state politics, Das said he took the plunge into social and political activities from Bihar. “It was Bihar that made me the national convener of Chhatra Yuva Sangharsh Vahini and I fought for the rights of land of Bodh Gaya. Soon after taking over as the AICC in-charge, I toured 36 out of 38 districts of Bihar, carried out padyatras and met thousands of grassroot-level workers of the Congress. I served the people of Odisha as MLA, MP and minister in the Union Cabinet. Still, some people have doubts about my ability, but that’s their problem,” said the Congress leader. To a query whether the Congress was expecting too much from the joining of former JNUSU leader Kanhaiya Kumar, Das said that it was not like that. “Kanhaiya Kumar has been born out of agitation. There is spark in him which can guide the youth, like I did it to ensure the rights of deprived and poor people in Kalahandi and settlers of jungles. Kanhaiya represents the same philosophy. Kanhaiya is not an individual, but an inspiration for the talented youth deprived of opportunities and self-confidence,” said the AICC leader, adding that hundreds of youths had been working in the fields to ensure victory of the Congress nominees, Atirek Kumar and Rajesh Mishra, in the bypoll fray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-prasad-is-a-big-leader-can-t-comment-on-his-remarks-says-bhakta-charan-das-101635095641665.html
24-10-2021||Other||Poonch encounter: Three security personnel injured, terrorist killed||Two policemen and a soldier were injured in an exchange of fire with terrorists on Sunday, Jammu and Kashmir police said. The firing took place when a Pakistani terrorist was being taken to the encounter site to identify a hideout in Bhata Durian forest, officials said.According to the police, Zia Mustafa, a Pakistani terrorist belonging to outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), was being taken to Bhata Durian for identification of a hideout during the ongoing operation.“During the search when the team approached hideout, terrorists opened fire in which two policemen and an army jawan sustained injuries. Mustafa also sustained injuries,” the police said.Police officials added that during the subsequent operation, additional reinforcements were sent and Zia Mustafa’s dead body was retrieved from the encounter site. The operation is in progress and a legal process has been initiated.“The injured personnel are under treatment at the nearby health facility. A fresh attempt will be made with reinforcements. Operation at the site is still going on,” said police.In Bhata Durian, terrorists in hiding killed a JCO and three soldiers on October 14. On October 11, four soldiers and a JCO were killed in another encounter in Chamrer area of Surankote.So far, the Army has lost nine soldiers in the protracted encounter which entered the 14th day on Sunday. On Tuesday, Army chief General MM Naravane visited Poonch and reviewed the security situation. This was for the first time the army chief visited an encounter site in Jammu and Kashmir.Last week, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said the terrorists were believed to be hiding in the jungles since August. A senior police officer said that the terrorists are believed to have sneaked in the Nar Khas forests and Chamrer from Balakot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poonch-encounter-three-security-personnel-injured-terrorist-killed-101635095585277.html
24-10-2021||Noida||Noida: 2 killed, four injured after speeding car hits bus on Yamuna Expressway||Two persons died and four others, including three people from Congo in Central Africa, were injured after a speeding car hit a stationary mini bus stranded along the Yamuna Expressway around 8am on Sunday morning.The bus, carrying nine tourists -- who had come to Delhi from West Bengal on a vacation two days ago -- was travelling from Agra to Delhi. It broke down on the way due to some technical faults and was stranded at the roadside along the Yamuna Expressway. After the 14-seater bus stopped mid-way, two of the tourists travelling in the bus came out to inspect the issue, and that is when three Congolese nationals -- who had taken the expressway for a ride -- rammed their speeding red Honda Civic car into the bus from behind. The two tourists died in the accident and other passengers in the bus were injured, and all three travelling in the car suffered severe injuries.The deceased were identified as Swapan Bhattacharya, 56, and Saheb Mandal, 24, police said.According to the investigation officer, Avesh Malik, one of the injured persons were identified as 18-year-old Sneha Mandal -- sister of one of the deceased -- is in a critical condition. The three injured citizens of Democratic Republic of the Congo were identified as Lucy, 23, John, 25, and Dieumerci, 25. They have been living in a rented accommodation, on student visas, in a high-rise in Greater Noida for the past two years.“Dieumerci was driving the car at over 110km/hour at the time of the accident. Due to such a high speed, he possibly failed to spot the bus parked adjacent to the road,” Malik said.We have admitted the injured people to a nearby hospital, police said, adding that Sneha and the three Congolese are undergoing treatment.“Doctors declared Bhattacharya and Mandal dead on arrival. The car was damaged, and all the three riders were trapped inside. We had to cut the door of the car open to pull them out. The rescue operation took almost half an hour,” said a police official, requesting anonymity.Police also said that though they have not found any liquor or intoxicating substance from inside the car, they are checking whether the driver of the car was under the influence of drugs or alcohol.“We have received a written complaint from the family of the two deceased. An FIR has been registered against the driver of the car, and his blood sample has been sent for medical examination,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-2-killed-four-injured-after-speeding-car-hits-bus-on-yamuna-expressway-101635095581572.html
24-10-2021||Noida||G Noida: Residents protest against lack of facilities at housing society||Around 200 residents of La Residentia society in Greater Noida’s Sector 2 staged a protest against the developer for not providing basic amenities in the housing complex, the work for which was started in 2010. Residents planned to carry out a car rally outside the complex but the police stopped them as they had not sought permission for it and asked them to restrict their protest inside the complex only. Residents carried banners and shouted slogans against the developer f the housing project. “The complex is in extremely bad shape because the developer has not completed work on multiple services. There are at least 63 issues that the developer needs to address. He has assured to look into our issues in a month. If things don’t improve, we will protest by taking out a car rally in the city,” said Sumil Jalota, a resident of the society who took part in the protest.La Resident project was launched in 2010 on 20 acres of land in Sector Tech Zone IV. The developer was supposed to handover the possession of the plots from 2013 onwards. However, of the total 3,000 flats in the complex, only 1,200 are occupied since 2016. The remaining units are likely to be completed and delivered in the next two to three years. Residents alleged the developer has offered possession to 1,200 homebuyers without obtaining an occupancy certificate from the Greater Noida authority, structures of building have technical issues causing safety concerns, and fire safety apparatus is not properly laid out. There is no provision for rainwater harvesting, no system to treat sewerage, no waste disposal mechanism in place, no parking, no drainage and no club house among other utility services, said residents. Santosh Kumar, officer on special duty of the Greater Noida authority, said, “The developer has not cleared financial dues yet. Unless the dues are settled with the finance department, the authority cannot issue occupancy certificate and without OC, registry cannot take place. The builder first has to clear the dues.” “The society is not at all safe as the developer has not even constructed a proper boundary wall and placed any surveillance system inside the complex. We have been protesting against the developer but he does not pay heed to our issues,” said Pankaj Kumar, another resident.Eventually, the promoter of La Residentia project, Kulbushan Bajaj, discussed the issues with the residents and assured to resolve the issues. Bajaj said he could not complete the project on time and many utility services were incomplete due to legal disputes.“We shared our problem of funds with the residents. Many homebuyers are yet to pay their remaining dues against their respective flats. How can we complete the project and provide utility services without funds? We can solve many issues once residents start clearing their dues,” said Bajaj. “Initially, the project got delayed due to land dispute between farmers and the government. It got further delayed as there was a court issue involving Amrapali group that had a stake in this project,” said Bajaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/g-noida-residents-protest-against-lack-of-facilities-at-housing-society-101635095521693.html
24-10-2021||Noida||Noida: Sec-18 market association demands better patrolling as footfall increases||With the festive season underway, the Sector 18 market association has asked the police to increase patrolling in the area as business is booming and footfall increased after the state government lifted the restrictions that were put in place on account of Covid-19, S K Jain, president Sector 18 market association, said the market is getting quite a number of shoppers due to the festive season. “Due to Karva Chauth, a number of shoppers, especially women, visited the marketplace for shopping. There was rush at the salons on Saturday and Sunday. Shops selling jewellery and readymade garments attracted a large number of customers. This is a sign that the market is slowly moving towards normalcy after the Covid-19 outbreak,” said Jain. There are around 500 shops in the Sector-18 market.Jain said due to the lockdowns, which were effected when Covid-19 was at its peak to stem the spread of the infection, many people postponed their weddings and other celebrations. “People’s movement has resumed after the government lifted the restrictions. People are rescheduling their marriage and events planned for other festivities and venturing out for shopping,” he said. The association said last year, the market made a business of ₹200 crore during Karva Chauth. “This year, we have recorded business worth ₹250 crore in three days from Friday to Sunday. We hope the sales will further increase during Diwali (November 4),” said Jain. The market association also held a meeting with the Sector 18 check post in-charge Arun Malik and demanded to improve patrolling in the area.“The police should keep surveillance in every corner in Sector 18 market to ensure no unpleasant incident like pick-pocketing, snatching, etc. takes place. They should monitor movement at all the intersections and ensure a pleasant shopping experience,” Jain said. Malik, who took charge last week, said he inspected the market and found some CCTV cameras were not functioning. “We have improved police patrolling in the market. We are also trying to make all CCTV cameras functional to ensure proper surveillance. During Diwali, we will place barricades and only one entry gate and one exit gate will be opened,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-sec-18-market-association-demands-better-patrolling-as-footfall-increases-101635095101620.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||Spurious firecrackers being sold under guise of ‘green crackers’ in Mumbai: NGO||With the Supreme Court (SC) in the midst of reviewing the Centre’s plea on the use of green firecrackers this Diwali, Mumbai-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) Awaaz Foundation on Sunday wrote to the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), cautioning against the sale of spurious firecrackers being sold under the guise of ‘green crackers’ in Mumbai. Last week, Awaaz Foundation had purchased 30 varieties of commercially available firecrackers in Mumbai for noise testing at RCF Ground in Chembur, in collaboration with the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB).Of these 30 crackers, only 16 were found to be labelled with NEERI’s stamp of approval. NEERI, at SC’s instruction, has been working since January 2018 on developing new formulations for reducing emissions from fireworks, and is mandated to certify commercially available firecrackers. In addition to NEERI’s stamp of approval, the crackers are also mandated to be affixed with a QR (quick response) code that customers can scan them and obtain information about the crackers’ emission and composition.“Despite this, half of the products available in the market are clearly not labelled, so there is really no compliance with SC’s directions,” said Sumaira Abdulali, director, Awaaz Foundation. In her letter to Dr S Chandrasekhar, director, NEERI, she also pointed out: “Out of the crackers claiming to be ‘green’ and having the NEERI stamp, only a few crackers carried a QR code, while the rest carried bar codes which do not fulfil the requirement of the Hon’ble Supreme Court.”QR codes were mandated by SC to enable tracking of the emissions and content of the crackers. The Apex court also directed that the government should create awareness about QR codes to enable people to monitor authenticity of the crackers they purchase and agencies to ensure that no spurious crackers are distributed or sold, Abdulali explained. “Even those crackers which are labelled green are shown to contain extremely toxic contents such as barium nitrate, which even SC has expressed caution over. Without having this QR code system in place, how are consumers expected to make informed decisions,” she asked.Officials at NEERI and MPCB could not be reached for comment on Sunday. However, Dr Rakesh Kumar, former director of NEERI, said, “QR codes for emission and compositional information are necessary for production and distribution of green crackers. This is a most essential step which has been supported by the honourable Supreme Court in the interest of clean air. Regulatory authorities need to increase public awareness on this tool.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/spurious-firecrackers-being-sold-under-guise-of-green-crackers-in-mumbai-ngo-101635095041568.html
24-10-2021||Patna||Fifth phase of panchayat polls concludes peacefully in Bihar||Nearly 61% of the electors exercised their franchise to elect their representatives in 845 panchayats spread in 58 blocks of 38 districts during the fifth phase of polling on Sunday. The polling mostly passed off peacefully, barring a few incidents of malpractices, said Bihar state election commissioner Deepak Prasad.The polling was conducted at 12,056 booths, where about 67.47 lakh people cast their votes to elect 11,535 gram-panchayat members, 845 mukhiyas, 1,171 panchayat samiti members, 124 Zila parishad members, 11,553 gram-kutchery panchs and 845 sarpanchs. A total of 92,972 contestants are in the fray for various posts during the fifth round of polling.According to a press communiqué issued from the office of SEC, there were 13 reports about EVM malfunctioning, two incidents of tampering with the voters’ list, two instances of bogus voting and four cases of booth capturing. One of the polling booths had complaints of bad light during the fag end of voting, while another complaint relating to influencing the voting by the poll personnel was also received. “The SEC is looking into all complaints,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fifth-phase-of-panchayat-polls-concludes-peacefully-in-bihar-101635094982123.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid toll crosses 140,000 mark||Even as Covid-19 deaths are on steady decline, Maharashtra’s death toll breached the 140,000 mark, with its tally touching 140,016 on Sunday. Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 1,410 Covid-19 new cases and 18 deaths.The first wave which started on March 9, 2020 and went up to February 9 saw 2,048,802 cases and 51,360 deaths. Against it, the second wave which still continues has logged 88,656 deaths. Although fewer deaths and new cases have been reported in the past 24 days of October, the fatality rate has been high at 1.86 %, as the number of deaths recorded during this period is 949 with 50,966 new cases. In contrast, the fatality rate in September for the first 24 days was 1.68 %, with 87,033 new cases and 1,463 deaths. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said, “A fatality rate of less than 2% indicates the virus is under control. In addition, we have been able to control the death rate as our focus is on critical cases. Even in case of new patients, we isolate and arrange instant medication.” Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, said the death rate could have been much lower had the authorities been cautious after the first wave. “The authorities just dismantled the temporary infrastructure they had readied in the first wave and acted as if Covid-19 has disappeared. They should have used the period before the second wave to beef up the entire health infrastructure in anticipation of the second wave. The history of pandemics has shown there will be multiple waves, but all this was ignored,” said Shaikh. He even blamed the citizens, saying they took part in large gatherings after October last year and hardly wore a mask. Mumbai saw 400 new cases with six deaths. The case tally is 754,507 and death toll 16,213. A total of 130,732 tests were done on Sunday, while the number of recoveries was 1,520. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 23,894, while the total number of deaths has now reached 140,016.There are currently 23,894 active patients across the state, in which Pune tops with 7,210 patients, followed by Mumbai with 5,075 active patients and Thane with 3,295.The death toll has now reached 140,016, with Pune leading with 19,574 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 16,213 and Thane with 11,418.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-covid-toll-crosses-140-000-mark-101635094441852.html
24-10-2021||Patna||RJD chief mocks Cong state in-charge, draws criticism||The conflict between the RJD and the Congress hit a new low on Sunday when RJD chief Lalu Prasad mocked the grand old party’s Bihar in-charge Bhakta Charan Das and gave a rebuff to the Congress while “wondering if his party should have left the Kusheshwar Asthan seat for the national party so that it could lose even its deposit.” Prasad, who arrived in Patna in the evening after three-and-a-half years following his incarceration in 2017, heaped scorns on the Congress in New Delhi before he left for Bihar accompanied by wife Rabri Devi and eldest daughter Misa Bharti. On his arrival in Patna, Prasad, wearing a green cap and stole, was given a rousing welcome by the RJD workers and leaders with his sons Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav along with state president Jagdanand Singh at the airport. Earlier, during his media interaction with reporters in New Delhi, Prasad sounded cryptic when asked about recently strained ties between the RJD and the Congress after his party announced the names of candidates for both Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan, scheduled to go to bypolls on October 30. “Kya hota hai Congress ka gathbandhan? (What is this thing about an alliance with the Congress),” he shot back. In the same vein, he justified his party’s decision of contesting both the seats and putting a candidate from Kushweshwar Asthan, the seat that led to the dispute between the parties as the Congress had staked claim to contest it as a constituent partner in grand alliance saying that the constituency has had a traditional stronghold on the party for long. “Should we have given one seat (to Congress) for it to lose? So that it could lose even its deposit?” Prasad said. However, what created a flutter and incensed the Congress leaders in Bihar was Prasad’s bid to mock the national party’s state in-charge, Das. When asked about Das’s bid to obliquely accuse the RJD of having stitched a secret understanding with the BJP and attributing it as a reason why the opposition party was no longer keen on having ties with the Congress, Lalu replied, “Does he (Das) know anything?” In the same vein, Lalu further passed “derogatory remarks” against Das. Bihar Congress in-charge Das had also said that the RJD-Congress ties have snapped and the Congress would contest 2024 parliamentary polls alone in Bihar. The RJD chief also said he was going to Bihar after a long time and will be campaigning for two seats where bypolls are scheduled. When asked about the growing differences between his two sons, Tej Pratap and Tejashwi, Prasad denied the reports and said, “There are no differences between the duo. Both are my sons,” he said. There were posters and banners put up across the city to welcome the RJD chief, who drove straight from the airport to 10 Circular Road Bungalow. Meanwhile, the Congress senior leaders, including MLC Premchand Mishra, have strongly objected to Prasad’s bid to mock the party’s state in-charge saying it does not behove of a veteran and tall leader like the RJD chief to use such derogatory words against a Congress senior leader. “We take strong exception to the objectionable words spoken against our party’s state in-charge by the RJD chief. What will happen if Congress leaders too start using foul language against the RJD leaders. The RJD chief’s words against Das show his frustration,” said Mishra. Another leader and chairman of the state media department, Rajesh Rathore, said that Prasad should clarify whether he is planning to side with the JD(U) or the BJP to make his son Tejashwi the chief minister by distancing from the Congress. The BJP’s state spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the RJD chief’s bid to use objectionable words against the Congress’s state in-charge reflected how the 74-year-old former railway minister was holding grudges against the national party. “Lalu perhaps has realised he has been pushed to political abyss due to a conspiracy of the Congress and its leaders and his troubles during fodder scam cases. It shows, if the RJD is provoked more, the party chief would not spare Congress top leadership, including Rahul Gandhi and party national president Sonia Gandhi,” Anand said. The former chief minister and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi said Prasad’s objectionable statement against Congress’s state in-charge was an insult to Dalits and reflects how much respect the RJD chief has for scheduled castes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rjdchief-mocks-cong-state-in-charge-draws-criticism-101635094261501.html
24-10-2021||Pune||Chaos at health department recruitment exam in Pune after question papers arrive late||PUNE For Santosh Patil, it was a day of frustration and anger, as he along with hundreds of other aspirants faced a delay at their state health department recruitment examination at the Abeda Inamdar College. The exam was delayed by 20 minutes and students had to wait outside the examination centre. “I had come to the centre at 9am and the examination was scheduled to start by 10am, but there was no proper management at the centre. The exam paper did not arrive in time. Many of us did not even have hall tickets and there was no proper seating arrangement,” said Patil. Like Patil, aspirants at various other examination centres in Pune had to face similar problems. Right from getting the examination papers late, to no seating arrangements, and even allegations of a wrong question paper, the issues were many. Another student Kishori Shambhe said, “The examination was a classic example of mismanagment and lack of coordination. Already this exam was postponed twice and when it was actually happening we had to face many difficulties. There was lack of coordination between the officials and students and there was no communication. Even seating arrangements were improper.”The government outsourced the conducting of this exam to a firm, Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL). Previously the government had to cancel the scheduled exam last month due to a lack of preparation.The exam is held to fill 6,200 vacant posts in the state health department. The examination is scheduled for group ‘C’ posts and is to be conducted in two parts, on October 24 and 31. Students who have applied for multiple posts as per their eligibility, complained of being allotted different centres on the same day.BJP city president Jagdish Mulik along with other party workers protested outside the Abeda Inamdar College against this alleged mismanagement by the state government. “State government is responsible for this mismanagement and playing with the careers of thousands of aspirants who have applied for the jobs. It is necessary to take strict action against the company who conducted today’s exams,” said Mulik. Talking about the overall mismanagement in conducting the exams, state health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The recruitment exams held across the state was well planned, still there was some mismanagement where students got the question papers late. We instructed the centres to give additional time to those students and action will be taken those responsible for it. We will take care and try to resolve issues faced today for the October 31 examination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chaos-at-health-department-recruitment-exam-in-pune-after-question-papers-arrive-late-101635093122052.html
24-10-2021||Pune||Grocery shop owner booked for copyright infringement||PUNE A grocery shop owner has been booked for copyright infringement after officials of Hindustan Unilever Limited (HUL) found nine misbranded products at the accused man’s shop in Pimpri-Chinchwad.The accused was identified as a 28-year-old shop-owner and a resident of Ramnagar in Rahatni.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sachin Ramesh Gosavi (40), a resident of Khar in Mumbai.The complaint claimed that the shop had nine products including tea powder and biscuits. The total worth of the misbranded products was found to be ₹70,442 and had duplicate HUL logos on it.The HUL officials took the products for testing and found the products to have been misbranded. After the report submitted by HUL, a complaint was lodged and a case was registered.A case was registered under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 51(b) and 63 of Copyrights Act, 1957 at Wakad police station. Assistant inspector Santosh Patil of Wakad police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/grocery-shop-owner-booked-for-copyright-infringement-101635092341383.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Fire Brigade sends a team to One Avighna Park to scrutinise firefighting strategy||Two days after the major fire at the posh 60-storeyed One Avighna Park at Currey Road, the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) on Sunday sent a team of fire brigade officers to the spot to do a post-fire inspection, and scrutinise the firefighting strategy they used during the incident, to improve firefighting in case of such incidents in future. The Mumbai Fire Brigade will also prepare a report and submit it to municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal within two weeks, regarding the cause of the fire after inspecting the premises. A senior official of the Mumbai Fire Brigade said, “The site visit was part of the procedure to inspect the premises post the fire. We have also been collecting data to help us improve firefighting strategies for high-rise buildings. On Sunday, we retraced our firefighting strategy and scrutinised it. This building is going to be there for many more years too, and we wanted to understand what should be our best vantage point and strategy.” According to the officers, a short circuit is likely to be the cause and source of the fire in apartment number 1902, on the 19th floor of One Avighna Park. However, the fire brigade will conduct a probe to determine the cause of the fire. A security guard from the housing society identified as Arun Tiwari, 27, fell to his death from the 19 floors of the building. A video that was widely circulated on social media showed the guard clinging onto the parapet of the window before he lost his grip and fell onto a fire truck parked below. The Mumbai Fire Brigade on Friday had noted that the building’s firefighting system was functional, but not operational at the time of the fire and that the fire brigade had to manually turn it on to use water from the system to fight the fire. The owner of the flat 1902, in a video, had alleged that the firefighting system had no water, and had that not been the case, it would have been easier to contain the fire at the very beginning. However, Kailash Agarwal of Nish Developers who constructed Avighna Park denied the claims and said, “The high-rises fire safety is one of the best in the world. I had procured the system from Norway by spending around ₹10 crore. I have also been regularly conducting fire drills and submitting fire audit reports to the competent authorities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-brigade-sends-a-team-to-one-avighna-park-to-scrutinise-firefighting-strategy-101635092282087.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||Day after 1 died in slab collapse, UMC says Paras bldg was asked to do structural audit||A day after one resident of Paras building in a slab collapse incident, the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC) has revealed that the structure was among the buildings that had received a notice for structural audit in May.Late on Saturday night, the slab of the fifth-floor house of the building, located at Gandhi Nagar, Camp 5, collapsed on the fourth floor. Aakash Poptani, 25, the fifth-floor resident who was in his bedroom had suffered major injuries in the incident. Poptani, a bank employee, was rushed to Central Hospital, but was declared dead there. Two other residents also suffered injuries in the incident. Amit Udasi, 34, one of the friends of the victim, said, “After the building received notice from the civic body, Akash along with his parents had shifted to another house in Ulhasnagar. But he used to visit Paras building during the weekend to move his belongings to the new house. On Saturday too, he had been there for the same work and died. The incident is very tragic as his parents are in a shock.” Paras building has 15 flats that house four to five families and four shops. After two incidents of slab collapse in May that had killed a total of 12 residents, UMC had served notices to 1,500 buildings in the city, asking them to carry out a structural audit. The incidents had highlighted the need for structural audits of all the unsafe buildings in the city built around 1995.“This building is one of the structures made of inferior quality sand – Ulwe sand – during the 1994-1998 period. We had served notice to the residents to conduct a structural audit. We will check if the audit was done and if necessary steps were taken. Right now, we have sealed the [Paras] building,” said Yuvraj Badhane, public relations officer, UMC. As per UMC, of the 179 buildings thart were listed by the civic body as ‘priority’ for structural audits, 117 have submitted their report. Following this, UMC has demolished 30 buildings and evacuated the occupants of 32 structures. “The process of structural audit of these building is underway through a panel set up for the same. This is being done on a regular basis,” said Raja Dayanidhi, commissioner, UMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/day-after-1-died-in-slab-collapse-umc-says-paras-bldg-was-asked-to-do-structural-audit-101635091681392.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to propose 15% rise in seats in municipal corporations based on projected population||With the Census 2021 set to be delayed due to the pandemic, the state government is proposing to increase the number of seats in municipal corporations by 15%, by amending the respective Acts in proportion to the projected rise in the population. Although there is no final decision on the rise in the seats in Mumbai, the proposal for the rise in all other municipal corporations and nagar panchayats is expected to be brought before the state cabinet soon. The urban development department (UDD) of the state government revises the number of seats in municipal corporations on the basis of the Census every 10 years. Accordingly, the municipal corporations carry out delimitation of wards. The revision in the number of wards in Mumbai is done by amending the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, 1888, while for other municipal corporations, it is done as per the formula given in the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, 1949. The state government has proposed to increase the number of seats by making amendment in the Acts. Maharashtra has 27 municipal corporations. The projected growth of population in the past 10 years in urban areas is expected to be more than 15% in the last decade. The overall population growth reported in 2011 was 15.99%, against 22.57% in 2001. It is expected to be more than 129 million currently, from 112 million in 2011. Mahesh Pathak, principal secretary, UDD refused to speak, saying the decision will have to be taken by the cabinet. “The revision is done every 10 years based on the census on population growth. Since the Census 2021 is delayed because of Covid-19 and most municipal corporations are going to polls in 2022, it is necessary to make changes to give fair representation to the population. We are proposing a 15% rise in the incumbent seats of municipal corporations. The proposal is for 26 municipal corporations, except Mumbai, as the decision over the BMC is yet to be taken. The final decision is expected to be taken by the cabinet,” said an official from Mantralaya. Although the number of seats in Mumbai has not increased in the past last 20 years, other municipal corporations saw a significant change in the number of seats. Thane has 131 seats against 116 from 20 years ago, while the number in Nagpur has increased to 151 from 136 during this period. The total seats in municipal corporations in 2000 were 2,064, which have risen to 2,736 now. Another official said the proposal is expected to come before the cabinet in the next few days. “Fifteen municipal corporations (including Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan Dombivli in MMR) are expected to go to polls by March 2022, while eight others will have the elections until 2022. The state election commission has already asked civic bodies for delimitation on the basis of the change in their borders,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-propose-15-rise-in-seats-in-municipal-corporations-based-on-projected-population-101635090241239.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||KDMC initiates demolition of unsafe portions of Kalyan skywalk||The Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has initiated the work to demolish some portions of the railway station skywalk in Kalyan (West), after the staircases of the structure were declared unsafe in an audit by the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) in May 2019. “The demolition of the stairs has begun as they are unsafe. We are taking all the precautionary measures during the work. Commuters have been asked to avoid the area where the work has been undertaken,” said KDMC city engineer Sapna Koli. The demolition of the stairs of the skywalk will also help with the ongoing Station Area Traffic Improvement Scheme (SATIS) project at Kalyan station under the Smart Cities Mission. “There is a requirement of removing some portions of the skywalk to build SATIS at the station. So we are undertaking that work as well. The station area will be decongested in the coming days with SATIS project,” an official of Smart Kalyan Dombivli Corporation Limited (SKDCL) said.Kalyan residents have claimed that the demolition is a waste of money. “Crores of rupees were spent on the skywalk, and within a few years, the authorities are demolishing it. Why can’t they maintain it? The money spent on the skywalk is a waste now,” said Manoj Kukreja, 39, a resident of Tilak Chowk, Kalyan (West), who takes the skywalk to connect to station. The skywalk was built in 2009 by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) to decongest the station road and help commuters walk out of the station. It was opened to commuters in 2011. A total of ₹60 crore was spent for the 1,675-metre-long and 4-7-metre-wide skywalk. In 2014, it was transferred to KDMC for upkeep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kdmc-initiates-demolition-of-unsafe-portions-of-kalyan-skywalk-101635089821190.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||After turbulence owing to Covid pandemic, domestic air travel makes a gradual comeback||After facing turbulent weather for nearly a year-and-half owing to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the domestic aviation industry is finding tailwinds with the demand for air travel making a gradual comeback. India’s domestic passenger volume in September rose to a robust 79.20% to 70.66 lakh – as compared to 39.43 lakh passengers in the same month of 2020 – aided by increased vaccination rates, easing some more travel restrictions and demand bolstered by the festive season. Moreover, the domestic air traffic reached its highest single-day level at 327, 923 on October 17 since the beginning of the pandemic in March last year. Experts said the increase in domestic passenger volumes coupled with privatisation of Air India, launch of a new ultra-low-cost airline and relaunch of Jet Airways in its 2.0 version next year translates into possibilities of more job opportunities in all categories of the aviation business – be it for pilots, cabin crew, engineers and ground handling, among other. The industry has suffered losses due to the two waves of the Covid-19 pandemic, which brought air travel to the ground. The Indian government banned domestic air travel for nearly two months in late March last year and suspended scheduled international air services to and from India as a response to other governments’ travel and visa restrictions. The aviation industry, as a result of losses incurred, resorted to cost-cutting measures with layoffs, huge salary cuts and a forced Leave Without-Pay (LWP) programme, among others. Private airport operators also issued pay cuts to their employees. After the second wave subsided around July and the government pushed for administering more vaccine doses across the country that subsequently pushed up vaccination rates, people gradually took to flying again leading to higher passenger numbers month on month. With the restoration of 100% capacity for domestic flights by the civil aviation ministry from October 18, experts believe that the move will allow airlines to serve a wider market and in turn, will encourage air travel further. More travel means more flights, more seats and more jobs going forward but the hiring pattern will be different than seen in the market before the pandemic, say industry experts. “Hiring is more or less limited to the new start-ups as of now because existing companies are still not fully operationalising their fleet,” said Kapil Kaul, chief executive officer at CAPA India, an aviation research and advisory firm. According to Kaul, the demand for hiring will take place only once current airlines expand their fleet as there is a significant surplus in most of the technical staffing categories as of now. “Overall, we will see hiring resuming in a more meaningful manner in 2023,” Kaul said. For the country’s largest airline by market share IndiGo, lifting capacity restrictions is a positive step. “We have started to selectively re-hire,” confirmed an IndiGo spokesperson, “amid the airline commencing operations to various domestic destinations that it was not flying to in the pre-pandemic days.” “Our current hiring efforts are broad-based and cover several functional roles. At locations that we have now commenced operations, we hire for airport operations, customer service and security functions,” the airline said. “We have also commenced re-hiring for our cargo business as it continues to grow,” said the spokesperson, adding the recruitment are also on for roles across corporate functions such as digital, information technology, finance, human resource and sales. According to the budget carrier, its Cadet Pilot Program, from where it draws fresh talent for the cockpit, continued even during the pandemic. “IndiGo firmly believes in developing its talent and we have very focused attention on internal upgrades to captains and upwards including to positions such as line training captains, designated examiners, etc,” the spokesperson said. GK Chaukhiyal, head of academics at the Amethi-based Rajiv Gandhi National Aviation University too said the industry has started hiring a workforce as it seems to be coming out of the woods. “As many as 19 of our 24 students who finished their studies in May have been picked up by top airlines and even tier-1 airports,” said Chukhiyal. “It has been observed that the stakeholders are currently preferring to hire freshers instead of the experienced, he said, adding that “pilots’ recruitments are slow but they are expected to pick up in the coming months.” “Easing out the airline Covid norms will have a positive impact on the hiring by the industry and we are expecting the sector - airline and aero engineering sector to pick up by fourth quarter (Q4),” said Gautam Vohra, vice president and business head, telecom & engineering staffing at TeamLease Digital, an employment portal that deals with entry-level and blue-collar jobs in all metropolitan cities. Vohra added that with investment and new private players coming into the airline space and new airports getting operational there will be demand for talent in the areas of IT infrastructure focussed on the aviation industry, ground staff engineering and networking. Expecting 20% increase in hiring in the March quarter, he said, is likely to be back to the pre-pandemic level by the next fiscal. “The industry will be looking at ramping up their engineer pool on the O & M front, IT infrastructure. As India plans to have 100 Airports by 2024 it will give a boost to more hiring in Tier 2 / 3 cities as well,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-turbulence-owing-to-covid-pandemic-domestic-air-travel-makes-a-gradual-comeback-101635089461466.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Ruling parties demands high-level probe into allegations of extortion by NCB||In the wake of the revelation by a key witness in the cruise drugs case, Prabhakar Sail, Maharashtra’s ruling parties have demanded a high-level probe by Maharashtra police. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik said he will meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray over the demand, while Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut has demanded suo motu cognisance by the Maharashtra police. Malik, who has been revealing lapses and violations in the probe by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), said this needs to be investigated by a special investigation team (SIT). “What we have been saying from day one has been proven true after the sensational revelation by the witness in the case. Sail has said that the NCB officials demanded money from Shah Rukh Khan and Rs8 crore of that was meant for NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede. The NCB sleuths were busy in extortion by threatening Bollywood via raids. This needs to be investigated by Maharashtra police, so as to verify the claims made by Sail. Checking call records, locations of the vehicles used to carry money, mobile locations will bring the truth to the fore,” he said.Malik said he was meeting the CM personally on Monday to demand an SIT. “The extortion racket was being run by NCB officers. It can be proved by probing the information given by the witness. I will request the CM for a probe by state police,” he said.Malik had earlier raised questions over the handling of the drug case accused, Aryan Khan, by one KC Gosavi, who is facing criminal cases, and a BJP officer bearer, Manish Bhanushali. He had also questioned why Wankhede was in Maldives last year when Bollywood actors were holidaying during the lockdown. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut has demanded an inquiry into the entire episode by taking suo motu cognisance. “Witness in #AryanKhan case made to sign on blank paper by NCB is shocking. Also thr r reports that thr ws demnd of huge money. CM Uddhav Thackeray said that ths cases r made2 defame Mah’shtra. Ths seems 2b comng tru @Dwalsepatil Police shd tk suo moto cognizance @ CMOMaharashtra(sic),” he tweeted. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole has demanded a high-level probe. “The revelations by Sail are serious in nature as he has claimed about the extortion of Rs25 crore. The NCB action appears to be a conspiracy against Maharashtra and the state government. Sail has also expressed threat to his life. The state government needs to conduct a high-level probe in the allegations,” he said. Leader of opposition in legislative council Pravin Darekar said that the ruling parties are targeting central agencies by levelling false allegations. “Nawab Malik and others have been levelling false allegations against NCB and its zonal director Sameer Wankhede. The ruling parties have been targeting central agencies and the central government for the political reasons and the new allegations related to the permissions to vehicles is one of such attempts. The allegations are baseless and false,” he said. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said if there is any substance in the clip of Sail there should be a probe conducted into it. “We never stood by Wankhede and there was no need to be as he is not our worker or office-bearer. We never criticised him or NCB. But it needs to check who is supporting Shah Rukh Khan. Ruling party leaders have been targeting central agencies as if they have taken up the case of certain people. It is surprising the way Malik has been taking interest in the entire case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtraruling-parties-demands-high-level-probe-into-allegations-of-extortion-by-ncb-101635088801329.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar made the president of Mumbai Marathi Granth Sangrahalaya||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was on Sunday elected as the president of Mumbai Marathi Granth Sangrahalaya (MMGS), a 123-year-old library which is one of the largest in Mumbai, by an overwhelming majority. He defeated his opponent, Dhananjay Shinde, the general secretary of Maharashtra Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) by 27 votes. Pawar polled 29 votes compared to 2 votes polled by Shinde. Of the 34 members eligible to vote, 31 turned up for voting. Along with Pawar, his entire panel of seven vice-presidents also won the polls. Shinde called the election fraudulent and plans to move court. “They manipulated the granthalaya’s constitution by allowing just 34 people to vote. They should have allowed all 6,000 members to exercise their franchise. We will not sit quiet and approach the Court next week seeking to declare this election null and void,” said Shinde. Former vice-chancellor of Mumbai University Dr Bhalchandra Mungekar, who was elected as the vice-president, said everything was done according to the constitution. “Our opponents had approached the charity commissioner to stay this election, but their plea was dismissed,” said Mungekar. He said the panel will strive to increase the membership of the library. MMGS has more than 645,569 books in Marathi. The Pawar-led panel has been managing the functioning of the MMGS since 1982. It is the first time in the past four decades that the elections are being held. Earlier, the office-bearers were selected based on mutual consent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-made-the-president-of-mumbai-marathi-granth-sangrahalaya-101635088501072.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC rejects petition against Mumbai BJP legislator’s election||The Bombay high court (HC) recently rejected an election petition filed by a Pune resident against the election of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Mangal Prabhat Lodha from Malabar Hill constituency on the grounds that the petitioner is neither a candidate nor a voter who was affected by the election. The court further held that though the Representation of Peoples (RP) Act permits any person to approach a court against false information provided by a candidate, the guidelines provide other remedies, and as the petitioner does not conform to the same, the petition is not maintainable. The single judge bench of justice BP Colabawalla, while hearing an interim application filed against Lodha in an election petition, was informed by advocates Amogh Singh and Jeet Gandhi that the plea was not maintainable on two main grounds. The first being that as per RP Act, the petitioner was neither a candidate nor was he a voter of the constituency from which Lodha was elected in the 2019 elections. Secondly, the advocates argued that as per the guidelines issued by the Election Commission (EC) in 2014, the petitioner could not raise the objections of false information being provided by Lodha in his affidavit or of suppressing information as the petitioner did not conform to the definition of aggrieved person as he was neither a voter nor a candidate. The election petition was filed by Manish Jadhav, who was represented by advocates Khushboo Oswal and HS Shinde. The petition had challenged the 2019 election of Lodha on the grounds that the declaration given by him in form 26 was false and he had concealed information which according to RP Act amounted to corrupt practice. The advocates also stated that as per EC guidelines of April 26, 2014, it was “open to any aggrieved person to move a petition before the appropriate court of competent jurisdiction for action under section 125A of RP Act.” In light of this submission, Oswal submitted that though Jadhav was a resident of Pune, his petition was valid. After hearing the submissions, the bench referred to that Supreme Court judgment in the Tej Bahadur Singh vs Narendra Modi case, wherein the Apex court had clearly stated that a person who is neither a voter nor a candidate of a constituency cannot file an election petition, and hence as Jadhav did not have a locus, his petition was not maintainable. With regards to the guidelines of EC and its applicability to Jadhav, the bench stated, “These guidelines, therefore, have to be read in the context of section 125A, which provides an independent remedy against the candidate who has breached the provisions of the section. This still, would not give the original petitioner [Jadhav] the locus to file an election petition under Section 81 of the said Act if the original respondent [Lodha] does not comply with the conditions as set out in the said section.” The court then allowed the interim application and dismissed the election petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-rejects-petition-against-mumbai-bjp-legislator-s-election-101635087661115.html
24-10-2021||Bhopal||Congress MLA Sachin Birla joins BJP ahead of by polls||Congress MLA, Sachin Birla, on Sunday joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of by polls on three assembly and a Lok Sabha seat in Madhya Pradesh.Law-maker from Barwaha, Sachin Birla, 39, joined BJP in the presence of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan at a political programme in Bediya in Khandwa. Barwaha assembly constituency comes under Khandwa Lok Sabha seat where by-poll will be conducted on October 30, necessitated after the death of BJP senior leader Nand Kumar Singh Chauhan. This year, BJP gave a ticket to Gyaneshvar Patil, an OBC candidate. According to a Congress leader, Birla was in touch with BJP since last year but made this announcement now. Birla belongs to the Gurjar community and could help the BJP in getting the votes of the community. He switched his side before Congress leader Sachin Pilot’s rally on October 27 in Khandwa to woo Gurjar voters. In 2018 assembly election, Birla won by 30,500 votes due to the support of Gurjar voters and other backward communities. Khandwa Lok Sabha constituency has more than 25,000 Gurjar voters.After switching the party, Birla said, “I was feeling suffocated in the party so I left it and joined BJP. I was in Congress due to ideology but when the party lost it, I didn’t find any reason to stay in the party.”BJP spokesperson Ashish Agrawal said, “Congress lost its existence and nobody wants to stay in a part of sycophants.”However, Congress called it the murder of democracy. MP Congress Committee president Kamal Nath said, “BJP realised that they are going to lose this election so they have started bargaining. They are killing democracy with money but voters know everything and will teach a lesson to BJP in this by-poll.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/congress-mla-sachin-birla-joins-bjp-ahead-of-by-polls-101635087602990.html
24-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 288 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||PUNE According to the state health department, Pune district has reported 288 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the infection on Sunday. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million out of which 1.12 million have recovered, 19,923 deaths and 7210 are active cases.Pune also saw 13,586 vaccinations on Sunday.Pune rural reported 170 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 364,665 and the death toll stood at 6,873 as two more deaths were reported.Pune city reported 81 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 520,300 and the death toll stood at 9,198.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 37 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 268,275 and the toll stood at 3,503.Pune district also saw 13,586 vaccinations on Sunday as per the Co-Win dashboard and in total 1,18,85, 744. Out of which 77,57,637 are first doses and 41,28,107 are second doses. A total of 256 sites saw vaccination out of which 128 were government centres and 128 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-288-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-101635087540997.html
24-10-2021||Pune||Sassoon gets paediatric and neonatal ICU dedicated to Covid||PUNE: On Friday, October 22, a first-of-its-kind paediatric and neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) dedicated to Covid-19 was inaugurated by Sassoon General Hospital (SGH) and BJ Medical College; located in its newly-built, 11-storeyed building inside the hospital premises. The new ward has been built as preparation for the much anticipated third wave wherein various studies and medical opinions have speculated that children (paediatric population) will be the most affected. Built completely through corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds and donations, this will be the first-of-its-kind centre in a government hospital. Dr Aarti Kinikar, head of the department at SGH’s paediatric ward said, “As of now, we have a general paediatric ward that was also used to isolate Covid-19 infected infants and older children. However with this new ward in place, we can have a dedicated Covid-19 ward for paediatric patients with the best of facilities. The new ward has about 12 beds and five radiant warmers for infants who are less than a month old. We also have 10 ventilators, 10 multipara monitors and syringe pumps.”Dr Kinikar said that even post Covid-19, the ward will be useful in treating infants who require specialised care and highly valued medicines that are very expensive in private set-ups. “The NICU is located on the seventh floor and the existing paediatric ward will be moved completely to the floor eventually,” she said.The funds were generated and ventilators, multipara monitors, radiant warmers, syringe pumps and other essential equipment and consumables worth Rs25 million procured through donations made by Credit Suisse through the Give India Foundation and Concern India Foundation. SGH dean Dr Vinayak Kale was present at the inaugural ceremony and said that the equipment will be used in the best interests of patients, especially poor and needy patients admitted to the paediatric and neonatal intensive care unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sassoon-gets-paediatric-and-neonatal-icu-dedicated-to-covid-101635087361079.html
24-10-2021||Pune||55-60 flights at Pune’s Lohegaon airport after reopening on October 30; no night flights yet||PUNE A total of 55-60 flights are expected to be operational at the Pune’s Lohegaon international airport, when the airport resumes its day operations on October 30. Night services will not resume till the first week of December.“The fare hikes depend on demand and supply, not necessary on the festive season. If Lohegaon airport sees more demand for specific destinations then air fares may go up. During the winter season, the footfall at the airport is expected to go up,” said an official from an airline on the request of anonymity.A majority of airline websites are not showing any fare hikes till November 1.Sanjay Paranjape, who booked an Indigo flight from Pune-Delhi for November 1, said “The round trip cost around Rs11,000 which is a normal rate.Since the past few years I have not seen major fare hike during the festive season.”“The preparation is on track and the airport will start its day operations from October 30. The resurfacing work of is going on in full swing and night operations will remain shut,” said an official from the Lohrgaon airport.After 2008, this is the first time the airport has been closed for 14 days.“In 2008, we had welcomed passengers with roses on day 1. It was appreciated by all,” said Dhairyashil Vandekar, who was station manager, Air India, Pune, at the time.The airport official added, “Nothing has been planned. The situation of 2008 was completely different. We need to take care of Covid norms before planning any event at the airport.”Sandhya Gurav, who is planning to book an AirAsia flight, said, “No hike has been observed in ticket rates for Chennai for the November 10 flight.”“Airport authorities should have made some made some facilities for night flights. It’s been a long time. We have to travel to Mumbai as night travelling suits business trips,” said Manisha Kudale, a business woman from Pune.An AirAsia India spokesperson said, “We have a robust network from Pune with flights connecting to Bengaluru, Bhubaneswar, Delhi, Ranchi, Jaipur, Kolkata, Kochi, Guwahati, Goa, Hyderabad, Bagdogra, Chennai, Srinagar and Visakhapatnam. As we continue to build our network, we always look at opportunities to grow connectivity and ensure our fares are competitive. We continuously monitor and determine fares on a dynamic basis taking into account route and market demand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/5560-flights-at-pune-s-lohegaon-airport-after-reopening-on-october-30-no-night-flights-yet-101635087180997.html
24-10-2021||Pune||14-year-old boy held in Pune for throwing 3-month old step sister into river||PUNE A 14-year-old boy has been apprehended by the Pune police on Sunday for throwing his 3-month-old step sister into the river from the Bundgarden bridge. The police are also investigating his mother over suspicion of the child’s murder. The child’s body was found in the Mula-Mutha river in a plastic bag with a pavement block also in it, according to police. “She had separated from her husband and their teenage son three years ago. Her parents had died so she was working on a construction site. There she had a child with some man and came here after delivering the child because she did not want to tell anyone about it,” said inspector (crime) Vijay Chouhan of Yerwada police station. The woman and the teenager were allegedly irritated by the baby’s crying, according to sub- inspector RV Varangule of Yerawada police station who is investigating the case. The mother is suspected to have strangled the child. Doctors at Sassoon General Hospital who performed the autopsy on the child have preserved the viscera. The cause of death could not be confirmed. “The post-mortem is on to know whether the child was killed before it was thrown or did she die in the water. The mother lodged a missing person’s complaint so we registered a kidnapping case and started investigating. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Yerawada police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/14yearold-boy-held-in-pune-for-throwing-3-month-old-step-sister-into-river-101635086940927.html
24-10-2021||Pune||MoU signed between MSFDA and IISER Pune to train teachers||PUNE The Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Pune, and the Maharashtra State Faculty Development Academy (MSFDA), Mumbai, will jointly work to develop and implement capacity-building workshops for faculty members of universities and affiliated colleges under the Department of Higher and Technical Education, Government of Maharashtra.In this endeavour, IISER Pune will collaborate with the MSFDA to organise online, as well as intensive in-person workshops, on modern inquiry-based teaching skills, research-based pedagogies, and core philosophies of science and mathematics education. The two organisations signed an MoU in the presence Uday Samant, minister for Higher and Technical Education and Vikas Rastogi, principal secretary. From the MSFDA team, Nipun Vinayak, executive director MSFDA and Prof Jayant Udgaonkar, director IISER Pune were present.“MSFDA intends to train the faculty of around 5500 colleges of Maharashtra in a phased manner. The focus of the training will be a multidisciplinary curriculum pedagogy, leadership, innovation, inclusion and diversity. In collaboration with all the universities and Institutes of Eminence, MSFDA will nudge to streamline higher education towards its actual purpose of cultivating a total human being,” said Nipun Vinayak. IISER Pune has been engaging with school and college teachers to impart skills aimed at helping teachers improve their science and mathematic teaching skills. Through these earlier initiatives at the UG and PG levels, teachers across India have benefited from various workshops conducted by IISER Pune under multiple initiatives, including those conducted via Centre of Excellence in Science and Mathematics Education (CoESME), established under the of Education, Government of India.“IISER Pune is committed to excellence in science education and has been engaged in conducting training workshops for teachers over the last few years. We are delighted to be a partner for the capacity development programme with the MSFDA and to work with college teachers across Maharashtra”, said Prof Harinath Chakrapani, dean, IISER Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mou-signed-between-msfda-and-iiser-pune-to-train-teachers-101635086700956.html
24-10-2021||Pune||Uruli Kanchan shoot-out: Two arrested from Indapur||PUNE Two persons have been arrested in the case of a gun-fight at an eatery in Uruli Kanchan near Pune, which led to the murder of two people, officials said on Sunday. The two arrested have been identified as Pawan Gorakh Misal (29) and Mahadev Balasaheb Adlinge (26), both residents of Dattawadi, Uruli Kanchan. Bullets were fired at around 9pm on October 22 when a man named Santosh Jagtap arrived at an eatery called Hotel Sonai, along with two men identified as his bodyguards. “We have arrested these people right now. We cannot say much by way of why the murder was committed. The area entered our jurisdiction only four months ago. These men have a history in the Pune rural police jurisdiction,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police, Pune. Misal and Adlinge were arrested from Indapur, according to additional commissioner of police (Crime) Ramnath Pokhale, and are suspected to be the two who arrived at Hotel Sonai along with a man named Swargat Bapu Khaire, who was also killed in the firing. Khaire, Misal, and Adlinge entered the eatery after Jagtap arrived there “He had a clue that something was about to go down. He arrived there and asked for the shutters to be pulled down and had armed security, which is not allowed. Licensed arms are allowed for self-defence only, not for the defence of another person,” said commissioner Gupta. The local police suspect that the rivalry began over sand mining which led to the murder of two siblings, Ramesh and Ganesh Sonwane in 2011. Jagtap was found to be the one to have killed the two brothers and is also accused in another murder in 2018 of Pintya Shelar, according to inspector Ganesh Mane of Unit 6 of the crime branch which made the two arrests. Additional CP Pokale has served as Additional SP in Pune rural police when the gang rivalry was ragingOne of two arrested, Misal, was a friend of the Sonawane brothers, according to the police. The incident has raised questions of gun control in the this area, now under the Pune police commissionerate. Moreover, if the sand mining background is to be believed, the arrests might prove to be the key to multiple cases of violence in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/uruli-kanchan-shoot-out-two-arrested-from-indapur-101635086161164.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Demand drop, verdicts, politics led to fall of ‘community-specific’ housing projects’||Mumbai Ashok Khamkar, 75, a businessman from Lalbaug, was denied a flat in a housing society 20 years ago, as it was reserved only for Jains, while Pankaj Kapoor of Liases Foras firm was not allowed to buy an apartment in Mazagaon a decade ago as the building was meant only for Dawoodi Bohra Muslims. Years later, discrimination on the basis of religion and language has receded substantially, thanks to the drop in demand for such exclusive societies, court rulings as well as the voice raised against the concept. Khamkar who owns a spice shop at Lalbaug – a predominantly Maharashtrian area – gets angry every time he recollects the incident. When Khamkar went to book an apartment in a newly announced project, the builder curtly refused, saying, “This project is only for Jains.” Though he had directly complained to prominent Shiv Sena leaders, he could not get any respite as the builder just doubled his sale price, thus forcing Khamkar to abandon his mission.In the past three decades, as Mumbai witnessed surge in construction activities, many builders started selling apartments only to restricted communities as this would fetch a huge premium for their projects. The main beneficiaries were the Jains and the Gujarati and Dawoodi Bohra communities. Other communities were strictly excluded in such projects.The community-specific construction projects mushroomed at Parel, Lalbaug, Ghatkopar, Goregaon, Mulund, Vile Parle, Malabar Hill, Byculla, Mazagaon and Borivli. In case of the Jain community, the builder would construct a ‘Derasar’ or a Jain temple and charge premium for such projects. In Mazagaon and Byculla, the influential members of the Dawoodi Bohra community would negotiate with the builders and ensure that all flats are bought by their members, thus saving precious time as well as ensuring faster money for the builder.Decades later, as massive slowdown hit the real estate sector and resulted in fewer sales, builders are no longer building exclusive enclaves for any particular section of the society.Liases Foras, a real estate research firm, said the current decision is influenced by the monetary crises faced by the realty sector. “Currently the whole focus of the builders is to sell their apartments. They are not in a position to deny the flats to anyone as they are facing paucity of funds to finance their projects. In the current market, builders can no longer take the risk of launching any project for a particular community as they are not assured that it will be fully booked by the community members,” said Pankaj Kapoor, managing director, Liases Foras.Kapoor has a point. Recently, a well-known, listed real estate company had launched a project at Lalbaug for the Jain community, but then opened doors to all communities as he failed to elicit adequate response from the Jains.Sukhraj Nahar, founder, Nahar Group, one of the reputed construction firms which had constructed Sarvodaya Nagar at Mulund exclusively for the Jain community, says “We have moved towards having mixed population in our projects.”Similar is the stance of Rajesh Vardhan who runs a 50-year old company, Vardhman Builders. He said the group has always believed in constructing inclusive houses. “Our whole focus is on sales, and religion is a secondary factor for us. We have lots of buyers even from the Muslim community,” said Vardhan.Kailash Agarwal, chairman of Avighna Group, which is responsible for executing the first cluster revamp project in Mumbai— One Avighna Park at Lalbaug — said that the stands taken by the Shiv Sena and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) are also responsible for the exclusive housing projects being junked. “Both MNS and Shiv Sena are competing with each other by espousing the Marathi cause and will not allow any discrimination towards Maharashtrians. In such a scenario, builders cannot afford to take such risks [making exclusive projects for religious communities] in their projects,” said Agarwal.In addition, a series of court verdicts against such discrimination has also made things difficult for the builders to indulge in such “adventurism”.Advocate Vinod Sampat said, “In recent times, due to the advent of social media, these practices are being looked down upon and even the courts have come down heavily on such unconstitutional steps.”The Marathi Ekikaram Samiti (MES), which works for the welfare of Maharashtrians, had recently filed a first information report (FIR), the first of its kind against a seller who had refused to sell his flat to a Maharashtrian buyer. A developer named Rahul Dedhia had posted an advertisement on Facebook stating that he wanted to sell his 1-BHK (bedroom-hall-kitchen) flat in a building that only allows Gujarati, Jain and Marwadi community members. MES head, Govardhan Deshmukh, who wanted to buy the flat, filed a complaint at Mira Road police over the prejudice, following which an FIR was registered against Dedhia under IPC section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony). Deshmukh said he will now target builders who deny flats to members of any community. “We are asking people to file FIRs against builders who deny houses to members of other communities, be it Maharashtrians or Muslims,” said Deshmukh. MES has also written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, asking him to crack down on such errant builders.The Students Islamic Organisation of India (SIOI), which takes up issues related to the Muslim community, points that more than 60% of builders in Mumbai deny flats to Muslims. “In many cases, Muslims prefer ghettos where they are in a majority as it ensures security to them. However, we see that the real estate suffers from Islamophobia, and Muslims are denied flats in a majority of the projects,” said Fawaz Shaheen, general secretary, SIOI. The organisation wants the state government to enact a law under which such discriminatory practices are abolished. Real estate expert Ajay Chaturvedi said such enclaves are still in existence in micro-markets. “Mid- and small-sized builders are still catering to buildings that are meant exclusively for some communities. If buyers from other communities come, the marketing team is instructed to tell that the project is fully booked or quote very exorbitant rates so that they don’t buy the flat. Many firms don’t refuse openly fearing backlash, but adopt such tactics,” said Chaturvedi.Rishi Rupawat, who lives in an exclusive Jain colony at Lalbaug, supports such enclaves. “Our colony has Jain community hailing from four major districts of Rajasthan, and this gives us a chance to bond. We can even practice our religion very freely,” said Rupawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/demand-drop-verdicts-politics-led-to-fall-of-community-specific-housing-projects-101635083520808.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Women account for 45% of Covid jabs given in Lucknow||Women are lagging behind in Covid vaccination in Lucknow and accounting for only 45% of the total Covid jabs given in the state capital, according to data from the health department.Of the total 44.17 lakh (44,17,771) doses administered till 5pm on Sunday, women got 19.89 lakh or 19,89,368 (45% of the total) Covid jabs while over 24 lakh or 24,26,490 (54.92%) doses were administered to men.Experts say hesitancy and myths are holding some women back from taking the Covid vaccine doses in Lucknow.“There are myths related to getting the vaccine for a woman planning to conceive, during pregnancy or a lactating woman, though clarity on these aspects was issued long back. It seems women are still not fully aware. Hence, it is the gynaecologists’ responsibility to tell them about the vaccination,” said Dr Anoop Agrawal, president of Lucknow Nursing Home Owners’ Association.Doctors said accessibility is not a problem now as a large number of centres are administering the vaccine doses in the state capital.“On average, over 140 government and over 20 private vaccination centres run daily in the district. Each locality now has a Covid vaccination centre with several of them having more than one vaccination booth,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.“Many vaccination centres have women special booths while all the vaccinators are women ANMs (Auxiliary nurse midwife),” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of Indian Medical Association, Lucknow. Health officials say attempts are being made to increase the vaccination coverage among women.“We are soon going to conduct a meeting of religious leaders to give out a message on vaccination, particularly for women, as they can get vaccine dose during pregnancy or even if they are planning to conceive,” said Dr MK Singh, in charge of vaccination in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/women-account-for-45-of-covid-jabs-given-in-lucknow-101635082740814.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Congress leader from Amethi arrested for fraud, extortion||The Lucknow police on Saturday evening arrested a local Congress leader Mohd Rafiq alias Allu Miya of Jagdishpur, Amethi, in connection with a case of fraud, forgery and demanding extortion lodged by a city builder in May this year, Lucknow additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), West, Chiranjeev Nath Sinha said on Sunday.He said multiple cases related to land fraud and forgery are registered against the Congress leader in Lucknow and Amethi.Sinha also said Vaibhav Srivastava of Qaiserbagh, Lucknow, had lodged an FIR against Allu Miya, his wife Mehrunisha and son Mohd Adil Rashid for fraud and forgery related to a land in Khargapur locality of Gomti Nagar Extension in the state capital on May 8, 2021.He said Srivastava stated that he, along with his partner, was constructing a residential building on 5100 square feet land in Khargapur in 2019 when Allu Miya’s son Adil reached there and started claiming ownership of the land. He said Allu Miya claimed that he had registry of the land in his name in 1990 after which the constriction project was interrupted.The ADCP also said the complainant alleged that Allu Miya threatened him with dire consequences by boasting about his political clout and later, during the course of negotiation, he demanded two flats to settle the issue. The investigation officer of the case collected evidences against him and procured a non-bailable warrant against from a local court a few weeks ago.The Congress leader, initially untraceable, was arrested when he came to attend a political event in Lucknow on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/congress-leader-from-amethi-arrested-for-fraud-extortion-101635081240548.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||JNPT scraps mangrove park proposal in Uran, to hand over land to forest department||The Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), the largest port container terminal in the country, has scrapped plans to develop a 200-hectare mangrove park on its property at Uran’s Belpada wetland, reveals the responses to a Right-to-Information (RTI) request by Navi Mumbai-based NGO Nat Connect Foundation. The mangroves will now have to be handed over to the forest department for safekeeping as per orders of the Bombay high court (HC), officials said. The development of a mangrove park at Uran was first suggested by the State Wetland and Mangrove Grievance Redressal Committee, appointed by the Bombay HC, in January 2019. After consultations with the state forest department’s mangrove cell, JNPT roped in the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM) to conduct a feasibility study for the project, which was planned to be developed in two phases. The first phase of the facility (similar to one being developed in Gorai by the forest department) was to be ready by July this year at a cost of ₹5 crore under JNPT’s Port Planning & Development (PPD) department’s ‘Green Port’ initiative. It was proposed to protect two dense mangrove patches in the area, and would also have visiting galleries, mangrove walkthroughs (boardwalks), an education and nature interpretation centre and a nursery displaying the biodiversity of local mangrove species. JNPT was to foot the annual cost of maintaining the park. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was also drafted and sent for JNPT’s approval in January 2021 following site visits by the FDCM and the preparation of a feasibility report. In March 2021, however, JNPT wrote back to the FDCM saying it “has decided not to enter into MoU for development of Eco Park under the green port initiative.” Citing a contempt notice (dated December 2020) by NGO Vanashakti (which has filed a PIL in Bombay HC seeking compliance with its September 2018 judgement on mangrove transfer to the government), JNPT wrote to the mangrove cell for clarity earlier this year and were instructed in February to initiate the handover in accordance with the court’s mandate. A senior official with JNPT’s PPD department, seeking anonymity, said, “The park would have been a valuable educational tool for the conservation of mangroves in our area, but seeing as the ownership of the land needs to be transferred to the state government, the development of this facility should also be taken up by them.” JNPT, which is legally mandated to transfer 913 hectares (ha) of mangroves on its property in Nhava Sheva to the Maharashtra forest department for safekeeping as per an order of the HC, earlier this year, claimed that it does not have any information as to the current extent of mangrove cover on its land. “We have enlisted the Maharashtra Remote Sensing Application Centre (MRSAC) for demarcation of mangrove area in JNPT as of date. Once we have the assessment we will inform the forest department and start the next steps,” said the official quoted above. Virendra Tiwari, assistant principal chief conservator of forests, mangrove cell, said, “We are hoping for a smooth and quick transfer of mangroves under JNPT to us. The land will be first notified as a reserve forest under section 4 of the Indian Forest Act (1927). After that, the process of settling any outstanding claims over the area will be settled so that it can get final notification under section 20 of the Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jnpt-scraps-mangrove-park-proposal-in-uran-to-hand-over-land-to-forest-department-101635076860434.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||‘Twitter Vadra’: UP deputy CM Maurya’s latest jibe at Priyanka Gandhi||Uttar Pradesh deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Sunday called Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra “Twitter Vadra” and said the grand old party’s state in-charge was only “interested” in a photo-op.Speaking to reporters, Maurya said, "I think you (media) are seeing her more in the role of an opposition. I call Priyanka Gandhi Vadraji as Twitter Vadra. I don't think that barring those interested in getting their photographs clicked, there is anyone left in the Congress.”The deputy chief minister further said that the Congress was currently ahead of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in matters of making good use of photo sessions, but all three parties had failed to create a place in the hearts of the people."Yes, they have an expertise in getting their photographs clicked, be it Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Rahul Gandhi or any other leader of the Congress. In the race of getting their photos clicked, they are ahead of the SP and BSP. But, all these three parties have failed to make any place in the public's heart," the BJP leader said.Maurya’s comments on photo-ops came days after Vadra hit out at the UP government for ordering an investigation against some police personnel who were seen clicking a selfie with her. She has been on a major offensive against the ruling party ever since the death of protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri earlier this month. It has been alleged the farmers, who were agitating against Maurya’s visit to the district, were run over by some cars one of which was being driven by Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish.Maurya also dismissed Gandhi’s announcement of the Congress reserving 40% electoral tickets for women candidates in the upcoming 2022 Assembly election in the state. He said retaining seven seats the Congress had won in the 2017 elections would be considered an achievement in itself.He said the state of the SP and BSP were also and as people have not forgotten the tenures that were dominated by “corruption, crime, encouragement to mafia, casteism and appeasement".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/twitter-vadra-up-deputy-cm-maurya-s-latest-jibe-at-priyanka-gandhi-101635075377519.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Stay young at heart and in mind to live to the fullest||My elderly friend was blushing when I gifted a pretty, long dress. It had been years since she had worn one, and her heart skipped a beat on seeing her secret desire unfold. Fumbling for words, she said she loved it, then modestly brushed it aside, saying that she was too old to wear it. We grown-ups have these little desires that we keep stashing away in an obscure corner of the heart, and just won’t let the child in us come out for fear of disapproval from others. We too love to dance in the rain, sing to our heart’s content, or be in the basketball court, no matter how clumsy we were at it. There’s nothing wrong in the yearnings except the stamp of: It does not look good at this age. It often becomes difficult for a fit and smart granny to pick up a cycle and rally around the neighbourhood or to enjoy a softy at a tuck shop simply because it doesn’t suit her image. Having entered middle age, I was brought to my own little guileless cravings that I had subconsciously started relegating to the past. I always wanted to age like the elderly couples dancing in the videos that popped on social media, or be agile like our own Milkha Singh in his golden years. Implementing those young dreams was a tough task because our minds were growing old faster than our bodies. Societal norms were taking over and fine-tuning age-appropriate behaviour as we were supposed to be mature and responsible. I remember having a yen for lollipops. I stopped having them when I grew up, thinking they did not hold me in a good light. When my father-in-law learnt of this little liking, he started bringing lollipops as take-homes for the whole family on every birthday. My joy knew no bounds, and I was able to enjoy my treat. Letting go once in a while and rejuvenating oneself, did add that sparkle to life. Some of my friends would wait to go on a vacation, where they would do whatever, they set their heart on. Others would look for a good excuse to slip into their idea of fun. One of my colleagues had started wearing sober colours in regular life, which were not much to her taste. She was eagerly waiting for her 25th wedding anniversary to don the brightest of colours, which she had a fancy for. If only we could break free from the shackles of ageing and stop feeling apologetic about it, our happiness quotient would skyrocket. We would do a great service to ourselves if we create an opportunity rather than wait for one to fill our days doing what we like. It would have all of us talking about our present fun instead of wistfully remembering our heydays. I plan to break the glass ceiling in my neighbourhood by dragging my lovely neighbours out of their homes when it rains the next time round. alkagaurkashyap@gmail.com The writer is a Chandigarh-based advocate||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stay-young-at-heart-and-in-mind-to-live-to-the-fullest-101635075120284.html
24-10-2021||Pune||Your Space: Dedicated civilian airport in Pune need of the hour||PUNE The disruption of flights at Pune’s Lohegaon airport, owned by the Indian Air Force (IAF), to carry out runway resurfacing work has left flyers in the dark and at the receiving end. Many are still awaiting ticket refunds of cancelled flights. While plans for a new airport is yet to take off on the ground, what are the steps needed to ensure that the metropolitan city gets a dedicated civilian airport? Readers share their views...Dedicated civilian airport a mustIt is prudent to have a civil airport at Pune- both for operational as well as for security reasons. Civilians suffer when there is major maintenance work, military exercises and VIP movement. During such times, medical emergencies and urgent travellers suffer. The nearest airports are over 100 kilometres away. Detour costs both time and money. Defence airport left open to civilians is a big security risk. Most travellers don’t adhere to basic security guidelines, click pictures which is not in the best national interest. Considering global terrorism threats this can be avoided with a dedicated civilian airport.Mehzabin SaiyedSupport domestic air connectivityPune definitely needs a civilian airport and the only way to do that is to shift the airforce station to a new location. Shifting the civilian airport to far off places like Purandar is not going to help the cause. So what we need is lateral thinking and the only viable solution is to shift the airforce base to Purandar. What we need in Pune is an airport that gives excellent domestic connectivity and a shuttle connection to Mumbai international airport. The shuttle - a small aircraft carrying 20-40 pax has to be as frequent as every 30-40 minutes and should be subsidised by the Mumbai international airport for passengers holding a ticket to a connecting flight. This shuttle will be a feeder shuttle for all international departures from Mumbai international airport and thus will give a boost to the international departures business. If this is done, I believe the Pune airport problem can be solved.Amit AbhyankarFliers suffer due to airport closureThe airport renovation and expansion has been for so long been a demand of frequent flyer Puneites. The amenities and services, space everything needs to be expanded. Pune needs a bigger and dedicated civilian airport. Currently, due to the airport closure employees are taking flights from Mumbai instead of Pune and we have to bear the extra time and effort to travel to Mumbai.Aroh WelankarDedicated airport with better connectivity is the need of the hourA new airport will take more than a decade to become operational. The city will grow multifold in the coming decade like IT, automobiles and now EV. We need a dedicated airport with better connectivity. As the government has more flights and airports under Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik (UDAN) scheme, Pune needs the same. Many aspirational cities would want to connect with Pune airport. In the city, access roads connecting towards the airport need to be planned like better roads, artwork, beautification including..footpath and bicycle tracks. Multimodal transport connects like Metro, bus and local transport. Mumbai airport connects through a chopper or direct flight to establish a connection with international flights. These points need to be thought through by officials.Manoj PochatDevelopment and growth of the city should not be impactedPune is one of the fastest developing cities, and needs infrastructure planning on the same gear, to ensure the momentum of growth is not impacted. As Pune’s Lohegaon airport is owned by the Indian Air Force (IAF) there are strict rules that fliers have to follow. It is high time we now get a world-class civilian airport, one that is welcoming to the tourists. Not one where even if you wanna take a selfie, you are cautioned.Umang ChirimarMove air station to an isolated areaIn my opinion, the air force station has to be taken away from the highly densely populated area of Lohegaon. When it was built decades ago, this was in the outer fringes of the city then - which is how air defence installations should be. Instead of moving the civil air station to a new location, the air station should be moved to an isolated area. The air force station is a family station and comes packed with all facilities to act as a self-contained ecosystem. Whereas the civil population and the support staff will have to commute daily this huge distance to the proposed new airport creating a huge daily fuel bill.If you factor in the risk of coming in the range of any enemy airstrike in the event of a war, the Lohegaon base would be a prized target for enemy forces. Airstrike in such a densely populated city brings with it the huge human cost possibility in the event of a war.Shutting airstrip altogether or for a certain time period happens everywhere for recarpeting. Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport (CSIA) had done this exercise a few years back. This cannot be a reason to argue in favour of or against the prudence of having a combined civil-air force station.Thomas Samuel||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-dedicated-civilian-airport-in-pune-need-of-the-hour-101635072180208.html
24-10-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Common sense of theatre etiquette must never be one-show wonder||Now that theatres have re-opened, no one could be happier than us. Yes, there will be challenges ahead and I have written about it at length. But, it is a time to celebrate! And what bigger celebration can there be than performing for a ‘live’ audience?At ‘Natak Company’, our theatre group, our social media manager – Mugdha Hasamnis – came up with a campaign in Marathi – “A reminder of how to watch plays”. It was a sarcastic take on how the audience might have forgotten theatre etiquette because of the long break. We shared it and saw it getting shared till it reached us again on social media. We laughed about it and felt nice that it resonated with people. It got me thinking. This wasn’t the first time we had made an appeal like that. God knows I have written about theatre etiquette more than once. And there is an announcement before every show! Every show! A humble appeal to ask our patrons to turn off their cell phones. In case they are supposed to receive an urgent call, they can most certainly receive it outside the auditorium in the “cry room”. The cry room is also available for a reason – for crying babies. We understand that couples may need to come and watch a play and they may not have a space to keep their small children. Once the children get cranky, which is again understandable since they are in a huge dark room with a few people on a wooden block talking loudly a few feet away and many other people around them laughing or clapping (or snoring!).I don’t even know why these things should be termed as “etiquettes”. The word does carry a certain weight to it. Like some action that needs some extra effort. In fact, I prefer the term “common sense!”. I remember sitting in the audience for a play that I had directed. There was a couple with two small children, nearly seven-eight years old. I admit that not many people had come to watch the play that day. So the kids had ample space to run around. And they did. And they were talking amongst themselves while doing that.Since I had directed the play, I knew each and every moment of it, but was still finding it hard to concentrate while watching it. My respect for my actors increased multiple times where they continued performing in this commotion. I went to the parents of the kids and politely asked them to keep them quiet. Even they were kind enough to take action, but while doing it, the father told me that it was the first time they he and his family had come to watch a play and weren’t aware of the rules. I didn’t understand why should there be a specific rule for this. Isn’t it understood, that there are actual people performing and there are others in the theatre watching; a paying audience, much like themselves. Does that mean that they will be fine if someone else creates a commotion when they have gone to watch something? I didn’t take the matter further because that would have disturbed my actors even more.I remembered something that a friend of mine told me about a Korean play he had watched at an international theatre festival in Japan. They had politely mentioned upfront that if a phone rings during the performance, they will stop it. Just a few seconds into the performance, someone’s phone rang and they stopped performing and exited the stage. Let me clarify, I am not in favour of such hard measures. Why should a majority of audience members bear the brunt for the insensitivity of a few? Though I understand why the Korean group must have had such a strict policy. It is plain disrespectful.I remember, when I was in college we used to have one day of rehearsal where our friends would create a disturbance while we were performing. It was to test our concentration in case our competitors decide to hoot-out a play.The situation isn’t that bad generally, but whenever I direct a play, we have a session with the actors where we discuss what to do in case there is a disturbance which cannot be ignored. I usually prefer that the actors stop performing till the disturbance is over and stay still. Once it has passed, they can resume from their last dialogue. The least an audience member can do is to not disturb the world created by the theatre group. Is that etiquette?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-common-sense-of-theatre-etiquette-must-never-be-one-show-wonder-101635071940280.html
24-10-2021||Delhi||Over 17,000 Covid-19 vaccines given to inmates of 3 Delhi jails, Tihar tops list||More than 17,000 doses of vaccine against the coronavirus disease have, so far, been administered to inmates of three jails in Delhi - Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli.Citing the Delhi prisons department, news agency PTI said that of the total vaccines (17,362 doses) administered in the three jails, Tihar was at the top with 11,844 inoculations. As many as 9,028 inmates in Tihar have received their first doses, while the remaining 2,816 are fully vaccinated.Over 1,000 inmates of Rohini Jail have been vaccinated so far, of whom 885 have received their first dose and 188 have received both the shots.In Mandoli jail, nearly 2,800 prisoners have been vaccinated with the first dose and 1,651 inmates are fully inoculated.The Delhi prisons department had started the vaccination drive to contain the spread of the virus for inmates above the age of 45 on March 18 this year.After the Union government opened the campaign for all adults from May 1, the prisons department started administering doses to inmates from May 18.Since March this year, 383 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in these jails. Of these cases, eight inmates passed away due to related complications.As many as 225 prison staff personnel had also tested positive for the virus during the same period. However, no deaths have been reported among them.The prisons department has been on an alert since the pandemic hit last year and has taken a number of measures to ensure the virtual disease does not spread beyond control. A senior jail official told PTI more than 4,000 inmates were released from Tihar Rohini and Mandoli jails this year.“We started the process of releasing inmates from the second week of May. Around 3,800 undertrials were released on interim bail and around 840 convicts were released on emergency parole,” he said.Last year, 5,500 undertrials and 1,184 convicts were released on interim bail and emergency parole in Delhi.Meanwhile, nearly 20 million vaccines have been administered so far across the national capital. Of these, 71,04,092 beneficiaries are fully vaccinated, while 1,28,68,171 have received only one dose. As many as 63,917 beneficiaries were inoculated in the last 24 hours.Forty more people tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday which took the caseload to 1,439,566, according to the health department's bulletin.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-17-000-covid-19-vaccines-given-to-inmates-of-3-delhi-jails-tihar-tops-list-101635067620574.html
24-10-2021||Other||Saat Saat Ab Aur Bhi Pass: Hyderabad Police's new initiative for women's safety||For better safety and security of women, Hyderabad Police's 'She' unit started a new initiative called 'Saat Saat Ab Aur Bhi Pass' that was launched by the Hyderabad City Police on Saturday.Hyderabad's "She" team celebrated its 7th Anniversary on Saturday. As part of this, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar inaugurated "SAAT - Saath Ab Aur Bhi Pas" in presence of an Additional Commissioner of Police, Shikha Goel.As per the official release by Hyderabad Police, 'She' teams were launched on October 24, 2014 in Hyderabad City. These teams were formed keeping in view the Telangana Government's vision for a safe and secure environment for women. With the successful impact created by "She" teams, the concept is replicated not only to the entire Telangana state but also many other states like Kerala, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh.Hyderabad Police Commissioner, Anjani Kumar while speaking to ANI, stated that on the occasion "We have decided that in-charge of Hyderabad's 'She' team, Sirisha Ragavedra, who is also the additional DCP, will come here every Wednesday at Chelapura South zone to provide quick relief and remedies to women and girls of this area.""As per the statics of the National Crime Records Bureau, Hyderabad is one of the safest cities in India as far as women safety is concerned. But we have to continue with the work. We have to see that crime against women is reduced further. Any criminal activity with an intention to hurt women should be promptly dealt with. I compliment all the officers here, and my best wishes to the 200 women who have come here from various schools," said Anjani Kumar.Hyderabad Police Commissioner applauded the 'She' Teams, the first of its kind initiative of Hyderabad City Police, as it addressed problems of more than 8000 victims and their families, wherein 687 FIRs were registered, 723 petty were cases filed and 942 red-handed cases were booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/saat-saat-ab-aur-bhi-pass-hyderabad-police-s-new-initiative-for-women-s-safety-101635066297223.html
24-10-2021||Kolkata||Trinamool protests against rising fuel prices in Kolkata||The Trinamool Congress protested against the rising fuel prices in Kolkata on Sunday. Carrying an empty LPG cylinder decorated with flowers, TMC supporters burnt an effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, shouting slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre."The country is reeling under an unprecedented rise in fuel prices for several months now, but the BJP government seems unconcerned about the plight of the people," TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh said.The protest rally toured Raja Dinendra Street, APC Road and Sukia Street in north Kolkata with TMC supporters armed with placards, slamming the Centre.Ghosh said the rise in fuel prices has triggered a cascading impact on the people of the country.Petrol was retailing at ₹108.11 per litre in Kolkata on Sunday, while diesel was being sold at ₹99.43 per litre in the city. Diesel prices have already crossed the century-mark in several districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/trinamool-protests-against-rising-fuel-prices-in-kolkata-101635063587755.html
24-10-2021||Ranchi||1 dead, 30 injured as truck hits roadside tree in Jharkhand||A man was killed and 30 other people were injured, 10 of whom seriously, as a truck carrying migrant labourers hit a roadside tree in Jharkhand's Palamu district on Friday, police said.The incident took place near Marghatia village in Satbarwa police station area when the labourers hailing from Kamaaru were going to Daltonganj railway station to board a train to Uttar Pradesh, where they work in brick kilns, officer-in-charge Karmpal Kumar Nag said.The driver lost control over the vehicle and hit a tree beside the Medininagar-Ranchi Road, he said.The injured people were taken to a hospital in Tumbagada, where doctors referred 10 of them to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Science in Ranchi for better treatment, while one man identified as Birendra Oraon succumbed to his injuries on the way to the state capital, Nag added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/1-dead-30-injured-as-truck-hits-roadside-tree-in-jharkhand-101635060456381.html
24-10-2021||Jaipur||Pratapgarh vaccinates 100% eligible population with first dose||Rajasthan's Pratapgarh is the first district in the state to completely vaccinate all of its eligible population with the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccination, said the state's health department.On the occasion, state Health Minister Dr Raghu Sharma on Saturday complimented the residents of the district, administration and the medical personnel for their effort in achieving this.The Health Minister in an official statement said, "Pratapgarh district was given a target to vaccinate 6,52,061 people in the age group of 18 years and above. Against this, 6,55,869 people were administered the first dose in the district on Saturday. The number of people who have been inoculated with the first and second dose has now gone up to 9,71,841."The Health Minister complimented Pratapgarh District Collector Prakash Chandra Sharma, Chief Medical and Health Officer Dr VD Meena and the entire team of the health department. He said that the medical department has given its best during the pandemic."There has been an increase in both doses of Covid-19 vaccination in the last one and a half months. Last month around 1.50 lakh doses were administered due to adequate cooperation of the people and tireless efforts of the medical team," said the state health department.India's COVID-19 vaccination drive was launched on January 16, 2021.Initially, the vaccination was opened for Health Care Workers (HCWs) only.From February 2, front line workers were made eligible for vaccination. These included State and Central Police personnel, Armed Force Personnel, Home Guards, Civil Defence & Disaster Management Volunteers, Municipal workers, Prison Staff, PRI Staff and Revenue workers involved in containment and surveillance, Railway Protection Force and election Staff.The vaccination drive was expanded from March 1 to include persons above 60 years of age and those above 45 years with associated specified 20 comorbidities. It was further expanded to all people above 45 years of age from April 1. From May 1, all persons above 18 years of age were made eligible for COVID-19 vaccination.Meanwhile, India recently achieved administering 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses to eligible beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/pratapgarh-vaccinates-100-eligible-population-with-first-dose-101635052997026.html
24-10-2021||Patna||Maoist killed in encounter with Bihar STF, AK 47 recovered||A Maoist was killed in an encounter with the special task force (STF) in Bihar’s Lakhisaari district, located around 147 km from the state capital Patna, late on Saturday evening, police officials said on Sunday. The encounter took place around 10pm in the forest and hilly areas of Pidi Bazar police station. The killed Maoist was identified as Pramod Koda, whose body was recovered from Lathia Pahari on Sunday morning along with an AK47 rifle, police said. Additional director general (operation) Sushil M Khopde said Lakhisarai police launched a search and rescue operation following information that some Maoists were hiding in the forest area of Bhagatpur after abducting the son of a PDS (public distribution system) dealer. “At around 10pm, the STF team came under heavy firing by the Maoists and fired back in self-defence,” said Khopde, adding that one Maoist was killed in the exchange of fire that lasted for about one-and-a-half hours, following which, the rebels escaped into the forest. Search operations have been intensified in the area to trace the abducted person, the official said. Also Read: 2 traders killed, ₹1.6 cr worth looted in separate incidents in BiharLakhisarai police chief (SP) Sushil Kumar said blood stains found at the site indicated that many other Maoists were either injured or killed in the face-off, but their colleagues must have managed to drag them inside the forest. Earlier on February 11, a Maoist was gunned down in an encounter with the SSB (Sashastra Seema Bal) in Lakhisarai district. According to Khopde, this was the third encounter with the Maoists in the last 10 months, during which six Maoists have been killed so far. On March 16, security forces killed four Maoists in an encounter at Chakarbandha Hill falling under Dumaria police station of Gaya district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/maoist-killed-in-encounter-with-bihar-stf-ak-47-recovered-101635057180009.html
24-10-2021||Patna||Bihar minister's personal secy among 2 arrested for forged Parliament pass||Two persons, including the personal secretary of a Bihar minister, were on Saturday arrested here by a team of Delhi police crime branch for getting a forged entry pass made to access the Parliament.According to Gopalganj Superintendent of Police Anand Kumar, Bablu Arya, a personal secretary to the Minister for Mining and Geology Janak Ram, was arrested along with cyber cafe owner Mahesh Kumar.Both were named in a case which was registered upon a complaint by local MP Alok Kumar Suman who had come to know about the forgery and written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Speaker Om Birla and the Commissioner of Police of Delhi seeking their intervention.Notably, Janak Ram, a BJP leader, represented Gopalganj in the previous Lok Sabha. The JD(U), to which Suman belongs, is a BJP ally in the state as well as the Centre.The SP said both accused have been taken away to the national capital by the visiting team.Meanwhile, the minister said he had "terminated" the services of Arya no sooner than he came to learn of his alleged involvement in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-minister-s-personal-secy-among-2-arrested-for-forged-parliament-pass-101635049573873.html
24-10-2021||Gurugram||Many buildings in Gurugram, Faridabad will have to be demolished: CM Khattar on 'forest land'||Several buildings in Gurugram and Faridabad will have to be demolished if authorities were to remove all structures from 'forest land' as defined by the Supreme Court in its 2018 judgement, said Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on the fresh affidavit filed before the apex court on 2018 Kant Enclave verdict.The Supreme Court in 2018 had noted that all notified land in the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), was to be considered 'forest land.'Also Read| Aravallis: Demolition of illegal structures hits legal hurdleThe court on July 23 had directed the state government to raze down all unauthorized structures on the Aravali forest land. The state government abided by the direction and demolished a slum colony in Khori Gaon and sent show-cause notices to several owners of commercial structures including farmhouses, banquet halls, etc. Many had claimed that their properties fell outside of the defined 'forest land'. However, that state's forest department had dismissed all objections stating that these lands were notified under the PLPA, 1900 and were to be treated as 'forest land.'Khattar, opposing the top court's directive this time, said that Forest Act and land notified under PLPA are different adding that 40 per of the area of Haryana comes under PLPA."Area notified under Forest Act and land notified under PLPA (Punjab Land Preservation Act) are different. Due to some mistakes both land were treated as one. 40 per cent of area of Haryana comes under PLPA," said the chief minister.Khattar also said, "PLPA was for purpose of conserving and restoring erosion of soil, and was applicable for only a limited period. Several buildings in Gurugram and Faridabad, will have to be demolished if authorities were to remove all structures from forest land as defined."Also Read| 11 years on, buyers protest against non-delivery of plots in Gurugram projectThe state government on Thursday submitted an affidavit at the top court stating that all land under PLPA cannot be treated as "forest land," taking an opposing stand from what it told the court in 2018.Khattar further claimed that earlier wrong affidavits were submitted during the hearing."Earlier wrong affidavits were submitted. In our affidavit of 85 pages, we have requested Supreme Court to separate this (land comes under Forest Act and PLPA) and to take a decision on it," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/many-buildings-in-ggm-faridabad-will-have-to-be-demolished-cm-on-forest-land-101635043942217.html
24-10-2021||Delhi||CM Kejriwal to perform live Diwali puja this year||Like last year, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and members of his cabinet will perform Lakshmi Puja on Diwali, which will be celebrated on November 4.The puja will be telecast live, Kejriwal said on Saturday, and asked people to pray alongside them from their homes to generate “wonderful vibrations”.Last year, Kejriwal and his cabinet colleagues performed the puja at the famous Akshardham Temple in Delhi, but the location of this year’s ritual is yet to be announced by the government.“I would like to inform you all that this year on Diwali, I will carry out the puja with my cabinet ministers at 7pm which will be telecast live. I urge you all to join us virtually by also celebrating Diwali by switching on your televisions. Imagine the positive vibrations the joint celebrations will celebrate,” Kejriwal said at a function in the Delhi assembly to mark Maharaja Agrasen Jayanti.The CM will be going to Ayodhya on Tuesday to visit Ram Lalla and seek his blessings on behalf of all the people of Delhi in this festive season.Kejriwal was the chief guest of the Agr-Samagam event organised in the Delhi assembly premises by Agar-Vansh Sanstha.In 2019, the government had organised a laser show at Connaught Place to encourage people to forego crackers on Diwali.Last year, with Covid-19 protocol in place and gatherings of over 200 banned, the cabinet decided to hold the puja at Akshardham temple and telecast it live. The CM has visited Akshardham Temple on several occasions in the past as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-kejriwal-to-perform-live-diwali-puja-this-year-101635032553444.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypoll | Jai Ram, Pratibha hit out at each other over regional divide||With electioneering in three assembly constituencies and one parliamentary segment entering the final lap, allegations of regional politics are flying high in the Mandi bypolls. “Virbhadra Singh never discriminated against regions. It was he who laid the foundation for developing Mandi.It was given the status of the central zone during his tenure,” said Pratibha Singh. She addressed a series of meetings at Kataula, Shivabdar, Takoli of Drang assembly in Mandi constituency. “Congress is seeking votes in the name of work, while BJP is seeking votes in the name of regionalism. BJP believes in divisive politics,” she said, she while she questioned the government over rising inflation, and unemployment. “The ruling party is trying to divert attention from the core issues concerning the masses.” End cap politics: Jai Ram Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur also launched a scathing attack on the previous Congress government for promoting regionalism in the state. “Gone are the days when the state used to be discriminated on the colour of caps. Regional politics was so evident that colour of the caps changed with the party in power,” he said, addressing a public meeting in Larji in Kullu district. “We have out and end to cap politics. Congress was confident that it will win the seat when Ramswaroop was given a ticket for the first time. But the Congress candidate lost when Virbhadra Singh was a chief minister,” he said. said Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur While requesting the people in Banjar, the CM said that the BJP had got an edge from the area, the last time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypoll-jai-ram-pratibha-hit-out-at-each-other-over-regional-divide-101635024894164.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||72 fresh Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 72 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday.Of the total cases, 63 cases were reported in Kashmir valley while the Jammu division saw nine infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 80, with active positive cases reaching 862.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 55,281 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.415 crores.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 424 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 104 and 80 active cases, respectively.Officials said with 34 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 13 in Baramulla with no or single-digit cases in 18 districts.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,26,275 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.40%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,31,566 and the death-toll stands at 4,429.The officials said that 37,495 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,145 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 844 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/72-fresh-covid-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101635022491226.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||47 students among 258 to test Covid positive in HP||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid count increased to 2,22,569 on Saturday, after 258 more people, including 47 school students, tested positive for the virus. The death toll climbed to 3,718 after one patient succumbed to the infection. Among the fresh cases, 116 were reported from Kangra, of which 26 were schoolchildren. Forty-four people tested positive in Hamirpur, 25 in Bilaspur, 24 each in Mandi and Una,13 in Shimla, seven in Chamba, two each in Kinnaur and Solan and one in Kullu. The active case tally climbed to 1,578 while recoveries reached 2,17,256 after 163 people recuperated. Kangra is the worst-hit district with 50,161 cases, followed by Mandi where 31,466 people tested positive and Shimla that has recorded 27,449 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/47-students-among-258-to-test-covid-positive-in-hp-101635021231336.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||This bypoll, HP politicians remain mum on Pong Dam oustees’ persisting troubles||Breaking from a five-decade tradition of offering hollow promises and quiet sympathy, politicians campaigning for the Fatehpur bypoll have remained uncharacteristically mum on the hot-button issue of providing rehabilitation and compensation to those ousted from the Pong Dam area in Kangra after a hydroelectric project was setup on their land. Experts say with unemployment and inflation a major poll plank during the polls, the persisting issue of the oustees has been swept under the carpet in the face other pressing issues. Admitting that their was little talk on the long-pending issue, Congress legislator and Fatehpur bypoll in-charge Rajinder Singh Rana said, “Rehabilitation of the displaced people comes up in every session of the state assembly. However, this time the focus is on other pressing issues such as inflation and unemployment. There is anger among the people against the anti-people policies of the state and Centre.” Subhash Mehra, an oustee and senior journalist with a national Hindi daily, agrees. “It is a matter of survival. People understand that they can continue the fight only if they survive. Most locals are poor farmers and are reeling under soaring prices of essential commodities such as pulses and edible oil and they will vote on these issues,” said Mehra. BJP candidate Baldev Thakur, however, blamed the Congress for the troubles plaguing the Pong Dam oustees. “For 13 years, Congress legislator represented the constituency, but failed to raise the voice of oustees,” said Thakur. “If elected, I promise to take up their issue at every possible platform,” he said, adding that the ruling BJP government was also making sincere efforts to resettle displaced families. Dam of sorrow Fifty years have passed since over 20,000 families living in Kangra were uprooted from their land for the construction of the Pong hydroelectric power project that ushered a new era of prosperity in the arid Rajasthan. Raman Kumar, 26, a Pong Dam oustee said his grandfather gave up 10 acres of fertile land for the Pong Dam project. “I was not even born then. All my life I have seen my family struggling to get compensation and rehabilitation,” says Kumar whose family lives on a tiny island, Kuther, which ironically has neither electricity nor a school. Except for carrying out seasonal farming on the banks of the Pong Lake when the water recedes every winter, Kumar has no other means of earning a livelihood. “We are tired of all this. Politicians make promises only to break them. Now, it hardly matters now if it is an election issue or not for, we know that this battle will not end soon and we have to fight it on our own,” he said. Long-drawn battleThe construction of the dam started in 1961 on the Beas river near Pong village in Kangra district (then a part of Punjab), so that waters from its reservoir could be taken to the desert lands of Rajasthan and feed an extensive network of canal irrigation systems. A total area of 75,000 acres, spread over 94 villages in Nurpur and Dehra tehsil, was acquired for the reservoir. Of the acquired 339 tikkas (revenue estates), 223 were submerged fully and 116 partially, displacing 20,722 families and 1.5 lakh people. The submerged area was the most fertile in Kangra district and was called Haldoon Valley (which means granary) . The displaced people also did not get adequate compensation. Initially, the price was fixed at ₹140 per kanal, which was raised to ₹650 per kanal in 1965 and later to ₹1,000. The central government approached the Supreme Court, and in 1983 the price was revised to ₹750 per canal leaving the displaced people in a quandary. Most of them had already received compensation at the rate of ₹1,000 per kanal and the government had ordered recovery of the differential amount of ₹ 250.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/this-bypoll-hp-politicians-remain-mum-on-pong-dam-oustees-persisting-troubles-101635020692556.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||New organisation formed to uplift karate in Punjab||With an aim to bring all karate instructors of the state under one umbrella, the World Sotokan Karate Organisation, Punjab, was formed in Ludhiana on Saturday. Karate officials from 15 states gathered at the Circuit House in Ludhiana to form the aforesaid organisation.Ashok Chauhan was appointed the president of the organization while Rajveer Singh was made the general secretary. Tejinder Pal Singh was appointed the joint secretary and Pankaj Chaurasiya and Teke Tamang were named vice-presidents. Chauhan said the aim of the organisation was to uplift the game in the state.General secretary Rajveer Singh stated, “Our youngsters should be physically and mentally strong and we will work to provide better facilities and opportunities to the them.”Coaches Kahar Singh from Moga, Tejinder Singh from Hoshiarpur, Tek Tamang from Mohali, Pankaj Chourasiya from Firozpur, Kanj Chaurasia, Ajmal Masih from Gurdaspur, Manoj Kumar from Ludhiana, Vishal Kumar from Jalandhar, Usha from Ropar, Rajveer Singh from SBS Nagar, Armaan from Patiala, Rakesh were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-organisation-formed-to-uplift-karate-in-punjab-101635020691211.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz | The shopping bug||Festive season shoppers are left dazzled by fabrics and colours at the iconic Fabindia store in Chandigarh’s Sector 17. But for a humble bug, it must have been a decidedly bewildering odyssey as it flew from one rainbow stack of fabrics to another. How the disoriented insect had intruded into the santised store, where even houseflies may not dare, remains a mystery. Either it had slipped in through a vent or possibly got carried in a fabric consignment from outstation.The panicky bug landed on the back of my neck as I was shopping along with my better half. I dislodged it with my hand thinking it to be a housefly. When it landed on fabrics, I realised it was an unusual insect and was struck by the novelty of its presence among the haloed fabrics. Having grasped its predicament, and sensing it to be a plant eater, I removed it and placed it within thickly-foliaged plants outside the store.I contacted the Zoological Survey of India’s Dr. Sandeep Khushwaha as he has authored research papers on such insect families. “The insect belongs to the family, Rhopalidae, genus, Leptocoris. Your record is the first one of this from Chandigarh. It is commonly known as the soap plant bug. The 41 species of Leptocoris are distributed through Africa, South Asia and Oceania, and can be used as a biocontrol for environmental weeds,” informed Dr. Khushwaha.Demons lie in beholder’s eyeIn an area reeling under the terror of a leopard man-eater, smaller wild cat species face collateral damage under the mistaken notion that these are the progeny of the spotted marauder. Kittens of smaller wild cats such as the Jungle cat (JC) and Rusty Spotted cat can be mistaken as leopard cubs and are killed or removed from the spot – away from the mother leading to their death.Indeed, JC kittens may look like leopard cubs at a cursory first sight but they are very different. JC kittens are striped, brownish in colour and their ears have a kind of a tip in contrast to the more rounded ears of a leopard cub. However, these distinctions may not be so marked when JC kittens are extremely young and their stripes may seem like spots and their ears are yet to develop a marked tip. So, it is best to verify the species by involving experts.In a recent, heartwarming incident amid the gloom enveloping Kashmir, a trio of JC kittens unearthed from near the DC Office, Budgam, was handed over to the Police by a panicky mob fearing them to be the man-eater’s offspring and the augury of more human kills in future years. Budgam is faced with a man-eating leopard, which had killed a girl.The good thing was that, unlike in the past, when the Budgam people had quietly dislodged JC kittens, this time around they were handed over to the authorities. Wildlife SOS’s rescue personnel, Aaliya Mir, was summoned. Mir first made the anxious people aware that these were not leopard cubs. Later, with the people’s cooperation, she reunited the kittens with their distraught mother.vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-the-shopping-bug-101635020452198.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Eye on polls, AAP launches drive to apprise people of party schemes||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) launched ‘Ek Mauka AAP ko’ campaign ahead of the assembly elections, in the city on Saturday to apprise the residents about the schemes and promises made by AAP.The campaign was launched by district president Suresh Goyal in the Janakpuri area that falls under the central constituency. The AAP workers conducted a march in the area and distributed pamphlets to the residents apprising them of the guarantees given by AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal.Goyal said the AAP government had been working for the betterment of people in Delhi and people should give a chance to the party to serve the state in the coming elections. The campaign has been launched to apprise the people about schemes of the AAP government and how the traditional parties have failed to resolve the long-pending issues being faced by the residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eye-on-polls-aap-launches-drive-to-apprise-people-of-party-schemes-101635020391017.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||IMA Punjab stops admitting patients under Ayushman Bharat scheme||Criticising the state government and the SBI general insurance for allegedly failing to resolve the issues related to the delay in payment of claims and inspections, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Punjab, has stopped admitting new patients under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) - Ayushman Bharat scheme - from Saturday onwards.Stating that they have been working to transfer the benefits of the scheme to the poor in society, IMA members said their finances had been exhausted and the government had failed to resolve the issues by October 22, as assured after a meeting held with the deputy chief minister, OP Soni, recently.The IMA has also written regarding this to the Prime Minister, chief minister, health minister among others on Saturday.The members rued that the SBI general insurance had failed to implement the scheme properly since it had taken over the operations in August and the hospitals are facing problems due to which doctors were not able to transfer the benefits of the scheme to people.They said delayed authorisation due to which a patient had to wait for 2-3 days before starting treatment, delayed claim settlement, claims deducted even after authorisation, unnecessary queries for claim settlement, claim rejection on flimsy grounds, harassment due to inspections by BAMS/BDS/BHMS and medical and hospital audit not as per guidelines were among the problems being faced by hospitals.The patron and former president, IMA, Punjab, Dr Manoj Sobti said, “The government has failed to resolve the issues due to which hospitals have been forced to take this step. A majority of claims settlements have not been made after the SBI general insurance took over the operations in August. Earlier, we had warned of mass quitting the scheme if the problems are not resolved.”The members rued that 194 packages, including packages of gynae-obstetrics and ophthalmology, were reserved for government hospitals under the scheme and patients were forced to visit government hospitals. They demanded that packages should not be reserved so that patients could avail the facilities at private hospitals too.Residents to bear the bruntWith the IMA stopping all empanelled hospitals to stop admitting new cases, patients will have to bear the brunt of the tussle between both parties as they will not be able to get the benefit of the scheme.The Ayushman Bharat PMJAY is the health assurance scheme which aims at providing a health cover of ₹5 lakh per family per year for secondary and tertiary care hospitalisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ima-punjab-stops-admitting-patients-under-ayushman-bharat-scheme-101635020333235.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Man arrested for rape, criminal intimidation||The Tibba police have arrested a man for allegedly raping and making an obscene video of a 28-year-old married woman. The accused has been identified as Dheeraj of New Puneet Nagar.The victim told the police that the accused threatened to upload her video on social media in case she disclosed the incident to her family. He also threatened to kill her children and husband.The victim said she was living in a joint family and the accused was a family friend and a frequent visitor to their house.She said the accused used to force her to establish physical relations with him, but she refused. On October 2, when she was alone at home, the accused came and offered her a cold drink laced with sedatives after which she fell unconscious. The accused raped her and also made an obscene video of her. He threatened her that he would make the videos viral on social media if she disclosed the incident to her family.The victim alleged that on October 20 when she was going to the market, the accused intercepted her on the way and dragged her to a shanty where he raped her again. When she objected, the accused threatened that he would kill her husband and children.After returning home, she narrated the entire incident to her husband and on Friday she lodged an FIR.Sub-Inspector Rachhpal Kaur said a case under Sections 376 and 506 of IPC has been registered and the accused had been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-arrested-for-rape-criminal-intimidation-101635020271202.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Man arrested for illegally storing firecrackers at house||The police have arrested a resident of Satguru Nagar, Daba, for illegally storing firecrackers at his house. The accused has been identified as Jasdeep Singh.Meet Ram, ASI, said the police conducted a raid at his house following a tip-off. The accused has two houses in Satguru Nagar. He is living in one house with his family while the other one was used as an illegal godown to store firecrackers. The house was in a thickly populated area.A case under Sections 336 (Act endangering life or personal safety of others), 286 (Negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance) and 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC have been registered against him and he has been arrested.Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP, headquarters) J Elanchezhian has already imposed a ban on storing firecrackers in residential areas.Anurag Verma, principal secretary, home affairs and justice, Punjab, had written to all commissioners of police and senior superintendents of police to conduct checks on unauthorised storage of firecrackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-arrested-for-illegally-storing-firecrackers-at-house-101635020212270.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana ATM fraud gang was active for a decade: Police||Many important information came to the fore after the Jamalpur police questioned a gang of fraudsters whose members were arrested on Thursday. Forty-one debit cards and two cars were recovered from their possession, who was active in multiple cities and states.The police said the gang was committing fraud with banks for the past 10 years by taking advantage of the chinks in the system. The police suspect the accused had stolen ₹10 crore from various banks. They revealed they had learnt the technique from the internet.The accused are in the custody of the Jamalpur police for questioning. They told the police that they had committed frauds in Chandigarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and various cities of Ludhiana.After revelations made by the gang, the police have asked the banks to update their ATM system.The accused said they used to withdraw cash from the ATMs sans security guards. They used to spend the money for buying property, luxury cars and expensive phones.The police said the accused had multiple accounts with fake names and addresses in different banks. They used to withdraw money through specially designed hooks which they would attach to the money dispensing tray of ATMs. When the cash was dispensed, they used to switch off the power supply to the ATM and withdraw the bills.The police on Thursday had arrested Naveen Kumar, Rakesh Kumar of Bhamian Kalan, Surinder Bansal of Tibba road, Ajay Kumar of Jassian Road and Rocky of Moti Nagar. Their accomplices who are yet to be arrested are Paramjit Singh of Dera Bassi and Rakesh Kumar of Tajpur road and recovered 41 credit and debit cards from their possession.Inspector Kulwant Singh Malhi, SHO, Jamalpur police station, said more important information had been expected from the accused during the questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-atm-fraud-gang-was-active-for-a-decade-police-101635020151557.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Two held with 50gm heroin||Two Dubai-returned men were arrested with 50g heroin from the National Highway near Bhora village crossing near Jalandhar Bypass on Friday.The accused were identified as Gurpinder Singh, 27, of Bhundri village, Sidhwan Bet, and Jaswinder Singh, 31, of Sidhwan Khurd village. Police have also seized the car in which the duo was travelling.Sub-Inspector Amarjit Singh, the investigating officer, said the accused were nabbed following a tip-off. A case under Section 22/61/85 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was registered against the accused at Salem Tabri police station. He added that the accused had recently returned from Dubai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-two-held-with-50gm-heroin-101635020091314.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Five trucks laden with paddy from Uttar Pradesh confiscated at Shambhu barrier||The district police impounded five trucks laden with paddy from Uttar Pradesh at the Shambhu barrier on Friday night. Police said to keep a tab on the flow of illegal paddy into the state, police in association with officials of the food and civil supplies have put up special checkposts on Punjab-Haryana border.The police said the trucks, bearing Uttar Pradesh registration numbers, coming from Ambala side were stopped for checking.During verification of the stock, it was found that the paddy was bought at low rates from UP and were to be sold in grain markets in Punjab at higher rates, said the police.At both interstate borders of Patiala district, Shambhu near Rajpura and Ramnagar near Samana, teams have been put on alert to check paddy trucks coming from other states to Punjab, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-trucks-laden-with-paddy-from-uttar-pradesh-confiscated-at-shambhu-barrier-101635020031250.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula: Rolling Tigers skaters make clean sweep||Rolling Tigers Club added 14 more medals to their medal tally to end up winning 92 overall medals on the last day of the 27th District Roller Skating Competition held at Blue Bird High School in Panchkula‘s Sector 16. They had won 78 medals on Day 1. The skaters won the medals in rink 1,2,3,4 and road races in which 40 are gold. ₹15,000, wallet stolen from two-wheeler parked in Chandigarh’s Sector 29A man stole a wallet and ₹15,000 from a two-wheeler parked in Sector 29, police said on Saturday. Rohit Kumar of Sector 7, who works with a private finance company, said he had parked his Honda Activa outside a gym from where his valuables were stolen. Through CCTV cameras, the police have identified the accused as Aamir Khan of Sector 29 and booked him. Light rain likely todayThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light to moderate rain in the city on Sunday, following which dry weather will return. “A Western Disturbance is active over the area, which can bring in rain up to 20. This will cause the maximum temperature to fall down by 4-5 degrees,” said an IMD official.Club owner, manager booked for violating 12am deadlineSatinder Singh, the owner, and Deepak, the general manager of Culture Brew Exchange, Sector 26, were booked after police found the bar open beyond 12am. A case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered. iPhone stolen from Hotel Taj’s washroomA woman’s mobile phone was stolen from a washroom at Hotel Taj in Sector 17 on October 19, police said on Saturday. The complainant, Aditi Goel, of Sector 6, Panchkula, said she had left her Apple iPhone in front of the mirror before entering one of the toilet cabins, but it was gone when she returned. A case under Section 380 of the IPC was registered.Dadumajra man thrashed over old rivalryA resident of Dadumajra Colony was assaulted by three people over an old rivalry. Bunty said accused Sahil, Raja, and Happy thrashed him with sticks on Friday and also snatched his mobile phone, ATM card, watch and other documents. He said the accused threatened him as well. An FIR under Sections 341, 323, 379B and 506 of the IPC has been registered. Haryana man held for running illegal immigration firmA man hailing from Haryana’s Fatehabad was arrested for running an illegal immigration firm in Phase 11 here, police said on Saturday. Raju Soni was arrested from his office – Bright Consultancy, following a tip-off. He had kept the passports of applicants in his possession, officials said, adding that four of them were seized during the raid. Soni was later granted bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-rolling-tigers-skaters-make-clean-sweep-101635019912534.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Labourer assaulted, robbed of phone in Gandhi Nagar market||A labourer was robbed of his mobile phone by two bike-borne miscreants in Gandhi Nagar Market in the wee hours of Saturday. The incident has been captured on closed-circuit television cameras installed in the area.The victim, Ravi Kumar, 23, of Fatehabad of Uttar Pradesh, said that he had got off a train and was walking towards his rented accommodation in Gandhi Nagar when the duo waylaid him and tried to snatch his phone and cash. When he resisted, the accused assaulted him with a sharp-edged weapon and snatched his phone. Hearing his cries for help, some locals gathered at the spot. Seeing them, the accused fled.One of the accused was nabbed hours later and the phone was also recovered from his possession. The accused has been identified as Neeraj Gill of Chhawni Mohalla.Division Number 4 station house officer, inspector Gurmeet Singh said a hunt is on for the second accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-labourer-assaulted-robbed-of-phone-in-gandhi-nagar-market-101635019911333.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mustafa, Capt in Twitter war over Aroosa Alam||A day after Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa ordered a probe to ascertain whether Aroosa Alam has any links with Pakistan’s spy agency Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), principal strategic adviser to Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, Mohammad Mustafa and former CM Capt Amarinder Singh entered into a war on words on Twitter on Saturday. Ex-DGP Mustafa, who is husband of Punjab cabinet Minister Razia Sultana, took on Amarinder for tweeting Aroosa’s picture with Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday evening. “Still grappling to grasp the designs behind tweeting Congress president-Aroosa picture. Please do understand, grant of Visa by the UPA or NDA doesn’t include licence to domesticate and outsource Governance apparatus to ‘Videshi mehmaan’,” Mustafa tweeted. In the next tweet, he posted an old picture of former chief secretary Vini Mahajan and then DGP Dinkar Gupta with Aroosa. “If I am wrong, explain this,” Mustafa asked Amarinder. The former chief minister, through his media adviser Raveen Thukral, quickly targeted Mustafa while releasing pictures of Aroosa with Mustafa’s wife Razia Sultana and his daughter-in-law. “And how about you explaining this. Isn’t that your wife and daughter-in-law with the same lady? How low can you get? Mixing politics with friendship! Aroosa personally cherishes these and many more such memories with your family,” Thukral quoted Amarinder as saying. The Mustafa family was reportedly close to Aroosa and Amarinder during the former’s stay in India before Amarinder-Mustafa relationship turned sour when he was overlooked for the post of the state DGP and Dinkar Gupta was elevated to the top police post. In another tweet later in the day, Mustafa targeted Thukral and wrote: “My time too precious to engage proxies. The depth and dimension of our relationships with Amarinder are beyond everyone’s comprehension, miles above pure commerce. Even during bitter fights we draw and line, Raveen Bhai, no self appointed surrogate would every understand that.” To this Thukral replied:” Mustafa bhai, with both of us without real jobs, our time is equally precious. But what I write here-quote unquote-are Amarinder’s views. But I agree, just as people can’t understand your relationships, mine too has been misunderstood by dubbing me as surrogate. Best wishes!,”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mustafa-capt-in-twitter-war-over-aroosa-alam-101635019731305.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man sold banned BS-III bike gets ₹50,000 compensation||The sale of a Bharat Stage-III vehicle, which is not permitted on Indian roads, has cost a motorcycle manufacturer, its authorised dealer and the financing bank dear.The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum, Mohali, has directed the dealer, Bedi Auto Wings LLP, Industrial Area, Phase 3, Mohali, to refund ₹91,440, the price of the motorcycle, along with 12% interest, to the complainant, a resident of Colony Number 4, Industrial Area, Phase 1.The dealer; the manufacturer, Suzuki Motorcycle India Private Ltd; and IDFC First Bank Limited, that financed the vehicle, have also been told to jointly and severally pay ₹50,000 as compensation to the complainant within 30 days. From April 1, 2017, the Supreme Court had banned the sale and registration of Bharat Stage (BS)-III vehicles to make way for more eco-friendly BS-IV vehicles.However, the complainant, Rakesh Yadav, was sold a BS-III motorcycle by the automobile dealer on April 11, 2017.Yadav was caught unawares when the registration of the two-wheeler was rejected by the Registering and Licensing Authority, Chandigarh, in line with the SC directions. When he approached the dealer for a refund, his requests fell on deaf ears. Disposing of his complaint, the forum observed that the dealer made a fool of the complainant by taking advantage of his innocence and sold a vehicle which was not permitted by law.Holding the manufacturer guilty as well, the forum said, “We feel that manufacturer is equally liable for the nefarious activities of authorised dealer…It was incumbent upon the manufacturer to immediately call back or withdraw all vehicles lying in various agencies throughout India, as and when it came to know about the ban on the sale and registration of these vehicles. Manufacturer cannot escape its liability by providing us with an agreement with authorised dealer.” The order also said that IDFC First Bank Limited should also not have financed the vehicle and claimed interest on it, as it was very much aware that this specific vehicle was not permissible on the roads and its registration had been banned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-sold-banned-bs-iii-bike-gets-50-000-compensation-101635019612311.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Zirakpur shop owner abducted, robbed of car||A chemist shop owner was allegedly abducted by nine people and later robbed of his car in Zirakpur on Friday night. Complainant Kuldeep Singh told the police that he had received a call from his acquaintance Kuldeep Kaur, asking him to deliver some medicines. Kuldeep said he went to deliver the medicines at a local hotel, where nine people turned up in two cars and forcibly took him with them. One of them followed in Kuldeep’s car. He said the accused later dropped him near Patiala border, but drove off with his Maruti Alto car, ₹2,500 in cash and his wallet. The police have registered an FIR and procured footage of CCTV cameras. The claims of the victim are being verified, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/zirakpur-shop-owner-abducted-robbed-of-car-101635019611095.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Private hospitals also out of beds as dengue cases refuse to abate||With dengue case soaring to alarming proportions in the tricity, leaving government health facilities strained, even major private hospitals are running out of beds.Over 15 patients, suffering from dengue symptoms, are getting admitted to major private hospitals daily, forcing them to turn away many. The hospitals are also reporting shortage of platelets for patients with severe infection.For weeks, government hospitals in the tricity – primarily those in Chandigarh, which are catering to patients from across the region – have been buckling under the spike in dengue cases, leading patients to turn to private facilities.“We are getting patients with confirmed or suspected dengue infection from across the tricity. On an average, 15 patients are getting admitted daily, including those with severe infection. So far, we have treated 45 dengue patients and 10 suspected patients,” said Abhijit Singh, director, Fortis Hospital, Mohali, adding that to manage the increase in patient load, the hospital was ramping up its bed capacity.Dr RS Bedi, who runs Bedi Hospital in Chandigarh and is former national vice-president of the Indian Medical Association, said, “Daily, over 35 patients are getting consultancy at our hospital and around 10 require admissions. Many patients are getting diagnosed at later stages, increasing severity of infection. As we cannot arrange more beds, we are forced to turn away 4-5 patients.” Dr Achint Narang, senior consultant and head, critical care, Alchemist Hospital, Panchkula, said, “This year, we are receiving more severe cases compared to previous years. This may be related to some sort of strain change, which can be confirmed only through genetic mapping of viruses causing the infections this season. Also, more younger patients are being affected. Due to sudden spike in patient inflow, our bed capacity is nearly full.”At government hospitals, in absence of beds, patients are being treated on trolleys or in other departments. Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER said, “Internal medicine department is catering to over 200 patients at present, almost double than its capacity, and most of the patients are suffering from fever. We are also admitting 15-20 confirmed dengue patients daily, with most of them in serious condition.”The situation is similar at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Sector 32 and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH) in Sector 16, where more patients than the hospitals’ capacity are being treated for the infection.“We have a dedicated ward of 70 beds at the civil hospital and more beds will be added if needed,” said Dr Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, adding that many patients from Mohali are under treatment in Chandigarh hospitals as well.147 fresh dengue cases in tricityThe fresh dengue cases shot up to 147 on Saturday, against 101 on Friday.Mohali confirmed 85 cases, followed 36 in Chandigarh and 26 in Panchkula.With this, Mohali’s dengue cases this year have reached 1,981, far ahead of Chandigarh’s tally of 581 and Panchkula’s total of 422.Mohali district has also lost 21 residents to the viral infection, while three people have died in Chandigarh. Panchkula has reported no death till now.Meanwhile, the House Owners Welfare Association (HOWA), Sector 10, Panchkula, on Saturday blamed the local administration for the outbreak and urged the municipal corporation to start a special campaign to trim bushes and conduct door-to-door fogging in all sectors of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhprivate-hospitals-also-out-of-beds-as-dengue-cases-refuse-to-abate-101635019555256.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Nepalese servants drug employers in Chandigarh; steal cash, jewellery||Two Nepalese domestic helps stole cash and jewellery from a Sector-36 house after sedating their employers on Friday.The complainant, Surender Pal Singh, 65, who lives with his 85-year-old mother in the house, said one of their servants served them tea on Friday afternoon, following which they fell unconscious.On waking up, he found his house ransacked and the almirahs open. Though the exact loss has yet to be determined, he said around ₹20,000 in cash and some jewellery articles were stolen.An agriculturist, Surender, said he owned a business in USA, where his children also lived. But currently he was living in Chandigarh with his elderly mother. He had hired a Nepalese domestic help two months ago after their regular servant went on leave. The second servant had also asked for leave recently and brought in another man a couple of days ago to work in his absence. Withholding the servants’ names, police said both were missing after committing the theft. Teams have been despatched to their native places to arrest them. A case under Sections 328 (causing hurt by means of poison, etc., with intent to commit an offence) and 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Sector 36 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nepalese-servants-drug-employers-in-chandigarh-steal-cash-jewellery-101635019553275.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Percentage of cyclist fatalities in 2020 highest in 5 years||Even though the number of fatalities in accidents in the city dropped to half between 2019 and 2020, the percentage of cyclist fatalities was the highest in five years, according to the Road Safety in Chandigarh 2020 report, released by the traffic police on Friday.A total of 10 cyclists were killed in road mishaps in 2020, forming 19% of the total fatalities (53) in the year. An equal number of cyclists died in 2019 as well, but overall, the accidents claimed 104 lives, making the percentage of cyclist fatalities in 2020 higher.Accidents involving cyclists continue in Chandigarh despite a large network of cycle tracks, meant to be a considerably safer means of travel.Umesh Sharma, professor in the civil engineering department of Punjab Engineering College, who specialises in traffic management, noted that though cycle tracks were available, there was an imbalance.“Most of these tracks are in northern sectors, while majority of the city’s population lives in southern sectors, where traffic movement is higher. Infrastructure for cyclists also needs to be improved. The cycle tracks must be well lit and have no obstructions or potholes, as specified by the Indian Road Congress,” he said.Use of the tracks by cyclists also remains inconsistent, even as the administration has been working to encourage cycling as a mode of transport to reduce traffic congestion.Through the year, traffic police conduct awareness drives, asking cyclists not to move on main roads, fix reflectors on their bikes and not wear dark clothes while cycling. Cycle squad also patrols the tracks for safety and removal of wrongly parked vehicles.NP Sharma, chief general manager of Chandigarh Smart City Limited, which has launched the public bicycle sharing project in the city, said they were also working on awareness campaigns for cyclists. “We will update the bicycle sharing app to contain awareness material for cyclists. Further, the UT administration has also started lighting up cycle tracks, among other infrastructure arrangements for cyclists,” he added.Pedestrian fatalities lowerMeanwhile, the number of pedestrians killed in road accidents went down. Pedestrians constituted 35% of fatalities in 2019, but the figure dipped to 23% in 2020.The traffic police’s report noted that all 11 accidents involving pedestrians happened where pedestrian infrastructure was missing, while no fatal accidents took place where zebra crossings were available.Vehicles continue to outnumber populationThe number of vehicles still continues to exceed Chandigarh’s population. As per the report, there were 12,34,757 vehicles in the city in 2020 against 11,58,491 people.It was in 2018 when the number of vehicles first crossed the number of people in the city, and the gap has only grown wider since then.The report, however, also found that the vehicle registration went down by 34% in 2020 and was also lowest in a decade. A total of 29,518 vehicles were registered in 2020, compared to 45,336 vehicles in the year before.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-percentage-of-cyclist-fatalities-in-2020-highest-in-5-years-101635019552249.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||At 65, Ludhiana sees biggest single-day spurt in dengue cases||The district on Saturday recorded the year’s biggest single-day spike in dengue cases with 65 infections coming to fore in the last 24 hours.For the last four days, the district has been consistently recording more than 50 cases a day. The total number of confirmed dengue cases has now reached 696. The fresh cases have been reported from Kitchlu Nagar, BRS Nagar, Salem Tabri, Sham Singh Road, Gurpal Nagar in Milerganj, Model Gram, Kailash Chowk, Bhamian Road, Chander Nagar, Atam Nagar, Rani Jhansi Road, Hargobindpura, Nehru Nagar and Tagore Nagar among other areas. While four people are suspected to have succumbed to the disease, no fatality has been confirmed yet. Authorities have appealed to the residents to take precautions and avoid water accumulation in and around their houses to stop breeding of mosquitoes.One new Covid case detected in districtOne fresh case of Covid-19 was detected in the district in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Saturday. The cumulative count of cases has now reached 87,592, of which 2,105 have succumbed. The district currently has 29 active cases.DC orders extensive Covid sampling amid festive rush To prevent a spurt in Covid cases amid the festive hustle and bustle, Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma has directed the health department to conduct extensive Covid-19 sampling and surveillance. He asked health officials to ensure aggressive sampling at the entry points of the district, bus stand, railway station, schools, colleges, hospitals, labour colonies, high population density areas, industries, de-addiction centers, gyms and others. He directed the health officials to organise special testing camps in markets as these were expected to see the maximum footfall in the coming days. The DC also appealed to shopkeepers to ensure compliance of various guidelines on their premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-65-ludhiana-sees-biggest-single-day-spurt-in-dengue-cases-101635019432358.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||TB elimination programme: Central team to inspect Chandigarh hospitals||A joint supportive supervision mission team from the central TB division will evaluate implementation of the National Tuberculosis Elimination Programme in Chandigarh, the health department said on Saturday.The nine-member team led by Dr Ashok Bhardwaj, chairperson, national task force, will visit different designated microscopy and DOT centres in Chandigarh for three days, starting Sunday. On October 27, the team will meet the UT health secretary and submit its findings and recommendations, the health department said.“The four-day long evaluation will be a step towards elimination of TB from Chandigarh. The programme has been under implementation in India since 2002 to achieve universal access to quality TB diagnosis and treatment for all such patients,” said Dr Suman Singh, director health services, Chandigarh.“There is free testing facility for TB patients in Chandigarh, besides free medicine and supportive diet money for improving the nutritional status of the patient,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tb-elimination-programme-central-team-to-inspect-chandigarh-hospitals-101635019431176.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Not a single posting took place without ‘money, gifts’ to Aroosa: Navjot Kaur||State Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu’s wife Navjot Kaur on Saturday slammed former CM Capt Amarinder Singh for his friendship with Pakistan journalist Aroosa Alam. Kaur, who is former MLA from the Amritsar East constituency, currently represented by her husband, was here to inaugurate development works worth ₹50 lakh at Mudhal village.Interacting with the media, she said no appointment or posting took place in the state without “money or gifts” to Aroosa. “ Nobody came without a gift of diamond sets for Aroosa,” she alleged. “No chairman was appointed without giving her gifts. Even in the police department, no posting took place without Aroosa’s consent. This is also an open secret that she ran away to Dubai and England with money from Punjab. Now, Captain Sahib should chase her and keep an eye on the money. Otherwise, he would lose that money as well. Captain should enjoy the rest of his life at least,” Kaur said. HT could not immediately contact Aroosa for her reaction to Kaur’s allegations.To a question on Aroosa’s picture with Congress president Sonia Gandhi shared by Amarinder’s media adviser Raveen Thukral on Twitter on Friday, Kaur said it was an old picture.Kaur said: “I never comment on anyone’s personal life, but the Prime Minister and home minister are aware of what happens in the country. They are supposed to take action.” When asked to comment on Amarinder’s plan of floating a new political party, she said: “Not even Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu, who was his right hand man, stood by him. He did not even stay with him for two days. Who will go with him?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/not-a-single-posting-took-place-without-money-gifts-to-aroosa-navjot-kaur-101635019371250.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column | Sensationalising Aryan Khan case will not root out drugs||The blinding glitter of electronic media has predictably made Aryan Khan a household name. However, it has failed to cause the only reaction that could be useful to society, especially the youth: introspection. The drug issue may remain in news even after the 24/7 television and social media burn out because the “victim” happens to be a high-profile entity. However, the core issue may be lost as the public remains confused due to different versions of the event. Sadly, we seem obsessed with only two aspects of the problem – the legal and the sensational, forgetting that the problem is much closer to home and more rampant than we like to think. There may be an Aryan in our own neighbourhood or even in your own home. Therefore, it is important to look at the problem as a parent would were his own child a victim .All solutions begin with a change in social attitudes and the willingness to see drug addiction not as a stigmatic menace but a disease. Treating it as a newspaper and TV item is quite different from having to deal with it as a stark reality.It does not matter what the addiction is: drugs, alcohol or smoking. The difference is only in the intensity. The stigma associated with smoking and alcohol is lesser, and thus they are relatively easier to deal with. This shows us that the drug menace should be must be destigmatised. An addict must not be seen as an isolated, individual case but as an integral part of the organic whole that is society. After all, the infection in one organ may also take over the entire body. Contrary to popular belief, drug menace is not just an elitist luxury, but cuts right across layers of society, affecting the rich and poor, urban and rural alike in varying degrees of intensity. Fortunately, help is at hand. What is lacking is awareness of both the nature of disease and the availability of help. For instance, help is available in dedicated centres in institutions such as the PGI and support groups such AA, NA , Al-Anon. It is important to spread awareness on how to reach these help centres. As a first step, the tendency to be judgemental about victims must be overcome. Help begins with acceptance and willingness to admit and own the problem and seek help. But society must act to make it easier for the ‘patient’ to move in that directionIt is important to resist the Aryan syndrome, which is treating the issue as a titillating sensation. A mere escape from the boredom of reality. It must be seen as an opportunity to face and solve a a major social challenge .We need to go beyond the actual victim and focus on the menace as a potential epidemic. We need to focus not just on victims of the menace but also on those affected by it. Their number is alarming .Empathy is the most important tool. Empathy can alone destigmatise a patient and it must begin from the family. As one who has often been involved in support groups helping the hapless victims start new lives, I feel that everyone must empower ourselves and one another through empathy, awareness and willingness to give and receive help from one another.(The author has been an active volunteer with social awareness and support groups including Sahayta )||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sensationalising-aryan-khan-case-will-not-root-out-drugs-101635019251382.html
24-10-2021||Delhi||India vs Pakistan T20 World Cup match: It’s raining deals and discounts!||Be it playing on the streets or watching on screen, a match unites all cricket lovers. And when it’s about the much-awaited India and Pakistan match who will face each other on October 24 at the T20 World Cup, it is a big reason to celebrate. Restaurants and bars in the city are gearing up to provide special offers, deals and discounts along with lively atmosphere and dhol walas for the blockbuster match on Sunday. Provisions are also being put in place to cater to larger groups as it also coincides with the occasion of Karwachauth.From offering happy hours to free shots to restaurant vouchers on predicting the correct score, there’s a lot in store. Tamasha in Connaught Place is planning to offer 1+1 cocktails and mocktails to double the excitement while watching and giving your partner the best food after a whole day of fasting for Karvachauth. “It’s always a thrilling yet exciting moment to watch Ind VS Pak live, cheering for our players together and if your partner happily enjoys this moment, your mode of celebration goes at another level,” says Jaideep Singh Anand, founder, Tamasha.If you and your partner are die-heart cricket fans, reserve your table at The Drunken Botanist in Gurugram that will be offering you a free beer on Indian victory and free shots on every Pakistan wicket. “You surely get to celebrate and enjoy in a king and queen style cheering it aloud altogether,” says Sahil Sambhi, director, Drunken Botanist. For those planning to step out and watch the game with friends, Shakespeare Bistro & Bar is welcoming guests to watch the Ind VS Pak match and giving them an amazing chance to grab a 40% flat discount when India is batting.Going beyond deals on drinks and food, SOCIAL outlets in Mumbai and Delhi’s Nehru Place will also have dhol walas and face painters for a stadium-like experience. “To give our patrons a true blue World Cup viewing experience, we have curated a special edition menu, exciting on the spot offers, a quirky T-20 spin on our signature cocktail- the L.L.I.I.T and a host of on-the-spot offers to make the night even more memorable,” says Mayank Bhatt, Brand Head - SOCIAL, Impresario Handmade Restaurants. And those who’d like to stay at home and watch the nail-biting match, eateries have something special for you as well! Watch India fight its favourite cricketing rival Pakistan over a delicious pizza from MPC. “Only valid exclusively for this match, you can place your order before the match begins an avail a 20% discount as a promotional offer,” says Rachit Goil, owner, Masala Pizza company.Fancy some biryani at your doorstep? You could have a lot more! “We, at Lattu Biryani are running contests on social media pages wherein if you predict the correct score or wickets tally of players, you stand to win vouchers worth ₹5,000,” says Debashish Yadav, CEO, Licorne Hospitality.For a sweet ending to the day, Mad Over Donuts has a quirky code ‘mauka’, that will get you additional six donuts on a purchase of six.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/india-vs-pakistan-t20-world-cup-match-it-s-raining-deals-and-discounts-101635019195531.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Random Forays | Why do our tempers flare up so often?||As a Scorpio by birth, I felt during my younger days that I had the licence to flare up at times. My temper would spike like a steep mountain but luckily it would subside shortly thereafter. Having read Linda Goodman and her ilk thoroughly, I knew all there was to know about the Scorpio sun sign and the volatile traits of those born in it.Over the years , I realised, however, that losing one’s cool was not so cool! Thankfully I am more temperate in my temper management these days and my friends consider me to be a relatively calm individual.The fact that anger is detrimental to our health and wellbeing is well documented. However, none of us gives a damn when moments of anger come to us. It is almost impossible in that situation to control one’s impulse to seethe and shout. But if we work on our moods in offline situations and perhaps practice yoga as well as meditation, we just might be able to refrain from boiling over even when provoked repeatedly by others.According to a Harvard University research, “Flares and flashes. Outbursts and eruptions. The words used to describe anger tend to be volcanic. And science may explain why. When an angry feeling coincides with aggressive or hostile behaviour, it also activates the amygdala, an almond-shaped part of the brain associated with emotions, particularly fear, anxiety, and anger.”If we look at ourselves a little analytically, each one of us can discern what actually makes us blow our tops. The raison d’etre for each person’s anger episodes is likely to be unique and distinct. But an introspective insight into our own conduct will enable us to understand the causes of our short fuses. Perhaps, then, it might be possible to eliminate or at least contain some of the shouting matches that we tend to indulge in. The frequency and intensity of losing one’s temper can surely be reduced if not minimised, if only we would try. Not only will such triers become more likable, they will also become healthier human beings.Another aspect of this discussion involves the vibrations that a short tempered person emits even when he or she is not actually in the midst of a tantrum. Just by being a cynical and fault finding being, an angry person rattles those who are around. A former editor, who drives around in the hills a lot these days, confided that he makes a pledge to himself each time he commences on a journey. He tells himself that he will not abuse anyone on the road even silently, and even if the ‘rascal’ deserves it! And he adds that he has a feeling of nirvana every time he accomplishes this challenging task.Our society needs many more such determined gentlemen who are able to eschew their tendency to chew people up. Haha! If a dusty desk, a spicy curry, a missing pen or an absentminded mistake repeatedly earns someone our ire, we need a re-look at our own conduct. We have no business to throw around our weight at trifles and hurt the feelings of others at home or office. Mindfulness expert Eckhart Tolle says that wherever there is anger, there is pain underneath. And one might add that an undercurrent of insecurity could be the reason for the behaviour of an over-aggressive boss or family member. A corollary to this point could be the fact that authority is not as important as respect. Someone who is firm but gentle might earn much more goodwill than someone who is unpleasantly rough with people. A powerful chair does not give us a licence to scare people. They are sure to curse us under their breath each time and we will not earn brownie points with the Almighty either.The word ‘danger’ uncannily has ‘anger’ embedded in it and thus the owner of an ‘angersome’ persona had better watch out! The tables are easily turned in real life and he might just have to repent for his uncouth conduct when the day of reckoning comes!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-why-do-our-tempers-flare-up-so-often-101635018951455.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Income tax raids continue for third day||Income-tax (I-T) raids on bicycle and parts manufacturers continued for the third consecutive day in Ludhiana on Saturday. It has been learnt that the operation has been concluded at a unit in Dhandari area and the residences of a few industrialists but the raids were still going on at majority of the places. Police have been deputed outside the units to stop entry and exit from the building.On Thursday, I-T had conducted raids at over two dozen premises of bicycle manufacturers including their units, offices and residences situated in different parts of the city. The industries included Neelam cycles (Seth Industrial corporation), Vishal Cycles, Gurdip Cycle industries (Ashoka), Raka cycle industries, Arpan Cycles, Willpower cycle industries etc. Officials had confiscated documents/bills and digital records from the premises.Over 100 officials from different districts of the state are said to be part of the teams which conducted raids in Focal Point, near Partap Chowk, Dhandari Kalan, Model Town, Atam Nagar etc.Most of the industries raided by the department have been dealing with each other and have also been participating in government tenders floated for purchase of bicycles in the past.United cycle and parts manufacturers’ association vice-president Satnam Makkar said the raids have triggered panic in the industry and may leave a long-term impact on the industry, which is already reeling under financial crisis due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-income-tax-raids-continue-for-third-day-101635018891075.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Fazilka double murder: 14 accused still at large||Six day after the double murder of newlywed couple at their native village Sappanwali in Fazilka, 14 of the 17 accused are still at large. On Sunday, October 17, relatives of the bride allegedly abducted and killed the couple for marrying in a different caste against their wishes. Rohtash Singh, 25, and Suman Devi, 23, had tied the knot in a Chandigarh court on October 1. They had taken shelter at Rohtash’s brother-in-law Sukhdev Singh’s house at Moga’s Raunta village. On October 17, relatives of Suman abducted them. A few hours later, their bodies were found on a street at Sappanwali village. The victims were in a relationship for the last 10 years. The Moga police have booked 17 persons in this case and arrested only three of them so far. Those who were arrested have been identified as Mohinder Singh, Bipin Kumar, and Aman of Sappanwali. Police said that Atma Ram, uncle of the bride, is the main accused in the case and is absconding since October 17. A senior police officer, requesting anonymity, said: “Atma was hiding in Rajasthan and we have detained him. A team is on its way to bring him to Moga.” Nihal Singh Wala police station in-charge Nirmaljit Singh said: “We are regularly conducting raids to nab the main accused and he will be arrested soon. His arrest will clear the whole story of the crime and involvement of all accused persons.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fazilka-double-murder-14-accused-still-at-large-101635018711164.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh SSP calls for intensified patrolling ahead of festive season||With at least 30 burglary cases reported in Chandigarh this month, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal called for intensified patrolling in the city. Chahal held a meeting on Saturday with SP (City), subdivisional police officers, SHOs, and incharge of police posts at the police headquarters in Sector 9. He asked them to be proactive and alert to check increasing incidents of snatching, theft, and burglary this festival season. The SSP has issued direction to intensify patrolling in sensitive areas, especially during the late night hours. The police control rooms (PCRs) have been asked to surveil busy markets and vital installations. Chahal also asked police officials put up more nakas in crime-prone areas and busy markets. Along with this, special emphasis has been made to focus on the drug-related cases and intelligence teams have been instructed to keep an eye on such activities in their jurisdictions. Special checking of hotels, guest houses, inns and other hideouts must be conducted, the SSP said. “In the wake of festival season, instructions have been passed to ensure that law and order is not disturbed. Special focus would be on preventing thefts and street crime, while enhanced police dominance would also ensure women safety,” Chahal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-ssp-calls-for-intensified-patrolling-ahead-of-festive-season-101635018653235.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Power cuts to play spoilsport on Karva Chauth||Power supply disruption due to maintenance work is set to play spoilsport during Karva Chauth festivities on Sunday. Residents of Janta Nagar and adjoining area of Golden Park will witness power outage from 10am to 2pm. Power cut will be imposed in Khawajaka village, Rawat, Dhaula, Kakka, Bhoda Colony, Khassi Kalan, Bhookhri Kalan, Tajpur and adjoining areas from 10am to 5pm.From 11am to 6pm, power will be disrupted in Uttam Colony, Harkrishan Vihar, Priya Colony, Rahon Road, Textile Colony and adjoining areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-power-cuts-to-play-spoilsport-on-karva-chauth-101635018651994.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Army man arrested for espionage; was sending classified info to ISI, say police||The Punjab Police State Special Operation Cell (SSOC), Amritsar, has arrested an army jawan for allegedly passing highly sensitive and classified information about the army to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Krunal Kumar Baria of Panchamahalas in Gujarat was serving with the Indian Army at the Ferozepur Cantt. A case has been registered against him under the Official Secrets Act, 1923.“He was in touch with various Pak ISI agents through social media apps. Taking advantage of his deployment in the IT cell, he was passing highly sensitive and classified information about the army to his Pak-based handlers. In lieu of the information, he was paid money by Pak agencies,” said a spokesperson of the SSOC.“During preliminary investigation, it has come to light that accused came in touch with a woman Pakistani intelligence officer, Sidra Khan, on Facebook in 2020 and on WhatsApp and other messaging and calling apps later. The accused was in touch with the woman on her two Pakistan mobile numbers and an Indian number,” said the spokesperson. It has been revealed that the accused was lured by the woman intelligence officer to work for the ISI. During inspection of his mobile phone, many classified documents were found, the spokespersons said.A case under Section 3, 4, 5, 9 of the Official Secrets Act and 120-B of the IPC has been registered against Baria at the SSOC police station in Amritsar. Army authorities have been informed about the arrest. Investigations are being conducted to assess the actual amount of damage caused by the accused. It is also being ascertained if the accused was working alone or he has a team at his disposal, the spokesperson said. Past incidents In March, 2019, one Ram Kumar posted with MES, Jalandhar Cantt, was apprehended for sharing classified information with Pak Intelligence agencies. In January 2021, four army personnel from Gurdaspur district were arrested who were sharing classified documents through pen drives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-man-arrested-for-espionage-was-sending-classified-info-to-isi-say-police-101635018472586.html
24-10-2021||Other||Agra Central Jail to host 38 more Jammu and Kashmir jail inmates||Thirty-eight more inmates from prisons of Jammu and Kashmir were shifted to Agra Central Jail on Saturday, bringing the number of inmates transferred from prisons in Jammu and Kashmir, recently, to 56. “These inmates are to be kept in a separate enclosure in different barracks. The security was already tight and has been further beefed up after more inmates were transferred from Jammu and Kashmir,” said BK Singh, senior jail superintendent, Agra Central Jail.He said that such transfers from one state to another are for “security reasons. There are legal provisions under which inmates who pose a threat to security in jails in a state are shifted to jails in other states.”“Out of 38 inmates brought to Agra Central Jail, 27 are from Kashmir and 11 are from the Jammu region” Singh added. These inmates were airlifted to Agra airport from Jammu and Kashmir and were brought to Agra jail amid tight security by road. “We already had a platoon of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and with rising security concerns, one more company of PAC has been provided to us,” Singh said. “The roads adjoining the central jail will have partial barricading so that those reaching the area can be closely monitored,” he said. Eighty-five jail inmates in Jammu and Kashmir were transferred to Agra Central Jail in 2019 also when the state of Jammu and Kashmir and especially the valley was on high vigil after declaration of state as union territory and abrogation of Article 370 and section 35A in parliament. They were airlifted on three different occasions in August and September.Then too, the boundaries of the central jail were partially barricaded with deployment of extra police personnel, besides the PAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-central-jail-to-host-38-more-jammu-and-kashmir-jail-inmates-101635018471347.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Allegations fly thick and fast over rape plaint against Simarjit Bains||With one of the two complainants withdrawing the rape plaint against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief Simarjit Singh Bains, his constituency, Atam Nagar, has become a political hot bed with allegations and counter-allegations flying thick and fast.The woman, while withdrawing her complaint on Thursday, had alleged that Congress leader Kamaljit Karwal and SAD candidate Harish Rai Dhanda had pressured her to file a false complaint.Following this, the LIP had started campaigns on social media as well as on the ground-level, claiming that false complaints were being lodged against Bains with an aim to tarnish his image ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. The opposition, meanwhile, is accusing the LIP leader of threatening and forcing the complainant to withdraw the case.SAD candidate Harish Rai Dhanda said, “I feel pity for the second complainant. She has been forced and threatened to withdraw her complaint as even the police failed to take action against Bains. She has levelled allegations against us due to the pressure built by Bains. LIP supporters are trying to create a narrative that both the complaints are false but the allegations in both cases are true and the first complainant is still fighting for justice.” He added, “I have been campaigning on the development agenda and have never used rape cases to woo voters during my meetings. But we will not rest till Bains is arrested by the police. I have been supporting the first woman so that justice is served to her.”Congress leader Kamaljit Karwal also maintained he has not used the rape case for political gains. “Bains has tried to clear his name by pressuring the woman to withdraw the complaint and accuse me of blackmail. Bains and that woman should now prove the allegations levelled against me. If Bains is right and the rape complaint submitted by the woman against him was fake, why has he not taken legal action against her for defamation?” said Karwal. Despite repeated attempts, MLA Bains was not available for comments. LIP spokesperson Sunny Kainth said, “After the second woman accused Dhanda and Karwal of blackmailing her for submitting a rape complaint against Bains, it is clear that both the complaints are fake and have been submitted to defame Bains ahead of elections. Atam Nagar is the stronghold of Bains as he has won twice from the constituency. The opposition will not be able to defeat him with dirty politics.” Earlier a close aide of Bains, Karwal had snapped ties with the former during the previous assembly elections and unsuccessfully contested from the seat. Karwal is now the Congress’ halqa in-charge for Atam Nagar while Dhanda has been declared the SAD candidate from the constituency for the upcoming elections.In July this year, Bains and six others had been also booked by the police after the first complainant, who had been sitting on protest outside the police commissioner’s office for around eight months, moved court. The court had ordered the police to lodge an FIR in the case. Seeking the arrest of Bains, the complainant is still protesting outside the CP office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-allegations-fly-thick-and-fast-over-rape-plaint-against-simarjit-bains-101635018411064.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||17 PU teachers named among top 2% scientists in world by Stanford||As many as 17 faculty scientists from Panjab University are among the 2,042 Indian scientists featured in Stanford University’s list of “World’s Top 2% Scientists”.The analysis, conducted using research publications up to 2020 end, was published in PLOS Biology, a peer-reviewed scientific journal, on October 19. The data includes all scientists who are among the top 1,00,000 across all fields, according to the composite citation index. Two lists have been created for the top 2% scientists. The first list is based on the career-long data, wherein PU’s 17 scientists have featured. Six of them belong to University Institute of Pharmaceutical Sciences (UIPS), three each are from departments of chemistry and physics, while one each are from departments of anthropology, botany, environmental studies and mathematics, and UICET. The second list, which is based on a single-year impact (2020), has 30 scientists from PU. Almost all scientists from the first list have made it to the second list also.The list of career-long data includes Indu Pal Kaur, VR Sinha, Bhupinder Singh Bhoop, SK Kulkarni, Anil Kumar and Kanwaljit Chopra of UIPS. Others are Kewal Krishan (anthropology), Harsh Nayyar (botany), Navneet Kaur, Rohit Sharma and Sonal Singhal (chemistry), Harminder Pal Singh (environmental studies), MM Aggarwal, SK Tripathi and Satya Prakash (physics), SK Tomar (mathematics) and Sushil Kumar Kansal (UICET). The teachers in the second list include Vishal Sharma (forensic science and criminology), Rajat Sandhir (biochemistry) and Vishal Gupta (UIET), among others.V-C Raj Kumar said the achievement was a matter of honour and prestige for the entire scientific fraternity of PU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/17-pu-teachers-named-among-top-2-scientists-in-world-by-stanford-101635018353033.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout | From fig leaves to high fashion with a cause||“Why a course in fashion technology?” This question posed to a motley batch of students from different streams at the National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), Panchkula, during a short elective course on creative writing was a predictable one, yet it was answered with sheer zest, passion and flair. Punya Gulati, who is pursuing a masters degree in fashion management, says, “Looking back to where it all began makes me nostalgic. I remember, I was just an eight-year-old when my sister asked me to accompany her to NIFT in Delhi. Not knowing where it would take me, I said yes. The first sight that my eyes rested on was a tall and skinny boy in black haram pants, a bell-sleeved shirt and a mop of curly toffee-brown hair. I had never seen such an apparition and the experience was surreal. This vision in front of the main gate of the institution lined with green trees bewitched me and I felt that this was where I belonged.” Others too shared their stories of being a Niftian as they call themselves with the pride of a Stephanian of yore and the hard work and setbacks they faced.Looking good and feeling fineInteracting with young folks creatively engaged in different areas of design and fashion, chasing their dreams even in these masked times, what comes to mind is Lady Gaga’s fashion song: “Looking and feeling fine, Fashion!” This is followed by a more desi song of a rather dark 2008 Hindi film Fashion with the Madhur Bhandarkar stamp: “Fashion ka hai yeh jalwa.” The film had Priyanka Chopra and Kangana Ranaut playing super models and paying a heavy price. Now old and wizened, one knows for sure that nothing ever comes to anyone anywhere without a price of some kind.Fashion began the moment humans started covering their bodies. The Biblical thought says it started with the serpent enticing Eve to give the forbidden fruit to Adam. Of course it has been a long journey from the fig leaves to high fashion and ‘The Devil Wearing Prada’ a 2006 Hollywood blockbuster film which looks at the world from the office of the top fashion magazine. Well, in the times that one is living, it is said that everyday is a fashion show and the world is your runway. However, one cannot help recall the days when women in the 80s protested on the wings of feminism against fashion shows and the use of their bodies as a commodity. One recalls participating in such processions even on the roads of Chandigarh. With liberalisation, many taboos vanished and at a film premier actor John Abraham was asked by photographers to open the buttons of his shirts as girls in the audience made catcalls. Times had changed indeed!Fashion as a movementOne saw many social and political movements sadly withering away and to an old-world person like me who carried a chip on the shoulder for being politically correct all the way, it was bit of a shock to be sent by the editor to go and cover a fashion show in a city hotel in the 90s. As models paraded their wares down the ramp one caught sight of a hoarding which carried the message loud and clear: When Fashion is a Movement! Of course with a heavy heart one edited it a bit and put it in the intro taking sweet revenge for the story appearing on the glossy pages with the headline: In Times When Fashion Is the Only Movement.However, those who have to spell change and make a statement will do it even on the fashion ramp. Two fashion designers one would like to talk about are from the East. The first one is the legendary Japanese designer Yohji Yamamoto ,78, who changed the whole perception of fashion the world over. His collections instead of laying bare women dressed them in oversized black clothes creating a sensation in Paris in tribute to his deep love and respect for women. After all he was inspired to be a master tailor in a little dress-making business run by his mother. Of the long coats he designed for women, he says: “It meant something to me; the coat guarding a home, hiding a woman’s body. Maybe I liked imagining what was inside.”Closer to home, Wendell Rodrick (1960-2020), one of the most innovative fashion designers who grew up in Mahim, Mumbai, with a diploma in catering to dizzying heights of fame but never failed to raise issues of social concern and environment. Awarded the Padma Shri , he created history by parading plus-size models at the Lakme Fashion Week. He paid tribute to the actor, Rekha, on her 60th birthday at yet another gala show and worked for the LGBTQ consistently. So fashion is what a master designer makes of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-from-fig-leaves-to-high-fashion-with-a-cause-101635018351859.html
24-10-2021||Other||Punjab SIT begins probe into Singhu border lynching, visits victim’s village||Amritsar A day after a Haryana Police team visited Cheema Kalan village in Tarn Taran to record the statement of family members of Lakhbir Singh, who was brutally lynched to death at the Singhu border on October 15, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) that the Punjab government has formed also visited the village on Saturday.Additional director general of police (Bureau of Investigation) Varinder Kumar heads the SIT, which comprises two other members, Ferozepur Range DIG Inderbir Singh and Tarn Taran SSP Harvinder Singh Virk. The SIT is investigating the circumstances leading to the lynching of Lakhbir Singh at the Singhu border.The SIT was constituted following a complaint made by Lakhbir’s sister, Raj Kaur who sought a probe as to who took him to Singhu border.The SIT members stayed at the residence of Lakhbir for around one hour and questioned his sister. Then it visited the local gaushala to explore any conspiracy angle to the incident, where the caretaker Sahib Singh told the team that a jatha of ‘Nihangs’ from Chabba village had visited the gaushala on the Baisakhi festival and had returned after a stay of two-three days. At Sarai Amanat Khan police station, the team questioned zila parishad member Munish Kumar Monu Cheema, former sarpanch Lakhwinder Singh and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-sit-begins-probe-into-singhu-border-lynching-visits-victim-s-village-101635018171226.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Divorce with mutual consent: HC waives ‘cooling-off’ period for Kharar couple||The Punjab and Haryana high court has waived the minimum six-month “cooling-off” period before granting divorce to an estranged couple from Kharar. “The marriage between the parties has irretrievably broken. They have decided to part their ways amicably. Opportunity to live their lives in the manner they like cannot be denied,” the bench of Justice Arun Monga said, adding that in these circumstances insisting to wait for another six months would result in adding to their woes.The couple got married in March 2019 in Kharar. However, due to temperamental differences, they started living separately after May 2019. In September 2021, they moved a plea in family court for divorce with mutual consent and subsequently waiver of “cooling-off” period. However, the plea on waiver was dismissed.They challenged the September-8 order of principal judge, family court, Kharar, before the high court, arguing that once the parties have amicably consented to part their ways, they cannot be forced to wait for another six months. The six-month waiting period is prescribed under Section 13B (2) of the Hindu Marriage Act for divorce. Under Section 13B, when a couple files for divorce with mutual consent, they first have to establish a 12-month separation period, which is then followed by a “cooling-off” period of six months. However, the Supreme Court had in 2020 ruled that on case-to-case basis, this period can be waived. The bench, before allowing the plea, interacted with them and observed that no useful purpose would be served to unnecessarily force them to wait for six months, especially in view of statement from the estranged wife. She had submitted that she was in Canada and the grant of her permanent residence status by the immigration authorities depended on the condition that she is single/not married.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/divorce-with-mutual-consent-hc-waives-cooling-off-period-for-kharar-couple-101635017751185.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Court extends Singhu lynching accused’s police custody by two days||The Sonepat court on Saturday extended police custody of four Nihangs arrested in connection with lynching of a Scheduled Caste labourer at the farmers’ protest site at Singhu border on the Delhi-Haryana borders on October 15.The court had sent four accused - Narain Singh, Sarabjeet Singh, Bhagwant Singh and Govindpreet - in police custody for two days.On October 15, the body of Lakhbir Singh, 35, a native of Punjab’s Tarn Taran, was found tied to a police barricade near the Singhu protest site for allegedly desecrating the Sikh holy book.Sonepat DSP (headquarters) Virender Singh said they had told the court to extend the custody of the accused as they had named a few suspects during interrogation.“During interrogation, we received many videos, pictures and footage in which other Nihangs can also be seen clearly. We have told the court to extend the accused’s custody so that we can ascertain the identity of other suspects,” he said.“A team of the Haryana Police is also conducting raids in Punjab to arrest other suspects,” he added.Meanwhile, counsels for the four accused opposed the prosecution plea in court and contended that the police had recovered weapons used in the crime, blood-stained clothes and recreated the crime scene. Thus, there is no requirement to increase the remand period of the Nihangs.Court grants bail to Karnal manA local court in Sonepat granted bail to a man identified as Naveen Sandhu, of Karnal district, who was arrested on October 21 for allegedly thrashing a migrant labourer from Bihar, Manoj Paswan, who was involved in the business of selling chicken.The court has granted him bail due to lack of evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/court-extends-singhu-lynching-accused-s-police-custody-by-two-days-101635017690919.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||Panic for platelets spikes demand in Lucknow as dengue cases rise||The demand for platelet transfusion has gone up in Lucknow with the rise in dengue cases. However, doctors say the demand is unwarranted. They say all dengue patients do not require a platelet transfusion.“The panic among attendants is pushing up the demand, and now, we are getting requests for platelets not only from hospitals in Lucknow but from Hardoi and Barabanki as well,” said Prof Tulika Chandra, HoD, transfusion medicine, King George’s Medical University (KGMU).The KGMU blood bank has observed a demand of about 150 units in the last one day, against the usual demand of between 50 to 70 units per day.Similarly, the demand has gone up in other blood banks including the Lucknow Nursing Home Association Blood Bank, Civil Hospital and Balrampur Hospital.“Till the platelet count is 20,000 there is no risk. However, the patient needs observation once the count starts falling below 40,000 and the patient has been vomiting, bleeding from the mouth or the nose. These are clear indications of risk but transfusion should be decided only by consulting a doctor and not on a panic note,” said Prof Kauser Usman, HoD, geriatric medicine, KGMU.“Among young patients, one can wait till the count falls to 10,000 before transfusion of platelets is thought of, while among pregnant women, old people and those suffering with chronic illnesses, the decision for transfusion may be taken by the doctor when the level falls to 20,000,” said Prof Chandra.“Platelet count does not matter much if the quality of platelets in the body (of the patient) is good. The count may be low but good quality platelets will function well. In such a situation also there is no need to panic and one should go by the doctor’s decision,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary-general Association of International Doctors.According to statistics, Lucknow has reported close to 800 dengue cases this year, with the rising trend seen in the past one week.“There is more panic than need. We are maintaining a stock of 10 units of platelets and every day 2 to 3 units are needed for patients admitted to our hospital,” said Dr SK Nanda of Civil hospital.Doctors said instead of going by just the count of platelets in the body, attendants should go by the doctor’s advice, who will advise transfusion depending on a patient’s condition and symptoms.The bed situationHospitals in the state capital have reserved beds for patients of infectious diseases, said the chief medical officer of Lucknow, Dr Manoj Agrawal. In all, 314 beds are reserved in the state capital in different hospitals.At Balrampur Hospital, 128 beds have been reserved where eight patients of dengue and eight of high fever are presently recuperating. Similarly, other hospitals too have beds reserved.At the Civil Hospital, 70 beds have been reserved and 36 patients of high fever are admitted. At the Civil Hospital (Mahanagar) 20 beds are reserved. The TB Hospital in Thakurganj has 14 beds reserved for dengue patients, while Rani Laxmibai Hospital has 12 beds reserved.“Samples of all patients having high fever have been sent for confirmation of dengue,” said Dr Agrawal, who inspected the facilities at Balrampur Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/panic-for-platelets-spikes-demand-in-lucknow-as-dengue-cases-rise-101635017572506.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Sufficiency of cause does not give indefeasible legal right to ‘perpetual litigant’: HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has rapped the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) for delay in challenging a lower court order stating that even sufficiency of cause does not result in any indefeasible legal right to a “perpetual litigant” such as UHBVN.“It is high time that a lax litigant pays the price for casual and nonchalant approach in instituting time-bound cases in courts, particularly as enlightened a litigant as the UHBVN,” the bench of justice Arun Monga said.An order was passed in 2017 by an additional civil judge (senior division), Karnal in a dispute between the UHBVN and a private person and was asked to refund Rs1.76 lakh towards penalty and compounding fees of Rs20,000 deposited with interest at the rate of 6% per annum. It was upheld on August 6, 2019 by additional district judge, Karnal.However, the UHBVN approached the HC this month after a delay of 132 days. The UHBVN had sought that the plea be admitted for hearing as the delay was due to delay in procurement of some documents and last year’s Covid-19 restrictions. Hence, it has been filed now. The court observed that the explanation given does not inspire confidence as specific dates have not been given to explain each day’s delay. It said part delay may have been caused due to the pandemic slowdown, which though seems justifiable, but prior to that the appeal had already become time-barred.It observed that the court has discretion to condone the delay, provided sufficient cause for the same is made out. But mechanical reasons have been given as explanation as if to seek condonation of delay is a “matter of right”.“...a perpetual litigant due to nature of its business, and legally backed up with an entire vertical of department’s in house law officers giving them advice at every step, apart from worthy outsourced panel lawyers,” the bench said adding that despite the same, if delay is caused at the cost of forfeiture of vested legal right it has to be deprecated. “Delay is thus akin to self-goal. Consequences thereof have to be suffered and most certainly, there cannot be any premium on a self-goal,” the bench added, dismissing the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sufficiency-of-cause-does-not-give-indefeasible-legal-right-to-perpetual-litigant-hc-101635017571107.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||HC gives Haryana six months to finalise promotion policy for differently-abled employees||The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Haryana government to frame a policy as expeditiously as possible, but not later than six months on the promotional avenues to differently-abled employees.The court has disposed of an appeal filed by the state government in which it had challenged the October 2018 order of the commissioner for persons with disability, Haryana on pleas demanding 3% reservation to differently-abled persons as provided under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 be implemented. When confronted with provisions of the 2016 law during the hearing, the government, during the hearing, had told court that it is ready to implement the order but demanded that directions be clarified to mean that the same are merely recommendatory in nature and should be considered while framing the policy. The complainant’s lawyer had agreed to the state’s viewpoint but demanded that the government should, however, frame the policy in a certain time-bound schedule as the benefits are being denied to deserving people. In 2018, the commissioner for persons with disability had ordered implementation of 2016 law. It was reported in the order that fixed roster points are not required in case of promotion to differently-abled persons and it would be appropriate to prepare the seniority list of the presently serving differently-abled persons cadre-wise to give reservation in promotion. It was further recorded that the right of promotion to differently-abled persons is not a limited right. The promotion benefit will follow with all benefits of promotion i.e. pay hike, seniority, etc. It was also stated that the benefit of reservation in promotion should also be available to employees who have not been appointed under the reservation category of differently-abled persons but became differently-abled during the course of employment. Also, the person becomes eligible for promotion from the date of submission of disability certificate. The benefit of reservation in promotion is not limited for once and has to be given in each cadre to give effect of 3% reservation, the 2018 order had recorded. The court disposed of the plea with a limited clarification that the 2018 order being perceived as directions are merely recommendatory in nature and not mandatory. “Being observations, shall not be construed to mean that the State shall simply ignore the same. It is expected of the competent authority to consider the said recommendations and in case the same are not accepted, give reasons thereof,” the court said, giving six months’ time for a policy to be put in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-gives-haryana-six-months-to-finalise-promotion-policy-for-differently-abled-employees-101635017390917.html
24-10-2021||Other||BJP-RSS supported Capt in 2017 polls, made him CM: Sukhbir||Jalandhar Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal has alleged that former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh was supported by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-RSS during the 2017 Punjab assembly polls. “Amarinder had a stronger relationship with the BJP-RSS than even us is 2017. They made him the Punjab CM,” claimed Sukhbir, in town to meet his party workers in Jalandhar cantonment and central constituency in the city. Sukhbir, accompanied by Adampur MLA, Pawan Kumar Tinu also held a press conference. “The Congress is already dead in Punjab and divided into misls or kabeelas (group or factions) like the Randhawa misls, Channi misls, Jakhar misls and others. Even these are going to disintegrate into countless more entities with Congressmen indulging in a free-for-all to destroy one another,” he said on the sidelines of the function. On Captain Amarinder Singh’s Pakistan friend, Aroosa Alam. Sukhbir alleged that it was his (Capt’s) relationship with the BJP government that ensured visas for Aroosa. Sukhbir, MP from Ferozepur, added that the Channi government in Punjab was is in complete chaos with the right hand not knowing what the left was doing.He also questioned Channi on why had he not taken prompt action to address the problems of sugarcane and cotton growers. He added that though the state government had announced a State-Advised Price (SAP) of ₹360 per quintal, sugar mills were not ready to pay this price. “Mills are not entering into bonds with farmers to purchase cane at the SAP. It is also most unfortunate that the SAP has not been notified due to which there are apprehensions that it may not be honoured by the mills.” Sukhbir also asked the chief minister to release compensation to farmers afflicted by the pink bollworm attack quickly. He added that all those killed in Kisan Andolan be paid ₹50 lakh each on the pattern of those killed in Lakhimpur Kheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjprss-supported-capt-in-2017-polls-made-him-cm-sukhbir-101635017331080.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||200 farmers booked for obstructing path of BJP leaders in Ellenabad||The Ellenabad police in Haryana’s Sirsa district have booked 200 farmers in two separate FIRs for allegedly obstructing the path and protesting the visit of Haryana deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa, Haryana jails and powers minister Ranjit Chautala, Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) supremo Ajay Chautala, Sirsa MLA Gopal Kanda and BJP nominee Gobind Kanda when they were scheduled to visit Talwara Khurd and Kotli villages as part of their canvassing on Friday.In his complaint to the police, Sheshpal, a resident of Mithi Surera village in Ellenabad, said 150 farmers led by Sandeep, Jevan, Baljinder and 13 other known persons, had allegedly obstructed the path of BJP-JJP leaders and tried to stop them from canvassing.In another FIR, police have booked 50 farmers for sealing the boundaries of Kotli village before entry of BJP-JJP leaders for canvassing.Sub-inspector (SI) Tara Chand said they have booked farmers under Sections 147, 149, 127, 283 and 341 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).Farmers showing black flags to BJP-JJP leadersFarmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws and locals in many villages are showing black flags to BJP-JJP leaders during their visits for canvassing.The farm unions took out ‘ashes yatra’ of four farmers and a journalist who were among the eight people killed in Lakhimpur Kheri violence in Uttar Pradesh, in poll-bound Ellenabad from October 21 to 23.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has already announced to campaign against BJP-JJP nominee Gobind Kanda. The BJP-JJP leaders are struggling to canvas in Ellenabad. The farmers had recently also protested against BJP’s rally held at Kagdana village while standing on roofs of shops situated on the outskirts of the village.The INLD had also filed complaints to the electoral officer against former Haryana minister Krishan Panwar and deputy CM Dushyant Chautala’s aide Meenu Beniwal for allegedly violating the model code of conduct.Dushyant to canvass in coming weekMeanwhile, Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala has announced to campaign in favour of Gobind Kanda, who is pitted against Dushyant’s estranged uncle Abhay Singh Chautala, from the coming week.Abhay had slammed brother Ajay Chautala and his sons, Digvijay and Dushyant, by saying that “those who were protesting against the then Haryana minsiter Gopal Kanda in connection with the suicide of an air hostess in the Congress government are now seeking votes for Kanda’s brother. These people have lost morality,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/200-farmers-booked-for-obstructing-path-of-bjp-leaders-in-ellenabad-101635017150927.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt issues Yamunanagar-Jagadhri development plan to promote industries, tourism||In the Final Development Plan 2041 AD of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri, the Haryana government has proposed to develop model industrial township and push medical tourism in the twin towns on 9,866.96 hectare land.The district, situated on the banks of river Yamuna and Western Jamuna Canal, is the second largest urban centre of Haryana after Faridabad. It has been considered as an urban agglomeration (UA) in the 1991 census that consists of three distinct urban settlements - Jagadhri, Jagadhri workshop, and Yamunanagar.As per the plan issued, the urban population will rise to about 14,86,000 (projected) by 2041 AD from 4,78,574 in the 2011 census.Yamunanagar has two main traditional markets of metal utensil cluster and plywood cluster that are spread across concentrated locations. Other than this, ancillary industries of the auto spares and heavy machinery for sugar mills and scores of smaller units in industrial areas and estate are provided.“In order to strengthen the industrial growth and the demand for developed industrial plots/land in Yamunanagar is increasing day-by-day. To cater for the future industrial needs of the town, an area of 2,977.7 hectare has been allocated for industrial use,” the plan reads.Desh Raj, district town and country planner (DTP), said there is only one industrial estate at Manakpur on NH-907 (Jagadhri-Chhachhrauli road) developed by the HSIIDC over an area of about 54 hectare.“It has been proposed to develop more industries on NH-344 (Yamunanagar-Saharanpur), on NH-907 along Manakpur, and along state highway-6A,” he said.An education city and medi-city have also been proposed to boost education and health tourism on 304.99 hectare earmarked for public and semi-public use zone. In the already de-notified Dadupur-Nalvi canal, roads, open spaces and green belts will be developed.Deputy commissioner Parth Gupta said the final notification was issued by the government and now, zonal proposals are being developed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-issues-yamunanagar-jagadhri-development-plan-to-promote-industries-tourism-101635016851070.html
24-10-2021||Other||Union food secy reviews paddy procurement||Chandigarh Union food and public distribution secretary Sudhanshu Pandey visited Punjab on Saturday to review the procurement of paddy during the ongoing Kharif season and the status of implementation of One Nation One Ration Card. Punjab director for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs gave a detailed presentation on the status of procurement of paddy during a meeting with Pandey. According to the figures presented, 61 lakh tonne paddy has arrived in the mandis of the state, of which 59 tonne had been procured by government agencies till Friday. Pandey was also informed that ₹8,133 crore have been cleared by the department on account of release of MSP to farmers, directly in their accounts. Land records of 9.73 lakh farmers had been mapped on the procurement portal and all procurement was being done after due verification of land records of the farmers. The procurement and payment operations were showcased live on the portal. Pandey lauded the efforts of Punjab officials and encouraged them to stress on mustard cultivation as part of diversification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/union-food-secy-reviews-paddy-procurement-101635016842355.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Tension prevails between two communities in Jind village||Tension prevailed in Jind’s Chhatar village after a group of people belonging to the upper caste thrashed a man identified as Vijay hailing from the SC community late on Friday.He was rushed to the Uchana Kalan civil hospital from where the doctors referred him to another hospital.However, tension escalated between two communities after a group of upper caste men announced a social boycott of the SC community on September 26, following which the police have booked 23 upper caste persons under the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The case date backs to September 11 when a youth identified as Gurmeet had lodged a complaint before the Uchana Kalan police that some youth from the upper caste thrashed him and passed casteist remarks when he had gone to watch a kabaddi match in the adjoining Gogadiya village.Thereafter, villagers called a panchayat on September 26 to settle the matter but they announced a social boycott of the SC community after they refused to reach a compromise. Jind deputy commissioner Naresh Kumar and SP Waseem Akram visited the village on Saturday.“We have ordered deployment of heavy police in the village including two inspectors, two bike riders, 30 police personnel and PCRs to keep round-the-clock vigil. A peace committee, comprising 35 people from different sections of the society, has been formed to maintain fraternity and peace in the village,” they said in a joint statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tension-prevails-between-two-communities-in-jind-village-101635016493997.html
24-10-2021||Other||Channi meets protesting farmers at toll plaza in Rupnagar||Chandigarh Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Saturday reiterated his support to farmers agitating for the past year against the three contentious farm laws that the Centre has enacted. As his cavalcade passed through the Ropar-Chamkaur Sahib Road, the CM met farmers sitting on dharna at the toll plaza near Jhalian near Rupnagar.Channi expressed complete solidarity with farmers, reiterating his vociferous support to what he said was the just struggle that the farming community was waging. The CM added that the Punjab government stood shoulder-to-shoulder with farmers against these draconian farm laws. “We are duty-bound to safeguard interests of the farmers and would continue to wholeheartedly extend support to your agitation until the anti-farmer agricultural laws are done away with,” the CM assured protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/channi-meets-protesting-farmers-at-toll-plaza-in-rupnagar-101635016371155.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||MBBS student jumps off hospital building in Haryana’s Hisar||A third-year MBBS student of Maharaja Agrasen Medical College in Agroha town of Hisar allegedly attempted suicide by jumping from the window of the first floor of Jindal Private Hospital in Hisar on Saturday.The student had visited the hospital to tell one of her teachers that two senior students were harassing her since last three years. In the alleged suicide bid, the girl has received injuries on the hand and the spinal cord.In her complaint to the police, the MBBS student said two of her seniors were harassing her.“They were mounting pressure on me to bring liquor for them and consume the same. When I denied, they abused me and tried to sexually assault me. I had narrated the incident to the hostel warden but no action was taken against them,” she said.“Both the seniors threatened to throw me off the hostel building if I narrated the incident to anyone. In 2019, my teacher had called both the seniors when I had lodged a complaint before him but they continued to harass me,” she added.Police have registered a complaint against two fourth-year MBBS students of Maharaja Agrasen Medical College under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 499 (defamation), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Anti-Ragging Act.Maharaja Agrasen Medical College director Dr Alka Chabra said a high-level committee was formed to investigate the case and submit a report within three days.“We will take strict action against those found guilty in the case,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mbbs-student-jumps-off-hospital-building-in-haryana-s-hisar-101635016251032.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana govt issues fresh directions to recover penalties under RTI Act||Faced with the challenge to recover penalties imposed on officials for not providing information sought under the Right to Information Act (RTI), the Haryana government has decided to take more steps to ensure that recovery is made from salaries of erring public information officers (PIOs).As per information provided by the government to activist PP Kapoor under the RTI Act, penalties worth ₹2.76 crore are still pending on 1,726 PIOs of 40 different departments.Maximum penalties of ₹93.90 lakh are pending on PIOs of panchayat department, followed by ₹61.35 lakh on PIOs of urban local bodies department, ₹31.62 lakh on school education department, ₹21.15 on HSVP, ₹13.72 lakh on revenue department, and ₹13.57 lakh on urban estate.Since the inception of the RTI Act in 2006, penalties of total ₹4.79 crore have been imposed in 3,589 cases. In the past 15 years, penalties of ₹2.02 crore of 42% fines have been recovered whereas 58% are yet to be recovered.According to Kapoor, delay and non-recovery from the defaulting PIOs has raised doubts about the efficacy of the Act in Haryana.Following a complaint filed with the Haryana lokayukta for slow recovery of penalties and non-compliance with the norms set for recovery of penalties from the PIOs, the Haryana government had set up a monitoring committee headed by the chief secretary, in January this year, to monitor recovery of penalties imposed on errant PIOs.Kapoor said the government, in a reply of another RTI, has told that more steps are being taken in this direction. The government has decided to fix the responsibility of drawing and disbursing officer to deduct the penalty amount from salaries of defaulters and to take action against him in case he fails to do so.The under secretary to the Haryana administrative reforms department replied to Kapoor, claiming that a meeting of the monitoring committee was held last month and fresh directions were issued including penalty recovery of each department be updated, and list of officers against whom penalty is due be circulated to the secretary or HoD concerned for recovery.As per the RTI Act, PIOs are penalised with a maximum of ₹25,000 for intentionally not sharing information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-govt-issues-fresh-directions-to-recover-penalties-under-rti-act-101635016010910.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||Kangana failed to make out positive case for transfer of hearing: Mumbai court||A proceeding cannot be transferred from one court to another merely on the basis of apprehension, a metropolitan magistrate court said in its detailed order by which actor Kangana Ranaut’s plea for transfer of the defamation case filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar against her was dismissed. The court said the actor “failed to make out a positive, concrete case to show that her apprehension was reasonable”. “If on the basis of false allegation, a matter is transferred, it will affect the morale of the presiding officer,” said additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM) ST Dande in Thursday’s order that became available late on Friday evening. The court added that the Andheri magistrate acted judiciously and was not biased against Ranaut. ACMM Dande observed that unless some positive, concrete case is made out showing that there was reasonable apprehension of not getting fair trial or fair justice from the court concerned, the proceeding cannot be transferred from one court to another on mere vague and general allegations. Ranaut had sought the transfer of the case from the 10th court in Andheri to another court. The actor had submitted through her counsel, advocate Rizwan Siddiqui, that she did not have faith in the magistrate presiding over the 10th court, who was hearing the defamation case. She had alleged that the court was biased against her, as it kept on insisting for her physical appearance without any sufficient reason, that too in the case involving a bailable, non-cognisable and compoundable offence, and kept on threatening to issue an arrest warrant against her. Akhtar has filed a defamation case against Ranaut last November, alleging that she had made defamatory and baseless comments about him in a television interview. The ACMM noted that on December 19, the court had directed Juhu police to investigate the complaint and submit a report. On February 1 this year, the magistrate court had issued a process against Ranaut after the police filed a report. The order of issuance of process against the accused was upheld by the sessions court and the Bombay high court, and despite receipt of summons Ranaut had remained absent. Therefore, a bailable warrant was issued against her. The magistrate added that even thereafter, the actor had remained absent on subsequent dates as well, but the magistrate court did not issue a non-bailable warrant against her in spite of Akhtar’s counsel, Jai Bharadwaj, applying for it on numerous occasions. “It shows from the documents that the 10th court magistrate has given a fair opportunity to the accused to remain absent by granting all her exemption applications. He has not acted against the actress and neither had any bias towards her (sic),” said ACMM Dande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kangana-failed-to-make-out-positive-case-for-transfer-of-hearing-mumbai-court-101635015890899.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||Recent events prompt experts to revisit issue of replacing NEET with state CET||The argument between a national entrance exam for medical admissions versus a state-level entrance exam has for long been debated and the recent happenings have only made this debate stronger. Days after the Bombay high court (HC) directed the National Testing Agency (NTA) – the nodal examination authority – to conduct a fresh round of entrance exam for two students in the country who were wronged the first time, more and more people are questioning the “haphazard manner” in which an entrance exam of such great value is being conducted year after year. “This is not the first time that students have been affected due to lack of knowledge among exam invigilators. NTA has rarely ever trained personnel across the country before holding such an important exam and this has resulted in the current situation,” said Sudha Shenoy, parent and activist. She added that while two students approached HC, several others have faced issues of delay in being handed over the answer booklet or answer papers being early snatching away on the examination day. “Such issues might sound frivolous to the examiners but for students who have been preparing for an exam for two years or more, every minute of that examination counts and errors on part of the invigilators costs students their future,” she added. The National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) is an all-India medical and dental entrance exam that was initiated in 2016 by the Central government by quashing all state-held common entrance tests (CET) to bring into effect a uniform entrance test. This move was challenged by several state governments in 2016, but to no avail. In September, the Tamil Nadu (TN) Assembly passed a bill seeking permanent exemption to medical aspirants from the state from NEET. The Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Medical Degree Courses Bill, 2021, was supported by several political parties in the state and was introduced after a 19-year old medical aspirant died by suicide at his home hours before NEET was conducted on September 11. Days after the TN Assembly decision, Maharashtra minister for medical education Amit Deshmukh suggested that the government will review the all-India entrance exam and decide whether it is good for students. He responded to a letter written by a local leader addressed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, requesting scrapping of NEET, and conducting of medical admissions based on class 12 scores instead. “Any examination which involves 15-16 lakh students cannot and should not be conducted by a central authority. For nearly 16 years before NEET was introduced, every state conducted its own entrance exam to fill up 85% seats under state quota and never faced trouble. I think it’s time to go back to the old model and put an end to the misery this exam is causing to medical aspirants,” said Dr TP Lahane, former director of the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER). He added that an all-India entrance exam can be conducted for those aiming for the 15% all-India quota (AIQ) seats while admissions to state quota seats be decided based on state CETs. While many stakeholders, including students and parents, agree with this stand, some still feel NEET should stay. “Students from state boards took a couple of years to be prepared and stand at par with fellow students from central boards because NEET syllabus was based on NCERT (National Council of Educational Research and Training) syllabus. To make changes once again will mean bringing sudden changes, which will be unfair to students who are already quite stressed preparing for such competitive exams,” said Akriti Patel, parent of a medical student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/recent-events-prompt-experts-to-revisit-issue-of-replacing-neet-with-state-cet-101635015830911.html
24-10-2021||Lucknow||BSP writes to Election Commission, seeks ban on pre-poll surveys||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra on Saturday wrote to the Election Commission (EC), seeking a ban on pre-poll media surveys six months ahead of the assembly or Lok Sabha elections.Mishra wrote to the EC on the issue days after BSP chief Mayawati had, while addressing cadres on party founder Kanshiram’s death anniversary, declared her intent to seek a ban on pre-poll surveys that she claimed were doctored.Citing surveys that went wrong like the one ahead of West Bengal polls, Mishra urged the EC to exercise powers vested under Article 324 of the Constitution of India as interpreted by the Supreme Court, to issue guidelines or directions to ban pre-poll surveys by media outlets six months ahead of assembly or Lok Sabha polls.  With less than six months now remaining before the 2022 UP polls, Mishra prayed that the ban was required to enable voters to cast their votes freely, fairly and uninfluenced by the “misleading projections”.“Along with this, we request the EC to pass such other orders that the commission may deem just, fit and proper to ensure free and fair elections to the legislative assembly of UP 2022,” said Mishra.Mayawati had been upset with some pre-poll surveys showing the BJP in the lead and BSP trailing way behind. She had in the past also cited how in the run up to the 2007 UP polls that BSP won with a majority, many surveys had not made the correct predictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-writes-to-election-commission-seeks-ban-on-pre-poll-surveys-101635015771276.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two gangsters held in Haryana’s Jhajjar||The Jhajjar police have arrested two criminals who were involved in four recent murders in district.The arrested criminals were identified as Manjeet alias Cheetah, 20, of Rohtak’s Baland village, and Deepak alias Dada, 40, of Sonepat who is currently staying in Rohtak.Police have recovered 11 pistols, including five automatic pistols, a Scorpio vehicle and 210 live cartridges from their possession.Addressing a press conference, Jhajjar ASP Vikrant Bhushan said the Bahadurgarh crime investigation agency (CIA)-2 of Jhajjar police have arrested two gangsters who are associated with the Neeraj Bawana gang.“They had confessed to involvement in four murders that took place recently in district with the help of their aides on Naveen alias Bali’s (of Delhi’s Sulatanpur) directions. We had produced them before a local court in connection with the murder of Sunil, of Assauda village in Asanda area, on June 30 and the court sent them on four-day police custody,” the ASP added.He said Manjeet was booked in three cases, including a murder case at Delhi’s Dwaraka police station, while another accused Deepak has a criminal history in six cases of murder, attempt to murder and decoity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-gangsters-held-in-haryana-s-jhajjar-101635015710799.html
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Historical sites in Mahendergarh to be developed as tourist destinations||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said the historical sites of Mahendragarh district will be developed as tourist destinations.Khattar said Dhosi Hill will be developed as a pilgrimage site and the state government is also exploring the possibilities of paragliding.The CM, while addressing a gathering at Madhogarh Fort, said the work of reconstruction of Rani Talab at Madhogarh Fort is complete and that of Rani Mahal is in its final stages.The CM said the two mountain terrains have immense potential for tourism. He elaborated that it has been planned to develop Dhosi Hill as a pilgrimage site, and the fort of the king of Madhogarh will also be constructed in the coming times to attract tourists to Madhogarh Fort.He said if both the places are developed with a view to promote tourism here, it will enhance employment opportunities in the area. In the coming times, people from far and wide will come for trekking.Regarding IMT Khudana, the CM said a meeting will be held to hand over the panchayat land to HSIIDC. Cooperation of the villagers is also necessary in this, he added.The state government wants industries to be set up here so as to provide employment opportunities to people of the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/historical-sites-in-mahendergarh-to-be-developed-as-tourist-destinations-101635015530928.html
24-10-2021||Pune||Replica of Ram temple becoming popular from ward development fund in Pune||PUNE: After cement roads, library, smart bus stops one more trend becoming popular among the elected members for spending from their ward development fund and it is the replica of Prabhu Ram Chandra temple proposed at Ayodhya. Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) members are doing it.Pune Municipal Corporation erected third replica at Raja Mantri garden located at Erandwana. BJP corporator Deepak Pote erected it from his ward development fund. Earlier BJP member Mahesh Wabale erected such replica near Treasure Park on Ambil Odha bridge. Recently BJP member Varsha Tapkir approved almost Rs2 crore fund for erecting such huge Shree Ram Memorial at Ambegaon-Dhankawadi pathar.All three replicas came in last one year. Even sources said that some more BJP workers planned to it at various places from their ward development fund. It shows that this is new trend to do it from ward development fund.Earlier there were trends like erecting cement concrete roads, erecting smart bus stop, distributing jute bags but now Ram Temple replica is likely to become new trend among the elected members to spend their funds.BJP member Wabale said, “I did the first replica in the city but I used my own funds for erecting it. The rest of the arch is erected by PMC funds but the replica on it is my own personal funds.”Civic activist Vijay Kumbhar objected it and said, “As per the law and Supreme court guideline, civic body cannot spend on religious structures. Actually, Municipal commissioner is responsible for allowing such works from ward development funds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/replica-of-ram-temple-becoming-popular-from-ward-development-fund-in-pune-101635015171070.html
24-10-2021||Pune||Narhe trap on Mumbai-Bengaluru highway claims 4 more lives||PUNE: Two accidents along the Narhe (Pune) stretch of the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway claimed four lives in two days, taking the eight-year death toll on the 3km stretch to 56. On Friday night, a tanker carrying inflammable liquid fell on its right side; hitting a Tata Harrier, a 13-seater tempo, and a container in quick succession. The fumes could be felt hours later as the charred remains were absorbed into the soft mud shoulder of the highway.Senior police inspector Devidas Gheware of Sinhagad road police station recalled, “The tanker first fell on its right side and came down and hit the Tata Harrier, next hitting the 13-seater tempo which also fell on its side upon impact, and then the container. Our priority was to save the people and then clear the traffic. Panic spread and everyone started saying that there were people trapped under it.”The deceased were identified as Amar Gade and Kompotarkumar Santalal Chamar; while the injured were identified as Ganesh Gujar, Rajvardhan Patil, Chandan Pardhi, Samrat Bhide, Akash Pawar, Shekhar Kadam, Prashant Suryavanshi and Amrut Jadhav, according to the police. They are all undergoing treatment at various hospitals. Five others identified as Karuna More, Shailesh Patil, Amar Salunkhe, Shubham Dhawalia and Kanchar Katakram escaped with minor injuries. A team from an NGO that conducts research on road safety was present at the site in jackets, and claimed that they are working in association with the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC).A day before the Friday mishap, two persons were killed and two others injured in an accident just 50 to 70 metre away from the same spot. A container truck started hurtling down the slope, sweeping along with it a motorcycle near which the two deceased persons were waiting, according to the police. A complaint was lodged based on a statement recorded by a youth, 17, who was riding a Bullet motorcycle with a relative seated pillion around the time of the accident.The deceased were identified as Fatima Irfan Patel, 35; and Anjum Vajir Mujawar, 20; both residents of Shanti colony in Vijaynagar, Kalewadi, Pimpri-Chinchwad.Police inspector Gheware said, “They were waiting at selfie point, which is so ill-placed. People stop in the middle of the highway to take selfies there. At other times, fruit vendors occupy the third lane completely.”A case under sections 279, 304(a), 337, and 338 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with sections 134, 184 and 119/177 of the Motor Vehicles Act was registered at Sinhagad road police station.These two accidents have taken the total number of accidents that have occurred along this stretch in the past eight years to 46 and the corresponding death toll to 56. Last year, when a major pile-up occurred along the same stretch, a 24-point letter was sent to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).While the NHAI has acted on some of the suggestions, others including a ropeway to absorb the shock of heavy vehicles that lose balance and plain solid shoulders instead of soft mud shoulders have to be still worked upon. The police claim that street lights have been improved and rumblers installed after the last mishap but that hasn’t stopped accidents from taking place especially on the steep slope. Fruit vendors and the selfie point are posing newer threats on the highway. Moreover, locals are resisting closing of the arbitrary entry-exit point where local traffic suddenly merges with the high-speed highway movement.Third accident in a row on the stretch A third incident was reported on the same stretch of Mumbai-Bengaluru highway on Saturday which had claimed four lives in two days between Thursday and Friday. The accident did not cause any death as four vehicles piled up along the highway before the Narhe bridge. A Kia SUV rammed into another vehicle and then two others, causing a minor traffic snarl in which two women sustained minor injuries, according to the police. The incident was recorded at Sinhagad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/narhe-trap-on-mumbai-bengaluru-highway-claims-4-more-lives-101635015112505.html
24-10-2021||Other||Cargo ship rams boat off Tamil Nadu coast, two fishermen thrown out||A cargo ship collided with a fishing boat off Tamil Nadu coast and in the impact, two fishermen, part of a crew of 17, were ‘thrown out’ and the Coast Guard rescued them on Saturday.The collision was due to ‘negligence’ and it caused injuries to 17 fishermen besides ‘damage’ to the boat, South Asian Fishermen Fraternity general secretary Father Churchill claimed, demanding compensation for the fishermen. The Kanyakumari district-based SAFF chief urged the government to take steps to get appropriate compensation on par with international standards for the fishermen as well as damages for the boat.“The Panama-flagged cargo ship Navious Venus, bound for Mumbai from Singapore, did not stop after ramming into the fishing boat. It was due to sheer negligence,” he said and urged authorities to seize the ship and arrest its captain.“Such incidents continue to happen as there is no strict action. If a vehicle driver causes an accident on road he is arrested. Why this is not followed in the case of a ship? Why this indifference” he asked.The Coast Guard, in a press release, said it received information about a mid-sea collision between a merchant vessel ‘Navious Venus’ and fishing boat ‘Shijumon’. Two crew members of the fishing boat were ‘thrown overboard’ due to impact of collision, it said.All the fishermen were rescued and provided medical assistance and early on Saturday, two of them, who were injured in the collision, were taken to Thiruvananthapuram government medical college by a medical team from CG Station Vizhinjam-Thiruvananthapuram. Both the CG and SAFF said the fishing boat was escorted by local fishing boats and it reached the Colachel fishing harbour in Tamil Nadu with the remaining crew of 15.“We are in the process of getting an FIR filed with the marine police,” the SAFF chief said. “As they were tossed up due to the impact of the collision, the 15-other fishermen also suffered injuries.”In a representation to the Directorate General of Shipping seeking legal action, the SAFF said on October 22, as many as 17 fishermen set out for deep sea fishing in the mechanised boat ‘Shijumon’ from Colachel government fishing harbour. The fishing boat belonged to a fisherman, Rajamani from Kotilpaadu of Kanyakumari district.While the fishing boat was around nineteen nautical miles from Colachel, the cargo ship collided with it and caused damage, resulting in injuries to fishermen two of whom were thrown out. Immediately, the master of the boat informed the Coast Guard about the collision and requested assistance and CG personnel reached the spot immediately.The two ‘thrown out’ and injured fishermen were K Chinnathurai and P Arulraj, aged 50 and 60 respectively, and they were taken to Thiruvananthapuram government medical college hospital for treatment.”We kindly request your good office to take necessary and immediate legal action against the ship Navious Venus which collided with fishermen boat Shijumon and caused injury to the fishermen and heavy damage to the mechanised boat,” the representation said.A copy of the representation was also sent to fisheries, police and other authorities in Cochin, Chennai and Kanyakumari urging action.Of the 17 fishermen, 15 were from Tamil Nadu and two others from West Bengal. On February 15, 2012, two marines aboard an Italian-flagged oil tanker ‘Enrica Lexie’ allegedly shot dead two Indian fishermen, hailing from Kerala and on a fishing boat, “mistaking” them for pirates. Following remittance of ₹10 crore compensation by Italy, the Supreme Court had in June this year directed the closure of criminal proceedings in India against two Italian marines, in connection with the killing of two fishermen off the Kerala coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cargo-ship-rams-boat-off-tamil-nadu-coast-two-fishermen-thrown-out-101635015050854.html
24-10-2021||Bangalore||Plans to liberate East Pak began in ’65, says Vice Admiral Chawla||Vice Admiral Anil Kumar Chawla on Saturday said the thinking to separate East Pakistan from the West actively started after the 1965 Indo-Pak war with a principal reason to stop support of Pakistan’s ISI to insurgencies in the north-east of India.East Pakistan was separated from the West after the 1971 Indo-Pak war, giving birth to a new nation -- Bangladesh.“It was mentioned that the war did not really start in December (1971). Actually, if you really go back into literature and read, the thinking started actively after the 1965 war on how to separate East Pakistan from West Pakistan,” said Chawla, who is the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command.Speaking at the Indian Air Force Conclave n the 1971 Indo-Pak war, he said the principal reason was the interference of Pakistani ISI in the insurgencies in the north-east, particularly the arming and training of the Naga rebels.“It (supporting insurgency) was actually happening in the Chittagong hill tracts, which is from where we took a leaf out, when we sort of trained the Mukti Bahini, so the thinking started then. But India was very weak then. If you recollect, the Congress party had split, Indira Gandhi had barely managed to hold on to become the PM and was not expected to last very long,” he added.The Vice Admiral was speaking at the IAF conclave to commemorate 50-years of victory in the 1971 Indo-Pak war that gave birth to Bangladesh as a country, which is being celebrated this year as ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’.Noting that the thought processed from 1965 onwards, he said, “It was at a very nascent stage of course, but now documents clearly bring out that after January 30, 1971 hijacking of an Indian Airlines aircraft to Lahore by Kashmiri separatists, the Indian government actually stopped overflight facilities and this prevented Pakistan re-arming in East Pakistan, and they had to route through Colombo, making it difficult and expensive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/plans-to-liberate-east-pak-began-in-65-says-vice-admiral-chawla-101635014994200.html
24-10-2021||Bangalore||Amid flooding, experts seek drainage overhaul in Bengaluru||With continuous rains over the last couple of weeks causing flooding in low-lying regions of Bengaluru, urban experts have called for a change in the way the storm water in the city is handled.Flooding has left a trail of destruction, misery, and suffering of people living in low-lying regions of the city and other places where drains and lakes have overflowed into the homes and basements. The city received 233 mm of rainfall till October 18 as against the normal of 104 mm, registering an increase of 125%, as per Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) data. The rains have again exposed chinks in Bengaluru’s poor quality of infrastructure and planning, with Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai admitting that there was a lack of town planning and unscientific methods were used for creating new residential layouts. Urban planner V Ravichandar said unless a change in storm water drainage is brought about, the situation in the city is going to be difficult. “Our growth is unplanned and rampant. We have occupied several low-lying areas in the city and these areas don’t have a storm water drain. A relook at the drainage system is much needed now,” he said. Ashwin Mahesh, an urban planning expert, says that a fundamental change is needed in the idea of transporting rainwater through stormwater drains. According to him, the design of the city storm water drains is wrong. “Water moves faster in a cylindrical space than rectangular space. It is scientifically proven. Except for the TenderSure roads in Bengaluru, we have rectangular drainages. Apart from transporting we should use socking pits to absorb water locally,” he said. On September 15, the Comptroller & Auditor General (CAG) has pulled up the agencies for inefficiency in identifying and managing storm water drains (SWDs) in the city. A performance audit report tabled in the legislative assembly on Wednesday mentioned lack of financial discipline, shoddy mapping of SWDs and tertiary drains, lack of documents related to various works taken up, and failure to clear lake and SWD encroachments. “There were discrepancies between the figures exhibited in the budget estimates and actual expenditure recorded in the cash book. This indicated the lack of reconciliation mechanism and correct reporting of expenditure, and exposes the financial indiscipline reigning in BBMP,” the report said. It also added that out of the 1,988 encroachments identified by BBMP, 1,225 were declared to be removed. However, evictions were incomplete and did not improve the condition of drains. Bengaluru’s storm water drain network is over 850km. While it’s supposed to channel storm water during the rains and be empty the rest of the year, the reality is different, with the drains filled with sewage and garbage, says Naresh Narasimhan, architect, and urban activist. “I’m also beginning to think there is an intellectual vacuum in the government. There are urban experts, but they are not in governance,” he said. BBMP in response said that under the K-100, the storm water drains are in the process of getting a facelift as part of a ₹160-crore ‘Citizens Water Way Project’. The project, with a deadline of 10 months, has been envisaged to establish the major drain as a waterway and ecological corridor, and was taken up on the lines of the ‘Sabarmati River Waterfront’ project in Gujarat, said a statement from BBMP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/amid-flooding-experts-seek-drainage-overhaul-in-bengaluru-101635014992743.html
24-10-2021||Bangalore||Network of informers fuels moral policing in Karnataka||A group of men charged towards a couple sitting in Mudipu on the outskirts of Mangaluru on February 3. The men belonging to Hindu Jagran Vedike threw a barrage of questions at them asking for their identity cards. The one thing they wanted to know was the couple’s religion. They began heckling the couple after they learned that the boy was a Muslim and the girl was a Hindu. Even though the couple fought back but the mob attacked them with helmets and handed them over to the police. The police eventually released them. It was later found that a local shopkeeper had given the right-wing mob the tip-off about the couple. Karnataka chief minister’s recent statements that appeared to justify incidents of moral policing had kicked off a controversy. On October 13, CM Basavaraj Bommai had said, “Youngsters should watch their actions to ensure it does not hurt sentiments of the society.” “There are several sentiments in the society. Those emotions should not be affected, and such should be the behaviour. When such emotions are hurt, there is likely to be an action and reaction,” Bommai told reporters in Mangaluru, about 350 km from Bengaluru. Reacting to the CM’s remark, a statement endorsed by 35 human rights activists and organizations stated that the justification of moral policing by the chief minister sends out a “dangerous message”. The police in coastal districts say they are often caught between the right-wing groups and the activists. The shopkeeper who tipped off the couple on Mudipu is part of a larger network of informants, which police admit is often stronger than that of the police department. A senior officer, who was earlier posted in coastal Karnataka and now posted in Bengaluru, said that mobile numbers of the right-wing groups are easily available. “It often takes hours before the police get to know about any incident. But during this time, these groups mobilize, attack, and in some cases leave before the police arrive. Nowadays, they don’t leave, but they wait till the police come,” said the officer. He added that the communal divide in coastal Karnataka has been fueling this network. From autorickshaw drivers to shopkeepers to schoolteachers, these informants are everywhere. “The best way to explain it is that the entire Mangaluru city is under a contact watch by these men. If they see any couples or a group of students, the information is passed on. There have been many cases where Hindu couples were heckled, but only (cases involving) interfaith couples get reported,” he added. As per records of Karnataka Communal Harmony, a Mangaluru-based organization that focuses on communal violence in the region, there have been 1,288 instances of communal violence including moral policing, cattle vigilantism, and hate speech since 2010. Among these, at least 322 instances of moral policing by vigilantes. “Interfaith couples are always attacked by a group of people and never an individual. They are forced to call their parents and their videos are recorded. After these attacks, messages announcing a raid are sent out of social media. All the attacks are well-coordinated.” Informants spread across the city provide tip-offs on interfaith couples and their movements. “Hindu right-wing groups also have a strong following among auto-rickshaw drivers and employees of private bus operators in the city. They don’t do it for monetary reasons, but they believe in concepts like love jihad,” said Vidya Dinkar, a Mangaluru-based activist. Dinker claims that even though police claim they are unable to stop these attacks, there have been instances of the police telling couples from different communities not to be seen in public together. “The sense of flawed morality and communalism remains within the police department itself. This is one of the reasons why many don’t file a police complaint. But the recent case (attack on Thursday) the girl stood her ground to get the complaint,” she said. Another group of informants is employees of security agencies (private security guards) across the city, some of whom are members of right-wing parties. An activist in the city, who didn’t want to be named, said that a security agency, Eshwari Manpower Solutions, which provides security to prominent commercial establishments in the city including malls, is run by a leader of the Bajarang Dal, Sharan Pumpwell. “Once Pumpwell’s firm is in charge of the establishment, there will not be an attack on the mall, like the pub attack that happened years ago. So, the fear created using these attacks is used to get business as well,” alleged the activist. Pumpwell said that his business and politics are separate from each other. Talking about the instances of moral policing involving his group’s members, Pumpwell said: “We are only protecting our sisters from those who are trying to convert them in the name of love. You must have heard about how girls are sent to ISIS. We don’t want it to happen here. We don’t take the law into our hands. We simply hand them over (to the police); it is the police’s job to investigate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/network-of-informers-fuels-moral-policing-in-karnataka-101635014990780.html
24-10-2021||Pune||2011 double murder could be at the root of Uruli-Kanchan shootout||PUNE An old fight over sand trade is suspected to be the cause of the firing and subsequent murders of two rival gang members in Uruli Kanchan in Pune on Friday night. While there are no arrests in the two separate cases registered, the police have theories about what led to the shootout.The two deceased have been identified as Swagat Bapu Khaire and Santosh Jagtap. The two bodyguards of Jagtap were also severely injured in the shootout.“In 2011, there was a murder in Rahu village of Daund in which two Sonawane brothers were killed. That rivalry was between two groups of sand miners. Now neither of the groups are into sand mining, but the fight is on, that is our suspicion. The rivalry seems to be long-standing,” said senior police inspector Rajendra Mokashi of Lonikalbhor police station.Two people who were hired to protect Jagtap were also injured in the shootout. The incident happened at Hotel Sonai in Uruli Kanchan where Jagtap had come. Khaire arrived there with at least three others and opened fire.“One of the bodyguards has a bullet wound on his neck, and the other has a bullet wound on his back. They are both out of danger but in the ICU, as per the doctors. We will know more after further investigation,” said Mokashi.Both the deceased men have a history of body offences, including murder, attempted murder and other violence, and both are facing charges under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2011-double-murder-could-be-at-the-root-of-uruli-kanchan-shootout-101635014810946.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 6.6 million Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra crossed 6.6 million Covid-19 cases on Saturday. The total cases have reached 6,601,551 after 1,701 fresh Covid-19 infections were reported. It was the eighth consecutive day the state reported fewer than 2,000 infections.On Friday, 1,632 cases were reported. The tally of active cases further reduced to 24,022 as 1,781 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. It also saw 33 casualties and the total fatalities stood at 139,998. Ahmednagar reported the highest toll at 11 deaths. Of them, 10 were reported in the district and one in the city.So far, the state has managed to control the Covid-19 pandemic even after lifting most of the curbs and number of festivals being celebrated in the past over a month. The gradual decline in the daily cases has continued for the past few months. After schools and religious places were started in the first week of this month, cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes were reopened in the state after a gap of six months with 50% capacity from Friday. The state has also extended timings of all restaurants and eateries till 12 midnight and other establishments till 11pm, against the backdrop of the upcoming Diwali festival.Health experts are looking at the situation as the end of the second wave in the state. However, there are concerns that lifting of most of the curbs and festivals may lead to a spike in cases post Diwali.“We definitely are seeing the end of the second wave, fewer daily cases and definitely in a better space in the coming days. Only thing is we need to be cautious and follow all the Covid-19 protocols. As far as Maharashtra is concerned, we are seeing better times ahead,” said Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the Maharashtra task force.With 454 cases, Mumbai again reported the highest number of cases in the entire state and its tally reached a total of 754,107 infections till date. It also recorded five fatalities, taking the toll to 16,207. In the past 24 hours, the state tested 136,664 samples and had a positivity rate of 1.24%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 10.69%, according to the data issued by the state health department.The state also vaccinated 553,389 people on Saturday and has administered a total of 95,141,631 doses till date, according to the data available on Co-Win portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-6-6-million-covid-19-cases-101635014453465.html
24-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj markets abuzz with activity on Karva Chauth eve||PRAYAGRAJ: Markets in the Sangam city were abuzz with the activity on the eve Karwa Chauth. Married women, who observe the dawn to dusk fast for well-being, prosperity and longevity of their husbands, were seen waiting for their turn at henna artist shops. Outlets selling beauty products and fashionable clothes also witnessed huge influx of women and girls.Scenes at shops selling gifts items and food stores were also similar, as Karwa Chauth is an occasion that encourages women to gather and socialize with friends and family, exchange gifts and share home-cooked meals. Chowk, Katra and Civil Lines were among the markets where shopping spree was seen more. Although at several locations, people were seen wearing masks and following other norms of the pandemic, but by and large locals were taking things lightly. The henna artists were busy applying fascinating and intricate patterns on the hands of women at famous Subash Crossing in Civil Lines area. However, they were seen wearing masks. Women also enjoyed their favourite street foods at different famous outlets of the city. Beauty parlour owners, event managers and restaurant owners too did brisk business on the eve of popular festival while different jewellery shops of the city witnessed enthusiastic husbands making last moment purchase of jewellery items. Karva Chauth is celebrated mostly in North India. The most important aspect of this day is the dawn to dusk fast, undertaken by women, which they end after seeing the moon at night. “The fast is unique because nowhere in the world a wife goes without food or water just to pray for the longevity and well-being of her husband,” said astrologer and director of Uthan Jyotish Sansthan Pandit Diwaker Tripathi Purvanchali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-markets-abuzz-with-activity-on-karva-chauth-eve-101635014215674.html
24-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi air quality to improve as IMD predicts light rain on Sunday||Delhi may look forward to improved air quality on Sunday with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting moderate rain over the city and a change in the wind direction.IMD officials said that under the impact of a western disturbance heavy rain and hailstorms were reported on Saturday from parts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. The western disturbance is also likely to cause moderate to light rains in parts of Delhi on Sunday, which is expected to improve the city’s air quality further, IMD scientists said.A western disturbance is an extratropical storm originating in the Mediterranean region that brings sudden winter rain to the northern parts of the Indian subcontinent.According to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data on Saturday, Delhi’s overall air quality index (AQI) was 173, in the ‘moderate’ category. This was only marginally higher than Friday’s 170, also in the ‘moderate’ zone.“The air quality is likely to improve over Sunday and Monday. The reduction in pollution levels has already started. Since the winds blowing into Delhi is from the southeast direction, the impact of stubble fires in Delhi’s pollution will be negligible—around 1-2%,” said VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment and research department.Soni, however, warned that the impact of weather conditions will only be temporary, and from October 25 when the wind direction changes back to north-westerly, pollution levels will start rising again. The north-westerlies bring in highly polluting particulate matter from the stubble fires in the neighbouring Haryana and Punjab.“Pollution levels will start rising again after October 25, but the AQI will remain in the moderate range,” Soni said.The passing of the western disturbance also resulted in a marginal increase in the temperatures in the national capital. On Saturday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, considered the representative for the entire city, was 32.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above the season’s normal. The minimum temperature was 18.4 degrees Celsius, two degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the year.At Palam, the maximum temperature was 32 degrees Celsius, and the minimum temperature was 20.6 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal.“There are chances of moderate to light rain in parts of Delhi on Sunday. While the temperature over the weekend has remained slightly higher because of the western disturbance, mercury levels will start dropping from next week,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet Weather Services.After this year’s first ‘good’ air day on Monday, followed by ‘satisfactory’ air on Tuesday, the air quality quickly rebounded sharply into the poor zone on Wednesday. However, till then, the air quality has stayed in the moderate category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-air-quality-to-improve-as-imd-predicts-light-rain-on-sunday-101635009290631.html
24-10-2021||Delhi||Educating children highest form of patriotism, will develop society: Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged people to educate their children, calling it “the biggest step towards developing the society”. He also announced that the Delhi government will celebrate Valmiki Jayanti in a grand way annually from this year.Paying tributes to Maharshi Valmiki at an event hosted by the Delhi Sanskrit Academy at Thyagaraj Stadium, Kejriwal said, “The three lessons given by Maharishi Valmiki are respecting women, education, and compassion. I ask you all, not for votes or money, but to promise me that no matter what happens, you will provide your children with the best standard of education possible: this is the highest form of patriotism right now. If all our children flourish, so will the country.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam, deputy speaker of Delhi Legislative Assembly Rakhi Birla and several other dignitaries also attended the event.Kejriwal said the event will be an annual affair in Delhi. “Today a very healthy tradition is being commenced here. Up until last year, Valmiki Prakatotsav was celebrated well within the communities. However, this is the first time the Delhi government has involved all the people of Delhi and eminent individuals at such a grand scale to come together to commemorate the works of Maharishi Valmiki. And this will continue for years to come,” said Kejriwal.Maharishi Valmiki is worshipped by sections of the Dalit community. The call to hold celebrations is interesting because Kejriwal often commences Aam Aadmi Party’s campaigns ahead of polls from a Valmiki Temple on Mandir Marg in the national capital.Assembly elections are due in many states next year, including Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, and AAP is looking to strengthen its base outside Delhi by launching poll campaigns in some of these states.The chief minister also felicitated 22 meritorious students who studied in Delhi government’s schools. “Till now, financial obstacles were holding back many families from educating their children. Private schools were expensive and government schools were in a sad state. The 22 students that have been recognised today have all studied from government schools, proving the enhanced standard in these schools and making education a lot more accessible as compared to the exorbitant fees charged by public schools. Do not make your children work, educate them instead. Encourage them as much as possible,” he said.Kejriwal said his government not only ensured free coaching after Class 12, but also provided a loan of ₹10 lakh for higher education. The government also bears the cost if any student wants to pursue doctorate or other courses from any foreign university, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/educating-children-the-highest-form-of-patriotism-will-develop-society-kejriwal-101635009112307.html
24-10-2021||Delhi||After three cut-offs, over 60,000 seats in DU taken||Over 60,000 candidates have secured admission for various undergraduate courses in over 60 Delhi University colleges as the last date for fee payment under the third cut-off list ended on Saturday evening.According to the data shared by the varsity’s admissions branch, DU had received 170,696 applications till the third cut-off, out of which 60,155 candidates had paid their fee till 5pm. Though DU has around 70,000 sanctioned UG seats, its admission policy dictates that colleges must admit all students clearing the announced cut-offs, thereby increasing the total intake in many courses.The university is expected to release a special cut-off on Monday, subject to the availability of seats in colleges, for those students who had the required percentage as per the three cut-offs but could not take admission due to any reason.A member of the admissions committee also said that the university website would not allow for cancellation of admission till the special cut-off process is over.“The special cut-off is strictly for those students who had the eligible scores as per the first three lists but could not take admission due to any reason or withdrew their application. But this will be subject to availability of seats in the college. The cancellation process has been put on hold so that there is no movement of students in between different colleges,” the official said.Eligible candidates can take admission under the special cut-off between October 26 and 27 and pay their fee by October 29. The fourth cut-off will be declared on October 30.Of the 11 undergraduate courses that announced 100% cutoff in the first list this year, seven will be closed in the fourth cut-off list, college officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-three-cut-offs-over-60-000-seats-in-du-taken-101635008871176.html
24-10-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal says Capital nearly winning the battle against dengue||Amid a surge in dengue cases in the city, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday declared that the national capital was “close to winning the battle” against the vector borne disease, as he urged residents to take part in the Delhi government’s “10 Hafte, 10 Baje, 10 Minute” campaign to combat the infection.“Delhi is now very close to winning the battle against dengue. Like previous weeks, this Sunday too, at 10 am, let us all spend 10 minutes, inspecting our homes and surrounding areas, for any sign of stagnant water. If you do find such water, drain it, replace it or cover with a small layer of oil. Together, let us all make Delhi dengue-free,” said a statement issued by the chief minister’s office which quoted him.The chief minister’s assertion comes amid a surge in dengue cases in the last two weeks, and the first death due to it was reported on Monday.Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations in Delhi for not preparing in a timely manner to control vector-borne diseases in the city.Addressing a press conference, AAP senior leader and Kalkaji MLA Atishi said the MCDs did not maintain adequate stocks of medicines to treat such diseases or arrange enough staff for the same.“There are 70% vacancies in the anti-malaria department of the MCD. Almost no fogging is taking place and MCDs’ performance in carrying out door-to-door checks or medicine administration is majorly lacking. In the last two days, shocking facts have been revealed concerning the North MCD. North MCD lacks the staff and also do not even possess the medicines and chemicals required to carry out the steps to counter dengue-malaria,” Atishi said.On October 23, HT, citing a status report from the North MCD, reported that the civic body is running abysmally low on larvicide and insecticides needed to control vector populations.The Delhi BJP said that due to the hard work and cooperation of municipal domestic breeding checkers and fogging staff, dengue and malaria spread is well under control.“The truth is that all zonal offices of North MCD have 2-3 weeks of fogging and sprinkling medicines stock and hospitals including Hindu Rao have proper stock of medicines. Around 2,900 DBC workers are working hard to check and control mosquito breeding. AAP’s Atishi is repeatedly trying to put fear in the minds of people by spreading wrong information through her politically biased statements,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.“If Atishi still feels that MCDs are lacking in preparation, then she should ask CM Arvind Kejriwal to provide additional medicines stock to MCDs instead of splashing public money on his photo hoardings,” the BJP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-says-capital-nearly-winning-the-battle-against-dengue-101635008634855.html
24-10-2021||Patna||Tension in Dhanarua after firing, probe ordered||Tension prevailed in Dhanarua’s Moriyawan village on Saturday following last evening’s police firing, in which a Dalit youth was killed and three villagers sustained injuries. Besides, 30 others, including 16 policemen, were injured in brick batting that ensued after the incident, said police.The police firing took place at the Moriyawan, around 44 kilometres South-East of the state capital, where Panchayat election is scheduled on October 24. The body of the victim was lifted from the village Saturday morning when police and political leaders reached the spot and assured the locals of action against the culprits.Patna DM Chandrasekhar Singh has ordered magisterial inquiry into the incident and asked the Masaurhi SDO and SDPO to submit joint reports within 24 hours.According to the DM, the role of Masaurhi circle inspector is under scanner and senior officials are probing the matter. “The district administration will provide ex-gratia to the next to kin of the deceased as per rules. Post-mortem has been conducted with videography in presence of a magistrate,” said the DM, adding that police fired in the air in self-defence and it was not aimed at the crowd.The villagers, however, alleged that one Rohit Choudhary, professionally an electrician, who was on his way to village, was hit by a bullet and died. Sita Paswan, 52, said that when she came from outside the village, police thrashed her mercilessly and broke her left hand.Patna SSP Upendra Sharma said that 16 policemen sustained injuries and had to fire in self defence, which hit some people. “Impartial probe would be conducted into the incident from all angles. One FIR will lodge on police statement, while another will be lodged by the victims. It is a matter of investigation as to why the police had to open fire,” he added.The SSP said that the police had gone to stop campaigning beyond the permissible time. “During that time, there was a scuffle to stop the blaring loudspeaker. It soon turned into stone pelting. The entire matter is being probed and the culprits will not be spared,” he added.The villagers alleged that police resorted to lathi-charge around 7pm when they assembled near a temple. “The police team led by circle inspector Ram Kumar raided the village fourth time within three days and forced them to cast their vote in favour of former mukhia Ranjan Yadav,” they added.Another villager Devanti Devi said that the incident took place when present mukhia Suresh Sao campaigned in the village after 6pm with a music system. Suddenly a contingent of police forces reached the village and started lathi-charge. Irate over the police action, villagers pelted stones on the police.An eyewitness to the incident, Shashi Kumar, said first the police lathi charged the villagers and when the villagers retaliated by hurling stones, the police opened fire on them. Three villagers—Birendra Kumar, Neeraj Kumar and Milan Kumar—received bullet injuries and all of them were admitted to PMCH where their condition was stated to be out of danger.Patna range IG Sanjay Singh said additional police forces including 35 officers and 500 jawans have been deputed on the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tension-in-dhanarua-after-firing-probe-ordered-101635008633730.html
24-10-2021||Delhi||20 million in Delhi now have taken at least one Covid-19 shot||The national capital crossed the 20 million vaccine doses milestone against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday with over 85% of Delhi’s population already receiving at least one Covid jab, according to government data. Delhi has now become the 18th state or Union Territory to surpass the 20-million figure for Covid-19 jabs, an important landmark for the city in its fight to overcome the pandemic, even as daily vaccinations have slowed down over the past month.As of 9.30pm on Saturday, according the Centre’s CoWIN dashboard, Delhi administered 20,046,547 doses. Delhi hit the 20-million milestone two days after the country crossed the much-awaited 1 billion mark in Covid-19 vaccinations -- just over nine months after the country began a massive inoculation programme to protect all its adults against Covid-19.Of the 20 million doses so far, over 5 million have taken the first jab, and 7.1 million have been fully vaccinated. Delhi has an adult population of around 15 million, according to January 2021 electoral data.Of the shots administered so far in Delhi, according to the Centre’s CoWIN dashboard, the maximum have been recorded in the north-west district with 2,396,252 shots, with the south-west district a close second at 2,314,641 jabs. The least doses were administered in the north-east district at 1,255,828.Of the total 20 million doses, more than 11 million beneficiaries were male and over 8 million were females, according to the data. However, the pace of vaccination in the national capital has slowed down this month, with only just over 75,500 vaccines being administered a day on average over the last seven days. Last month, Delhi had seen over 200,000 doses being administered a day on a few occasions. To be sure, Delhi is not an outlying region to have witnessed such a drop – it is visible at the national level as well. The seven-day average of daily vaccinations in India, which touched a peak of 9.7 million for the week ending September 23, has dropped nearly 60% in the past week. Since September-end Delhi has also seen more second jabs being administered as compared to the first dose. Of the eligible population, 47% have completed their immunisation with both doses, according to data from the government’s CoWIN portal. In a statement, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said on Friday evening said, “As a responsible and sensitive, the Kejriwal government rapidly working on vaccinating the entire population of Delhi and will leave no one behind in this drive. The Delhi government is about to touch the two-crore [20 million] mark thanks to our highly motivated front line workers and our rigorous infrastructure, which helped accelerate our efforts even when we had low vaccine stocks.”Last week, the Centre had urged states and union territories to focus on increasing the coverage of the second dose of the vaccine. Dr Suneela Garg, professor in the department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College, said, “There is a need to further increase the coverage of second dose in Delhi, especially during the festive season to prevent a surge after it. There is already an uptick in cases in Bengal after pooja. Technically, there is a need to reduce the gap between the two doses of Covishield to ideally eight weeks; now we have enough vaccine supply. Also, we need to remember Delhi has a huge floating population of people from the neighbouring states and the vaccine coverage in Uttar Pradesh is lower. Delhi can get cases from neighbouring states.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/20-million-in-delhi-now-have-taken-at-least-one-covid-19-shot-101635007490458.html
24-10-2021||Pune||Forget long queues, Covid vaccination centres in Pune now seeing empty chairs||PUNE: Till June and July this year, most inoculation centres in the city would often run into a “no doses left” situation as demand was high amidst short supply of vaccines. Now however, the situation has reversed so much so that despite special vaccination drives undertaken by the administration for easy access to vaccines, government centres reported nearly five lakh surplus doses as of Saturday, October 23. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services, Pune circle, said, “As of now, the district has about five lakh vaccine doses in storehouses. We hope to vaccinate about 100% of the population with the first dose by the end of this month and 75% of the population with the second dose. Despite having surplus doses available and multiple vaccination centres running across the district, there are people who are hesitant to take the second dose and so we are hoping that if someone gets vaccinated this month with their first dose, going by the 84 days’ mandatory gap between the two doses, the person would get the second dose by February. So, the district would be fully immunised by February.”Dr Deshmukh said that the reason there are no takers for the second dose although it is mandatory to take the second jab to be declared as fully immunised is hesitation on the people’s part and declining fear among them about Covid-19, now that the number of new cases and deaths due to the infection has come down drastically.On Saturday, Pune city’s Covid-19 vaccination count went above the 5 million mark. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The fact that the city of Pune has crossed the 50 lakh doses mark is satisfactory and is reassuring for all. Since the commencement of vaccination, several drives have been conducted through various means, including centres and special drives. I would like to thank the civic staff, administration and the health department and also beneficiaries.”“Although the city had a tough time inoculating its population during the second wave, the situation began to change post-August as private hospitals joined in the drive. As a result, a heavy crowd at government vaccination centres chose to visit private ones, reducing the burden on public health machinery. By September, when the state received close to 20 million doses, Pune expedited the vaccination drive. The long queues then were replaced by empty chairs; the ‘no doses left’ boards by doses available; and once a busy health staff now waiting for people to get vaccinated,” he said.“Till July, our leaves were cancelled and work hours too were increased. But as the situation changed, we are all doing eight-hour regular duty, and there is no rush mainly because people do not seem to have a sense of urgency to get the second dose quickly after the second wave waned, said a 30-year-old nurse at Satara road-based hospital.As of Saturday - over 23,000 healthcare workers; 40,000 frontline workers; over 300,000 senior citizens; and 500,000 citizens in the 45 to 60 age group – are yet to take their second dose. Not only have all of them taken their first dose, they have also completed the mandatory 84 days after the first dose. Further, those who got infected after taking their first dose in the months of May, June or July have completed the mandatory three-month period as well. A total 884,957 people who have taken their first dose are still to take their second dose. To make access easier for people, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has even allowed housing societies to apply for mobile vaccine vans that help facilitate vaccination at one’s doorstep. Dr Suryakant Devkar, PMC immunisation officer, said, “We have surplus vaccines and so, we have increased the number of centres to make it easier for people to get the vaccine closest to their homes. Time and again, health experts and doctors have said that it is important to take both the shots. The side effects if any during the first shot are unlikely to repeat themselves after the second shot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/forget-long-queues-covid-vaccination-centres-in-pune-now-seeing-empty-chairs-101635004130425.html
24-10-2021||Mumbai||MNS chief Raj Thackeray, kin tested Covid positive||Mumbai
24-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Covid cases on rise, 465 students test positive since schools reopened||A total of 465 schoolchildren have tested positive for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh since schools reopened for regular classes on September 27. Stating this on Saturday, a state government official said that as on October 22, 210 students have recovered and rest are still in home isolation. On Saturday, 23 students were tested positive in Kangra, eight each in Una and Hamirpur, five in Bilaspur two in Mandi and one in Kullu. National Health Mission state director Hemraj Bairwa said only one school girl needed hospitalisation due to Covid-19 infection which showed that children have a better immunity against the virus. The 13-year-old student of Government Senior Secondary School at Saleti in Rakkar tehsil of Kangra district died of the contagion on Thursday. A maximum number of 143 students caught the infection in schools of Hamirpur district followed by 130 in Kangra, 74 in Una, 21 in Shimla, 22 in Mandi, 14 in Kinnaur, seven each in Bilaspur and Kullu, four in Solan and one in Lahaul-Spiti district, the official said. 61% kids have antibodies In the recent sero survey, 61% children in the age group of 10-17 years were found to have antibodies against coronavirus. Bairwa said that the death of the girl student had become a cause of concern. The district authorities said the girl had not been attending school since October 12. He said the family did not seek proper medical assistance until her condition deteriorated. She was admitted to the Government Medical College in Hamirpur where she died. He said parents should seek medical help immediately if the child faces difficulty in breathing or the oxygen level dips. Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta said 12 more students had tested positive for Covid-19 in the same school on Friday. He said directions have been issued to collect samples of students from nearby schools also. Health authorities keeping watch Bairwa said the health authorities are keeping a watch on the situation as the number of infections among school students is on the rise. The government may take a decision to close schools again if the situation doesn’t improve. The state government had reopened schools for Classes 9-12 from September 27, while it is considering calling students of junior classes after Diwali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-covid-cases-on-rise-418-students-test-positive-since-schools-reopened-101634983189029.html
