26-10-2021||Gurugram||Residents of new sectors in Gurugram complain of sewage overflow||Around 30 residents from Rajendra Park near Sector 105 on Tuesday blocked the Daulatabad Road for around half an hour to protest against sewage overflow in their locality for the past three months.Residents said they wanted to draw the authorities’ attention to the issue as they have been facing the problem of sewage overflow onto roads outside their houses, making it difficult for them to commute.The police said they asked the residents to disperse after a few hours.Ashish Vashishta, a resident of Rajendra Park, said, “This monsoon season, sewage water kept overflowing on lanes outside our houses, along with waterlogging. For the past three months, authorities have been saying that the problem is due to a broken sewage line nearby, but that has still not been fixed. We protested to draw attention to our problem, but we are waiting to see if any action is taken.”Bhawna (who goes by her first name), another resident from Rajendra Park, took to social media and said, “It has been almost two weeks since a ticket was raised by Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) regarding the overflow of sewage water on the roads, but no action has been taken on the ground. Residents want to know when will this stop. With rain, it becomes even more difficult to enter our own houses.”Officials from GMDA said that the sewage work for these areas has not been completely handed over to them by Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) yet, so it will take some time to solve such problems.Officials of the HSVP could not be contacted for comment on the matter.“These areas come under the jurisdiction of the GMDA, but the sewage network has not been completely handed over to us. Some of the areas have been handed over to us and we have started work on the sewage network, but the whole process will take a few more months,” said an executive engineer from infrastructure-II division of GMDA, who is privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-of-new-sectors-in-gurugram-complain-of-sewage-overflow-101635272956383.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Nine-day Diwali fair begins in Lucknow from Thursday, logo launched||The logo for the Diwali fair, based on the theme ‘Vikas Deepotsav’, to be organised at Jhulelal Park from October 28 to November 5, was launched on Tuesday.Ashutosh Tandon, urban development minister launched the logo and said “the fair is not only going to be a star-studded affair but will also be packed with entertainment and cultural programmes”. The minister said the aim of organising the fair pre-Diwali is to bring prosperity to all: the potters, local artisans, sanitation workers and street vendors.The minister said that at the fair, the beneficiaries of the PM Swanidhi Yojana and ODOP programme will be provided space to put up their stalls. “We will also be organising a grand felicitation programme to felicitate street vendors, sanitation workers and others to boost their morale,” he added.Officials with the district administration said that the administration has hired Bollywood singer Kailash Kher and other singers to make the fair a starry affair. “Other than the regular programmes, we will be organising a spiritual night with Kailash Kher on October 30,” a senior administrative official said.Besides, the administration is also lining up other artists. A comedy night, cultural night, folk night, phoolon ki Holi are a few programmes scheduled to be held during the fair.Officials said that similar to the Lucknow Mahotsav, the fair will be inaugurated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The fair would showcase indigenous art and craft work from other districts too. The other attractions of the fair would be talent shows, painting competitions, magic shows, slogan competition, musical band show, musical night, mushaira and others.The venue will have a grand multi-cuisine food court. “We are trying to tie up with various eateries, famous brands and restaurants in order to set up outlets at the food court that is going to be another major attraction of the fair,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nineday-diwali-fair-begins-in-lucknow-from-thursday-logo-launched-101635272902790.html
26-10-2021||Other||Be vigilant, update ‘maal khana’ inventory on regular basis: IG, Agra range to cops||Agra Taking a lesson from the incident in which ₹25 lakh was stolen from the ‘maal khana’ (storage room) of Jagdishpura police station in Agra on October 17 and the death of the accused sanitation worker in police custody, Agra police authorities have asked cops deployed at police stations to remain vigilant about the ‘maal-khana’ and update the inventory on regular basis.“A letter in this regard has been sent to SSPs and the SPs of four districts (Agra, Mathura, Mainpuri and Firozabad) under Agra Range. These officials heading the respective districts are to communicate the police station in-charges to ensure the arrangements at ‘maal-khana’ with constant vigil. It has been noticed that at most police stations, there is no appointment of ‘maal-khana’ moharrir (care-taker). First of all, the vacancy should be filled by deputing one of the cops as ‘moharrir’ at every police station in Agra range,” said Naveen Arora, inspector general (IG) of police, Agra Range. “There are storage rooms at different police stations which have not been opened for months. Directions have been issued to open such storage rooms at police stations and prepare a list of goods and contents present there under the supervision of a committee constituted at the police station level,” suggested, IG, Agra Range. The additional director general (ADG) Agra Zone Rajeev Krishna has already ordered to shift valuables, including recovered jewellery and heavy cash to the treasury. “The inspection of ‘maal-khana’ should be conducted on regular basis and if anything goes missing, senior cops deployed at the police stations would be answerable to that,” said Arora. He also advised officials concerned to first of all assign the task to only those cops who were responsible and thereafter check the goods at ‘maal-khana’ and update the list, and then send it to him by November end. On October 17, ₹25 lakh cash was found missing from the ‘maal-khana’ and on suspicion, a sanitation worker Arun Valmiki was taken into police custody and ₹15 lakh was recovered from his residence. The sanitation worker was later was found dead in the custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/be-vigilant-update-maal-khana-inventory-on-regular-basis-ig-agra-range-to-cops-101635272839125.html
26-10-2021||Noida||Legacy waste mining: NGT tells Ghaziabad civic body to pay ₹1 crore in damages||Taking serious note of the “very slow pace” of processing the legacy waste at the two landfill sites in Shakti Khand and Pratap Vihar, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) came down heavily on Ghaziabad agencies and directed the Ghaziabad municipal corporation to deposit ₹1 crore as interim compensation for restoration of the environment. The order came on a petition filed by the Confederation of Trans-Hindon RWAs seeking the removal of solid waste dumped at the landfill site, which is located in a residential area. During the course of hearings, the tribunal also directed inspections by its oversight committee to monitor the legacy waste processing at the Pratap Vihar landfill, which was shut in January 2019. The Pratap Vihar site has about 4.5 lakh metric tonnes of solid waste while the Shakti Khand site has about 1.5 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste. The corporation officials said the processing of legacy waste at Shakti Khand would be completed by November, while the clearing of legacy waste from the Pratap Vihar site will be over only by March 2022. The oversight committee inspected both sites about a fortnight ago to assess the progress of legacy waste mining. “This is yet another instance of disappointing performance by statutory authorities in scientifically managing the waste in Indirapuram, Vasundhara and Vaishali, Ghaziabad, to the prejudice of rule of law and the environment and public health. This is so in spite of continuous monitoring by this tribunal for the past about three years,” the tribunal said in its order dated October 25. The tribunal observed that the authorities have to be held accountable by way of the “polluter pays” principle and department action must be taken for being in breach of their constitutional obligation under the “public trust doctrine”, apart from the liability for prosecution under criminal Law. “Remedial action by higher authorities may include review of the postings of key officers dealing with the waste management, including commissioner, Nagar Nigam (municipal corporation), and fixing liability under the civil and criminal Law,” the tribunal further said. “The additional chief secretary, Nagar Vikas, Uttar Pradesh, may file compliance status after coordinating with authorities concerned after three months. Pending assessment quantification of compensation, the Ghaziabad Nagar Nigam may deposit interim compensation of ₹1 crore with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) within 15 days, to be utilised for restoration of the environment. The nigam is free to recover the amount from the salary of errant officers,” it added. The tribunal also directed the CPCB to submit an independent report on the issue of management of solid/liquid waste in the area in question and also said In the case of 10 sewage drains (flowing into river Hindon), the technologies adopted and their performance duly supported by the analytical results needs to be indicated. “Storm water drains are not to be used for disposal of sewage, as earlier held by this tribunal, as the same is prohibited under the Water Act. The performance of STPs and the gap between sewage generation and treatment may be mentioned (in the report),” the tribunal said. The 10 drains are the ones in Karhera, Hindon Vihar, Kaila Bhatta, Arthala, Sarvodaya Nagar, Rahul Vihar, Indirapuram, Dasna and Nandgram besides the one near the main gate of the city forest in Karhera. In connection with the drains, tribunal said failure to manage drains, adds to the pollution of river Ganga as the said drain first meets Hindon, which then flows into the Yamuna, a tributary of Ganga.The officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation said the slow pace of legacy waste mining was due to several factors, including the pandemic situation. “Even the oversight committee in its inspection a fortnight ago appreciated the progress we made. As per our estimates, the legacy waste disposal at Shakti Khand is likely to get over by November while the one at Pratap Vihar is likely to get over by March 2022. We are making all efforts from our end. As regards the environment compensation of ₹1 crore, we will appeal this before the Supreme Court,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. The members of the petitioner association said legacy waste at the site is getting processed at a slow pace. “This gives rise to unhygienic conditions and fires also break out sporadically. Overall, it is a highly contaminated area in the middle of Indirapuram residential locality,” said Mohan Sangwan, general secretary of the federation that filed the petition.The tribunal also said that “crossing the timeline is a criminal offence” under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, read with the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. “Thus, the tribunal cannot be party to permitting continuation of such criminal offence. The criminal and civil liability for the failure (to process legacy waste) lies with the authorities concerned as laid down,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/legacy-waste-mining-ngt-tells-ghaziabad-civic-body-to-pay-1-crore-in-damages-101635272837708.html
26-10-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Special task force for executing Kaushambi’s environment plan||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed for constituting a special task force for a high-level monitoring of the steps being executed under the environment management plan for the Kaushambi township. The NGT issued the order in connection with a petition filed by the Kaushambi Apartments’ Resident Welfare Associations (Karwa). The tribunal, during the hearing on October 25, interacted with different officers who were directed to be present. “We have interacted with the officers present who are senior enough in the hierarchy of the administration and are competent enough to remedy the situation. What is required is realistic approach and concern to tackle the problem, instead of shifting the blame to other authorities. The traffic management, waste management and action against encroachers need to be realistic and not mere show of compliance,” the tribunal said in its order. “Stringent steps are required for executing the environment management plan, including protection of the storm water drains and preventing unauthorised parking. This may require a special task force comprising responsible officers of proven ability and high-level monitoring at least once in a week, if not more frequent initially. Monitoring may include, among other indicators, improvement in air quality and reduction in noise,” it said. Karwa moved the NGT in 2015 with contention for stoppage of different sources of pollution affecting the township that has about 22 high-rises with an estimated population of about 20,000. The resident body said that pollution levels are high in Kaushambi due to its close proximity to Anand Vihar and Kaushambi inter-state bus terminals, Ghazipur landfill site and Sahibabad industrial area. “After several works remained incomplete, we filed an execution application in 2019. The Ghaziabad agencies filed their status reports recently. The environment management plan for Kaushambi was revised in mid of 2020. Now, different departments have started works and the tribunal has directed for formation of a special task force,” said VK Mittal, president of Karwa. In its execution application, Karwa sought enforcement of the tribunal’s order of August 20, 2018 and subsequent orders for remedial action against violation of environmental norms on account of unregulated traffic, illegal parking, encroachments, and unscientific solid waste management. The revised environment management plan was made by the UP Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) on the directions of the NGT. Under the plan, the state pollution board has suggested for conversion of state road transport buses into CNG, creation of noise barriers, repair of roads, mechanical road sweeping, proper solid waste disposal, and removal of encroachments, among others.“We will comply with the directions of the tribunal. We will direct the departments, which are working for different works related to Kaushambi, to expedite the works,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB, Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-special-task-force-for-executing-kaushambi-s-environment-plan-101635272836404.html
26-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram civic body to lift only segregated waste from November 10||Starting November 10, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will collect only segregated waste from households in the city, officials said on Tuesday. The corporation has also issued directions to its sanitation wing and Ecogreen to make citizens aware in the next 15 days that they need to segregate waste at their homes. Ecogreen is MCG’s concessionaire for door-to-door collection of waste in the city. The officials said the decision was taken to ensure strict compliance to the waste management rules.“Segregation of garbage is an important and necessary task. There are various types of waste generated in homes, with wet and dry waste being the primary ones. It is the responsibility of residents to separate the waste into these categories and hand it over to the garbage collectors separately. From November 10, mixed waste will not be accepted by the MCG. So, citizens should make the process of segregating waste a habit,” said Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, municipal commissioner who took the decision on Monday.Acting on Ahuja’s directions, MCG additional commissioner Vaishali Sharma held a meeting with sanitation wing officials and Ecogreen representatives in the corporation’s Sector 34 office on Tuesday and directed them to start proceedings for storing segregated waste in garbage collection vehicles and inform residents that mixed waste will not be accepted after November 10.“Ecogreen representatives have been directed to ensure that wet and dry waste is collected separately from each household. For this, each garbage collection vehicle should have two different sections to store such waste so as to ensure they do not get mixed. They have been asked to make these changes within the next 15 days,” said Sharma.On December 25 last year, the MCG observed ‘zero waste day’ for the first time. On a zero waste day, only wet waste is collected from households. Since mid-March this year, the corporation has been observing zero waste days every Tuesday. The officials said that residents have been given six months of training in segregation of waste, hence it was decided to carry it out on a full-time basis ahead of the Swachh Survekshan 2022. ‘Kachra alag karo’ (separate waste) is one of the campaigns in the upcoming cleanliness survey, they said.The MCG officials further said that the segregation of waste is also aimed at converting wet waste into compost and recycling dry waste to the maximum possible extent so that the waste load carried to the overburdened Bandhwari landfill can be reduced. There are around 2.5 million tonnes of legacy waste at the Bandhwari landfill.The additional commissioner also said if Ecogreen vehicles come to the transfer station with mixed waste, then action will be taken against the concessionaire under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016.Ecogreen officials said that around 380 garbage collection vehicles are equipped with compartments to store different types of waste.“In pursuance of the directions issued by MCG officials during a meeting with Ecogreen on Tuesday, we will run a campaign to spread awareness on waste segregation and inform residents about the November 10 deadline. The MCG has also informed us about the penalties if mixed waste is found at transfer stations, and the same will be conveyed to our staff,” said Sanjeev Sharma, spokesperson, Ecogreen.Residents said that the corporation should launch an awareness campaign on the waste segregation. “MCG should issue an advisory on social media as well as on RWA WhatsApp groups first informing residents about the November 10 deadline and explain about the various types of dry and wet waste,” said Dhruv Bansal, spokesperson, Gurgaon Citizens Council (GCC), an umbrella body of RWAs in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-civic-body-to-lift-only-segregated-waste-from-november-10-101635272776372.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: KGMU student consumes sleeping pills, stable||The bachelor of dental surgery (BDS) student of the King George’s Medical University (KGMU), who had consumed sleeping pills earlier on Tuesday, was stated to be stable by the doctors treating her.“She consumed pills owing to some personal issues. The student is stable and out of danger now,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson for the medical university.The 2017 batch student had consumed multiple pills and as a result her condition deteriorated. Her fellow students brought her from the hostel where she is putting up for studies. Her father is working in Noida and mother in Ambedkar Nagar.“Her psychiatric evaluation has been done and parents have been informed. She may be sent home for a few days depending upon her condition and willingness to go home and relax,” said Dr Singh. Senior faculty and hostel warden met her in the trauma centre where she was under treatment till late evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-kgmu-student-consumes-sleeping-pills-stable-101635272476529.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||DDMA mulls making Covid vaccination mandatory for entry into malls, metros||Following a recent Covid-19 review meeting of Delhi, the city secretary of the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has suggested making vaccination against the virus mandatory for entry into metros and malls.“It is also the right time to de-incentivise/incentivise remaining beneficiaries for vaccination by making vaccination mandatory for entry into malls, Delhi Metro, restaurants and offices,” read minutes of the meeting.According to a PTI report, NITI Aayog member (Health) VK Paul also suggested introduction of vaccine passports. He said all auto and taxi drivers in the national capital along with other groups, who are in constant touch with the general public, must be fully vaccinated.The government official further emphasised on considering a campaign to ensure the public is adhering to the mandate of wearing masks at all times.Also Read | Mumbai local train: Full vaccination mandatory to travel in suburban serviceMeanwhile, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria said mobile vaccination camps should be organised in Delhi to help individuals, who are unable to come to centres to get their jabs.Delhi, on Tuesday, logged 41 fresh coronavirus cases, taking its cumulative tally to 14,39,671. The national capital maintained its streak of no new fatalities due to the infection, thus, keeping the toll to 25,091, according to the daily health bulletin data.Only four persons have succumbed to coronavirus, so far, this month. In September, a total of five deaths were recorded. In the last 24 hours, 76,947 people have been administered Covid-19 vaccine shots, of which, 27,747 received their first dose, while the remaining 49,200 were inoculated with the second one. Till date, as many as 2,01,27,804 people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in Delhi, the bulletin data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-mulls-making-covid-vaccination-mandatory-for-entry-into-malls-metros-101635272088167.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Gang that honey trapped men, extorted money from them busted; five held||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they have busted a gang of extortionists led by a 42-year-old woman, who was previously convicted in a criminal conspiracy case, and arrested her and four of her associates for allegedly extorting money from men after threatening to frame them in bogus rape cases.The alleged accused befriended the victims through an online dating application and lured them to a house, where they drugged the man and clicked his objectionable photographs and videos with women in the gang. Police said the gang hatched elaborate plays to hoodwink victims and each gang member had specific roles. “We have recovered some police file covers, extorted money and other articles from the arrested persons. The gang members have confessed to extorting valuables from nearly 40 men in the past couple of years. We have recovered a diary containing details of 34 victims and their self written statement admitting guilt and a signed compromise agreement. All of them will be contacted during the probe,” said an investigator, who asked not to be named.On October 23, a businessman dealing in timbers in Dabri filed a complaint alleging that around a month ago, he received a call from a woman named Pooja, who wanted to purchase a ply board. On October 21, he was in Janakpuri area when the woman called him on WhatsApp and met him after five minutes.“She lured him to a house and gave a glass of water to drink. He fell unconscious after that and when he came to, the businessman found himself on a bed naked. Six women and three men present there assaulted him and robbed him of ₹15,700, his wristwatch and gold ring. They threatened to kill him if he did not pay them ₹7 lakh,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary, adding that a case of extortion and threat was registered on the man’s complaint.During investigation, the police collected information about the gang and learnt that the crime was masterminded by Shivani alias Sonu Suri, who was convicted in a criminal conspiracy casein which she had used a woman to file a bogus rape case against a man. Suri was seven years’ imprisonment and she came out of jail after staying there for 19 months.The police arrested Suri and her four associates, identified as Revti Devi (33) and her husband Vaibhav (37), both residents of Jeewan Park, Sheetal Arora alias Pooja (40), a resident of Burari and Harbinder Singh (60), a resident of Tagore Garden.Suri’s interrogation, the DCP said, revealed that she used to get mobile numbers of targets using an online dating application. She used to provide their mobile numbers to Arora, who then invited the targeted person to the residence of Revti.“One of the gang members would have intercourse with the victim while others entered the house to threaten him and extort money. Singh played the role of a judge or legal consultant while Suri played the role of an NGO member. The other accused played the role of neighbours and family members of the woman who was with the victim. They extorted money from the victim on the pretext of filing a false rape charge,” said Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gang-that-honey-trapped-men-extorted-money-from-them-busted-five-held-101635272356238.html
26-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan teacher fired over celebratory post after India’s WC defeat to Pakistan||A school teacher in Rajasthan’s Udaipur was expelled after her WhatsApp status, celebrating Pakistan’s triumph over India in the ICC T20 world cup on Sunday, went viral on social media. Nafeesa Attari, a teacher of privately run Neerja Modi School, had put up a picture of Pakistani cricketers from the match, with the caption “Jeeeet gayeeee… We wonnn.”The school’s chairman, Mahendra Sojatia, later, said a decision on her termination was taken following a meeting conducted by the Sojatia Charitable Trust, which runs the school. “Yes, we have taken a decision to terminate the teacher,” Sojatia was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Apart from being sacked from her job, a case has also been lodged against Attari. Amba Mata Police Station SHO Narpat Singh said the case was filed under Section 153 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for provocation with intent to cause riot.Later, Attari issued a statement via a video message wherein she apologised for the post and clarified that her intention was not to hurt anyone’s sentiment.The expelled teacher explained that she replied in the affirmative when being asked if she was a supporter of Pakistan only because the latter’s WhatsApp message was filled with “emojis and it was [an] environment of fun.”According to an India Today report, a parent had asked the question to Attari. “But it doesn’t mean (in any way) that I support Pakistan. I am an Indian and I love India. I love India as much as everyone else does,” she said in the video message.Attari stated that she deleted the status as soon as she realised her “mistake”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-teacher-fired-over-celebratory-post-after-india-s-wc-defeat-to-pak-101635271327909.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Covid: Fresh guidelines in UP for those coming from “at risk” nations||In view of the changing nature of Sars-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19 infection, the state health department has issued fresh guidelines for international travellers particularly those coming from countries marked as “at risk”.The countries marked as at risk include the UK, South Africa, Brazil, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, Mauritius, New Zealand, and Zimbabwe. The list of these countries was made on October 20 and the names will change according to Covid situation in other countries.“People coming from at risk countries where India and that country have reciprocal arrangement for acceptance of vaccine may be allowed to leave airport and will self monitor their health for 14 days. If not or partially vaccinated, such travellers will give their samples for Covid test and will undergo 7-day home quarantine. They shall undergo a test again on the eighth day and if tested negative will undertake another 7-day home quarantine,” say the guidelines.“Our teams are at the airport and they assist both international and domestic travellers in following the guidelines. A close watch on the arrival is kept in the wake of different variants being reported in other places,” said chief medical officer, Lucknow, Dr Manoj Agrawal.“We are ensuring that the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test report is with passengers as per the guidelines and if the report gets older than the prescribed date limit during travel, a fresh sample is taken,” said Dr Agrawal.Experts opine that in this way, the presence of any new variant of the Sars-CoV-2 virus can be checked. “If passengers coming from other state or country are screened at the entry point, Uttar Pradesh can avoid fresh spurt of Covid cases. Significantly, we have Covid infection at its lowest level at present,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-fresh-guidelines-in-up-for-those-coming-from-at-risk-nations-101635271818348.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Agra engineering college suspends 3 Kashmiri students for allegedlyraising pro-Pak slogans||AGRA Three B Tech students from Kashmir were suspended by an engineering college in Agra on Monday for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans and sharing anti-national chats on their social media account after India lost to Pakistan in the World T-20 match on Sunday night. They posted stories praising Pakistan and disowned India as their country, said police.On Tuesday, BJP Yuva Morcha (BJYM) leaders reached the college campus and raised slogans, seeking action against these students. They approached the Jagdishpura police station in this regard and a case was being registered against the students on the basis of the ‘tehrir’ (informal complaint) submitted by BJYM leaders, said Vikas Kumar, SP (city).“It was alleged that these students had shared some anti-national posts on a messaging app,” he added. “The college administration came to know about the three B.Tech students’ anti-national chats after the India-Pakistan in T-20 match on Sunday night. They were residing in the hostel on Bichpuri campus in Agra,” informed Ashish Shukla, chief proctor, RBS Engineering Technical Campus. He said these students got admission to engineering courses on the basis of a central government scheme. “The trio was suspended from the hostel and college on Monday. But later, they apologized for their act,” added Shukla. BJYM Braj prant leader Gaurav Rajawat filed the ‘tehrir’, alleging that the three Kashmiri students raised anti-India slogans and shared chats on social media that could disturb peace and tranquility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/agra-engineering-college-suspends-3-kashmiri-students-for-allegedlyraising-pro-pak-slogans-101635271816573.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh logs only five fresh Covid cases: CM Yogi||Only five fresh Covid cases were reported in the state in the samples tested in the last 24 hours, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday. He also said the state had only 94 active Covid cases.“The overall Covid recovery rate in the state is 98.7% while the state carried out 1.48 lakh tests in the last 24 hours. The state has also activated a total of 507 new oxygen plants of the total 549 sanctioned by the state government,” Yogi said at the Covid-19 review meeting.About Covid vaccination, the chief minister said till Monday the state had administered a total of 12.67 crore doses of the vaccine while 3.22 crore people in the state were now fully vaccinated (have got their both doses).“With this, a total of 65.46% population in the targeted age groups have been given one dose of the vaccine while 20.5% people in the targeted age groups are fully vaccinated,” he said.
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Maharajganj paddy purchase fraud: STF nabs mastermind in Jharkhand||The special task force (STF) of UP police arrested Shambhu Nath Gupta, the alleged mastermind of the multi-crore fraud related to the state government’s paddy purchase scheme for farmers in Maharajganj district, from a hotel in Deoghar district of Jharkhand on Monday, said senior police officials here on Tuesday.They said the mastermind, who owns a rice mill in Shikarpur area of Maharajganj district, used to fraudulently purchase paddy at government rates by using identities of different people and opening their bank accounts in which he would show them as farmers.They said Gupta and his aides used to transfer the purchase amount to different accounts posing as if the amount was transferred to farmers and would later withdraw the same amount by making fake signatures on cheques. The officials said the mastermind fraudulently used the government scheme meant for farmers to earn multi-crore profit.Sharing further details, a senior STF official said Gupta’s name surfaced in the fraud after the arrest of four people from Maharajganj district in February this year and he had been evading arrest since then. They said the Maharajganj police had also declared the reward of ₹50,000 on his arrest. He said Gupta had been living in a hotel in Deoghar district for several months on a fake identity.The official said the police would seek his custody remand to interrogate him further and unravel the entire nexus involved behind it. He said the role of many other private and government employees was likely to surface during the investigation.He said the matter came to light after the arrest of four people, including Bhalendu Chaturvedi, Shatrughan Pathak, Bhagwat Prasad and Vyasmuni Pathak, from Maharajganj district on February 17 this year.The official said the police had then recovered 243 activated SIM cards issued on identity of different people, 297 cheque books and 331 single cheques of different banks of Maharajganj and Gorakhpur. He said the police had then registered an FIR against them for committing a fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/maharajganj-paddy-purchase-fraud-stf-nabs-mastermind-in-jharkhand-101635270617286.html
26-10-2021||Gurugram||'Healthians' lab has ICMR, NABL accreditation; Gurugram Police to Delhi HC||In Delhi High Court, Gurugram Police and Gurugram health department on Tuesday gave a clean chit to "M/s Healthians" a diagnostic lab stating that it has necessary accreditation of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) respectively, for carrying out sample collections.Gurugran Police on Tuesday filed its response following Delhi HC direction to Delhi and Gurugram Police to file status on the action taken by them on a complaint regarding an online health service provider allegedly collecting samples for Covid-19 tests without a licence.Gurugram Police in its affidavit stated that "the Healthians never performed any Covid-19 test till April 15, 2021, and has only involved in sample collection under the MoU with NABL and ICMR approved Covid-19 Labs. It has registration certificate under the Clinical Establishment (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2010."The affidavit has been filed in a petition seeking initiation of contempt proceedings for the Delhi government for allegedly not complying with the court's order to take action against illegal online health service aggregators operating in the Delhi-NCR and to regulate online pathological labs.The bench of Justice Najmi Waziri on Tuesday adjourned the matter for November 25, as the response filed by Gurugram Police was ‘not on records.’The same bench earlier asked the Delhi government to identify more such private laboratories which are conducting Covid-19 tests without licences, while issuing notices to the Delhi Police and Gurgaon Police and asked them to file replies.The Delhi High Court earlier too said that ICMR cannot be sitting in an ivory tower and said that it should look into the complaints relating to private pathology laboratories.Earlier, in an affidavit filed, ICMR informed the Court that National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) certification is a must for enrollment of private labs for Covid-19 testing, adding that monitoring of the activities of online health service aggregators does not come under its purview.ICMR submitted that as of August 16 2021, the ICMR has approved 134 (Govt. 35 and Private 99) labs at Delhi for RT-PCR, TrueNat, CBNAAT and Other M-NAT Testing Platforms.Advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, who appeared for petitioner Dr Rohit Jain, had alleged that no action has been taken by the government and in fact, there is a grave violation of the Supreme Court order.He had also added that contempt is remedial jurisprudence and not adversarial and public welfare is the highest law.The Petitioner has alleged that the top official of respondents is equally responsible for restraining the illegal practices of online aggregators which are freely being carried out under the eyes of these officials in utter violations of the rules and regulations laid down by statutes and the guidelines issued by the respondents from time to time ever since the outbreak of deadly coronavirus."Several illegal online aggregators are advertising freely by offering attractive packages for the body check-up, including Covid-19 test through SMSs or various online modes. The applicant/petitioner has received an advertisement of the online aggregator through e-mail for getting tested," the plea stated."The acts of respondents clearly constitute the contempt of the court and appropriate contempt proceedings should be initiated against them for acting against the order dated August 6, last year of this court," the plea said."The respondent's officials have been playing with the precious lives of innocent people by promoting unqualified, unregistered medical practitioners to sign the pathological report and exposing the common people to the mercy of untrained and highly incompetent medical/ pathological professional," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/healthians-lab-has-icmr-nabl-accreditation-gurugram-police-to-delhi-hc-101635264353331.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Prayagraj cops have narrow escape as cattle smugglers ram truck into police vehicle||Cops in Prayagraj had a narrow escape when cattle smugglers rammed their truck into the police vehicle on the highway under Sarai Inayat police station of the trans-Ganga area of the district late Monday night. The cattle smugglers hit the police vehicle during the chase, with cops managing to jump out just in time. At least 10 cattle died in the incident, while the rest were rescued. Hunt is now on for the cattle smugglers, who escaped from the spot, police said. According to reports, a police team of Sahson police outpost was on patrol under outpost in-charge Bhishm Narayan Singh. Cops tried to intercept a truck on suspicion, but its driver tried to speed away. As the cops chased the truck its driver rammed it into the police vehicle. Cops jumped out of the vehicle just in time and managed to save themselves. The police vehicle collided with the road divider and stopped. The police team continued the chase and found the truck abandoned on the highway ahead. The police found 26 cattle alive and ten of them dead inside the truck. The registration number of the truck was found to be fake. Police outpost in-charge Bhishm Narayan said the cattle were handed over to a cow shelter and an FIR has been lodged against the unidentified cattle smugglers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/prayagraj-cops-have-narrow-escape-as-cattle-smugglers-ram-truck-into-police-vehicle-101635270136034.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Cruise drug bust case: My mobile number misused as Sam D’souza by Prabhakar Sail, says Palghar trader||A resident of Palghar has alleged that Prabhakar Sail, a key witness in the cruise drug bust case, misused his number as Sam D’souza and has denied his involvement in the ₹38 lakh deal in the Aryan Khan case. Hanik Bharat Bafna, 35, on Monday evening approached the Palghar police, cyber cell and superintendent of police (SP) Dattatray Shinde. Palghar police are examining the complaint and are yet to register the first information report (FIR).According to police, Bafna in his complaint has alleged that Sail used his WhatsApp image and mobile number, which he has been using for 15 years. He has also alleged that Sail wrongly presented him as Sam D’Souza. Sail, who claimed to be the personal bodyguard of KP Gosavi, has alleged that he overheard Gosavi and one Sam D’Souza talking about a ₹25 crore payoff to let off Aryan Khan in the case. “My name is not Sam D’Souza and I have no relation with the so-called ₹38 lakhs transaction. I am innocent and my image has been tarnished. We live in Palghar for the past seven decades,” said Bafna.In his complaint, Bafna, a trader, claimed that he met Sail a few months ago and knows his brother Satish since 2019. “Satish had offered me two deals. The first was the sale of furniture worth ₹25 lakh and the other was to sell five lakh pairs of shoes, which was in the customs. However, the deals did not materialise,” said Bafna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-drug-bust-case-my-mobile-number-misused-as-sam-d-souza-by-prabhakar-sail-says-palghar-trader-101635269656238.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Drive to vaccinate over 10,000 devotees before Chhath Puja launched in Delhi||Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Tuesday launched a special vaccination campaign for devotees who will be keeping a fast on Chhath festival following Diwali in northeast Delhi’s Burari area. The vaccination drive will be held in Burari’s Ibrahimpur village.Puri was accompanied by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Manoj Tiwari. Later, Puri and Tiwari shared pictures of the campaign’s launch on Twitter. The Union minister also sought blessings for all from ‘Chhathi Maiya’ in Bhojpuri.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), in its order on September 30, prohibited the celebration of Chhath at riverbanks, water bodies and temples citing restrictions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The DDMA, however, is expected to permit the festival at public places after its meeting on Wednesday.Tiwari said the decision to vaccinate ‘Chhathvratis’ (those keeping fast) was launched to ensure the festival will be celebrated safely. More than 10,000 people will be administered jabs across New Delhi during the campaign.“In this campaign, 10,000 devotees who would perform the puja but who could not get inoculated (against Covid) due to some reason would be covered,” Tiwari had said on Monday.Tiwari also said the vaccination programme will be carried out in association with an NGO named Delhiites. “In my constituency (Northeast Delhi), 4,000 vaccines will be administered to Chhath devotees, while 1,000 each will be distributed in the remaining six parliamentary constituencies of Delhi. We aim to conclude this special vaccination drive before November 9,” Tiwari was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Chhath is celebrated after Diwali by people from Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh and the ritual involves the offering of ‘Arghya’ by fasting women to the Sun god in knee-deep water.Earlier this month, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal requesting him to allow Chhath Puja in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/drive-to-vaccinate-over-10-000-devotees-before-chhath-puja-launched-in-delhi-101635268740590.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||In Maharashtra, over 30 million people fully vaccinated against Covid-19||Days after India achieved the landmark of administering more than a billion (100 crore) jabs of vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Maharashtra on Tuesday crossed the milestone of fully vaccinating 30 million residents of the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's office informed in a tweet.“Today, Maharashtra has crossed the milestone of 3 crore fully vaccinated citizens, the highest for any state in the country. This is a big feat for our health care system. We are also making sure to reach the goal of fully vaccinated households=fully vaccinated Maharashtra,” the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) tweeted. Today, Maharashtra has crossed the milestone of 3 crore fully vaccinated citizens, the highest for any state in the country. This is a big feat for our health care system. We are also making sure to reach the goal of fully vaccinated households = fully vaccinated Maharashtra!Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray, too, took to Twitter to share the “good news.” Thackeray posted: “Maharashtra today crossed the 3 crore mark for fully vaccinated people. That's the highest in the country for those who are fully vaccinated. Our healthcare system is working to vaccinate every citizen in the state at the earliest and ensuring that nobody is left behind.” The Good News:Maharashtra today crossed 3 crore mark for fully vaccinated people. That’s the highest in the country for those who are fully vaccinated. Our healthcare system is working to vaccinate every citizen in the State at the earliest and ensuring nobody is left behindTuesday's development means that the western state has now fully vaccinated nearly 25 per cent of its total population. Overall, 91.5 million people in Maharashtra were eligible for inoculation against the viral illness, which means that around one-third of those eligible have taken both their jabs.The nationwide vaccination drive began on January 16. Thus far, nearly 1.03 billion doses have been administered, as per the Union health ministry's dashboard. This includes both single and fully (double) vaccinated beneficiaries. For now, only those aged 18 and above are eligible for inoculation.Also on Tuesday, Maharashtra saw a rise in its fresh Covid-19 infections, with 1201 people testing positive as against 889 a day ago, according to a health department bulletin. The virus also claimed 32 lives, up from 12 on October 25. The cumulative infection tally stands at 6,605,051, including 6,438,395 recoveries and 140,060 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-maharashtra-over-30-million-fully-vaccinated-against-covid19-101635266952558.html
26-10-2021||Other||Convey no to increase of BSF jurisdiction in Punjab to Centre now: Sukhbir to Channi||Amritsar Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday asked chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to convey the Punjab government’s rejection of the Centre’s decision to increase the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) to the Centre immediately. “Punjabis expect their CM to tell the Centre unequivocally that the latter’s decision to increase the jurisdiction of the BSF to 50km from the international border is unacceptable to the state. The CM should know that this decision impinges on the rights of the state and strikes at the core of federal rights. It should be rejected outrightly,” Sukhbir said, during a visit to the holy city during which he met with sections of society. “It is shocking that the CM is still contemplating on what to do on the issue,” the former deputy CM said, adding, “Under the Congress, governance has gone for a complete toss. Instead of resolving public issues, the Congressmen are busy in an internal feud between themselves. They are also simultaneously looting the state exchequer.”Badal also asked the CM not to delay payment of compensation to cotton growers afflicted by the pink bollworm attack. “The government must release compensation to the tune of ₹50,000 per acre to farmers and ₹15,000 per acre to khet mazdoors.” .The SAD president also met representatives of the trade, industry, doctors and other professionals. Badal also interacted with transporters and assured that the forthcoming SAD-BSP alliance government would form a Transport Welfare Board and restore transport unions. He said undue harassment being done unto truckers will be ended by issuing annual stickers to them. “Any truck carrying the sticker will not be stopped on road by anyone.” He also announced that if elected to power, he would come out with a separate policy for mini-buses and accidental insurance for drivers in consultation with stakeholders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/convey-no-to-increase-of-bsf-jurisdiction-in-punjab-to-centre-now-sukhbir-to-channi-101635267976025.html
26-10-2021||Other||PMC will pay ₹11.58cr per year to maintain, run PSCDCL’s traffic project||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to take on the financial responsibility to maintain and operate the Pune Smart city Development Corporation’s (PSCDCL) adaptive traffic management system (ATMS).The decision was taken at the standing committee meeting held on Tuesday. As per the proposal, the PMC will pay ₹11.58 crore per year to PSCDCL to maintain and operate the system. Hemant Rasane, standing committee chairman of the corporation said, “The corporation will give ₹11.58 crore per year to maintain and operate the system in the city. The decision has been taken as Smart City has shown an inability to pay maintenance and operation costs.”PSDCL appointed a Delhi-based company to install the ATMS in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporation areas. However, the system is yet to be implemented. The total cost of project is estimated at ₹102.62 croreThe automatic traffic control system adapts to vehicular situations in real time. Other components of the ATMS include adaptive traffic controllers at junctions, traffic lights and sensors, variable message sign boards and integration with command and control centres.According to PSCDL, the project involves complete junction design along with a survey of existing and proposed additional infrastructure to meet design capacities, besides physical civil interventions to implement it across Pune.As mentioned in the project, the total capture of vehicle counts at the 261 junctions will be considered to formulate the junction management plan. The junction design and engineering interventions will be implemented based on the analysis of traffic flow at those areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-will-pay-11-58cr-per-year-to-maintain-run-pscdcl-s-traffic-project-101635267616259.html
26-10-2021||Other||Malerkotla man booked for divorcing wife with triple Talaq message over WhatsApp||Sangrur Police have booked a Muslim man for ‘divorcing’ his wife by sending a message on WhatsApp under the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019. Abdul Rashid, 40, of Abaspura village under Amargarh police station of Malerkotla district had sent these messages on June 22, 2020. Police claim that it has registered a case only now as it conducted a thorough inquiry into the complaint. Mohammed Suleman, 62, the father of the Rashid’s wife, Nafiz Begum, is the complainant. According to the First Information Report (FIR), the accused sent photos of his new wedding function and wife to his present wife with the message of Talaq, Talaq, Talaq. The FIR stated that Rashid sent the message to Nafiz. Besides, in its probe, the police also found that the accused also made a call to his daughter over on WhatsApp and informed her about his marriage and conveyed his decision to divorce her mother.The couple has three children, two sons and a daughter. The boys were staying with his father, but the daughter shifted with her mother after a dispute in 2019.Malerkotla senior superintendent of police Ravjot Kaur Grewal said the accused was booked on the basis of an inquiry report, as prima facie, he was found to be guilty in the case.Amargarh deputy superintendent of police DSP Jyoti Yadav confirmed that the accused sent a message of ‘Talaq’ on WhatsApp to his wife and the case was registered after police investigation and after taking the opinion of the district attorney legal (DA Legal). “The police found that the accused had committed an offence. He has been booked for his crime. The police will send him a notice and arrest him,” the DSP added. The case has been registered at Amargarh Police Station under section 4 of Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019. The punishment for the offence is jail up to three years or fine or both.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/malerkotla-man-booked-for-divorcing-wife-with-triple-talaq-message-over-whatsapp-101635266835840.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Cruise ship drug bust case: NDPS court grants bail to two guests||The special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court on Tuesday granted bail to two guests at the holiday cruise ship Cordelia — Avin Sahu and Manish Rajgaria. Both were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the cruise drug bust case.The special NDPS judge Vaibhav Patil granted bail to Sahu and Rajgaria, on furnishing personal bonds of ₹50,000 each and one or two sureties in the same amount.Sana Raees Khan, who argued for Sahu, had told the court that the only allegation against him was that he had consumed ganja twice while on the cruise. However, there was no medical report and nothing was found in his possession.“My case is slightly different from the case of Aryan Khan. In his case also there was no possession but there were chats or messages. In my case, there are no chats or messages. The only allegation against my client was he consumed ganja twice on the ship and the maximum punishment was one year’s imprisonment, even if the charge is accepted to be true. The material seized from others can’t be foisted on him. Section 29 of NDPS Act of conspiracy was applied mechanically when there was no meeting of minds between the accused.”Raees had further argued that Sahu had been made a scapegoat in this matter because it has become a high profile case and it was a clear case of malicious prosecution. He pointed out the Apex court rulings that the act of an accused cannot be used as evidence against the other.Advocates Taraq Sayed and Vikas Bhawaniya had argued for Rajgaria that nothing was found in his possession. They pointed out that in Rhea Chakraborty’s case also, the agency had arrested 33 people, however, not all of them were connected to each other. By adding the charge of conspiracy, the agency is claiming that whatever has been recovered from one, can be attributed to all, but the agency has failed to show any nexus between the accused.NCB’s counsel Advait Sethna and Ruju Thakker argued that even after the raid and detention of several guests, Sahu had consumed ganja twice and 2.4 grams of ganja was seized from the security guard. The guard claimed that the ganja was given to him by Rajgaria.Sahu and Rajgaria were arrested on October 5, after the holiday cruise returned from Goa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-ship-drug-bust-case-ndps-court-grants-bail-to-two-guests-101635266475804.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM asks officials to expedite redevelopment of BDD chawls||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday directed officials to expedite all the housing projects in the state for police personnel, which have been undertaken by the Maharashtra State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation Ltd. Thackeray also reviewed the progress on the redevelopment of the BDD chawls in Mumbai and asked officials to complete it in a time-bound manner. A statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said that the government is taking efforts to provide a well-equipped police station, accommodation with all facilities and up-to-date administrative buildings for the police force. All the ongoing projects in various districts of the state through Maharashtra State Police Housing and Welfare Corporation should be completed on priority, Thackeray directed officials. Home minister Dilip Walse-Patil said that the corporation should give priority to the construction of better police stations and other administrative buildings. “The housing projects that are completed by the corporation must be immediately transferred to the home department. The state would also provide adequate funds for the 49 projects that are underway,” said a statement quoting the CM. He discussed issues related to housing for personnel, including providing concession in residential areas, utilising plots of the home department for police housing, construction of residential buildings on Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) plots.Meanwhile, Thackeray also directed officials to complete the BDD redevelopment in a time-bound manner. The Maharashtra government had in August kicked off the redevelopment of BDD Chawl, spread over 92 acres in central Mumbai. Officials in a meeting discussed providing better infrastructure and e-registration facilities to the beneficiaries of the redevelopment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-asks-officials-to-expedite-redevelopment-of-bdd-chawls-101635266355945.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh tourism department launches Ramayan quiz on social media||The Uttar Pradesh tourism department on Tuesday launched a 10-day quiz competition on Ramayan on social media. The state tourism department launched the event from its official Twitter handle @uptourismgov that will end at 6pm on November 4. During the competition, the tourism department will post one question every day on social media that will be related to Lord Ram. The participants will have to answer the question in the next six hours from the time of its posting on social media. A participant is allowed one chance to answer one question. The participants can send their answers through e-mail on competitionupt@gmail.com Deeputsav in Ayodhya Around 900 artists from across the country will perform at various events in Ayodhya in six-day Deeputsav celebrations. This year the state government has planned six-day celebrations starting from November 1. The main event, Deeputsav, will be organised on November 3, on eve of Diwali. Neelkanth Tewari, the state tourism minister claimed that the Ayodhya administration would endeavour to set a Guinness World Record for lighting 7.5 lakh earthen diyas at Ram Ki Paidi in Ayodhya on this Deeputsav.Ramleela of Aishbagh, Lucknow; Kalbelia dance of Rajasthan; Been Jogi of Haryana; Chhau dance of Jharkhand and Gujri of Noida will be among major attractions on Deeputsav in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-tourism-department-launches-ramayan-quiz-on-social-media-101635266115947.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||CISF detects bag containing ₹58 lakh at Delhi Metro's Lal Quila station||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which looks after security at stations of the Delhi Metro, said on Tuesday its personnel at the Lal Quila metro station recently detected cash amounting to ₹58 lakh, kept in a bag, adding that officials of the Income Tax department issued summons to a Chandigarh resident for further enquiry in the case. “At around 4pm on October 23, during baggage screening through X-BIS machine at the Lal Quila metro station, constable Kumar S of the CISF noted an image of currency notes inside the bag of a passenger,” the force said in an official press release.
26-10-2021||Other||Theft of Bettiah Raj docs: Bihar BJP chief weighs in||State BJP president and member of Parliament (MP) from West Champaran, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, on Tuesday said the theft of Bettiah Raj documents from its record room was a deep-rooted conspiracy and demanded the arrest of the culprits at the earliest.In an FIR (first information report) lodged on October 23, nazir of Bettiah Raj, Vinod Kumar Verma, stated that thieves entered from the ventilation duct and stole documents related to Bettiah Raj and 19 pieces of wooden planks. “It’s not a coincidence. Rather it seems to be a well-crafted theft in which land mafia and anti-government forces are involved,” said Dr Jaiswal. He said the theft was committed at the time when a proposed textile park on 1,000 acres of land of Bettiah recently received the nod from chief minister Nitish Kumar. Upendra Nath Verma, superintendent of police (SP), Bettiah, said three people have been detained for interrogation and a team has been formed to probe the incident.The erstwhile Bettiah Raj, one of the biggest landlords of north Bihar, owned huge parcels of land in the state and adjoining state of Uttar Pradesh. At the end of 19th century, the estate was take over by the British in the absence of successor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/theft-of-bettiah-raj-docs-bihar-bjp-chief-weighs-in-101635265697636.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi: Government committed to provide relief to flood-hit farmers||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Tuesday the state government was committed to provide assistance to all the farmers who were affected by the recent floods.He directed all the divisional commissioners and district magistrates to conduct an immediate survey of the districts where crops had been damaged due to floods and said details should be fed online in the agriculture investment grant module so that the compensation amount could be credited in the account of the affected farmers soon.Yogi was reviewing the relief assistance provided to the farmers under agriculture investment grant module in a high-level meeting held at his official residence.The officers apprised the CM that ₹30.54 crore had been released from the State Disaster Response Fund for assistance to 90,950 farmers in 35 districts, including Ambedkarnagar, Aligarh, Azamgarh, Kanpur Dehat, Kanpur Nagar, Kushinagar, Lakhimpur Kheri, Ghazipur, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Chandauli, Chitrakoot, Jalaun, Jhansi, Deoria, Pilibhit, Balrampur, Ballia, Basti, Bahraich, Barabanki, Bijnor, Mau, Maharajganj, Mahoba, Mirzapur, Moradabad, Lalitpur, Varanasi, Shravasti, Sant Kabirnagar, Siddharthnagar, Sitapur, Sultanpur and Hamirpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-government-committed-to-provide-relief-to-flood-hit-farmers-101635265696030.html
26-10-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan caste certificates to list mother’s name also, says top official||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan government will begin listing the mother’s name in caste certificates issued by the government to ensure that children of single women do not lose out, a senior state government official said on Tuesday, announcing the end of the decades-old practice of only mentioning the father’s name on caste certificates.“This will help children of women who are divorced or separated. There are also children who do not have details of their father and face difficulties in getting these certificates. This is why we have decided to begin issuing caste certificates in the name of the mother as well,” Rajasthan’s social justice and empowerment department secretary Samit Sharma said.Sharma said Rajasthan may be the country’s first state to take this step. “The new provisions will empower children and women socially,” Sharma said.The change was proposed a few months ago when a non-profit that helps women, Mahila Punarvas Samuh Samiti, came across an instance where a woman, separated from her husband, could not get the other backward classes (OBC) certificate for her children with her name on it.“At our centre, a woman, a mother of two, approached us with an issue that her children cannot be admitted in school under OBC quota. She was separated from her husband, but schools were asking for the father’s name. There are many such cases where single mothers have to face such struggles. We have to stop such gender bias,” said Renuka Pamecha, activist and secretary of the NGO which approached the government for a change in format five months ago.Social activist Kavita Srivastav said this was an excellent initiative by the state government, but the key would be the effective implementation with no harassment to women. “Awareness about this must be made from the panchayat to the district level,” she said.Officials said the government will also issue income and asset certificates to divorced women. “This means that if the woman is entitled to any allowance or property then it will be counted in the income of the woman. In cases where the details of the husband are not available, the income of other family members will be factored into a decision to give the certificate for income and assets,” one official said.In Rajasthan, the social justice and welfare department issued around 20 lakh caste certificates and 2 lakh income and asset certificates in the last financial year.Caste certificates are used to get benefits of reservation in professional courses, competitive exams, admission to educational institutes, and public employment. Similarly, the economically weaker section (EWS) certificate leads to benefits on account of government schemes including those related to residential schools, post-matric scholarships and coaching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-caste-certificates-to-list-mother-s-name-also-says-top-official-101635265455938.html
26-10-2021||Other||Solar power plant installed at Golden Temple||Amritsar To reduce the cost of electricity, a 525KW solar power plant was installed at the Golden Temple Complex on Tuesday, with Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur inaugurating it. United Sikh Mission, of the US, has installed the plant. “Generating electricity using natural resources is easy in today’s era of technology, and this task has been initiated by the SGPC on a priority basis. A total of 3 MW solar power plant is being installed by the SGPC for which United Sikh Mission, USA offered its services. The plant of the rest of the electricity would be installed at the Gurdwara Gurusar Satlani Sahib near Amritsar,” Bibi Jagir Kaur added.She added that work on installing solar power plants at Gurdwara Bir Baba Buddha Sahib, Thatha and Gurdwara Shaheed Ganj Baba Deep Singh, Amritsar, was underway. Bibi Jagir Kaur honoured the chairman of United Sikh Mission Rashpal Singh Dhindsa with a robe of honour. CONFERENCE OF SIKH MISSIONARY INSTITUTIONS HELD The SGPC on Tuesday hosted a conference of all Sikh Missionary Colleges at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall in the Golden Temple complex to intensify the drive of spreading Sikhism, named ‘Ghar Ghar Andar Dharamsaal’. The drive is aimed at countering mass conversion of Sikhs to Christianity.The event was attended by a large number of preachers and volunteers associated to 56 Sikh Missionary Colleges and Institutions. Bibi Jagir Kaur lauded the contribution of Sikh Missionary Colleges in the flourishing of the Sikh faith, adding that these had dedicated themselves to the Sikh Rehat Maryada (Code of Conduct) approved by the Akal Takht Sahib.She announced the opening of a Sikh Missionary College for girls in the name of Mata Sahib Kaur at Tarn Taran, so that Sikh women could also participate in preaching their faith.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/solar-power-plant-installed-at-golden-temple-101635265337492.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Eastern freeway: Traffic diversions ahead as BMC plans waterproofing work||Traffic movement on the eastern freeway – which cuts the travel time between Mumbai and Navi Mumbai – is likely to be affected as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has planned to take up waterproofing work to stop leakage from the twin tunnels at the Anik Panjarapole side of the route.Bids have been floated for the work that will be carried out for 12 months. The work is likely to start in the next two months.For the past few years, water leakages have been witnessed inside the twin tunnels. However, BMC has been unable to find the exact source of the leakage and will take up the waterproofing work owing to a risk of accidents.Last month, BMC had appointed Veermata Jijabai Technical Institute (VJTI) as a consultant to detect the exact source of leakage. The contract cost was ₹23 lakh. According to BMC officials, after the guidance and expertise provided by the consultant, they have now decided to go ahead with floating bids for the actual work. The entire project waterproofing work is likely to cost around ₹15 crore and the scope of work includes chemical coating and fixing of leakages, cracks and expansion joints etc.“It is unlikely that we will totally shut down traffic movement during the waterproofing work, but there will be a few diversions. We may also consider working in at night with the required lighting,” a BMC official said.The bid document floated by BMC reads, “As the work under this tender is to be carried out near the running traffic, it will be essential for the contractor to take all measures to ensure safety. The intending tenderer should carefully examine the site to understand the restrictions on availability of space and provision of safety measures.”The 16-km freeway, started in 2014, was constructed with an aim to cut travel time between Navi Mumbai and Thane to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) from one-and-a-half hours to 40 minutes. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) that built the freeway handed over the maintenance of the highway to BMC in May 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eastern-freeway-traffic-diversions-ahead-as-bmc-plans-waterproofing-work-101635265335768.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Varanasi-Chandraprabha ecotourism circuit to include three historical forts||Three historical forts in the vicinity of Kashi-- Naugarh Fort in Chandauli, Vijaygarh Fort in Sonbhadra and Chunar Fort in Mirzapur-- have been included in the newly identified Varanasi-Chandraprabha Ecotourism Circuit that is being developed to boost eco-tourism in eastern UP, said an official.“The state government is promoting eco-tourism in order to generate employment opportunities for the locals living in the areas around these historical forts. These areas are replete with scenic locations, waterfalls, forests and hills,” divisional forest officer, Varanasi, Mahavir Kaujalgi said.As part of plan, a dry run will being organised from October 28, which will be flagged off virtually by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Seven state-sponsored tours have been planned as part of the dry run. “Guides, members of tourist guild, tour operators and people associated with tourism sector will apprise foreign as well as domestic visitors about the natural beauties present in the circuit and narrate stories related to the forts,” said Kaujalgi. Some cultural activities by tribals are also on the card, said Kaujalgi. “When tourists will visit the circuit, there will be generation of employment opportunities for locals.Simultaneously, conservation and preservation of the historical sites will also get a boost,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/varanasichandraprabha-ecotourism-circuit-to-include-three-historical-forts-101635264975797.html
26-10-2021||Patna||Lalu can get me shot, do little else: Nitish||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar Tuesday said that Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad could get him shot but could do nothing else. Kumar was responding to Prasad’s earlier statement that he would ensure the visarjan (immersion of idols in water) of Kumar and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA).“He can get me shot. He can’t do anything else. If he wants, he can get me shot...” Kumar told reporters outside the Patna airport after returning from campaigning in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur Assembly constituencies, which are due for bypolls on October 30. Both seats were won by Kumar’s Janata Dal (United) in 2020 assembly polls.Referring to the RJD chief, Kumar said, “When they were given time, they did nothing during their tenure. The state of roads, schools and the condition of scheduled tribes and castes in their tenure are visible to all. We have worked for the SCs, STs and for the Backward Classes. There were so many people who migrated from the state due to unemployment during his tenure.”“We have given reservation to women in the Bihar Police. We are working for development and providing employment. For the education of girls, we gave an inter school to every panchayat,” the chief minister said. “I always worked for the people. How will they get publicity if they do not speak about me?”In 2020, the ruling NDA returned to power with 125 seats in the 243-member Bihar Legislative Assembly. The BJP won 74 seats, JD(U) 43 while eight seats were won by two other NDA constituents.The RJD, on the other hand, emerged as the single largest party with 75 seats while its ally Congress won only 19 of the 70 seats it had contested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-can-get-me-shot-do-little-else-nitish-101635264557566.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Class 10 student in Thane killed by classmate while trying to resolve fight in Thane||A 15-year-old Class 10 student was allegedly killed by his classmate when he went to resolve an argument between his friends on Tuesday.The minor, the son of Thane Municipal Transport (TMT) employee, was stabbed with a sharp object and died before being admitted to a hospital due to heavy loss of blood.Police have held three of his classmates at present and further investigation is on to find out the fourth accused in the case who is on the run.The incident occurred on Tuesday at around 12.30pm along a small bridge over the nullah near Dyaneshwar Nagar close to the Rajashri Shahu Maharaj Marathi Medium School, Wagle Estate, where the student studied.According to officials, two days ago, two groups of Class 10 students had a fight over occupying the playground. One group that attacked the minor was angry at the other group and wanted to teach it a lesson.On Tuesday, after the school hours, while all Class 10 students left, the main accused started a fight with the rival team a little distance away from the school. One member from the rival team gave the main accused a slight tap on the head following which everyone from both the groups started hitting each other.The deceased, Tushar Sable, was a new admission in Division A of the Class 10 and saw the accused stabbing one of his classmates with a knife. He ran to stop him. He held the hand of the accused holding the knife. The accused stabbed him instead, informed police officials. Sable is a resident of Gandhinagar and lived with his elder brother and parents.An officer from Wagle Estate police station said, “The main accused allegedly stabbed him on the chest with a knife he possessed. The boy who stabbed him fled while the others were caught by the other students of the school. Sable died on the way to hospital due to plenty of blood loss. The entire incident was recorded on the CCTV footage, based on which we arrested the main accused and two of his other friends.”DCP, V Rathod, said, “The fight turned into a heart-wrenching incident after a boy stabbed his classmate on the chest. We are taking statements from teachers and all other students. All accused are minors and we are questioning them from where they got this idea to carry a knife and the actual reason for the fight and the stabbing. A case under IPC 302 has been registered in Wagle Estate police station and further inquiry is going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-10-student-in-thane-killed-by-classmate-while-trying-to-resolve-fight-in-thane-101635264555877.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Annasaheb Magar hospital to get 13 kilolitre oxygen tank installed||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Tuesday, approved the installation of a 13 kilolitre oxygen tank at its Annasaheb Magar hospital which has 24 beds in its ICU unit. Until now, the hospital was relying on oxygen tankers and cylinders. This is during the two deadly waves of Covid-19, in which the wards of Hadapsar and Ramtekdi were the most affected and both are closes to this hospital. This is one of the only major civic hospitals serving the eastern region of the city.At Tuesday’s standing committee meeting, the civic body approved the medical oxygen tank to be installed at the Hadapsar facility. This installation will ensure smooth and permanent oxygen supply at the ICU facility. In addition to the oxygen tank, the hospital will also get a vapouriser, pressure regulatory system, and other technical support as per a new tender which has been released. The civic body has been upgrading its hospitals despite a drop in the number of new Covid-19 cases to prepare for any future waves and also to upgrade the health infrastructure in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/annasaheb-magar-hospital-to-get-13-kilolitre-oxygen-tank-installed-101635264020876.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Railways issued 2.5 million season tickets for Mumbai local train travel since August 11||The railways has issued nearly 2.5 million monthly railway season tickets as local train services opened for fully vaccinated commuters. From August 11 to October 25, the Central Railway issued 1,730,000 monthly season passes, whereas Western Railway issued 815,310 season tickets. The local train services opened for fully vaccinated commuters from August 15. Meanwhile, the state government on Tuesday made it mandatory for all government employees and people from essential services to have completed two doses for train commute. “Even those working in essential services and the government employees need to be fully vaccinated to travel in local trains,” the notification issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte reads. Until now there was no condition of two doses for these two categories. Both the zonal railways have witnessed an increase in the number of passengers purchasing season tickets. Nearly six lakh monthly season tickets were issued by the Central Railway in September and 7 lakh in October. Similarly, on the Western Railway, nearly 3 lakh tickets were issued in October, while 2 lakh tickets were issued in September. “More people are getting fully vaccinated, which is why we have seen an increase in the issuance of monthly season tickets,” said a senior CR official. The local train network has also witnessed an increase in the number of passengers travelling by trains. Owing to this and to avoid crowding inside the local trains and on suburban railway platforms, the railways on Monday announced to resume train services in their full capacity. The CR will operate 1,774 services and WR 1,367 from Thursday, against the current operation of 1,702 and 1,304 services, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-issued-2-5-million-season-tickets-for-mumbai-local-train-travel-since-august-11-101635264019641.html
26-10-2021||Patna||‘He can get me shot’: Nitish Kumar’s acerbic comeback at RJD’s Lalu Prasad||PATNA: Ahead of byelections for two assembly seats in Bihar, chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday responded to Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad that he will ensure the end of Nitish Kumar and his government, saying that RJD founder could get him shot but not do anything else.“He can get me shot. This will be the best. He can’t do anything else....” when asked by reporters about RJD leader Lalu Yadav’s statement earlier in the day that ‘I will ensure ‘visarjan’ (immersion) of Nitish Kumar, NDA govt in Bihar’. Kumar continued, insisting that Lalu Prasad’s attack was motivated by the need to stay in the limelight. “I always worked for the people. How will they get publicity if they do not speak about me?” Nitish Kumar said the RJD regime led by Lalu Prasad and later his wife Rabri Devi did not do anything for people when they were in power. “Everybody knows what was the condition of roads, schools, Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes in their tenure. We have worked for the Scheduled Castes, STs and for the backward classes. There were so many people who migrated from the state due to unemployment. Nobody ventured out of the house after evening.” In contrast, Kumar said his government has empowered women. “We have given reservation to women in the Bihar police. All the recruitments, all developments are in front of everyone. We are working for development and providing employment. For the education of girls, we gave an inter-school to every panchayat,” said Kumar. In 2020, the ruling coalition, NDA secured a majority with 125 seats in the 243-seat strong Bihar Legislative Assembly. The BJP won 74 seats, Janata Dal (United) secured 43 while eight seats were won by two other NDA constituents. The RJD, on the other hand, emerged as the single-largest party with 75 seats while Congress, which was its partner in the elections, won only 19 of the 70 seats it had contested. Kumar addressed election meetings at both Tarapur and Kusheshwar Sthan for two consecutive days while Lalu Prasad is scheduled to visit these places on Wednesday. The campaigning for both the seats will end on October 28 evening and the polls are scheduled on October 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/he-can-get-me-shot-nitish-kumar-s-acerbic-comeback-at-rjd-s-lalu-prasad-101635263715836.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Pune police ban bursting of firecrackers with noise level above 125 decibels||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to allow permission for firecracker stalls in the city, with the police issuing a separate order prohibiting the bursting of noisy firecrackers between 10pm and 6am. The Pune police commissionerate, on Tuesday, issued set of instructions while imposing a complete ban on bursting, producing or selling of firecrackers with a noise level of more than 125 decibels within four metres of its use, with a view to maintain safety in public places.The police order issued by commissioner Amitabh Gupta cited various rules and regulations along with Supreme Court verdicts to regulate production, use and sale of firecrackers.As per the police order, sale of firecrackers will be allowed between October 27 and November 7. While bursting of noisy firecrackers is not allowed between 10pm and 6am, no firecrackers will be allowed in silent zones, such as areas with hospitals and/or schools. The noiseless, colour displays, however, will be allowed in other places, post 10 pm as well. Cracker vendors should not sell products of foreign origin, according to the order. Meanwhile, PMC has allowed stalls owner to set up temporary shops at 13 places in different ward office jurisdictions from 25 October to 7 November, 2021.The maximum permission has been allotted at Vartak garden near Omkareshwar temple on the river side area. Rajendra Muthe, deputy municipal commissioner of Land and estate department said, “PMC auctioned 35 stalls near Omkareshwar temple at riverside road. Corporation got ₹9.50 lakh as revenue from firecrackers stalls. Corporation has allotted 15x10 feet of space to each stall. Stallholders will have to take prior permission from the Police and fire department and submit it to the corporation. After that, the corporation will give final permission to stall as per norms.” As per corporation officials, PMC has finalised rent of ₹10,000 and deposit of ₹30,000 for each firecracker stall in 13 ward office areas. Corporation has set ₹22,000 rent and ₹50,000 as deposit for the Vartak garden area. The corporation has finalised amenity spaces in Kondhwa-Yewalewadi, Hadapsar-Mundhwa, Kothrud Bavdhan, Dhankawadi-Sahakarnagar, Sinhagad road, Ahmednagar road-Vadgaon Sheri, Kasba-Vishrambaug and and the Aundh-Baner ward office area. The corporation has also initiated action on unauthorised firecracker stalls in the city. The anti-encroachment department took action on 15 such illegal stalls on Tuesday. Madhav Jagtap, head of the anti-encroachment department said, “ We have started taking action on unauthorised firecracker stalls along the road sides and in other places. In the Warje area, we took action on 14 stalls. Sinhagad road ward office took action on one stall in Dhayari. The action will continue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-ban-bursting-of-firecrackers-with-noise-level-above-125-decibels-101635263235684.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena attacks BJP over misuse of central agencies||Continuing its attack against the Centre over the cruise drugs seizure case of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), the Shiv Sena on Tuesday slammed the Central government, saying the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) acts like it owns central investigation agencies, but it should not forget that in a democracy, owners do change. The Sena mouthpiece Samaana added that the alleged Rs25-crore extortion bid is just the tip of the iceberg. “The BJP acts like it owns the central investigation agencies. It should not forget that in a democracy, owners do change. There are examples of it in history. The party should not forget that it is like any other political party. It should also remember that political power comes and goes,” the Sena mouthpiece said in Tuesday. Leader of opposition and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis has however said that the central agencies and its officers are being targeted by the leaders of the ruling parties to divert the attention from the corruption cases. In a remark on the alleged extortion bid of Rs25 crore to let off Aryan Khan, an editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana asked how much bribe would have been offered to settle the seizure of 3,500kg heroin on Mundra port in Gujarat. “How much bribe amount was sought to settle the case of 3,500-kg heroin found at the Adani group-controlled Mundra port in Gujarat? This is a question that just have crossed the minds of the people. Nobody knew when that [heroin seizure] case was closed, but the Aryan Khan case is still going on,” the editorial said. Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday targeted NCB officials over the payoff claims made by independent witness Prabhakar Sail and alleged that there is extortion and money laundering by NCB. Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition in legislative Assembly, said that NCB officials are being targeted by the people who have been on the constitutional position and it is dangerous. “Ministers are targeting the investigating officers or witnesses in the key cases, which are under trial in courts. If this continues, it will be an attack on justice, jeopardising the cases. If there are any charges against the investigating officers, there could be an inquiry, but they cannot be targeted. The officers are being targeted by producing their personal information related to religion, by threatening them to send to jail,” he said.Fadnavis said the officials are being targeted to divert the attention of the people from the corruption charges against the ministers and leaders of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “There are charges of Rs1,000 crore earned by the leaders of ruling parties, the investigating agencies have found Rs190 crore during raids, softwares are being used for extortion. All this will come to the fore after the investigation by the agencies. The attempt to malign the officials from these agencies is to divert the attention from these corruption cases,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-attacks-bjp-over-misuse-of-central-agencies-101635262515742.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Those who abused Lord Ram now visiting Ayodhya: Yogi||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday took a veiled swipe at his Delhi counterpart and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal, accusing him of exploiting Lord Ram for vote-bank gains. Without taking names, he said: “Earlier, they abused Lord Ram. Now, with the elections approaching, they are coming to Ayodhya to pay obeisance to the deity after realising that they will not be able to sail through in the upcoming elections. This is good. At least they have accepted the existence and importance of Ram,” said Adityanath.“But let us not forget that there was no opposition leader in the country who didn’t criticize babuji (referring to the then chief minister Kalyan Singh) on December 6, 1992,” he added. The attack was timed with Kejriwal’s two-day Ayodhya visit during which he promised that the Delhi government would arrange for free Ayodhya visits for the masses. AAP is set to contest the 2022 UP polls early next year. Adityanath also targeted other opposition parties. “While the opposition parties vied over hosting iftaar, during Hindu festivals curfews forced by riots spoiled the show for the majority community,” he said. His attack on the opposition came at a social justice meeting comprising members of Lodh, the Other Backward Caste (OBC) community, to which former chief minister Kalyan Singh belonged. The chief minister also accused his Delhi counterpart of abandoning UP’s migrants, forcing them out of Delhi during the Covid-induced lockdown. “There is someone from Delhi who had forced people of UP out of the National Capital during the lockdown. Now, he is announcing freebies. Someone who couldn’t handle UP people in Delhi is positioning himself as one who could handle all of UP,” said Yogi Adityanath. Kalyan Singh, who belonged to the Lodh sub-caste of OBCs, was the chief minister of UP when the Babri mosque was razed by kar sevaks in December, 1992. He always maintained that he refused to give permission to the security forces to fire at kar sevaks who had gathered at Ayodhya, a point Adityanath has been raising in his speeches at BJP’s caste meets. On October 30, 1990, the police had opened fire at kar sewaks who gathered in Ayodhya on the call given by VHP, RSS and the BJP when the Mulayam Singh Yadav-led Samajwadi Party government was in power. “Had there been a BJP government in UP in 1990, no power on earth would have dared to fire at kar sevaks,” Adityanath has been stating repeatedly in his speeches. Adityanath also targeted the main opposition Samajwadi Party for tweaking its publicity tagline ‘main aa raha hoon (I am coming)’. “This simply means that lawlessness, anarchy, mayhem, goonda raj among other things is returning. That is why one should not vote for such parties,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/those-who-abused-lord-ram-now-visiting-ayodhya-yogi-101635262395692.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch arrests four of family with charas worth ₹14.4 crore||Mumbai Mumbai crime branch on Monday arrested four of a family after allegedly seizing 24kg of high-quality charas worth ₹14.4 crore from their vehicle at Dahisar.The accused – Bandu Udanshive, 52, his wife Clera, 52, daughter Cynthia, 23, and son-in-law Jasar Jahangir Shaikh, 24 – were returning from Kashmir, said the police. While Udanshive and his wife reside in Powai, Cynthia and Shaikh live at Andheri (East).Police officers said that the family went to Kashmir a week ago and brought the high-quality drugs from there to distribute in Mumbai. During investigation, the police learnt that Udanshive, who claims that he runs a garment business, is the main accused and that he had been arrested in the city in 2010 too, for the possession of 39kg of charas.On Monday, a police team attached to units 6 and unit 7 of the crime branch kept a watch on vehicles at Dahisar check post, following a tip off. In afternoon, a car was intercepted as per the information received, on Western Express Highway near Dahisar check naka, when the accused were entering the city, said deputy commissioner of police Datta Nalawade of the crime branch. “During the search, we found the contraband hidden in cavities of the car doors and back panel of the vehicle’s boot,” Nalawade added.“While visiting Kashmir during their two-day trip, the family had switched off their phones. We are checking Udanshive’s background to find out how many times has he visited Kashmir and brought the contraband to the city after coming out from jail in the 2010,” said Nalawade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-arrests-four-of-family-with-charas-worth-14-4-crore-101635262335529.html
26-10-2021||Other||{Divya Gram panchayat Nurmahal}/Plea on status/ Panchayat has no revenue estate, only 27 houses: Sessions judge in report to HC||Jalandhar A district and sessions judge’s fact-finding inquiry into the controversial Divya Gram Panchayat in Nurmahal block of Jalandhar district has found that it does not have any revenue estate of its own. The panchayat is associated with the Divya Jyoti Jagriti Sansthan (DJJS) whose head Ashutosh Maharaj has been declared clinically dead, but his body continues to be preserved inside a freezer in Nurmahal since 2014.The Punjab and Haryana high court had ordered the inquiry on October 6, after a plea from one Puran Singh, alleging that Divya Gram, a fake gram panchayat, had been formed only to siphon off funds that the 14th Finance Commission, the local area development fund and the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) provide. The judge Rupinderjit Chahal adds in her report that the Divya Gram Panchayat falls within the revenue estates of Uppal Jagir and Uppal Khalsa villages. The report underlined that no family is permanently residing in three of five wards of the panchayat, which has 27 constructed houses under it. Judge Chahal visited all wards of the gram panchayat, along with officials, to check for permanent residents, adding that the panchayat came into existence in 2013, while the sarpanch and the member panchayats were elected the same year. During inspection, it was found that no family was permanently residing in ward number 1. Their accommodation had been allotted free of cost by the DJJS. Ward number 2 was divided into two blocks with 61 and 30 rooms, for males and females, respectively. The occupants were neither owners of rooms nor they were relatives by blood. Divya Gram sarpanch Rajwinder Kaur was residing in room number 10 here. In ward number 3, a ‘Peeli Kothi’ owned by Mohinder Singh has been left at the disposal of DJJS, the report adds, listing key details of all the wards. Advocate Baltej Singh Sidhu, the petitioner’s counsel, said the court had fixed the next hearing on October 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/divya-gram-panchayat-nurmahal-plea-on-status-panchayat-has-no-revenue-estate-only-27-houses-sessions-judge-in-report-to-hc-101635262275586.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Larvae samples collected in Kanpur sent to SGPGI for Zika virus detection||KANPUR To contain the spread of Zika virus, a major operation was underway in Pokharpur and Pardevanpurwa localities of Kanpur’s Chakeri area under the supervision of specialists from Lucknow. The operation included sanitisation, anti-larvae spray, identification of fever patients, screening of seriously ill people and pregnant women. The team collected 12 mosquitoes and larvae samples from 12 houses in the area and sent them for genetic testing to the SGPGI (Lucknow) to ascertain if these were carriers of the virus, said health department officials. These localities were divided into 10 zones and a team of the malaria control department was destroying the source of mosquito breeding, they said. The genetic analysis would help understand the kind of fever these mosquitoes could spread, said a health official, adding the report was expected in three days. Zika virus is transmitted to people primarily through the bite of an infected Aedes species mosquito. These are the same mosquitoes that spread dengue and chikungunya viruses.Meanwhile, samples of a few people suffering from fever were collected in the city. These would be tested for Zika virus, malaria and dengue. The health department implemented the SOPs it adopted for containment zones. Chief medical officer (Kanpur) Nepal Singh said the focus was on making the area mosquito free. “We have collected the mosquitoes and sampled them. Till the mosquito breeding sources are not destroyed, the possibility of the spread of virus will always remain,” he said. Health department teams were also working on finding the source of Zika virus in Kanpur, which infected a 57-year-old warrant officer of the Indian Air Force. The officials said two possibilities were being explored, - one someone brought the virus from outside Kanpur and the virus, including the dengue one, had mutated. “It is important for us to ascertain how the IAF personnel was infected with this virus. We have sent five more samples for Zika virus test. The 22 others sent earlier tested negative,” said the CMO. Uttar Pradesh had on Sunday reported the first case of Zika virus. The case was reported from Kanpur after a warrant officer in the Indian Air Force (IAF) was diagnosed with it.The officer had been suffering from fever for the past many days and was also admitted to the Air Force Hospital in the city. His blood sample was collected and sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune, after the latter began showing some mysterious symptoms, said the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/larvae-samples-collected-in-kanpur-sent-to-sgpgi-for-zika-virus-detection-101635261915533.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Brain-dead boy, 15, saves multiple lives as parents donate organs||PUNE: He may have succumbed to a sudden brain haemorrhage but a Pune boy, 15, became the 36th organ donor in the region after his parents consented to donating all his organs, their grief notwithstanding. The gesture will help four other people lead fuller lives even as four of the deceased’s organs have been retrieved.Dr Aarti Gokhale, central coordinator, Zonal Transplant Coordinator Committee, Pune, said, “It was a very difficult moment for the family as they had to decide about organ donation at a very sensitive time when they had lost their young son. According to the family, he was a normal, healthy child but suddenly collapsed one day while riding his bicycle with no prior symptoms of any illness or discomfort. He was rushed to the hospital but breathed his last on Monday due to severe intracranial bleeding. Of his two kidneys, one was found medically fit for donation.”The organs retrieved from the deceased’s body include his liver which was allocated to Sahyadri hospital, one kidney which was allocated to Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital, his heart to Mumbai’s Reliance hospital through ROTTO-SOTTO Mumbai, and his cornea to another donor for immediate use. Dr Gokhale said, “It is really crucial for everyone to understand that even in times of grief, one positive response too can change the lives of multiple strangers and bring a smile to many faces. It was a very courageous decision taken by the family even as they were grieving the sudden demise of their son.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/braindead-boy-15-saves-multiple-lives-as-parents-donate-organs-101635260895729.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Will take appropriate action if…’: NCB on fake cases allegation against Sameer Wankhede||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) said on Tuesday that action against Sameer Wankhede, its lead investigator in a drugs bust case which resulted in the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan, among others, will be initiated once the “anonymous” letter is marked for inquiry in Mumbai. The agency was referring to a letter shared on Twitter by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik which claimed that Wankhede “framed people in 26 fake cases.”Also Read | ‘Wankhede framed people in 26 fake cases’: Nawab Malik cites anonymous letter“The anonymous letter has not been marked for inquiry in Mumbai yet. An inquiry and appropriate action will be taken if we receive it,” Mutha Ashok Jain, the deputy director general of the anti-drugs agency said on Wankhede, its zonal director for Mumbai.Earlier today, Malik, who has levelled a series of allegations against the NCB officer over the last few days, tweeted a four-page letter, which, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader claimed, was written to him by a former employee of the central agency. “As a responsible citizen, I am sending a copy of the letter to DG Narcotics , requesting him to include it in the investigation being conducted on Sameer Wankhede. The letter was sent to be by an unnamed NCB official,” Malik tweeted. As a responsible citizen I am sending a copy of the letter to the DG Narcotics requesting him to include it in the investigation being conducted on Sameer Wankhede.The letter was sent to me by an unnamed NCB official. pic.twitter.com/08i4py0KT4Responding to the minister's allegations, Wankhede, who arrived in Delhi on Monday, said, “The allegations are baseless, and made solely to humiliate me and my family, and to divert my attention from the investigation.” His family also addressed a press conference, rejecting allegations made by Malik.Also Read | Nawab Malik’s allegations baseless, made to humiliate me, kin: Sameer WankhedeThe Mumbai Police, too, began its inquiry into the allegations and counter-allegations levelled by Malik and Wankhede. In the last 48 hours, police officials said, they received six complaints, two against the NCP leader and four against the NCB personnel.Also Read | Mumbai Police to probe Sameer Wankhede-Nawab Malik allegations, counter allegationsAlso on Tuesday, the Bombay high court heard bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, who has spent more than three weeks behind bars since being arrested on October 3. Senior lawyer Mukul Rohatgi represented the 23-year-old in the high court, which adjourned the hearing to Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-take-appropriate-action-if-ncb-on-fake-case-allegations-against-sameer-wankhede-101635258234607.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai police get 6 complaints in Sameer Wankhede vs Nawab Malik; probe starts||MUMBAI: The Mumbai police have decided to step in to probe allegations levelled as part of the continuing back-and-forth between Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik and Mumbai zonal chief of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Sameer Wankhede after receiving six complaints, people familiar with the matter said.A senior Mumbai police officer said four of the six complaints levelled allegations against Wankhede or other NCB officials. The other two accuse Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik of trying to disturb communal harmony by spotlighting Sameer Wankhede’s religion and allegedly trying to intimidate the trial court judge and Wankhede.“An officer of the rank of assistant commissioner of police will enquire into all these matters and we will register an FIR (First Information Report) if the material discloses commission of a cognizable offence,” the senior police officer said.One of the complaints was filed by Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Atul Bhatkhalkar who complained to the Kurla police station that NCP leader Nawab Malik brought a religious angle in the ongoing probe by the NCB in an attempt to disturb communal harmony among Hindus and Muslims.The second complaint filed with the Malad police station seeks registration of an FIR against Malik and unknown people for conspiring, threatening and intimidating the trial court judge and Wankhede, who is supervising the probe in the cruise drug bust and for allegedly giving political shelter to the drug mafia. NCP leader Malik in a series of attacks has levelled serious allegations against Wankhede.One of the complaints is from Prabhakar Sail, a panch witness in the case, who went public with his allegation that an extortion racket was at work after the cruise ship drug case was taken up.However, the startling allegations made by Sail forced the NCB to launch a vigilance probe by its deputy director-general of NCB Gyaneshwar Singh. In a notarised affidavit, Sail alleged that he overheard his former employer Kiran Gosavi, who also is a witness in the NCB case, talking to a person about settling the matter for ₹18 crore and that amount of Rs. 8 crore would be required to be paid to a senior NCB officialMalik on Tuesday cited a letter purportedly written by an unnamed employee of the federal drug enforcement agency, alleging that Wankhede framed innocent people in 26 fake drug cases. He also claimed that Wankhede engaged two private persons to intercept the phones of the people to frame them. There was no immediate response from Sameer Wankhede to the NCP leader’s fresh allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-get-into-wankhede-vs-nawab-malik-says-it-s-probing-6-complaints-101635260600182.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Pune trains to Nagpur, Amravati from October 27-30 cancelled||PUNE The Pune railway division has cancelled some trains running between Pune and Nagpur, and Pune and Amravati, due to the ongoing repairs, and technical works at the Badnera station of the Bhusaval division. This may affect the travel plans of people ahead of the Diwali festival. As per information from the Pune railway division, special train (Train no. 02117) Pune – Amravati Express to leave on October 27; and special train (Train no. 02118) Amravati – Pune Express leaving on October 28 are cancelled. While another special train (Train no. 02114) Nagpur – Pune Express to leave on October 29 and special train number (Train no. 02113) Pune-Nagpur Express leaving on October 30 are also cancelled. Similalry the (Train no. 02041) Pune-Nagpur Express to leave on October 28 and (Train no. 02042) Nagpur-Pune Express leaving on October 29 will remain cancelled.With the Diwali festival starting on November 2, people from Nagpur and Amravati staying in Pune, or vice versa, will plan to return to their hometowns. Train is fast and affordable, but now these have been cancelled. “I had planned to go back to Amravati and I always travel by train as it is safe, fast and affordable. Now if these sepcial trains are canceled then we have to pay heavy fares on private tourist buses to travel,” said Rahul Kambli, a banker staying in Pune and originally from Amravati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-trains-to-nagpur-amravati-from-october-27-30-cancelled-101635260535919.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Medicinal plant nursery in Kamla Nehru park to open for public on October 29||PUNE The Pune Municipal Gardens (PMC) has allowed the Inner Wheel Club of Pune, district 313, to develop part of a public garden to grow medicinal plants.Six hundred medicinal plants have been planted in the Kamala Nehru Park on Bhandarkar road and this nursery will be officially inaugurated on Friday at 11 am.“It was in the first week of July 2021, we had held a massive plantation drive in Hirwai garden of PMC. It was while doing our tree plantation project that the PMC officials were impressed by our enthusiasm and determination to work at this age, with 90% of our club members senior citizens. This is an opportunity to showcase some of the plants that Ayurveda has used as medicines and can also become a point of education,” said Swapna Pednekar, president, Inner Wheel Club of Pune, district 313.The medicinal plants that have taken root include Cymbopogon flexuosus, aka Lemon Grass; Withania Somnifera or Indian Ginseng; and Chrysopogon Zizaniodes, or Khas, among others. The plantation is spread over 2,000 sq feet Ashok Ghorpade, garden superintendent, PMC said, “They had come to us asking for land to plant trees and we allowed them medicinal plants so that people will be encouraged to learn more about medicinal qualities of plants. It will also be good for health and the environment.” The 600 medicinal plants are of 18 different varieties. “We have also made 18 boards in Marathi and English with the plant photograph, name, uses and environmental benefit. Each board has a QR Code and URL. All these boards were designed and permanently erected in 18 different sections of the garden by the Inner Wheel Club,” said Pednekar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/medicinal-plant-nursery-in-kamla-nehru-park-to-open-for-public-on-october-29-101635259815522.html
26-10-2021||Patna||He can get me shot, can’t do anything else: Nitish on Lalu’s ‘visarjan’ claim||Bihar chief minister and Janata Dal (United) supremo Nitish Kumar on Tuesday took a dig at Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Yadav over the latter’s “visarjan” remark. The chief minister said Yadav can get him “shot” if he wants to, but would not be able to do anything else.“If he wants, he can get me shot. But he cannot do anything else,” Kumar said.
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Go to court, if you have solid evidence, Sameer Wankhede’s wife, sister tell NCP minister Nawab Malik||Hours after senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and state minister Nawab Malik made public an anonymous letter addressed to him, which claimed that a large number of people are being framed by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), family members of NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede asked him to go to court if he has got “solid evidence”. Wankhede’s sister Jasmine and wife Kranti Redkar, a Marathi actress, addressed a press conference on Tuesday refuting all allegations made by the minister and said that there can’t be a media trial in the matter. They said that if there is any evidence of wrongdoings then they must approach the courts.The anonymous letter claimed that several people have been framed in false drug cases and panchnamas were drafted at the NCB office. Malik had demanded an investigation into the allegations and has forwarded the letter to NCB director-general SN Pradhan and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. “I request him to go to court if he has got such solid evidence. Why are we wasting the time of media? We will respond in court,” said Jasmine. The NCB officer’s wife dismissed the letter and said such a letter can be written by anyone. “Anyone can write such a letter sitting at home. If someone has written the letter, then the person should complain, and let the due process follow. But if someone writes anonymous letters then it is baseless, it is all false.”Redkar also refuted Malik’s allegations that phone-tapping was done by the federal anti-drug agency. She said that the minister must approach the courts and not level allegations on Twitter. “I think this phone-tapping are false claims. If he has any proof about it, then I am sure he will present it before the courts. We can’t achieve anything by making allegations on Twitter. I can also write something against somebody, but it doesn’t become the truth,” she said.The anonymous letter comes a day after Malik claimed that Wankhede is a Muslim by birth, however, he has forged documents to show himself from Scheduled Caste, take benefit of reservation and enter the Indian Revenue Services in 2008.Redkar said that the family has shown all his documents, while Jasmine questioned who was Malik to seek his birth certificate. “We have presented all documents from birth certificate to details on his caste and religion. What more can we show? Government documents are everything in this country.” She added, “We are tired of giving proofs daily when I know my husband is not a liar... These are allegations made on Twitter, not in the courts. If you approach the court and it finds him wrong, then we can call him a criminal. How can there be a media trial of one person who has given 15 years of service.”Jasmine and Redkar added that they are facing death threats and are being trolled on social media. Redkar invoked the Marathi card and said that she is feeling unsafe in Maharashtra. “I am a proud Marathi and people are threatening me in my home state. I am getting messages of support from other states as well. The anti-Sameer Wankhede gang is giving us a hard time. We are being trolled. We are getting threats of being killed, being hanged, being burned alive.”Responding to the allegations of an extortion bid of ₹25 crore, of which ₹8 crore was to be paid to Wankhede, in the Aryan Khan case, Redkar said, “There is no evidence presented on this. When he (Prabhakar Sail) goes to the court and provides proof, then we can say something about it. This is all hearsay and we can’t comment on it.”The sister-wife duo added that Wankhede is an “honest” officer and many people want him out of his position. They added that the NCB officer will emerge “victorious” in this battle as all allegations are “baseless and false”.Redkar dismissed her husband’s alleged political leaning towards the party in power at the Centre. She also said that the Maharashtra government is “cooperative” and will realise the truth in the matter and stand beside him. “Sameer ji isn’t just apprehending celebrities and artists. They constitute around 3% of the people he apprehends. The remaining are peddlers and dons. I don’t think he is associated with any political party. He works in a central agency and is doing his duty neutrally,” Redkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/go-to-court-if-you-have-solid-evidence-sameer-wankhede-s-wife-sister-tell-ncp-minister-nawab-malik-101635259095463.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab allows use of green firecrackers on Diwali, Gurupurab for short duration. Check details||The Punjab government on Tuesday announced a two-hour window for bursting green firecrackers on Diwali across the state. The department of science, technology environment issued an order related to the regulation of the sale and use of firecrackers in Punjab, which included a blanket ban on manufacturing, distribution, sale and use of joined firecrackers, also known as laries. The sale and use of any kind of firecrackers will remain banned in Mandi Gobindgarh and Jalandhar districts of Punjab from the intervening night of October 28-29 to the midnight of December 31, 2021-January 1, 2022 as per the National Green Tribunal's order in view of poor air quality index in November 2020.The state government has allowed the use of green crackers in other parts of Punjab for a very short period during festivals like Diwali, Gurupurab, Christmas and New Year Eve.Check the day and time for bursting green crackers during the festivals:The government said the concerned authorities should identify and designate areas for community fire cracking and publicise the information. It has also ordered e-commerce websites including Amazon and Flipkart to not accept any orders and affect online sales of firecrackers within Punjab."The police authorities shall ensure that the sale and use of allowed green firecrackers only take place during the permitted time and at designated places," the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-allows-use-of-green-firecrackers-on-diwali-gurupurab-for-short-duration-check-details-101635256473759.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Air quality in Pune likely to remain satisfactory for next few days: Safar||Pune: With minimum temperatures in the city hovering around 15 to 16 degree Celsius, Shivajinagar and Hadapsar have reported a drop in air quality from satisfactory to moderate on Tuesday, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The air quality is likely to remain satisfactory for the next few days, the officials said.Air quality in Shivajinagar, Hadapsar and Lohegaon on Tuesday was moderate according to SAFAR. Whereas overall air quality index (AQI) for Pune city on Tuesday was 62, which falls under the ‘satisfactory’ category. Particles in the air with a diameter of less than 2.5 micrometre (PM 2.5) were 32, which falls under the ‘satisfactory’ category. While particles in the air with a diameter of less than 10 micrometre were 62 on Tuesday. At Pashan, Kothrud, Alandi, Katraj, Bhosari, Nigadi and Bhumkar chowk in Wakad, the AQI was satisfactory.About the drop in temperatures, Dr B S Murthy, director of SAFAR and scientist at the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) said, “Usually when temperatures are high, humidity is less and there is dry weather with greater particle suspension. Traffic emissions have not yet changed drastically. The weather however is responsible for deteriorating air quality.” Air quality may not worsen further, yet, he added. “Unless there is a significant drop in temperature and particle suspension increases, the air quality may not worsen further. As of now, our forecast says that air quality in the city may remain satisfactory for the next few days,” Murthy said. The AQI for Pune city will remain satisfactory till October 29, according to the forecast.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), minimum temperature at Shivajinagar was 16.8 degree Celsius on Tuesday. Whereas, Lohegaon reported a minimum temperature of 18 degree Celsius; Pashan 17.7 degree Celsius; Chinchwad 20.7 degree Celsius; Lavale 19.5 degree Celsius; and Magarpatta 21.5 degree Celsius. As per IMD officials, night temperature is likely to remain between 15 and 16 degree Celsius over the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/air-quality-in-pune-likely-to-remain-satisfactory-for-next-few-days-safar-101635258555869.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Autorickshaw driver booked for death of man killed in Kharadi accident||PUNE An autorickshaw driver, on Monday, was booked for the death of a 48-year-old man involved in an accident. The accident took place on October 20.The deceased has been identified as Salim Imam Shaikh (48). A complaint in the matter was lodged by his son Arif Shaikh (21), resident of Sambhajinagar in Wagholi. Shaikh was a daily wage mason and had told his family he was going to work around 6:30pm shortly after which the rickshaw hit him near the tol plaza in Kharadi on Ahmednagar road, according to the police.“The son kept looking for the father but could not find him that day. The next day he set out to find him again and found his cycle mangled and the people around the spot told him what had happened. By the next morning, however, the father taken to Sassoon Hospital where he was declared dead. We found the autorickshaw driver who tried to mislead us by saying that it was another vehicle that hit him. Upon investigation and verification with witnesses, it was clear that the rickshaw driver did it and he later confessed,” said assistant sub-inspector NV Supe who is investigating the case.The accused was identified as Khalil Shaikh (26), a resident of Devkar vasti in Sakorenagar. He has not yet been arrested.A case under Sections 279, 304(a), 427 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Vimantal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/autorickshaw-driver-booked-for-death-of-man-killed-in-kharadi-accident-101635258315322.html
26-10-2021||Pune||PMC to use a mechanised system to clean drains||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to use a mechanised system to clean drainage lines and chambers in the city. The PMC claims this will save water, time and money.On Tuesday, the standing committee approved a proposal to use a mechanised system at the rate of ₹38,700 per shift; the lowest as compared to other municipal corporations.Hemant Rasane, standing committee chairman said, “Right now, we use traditional methods to clean chambers and drainage lines for which we use around 270,000 litres of water in a year. In the new system, we will use jetting- cum-suction machines.”The new system will solve water logging due to unclean chambers. According to the corporation, the decision has been taken as per the central government’s Prohibition of employment for manual scavenging Act, 2013. The machines and the system is currently used in countries like Germany, Britain, Canada and Finland.In India, the mechanised system is currently used in Mumbai, Thane, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Nagpur, Bengaluru, Punjab, and Delhi. The machines are made in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-use-a-mechanised-system-to-clean-drains-101635258017533.html
26-10-2021||Pune||MPID court in Pune orders registration of FIR against directors of co-op society||PUNE SS Gosavi, additional sessions judge at the MPID court in Pune, on Tuesday, ordered the registration of a criminal case against a former chairman and 22 directors of the Pune Post and Telecom Cooperative Credit Society.The case concerns complaints related to misuse of cash, fraud, illegal purchase and sale of properties. Also , the society has been accused of converting black money into white during demonetisation by changing cash books and accepting cash as deposits.An extract from the order reads: “It is clear that the cooperative society about which this complaint has been filed is neither owned nor controlled by the state govt and therefore, prima facie, it appears that provisions of the MPID Act are applicable to it. Therefore this court has the power to take cognisance of this. Investigation from the police is necessary. Therefore this is a fit case to give directions to Vishrambag police station to register this complaint as an FIR and to investigate the matter and proceed according to law.”Society member Ganesh Digambar Tikhe had through his lawyer, Rajesh Katore, moved a petition against the entire board of directors alleging corruption, mismanagement of funds and misuse of powers. Katore said, “We have enumerated everything in the petition before the court. We have pleaded before the court that the co-operative society comes under the ambit of MPID court.” Tikhe in his petition pointed out that he had submitted a complaint to the Vishrambaug police station, Bund Garden police station, and EOW. Since there was no progress, he filed a complaint under section 156 (3) of the CrPC before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mpid-court-in-pune-orders-registration-of-fir-against-directors-of-co-op-society-101635257715455.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Covid impact on migrants may be key Delhi civic body poll issue||The impact of Covid-19 on migrants and the urban poor living in the Capital will be a key issue dominating the forthcoming municipal elections scheduled for early next year, with various political parties already trying to curry favour with those affected by it. The civic polls will be crucial for all three political parties. For the Bharatiya Janata Party, it will be a battle to remain relevant in the city’s governance system, especially after its defeat in the 2020 assembly elections; for Aam Aadmi Party, it will be a statement on its performance (especially during Covid) in its third term in office; for Congress, it will be all about regaining lost ground in the city that it ruled for 15 straight years until 2013. Hoping for a fourth term in the corporations, BJP is eyeing the support of slum clusters, which are considered an AAP stronghold. The party’s Jhuggi Samman Yatra, a 45-day outreach campaign, which started from October 15 and is focused on highlighting the Centre’s “pro-poor schemes” and the Delhi government’s “failures”, has sparked off a political tussle with AAP and Congress dubbing it an “eyewash” and “farce”. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said that they have got tremendous response from residents during the yatras. “The success of our campaign has rattled both AAP and Congress. Both parties, for years, treated slum residents as a vote bank, but did nothing for their welfare,” said Gupta. He said that slum residents are the ‘Dil (heart) of Delhi’ as they are involved at the grassroots level in running the city, especially during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic. “But they were the worst affected during the pandemic, as the state government did nothing for them and stalled the Centre’s pro-poor schemes such as Ayushman Bharat, affordable rental housing scheme, etc. The ration scheme got delayed. The government completely mismanaged the Covid situation. While they paralysed the functioning of civic agencies by stalling funds, the worst part is that the government did nothing to improve the living conditions of people in slum clusters despite having funds,” Gupta said. The BJP, which has covered over 60 slum clusters so far as part of its campaign, plans to start ‘NaMo jhuggi seva kendras’ in the next few days to help people in availing benefits under various central government schemes. But AAP and Congress leaders say these are nothing but an attempt to cover for its failure in delivering better civic services despite being in power for 15 years. The Congress is planning a ‘Pol Khol Yatra’ from October 25 to expose BJP and AAP, while the AAP held an outreach programme ‘Aapka MLA, Aapke Dwar’ in September in which the party claimed to have held 3,000 public meetings to get people’s feedback and discuss the functioning of the municipal corporations. Congress leaders say that both the ruling parties have failed miserably in delivering essential services, especially during the pandemic. “A lot of people lost jobs during the pandemic. In Uttarakhand, (Delhi chief minister) Arvind Kejriwal has promised to pay a monthly stipend of ₹5,000 to the unemployed youth if AAP is elected. There are 13 lakh people registered with the Delhi government’s job portal. Why doesn’t the government give the same amount to people in Delhi? Similarly, the BJP has completely mismanaged the functioning of municipal corporations, making it difficult for common people to access essential services. We will expose both the parties in our pol khol yatras,” said Delhi Congress chief Chaudhary Anil Kumar. AAP shot back. Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak, who oversees municipal affairs in the party, said, “BJP and Congress have governments in various states. I give them an open challenge for a debate on which government did the maximum work during Covid. From providing rations to giving ₹5,000 compensation to ensure the best treatment to people, no one has done the kind of work the Kejriwal government has done during Covid.” Referring to BJP’s campaign in the slum clusters, Pathak added, “In the past 15 years, there has been so much corruption in the BJP-led corporations. There is no residential colony left in the city where their councillors have not taken money for allowing construction work. Frankly, the BJP can now only go to slum clusters to get support. But they will not get it as most slums are on DDA land and in the past few years, the land-owning agency has evicted many people. Moreover, they have not done a single thing for the welfare of slum dwellers despite being in power in the corporations for so long.” About 1.7 million people live in 675 slums and JJ (jhuggi-jhopri) clusters in Delhi, as per the Delhi Economic Survey-2020-21. While slums are scattered around the city, there are over 33 assembly constituencies and over 100 municipal wards with a high concentration of slums that are a significant vote bank. The BJP has been trying to get the support of the slum dwellers, who once supported Congress and later moved to AAP. Months before the 2017 municipal elections, the then Delhi BJP chief and Northeast Delhi MP, Manoj Tiwari, had started ‘Ratri Pravas’ (night stay) at slums in a bid to connect the party (which has upper and middle classes as its traditional voters) with the urban poor and migrants. The move had played a crucial role in BJP winning a third term in the civic bodies and improving its previous tally of 138 to 181. But in the 2020 Delhi assembly elections, AAP returned to power with 62 seats, riding high on its focus on education, healthcare and free electricity and water. The Congress hasn’t given up. “We might have lost the last assembly elections, but we are working hard on the ground. The increase in our vote share during the municipal bypolls earlier this year is an indication that people want Congress back as they acknowledge the work done by us when we were in power,” the Delhi Congress chief said. Political analyst Tanvir Aeijaz, who teaches political science at Ramjas College, said civic elections are fought on local issues that influence the outcome. “While all the welfare schemes such as free electricity, water, good education in schools have got the support of the people, it is also the work done by them during the pandemic, such as providing ration, etc, that is likely to help them in municipal elections. BJP, which has 15-years of anti-incumbency, will have to work hard to retain its upper and middle-class vote bank,” Aeijaz said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-impact-on-migrants-may-be-key-delhi-civic-body-poll-issue-101635257657204.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||High Court panel directs CIDCO to restore tidal water flow at Panje wetland||In a major boost for the environmentalists’ fight to save Panje wetland, the High Court-appointed Mangrove Protection and Conservation Committee has directed CIDCO to have five choke points at the wetland to allow free flow of tidal water.Taking up the issue raised by committee member Stalin D, the committee chairman and Konkan Divisional Commissioner, Vilas Patil, stressed that the water flow must be maintained at the wetland.The Western Region Bench of NGT, meanwhile, is scheduled to hold the next hearing in the case on November 9 before which CIDCO is supposed to file its action taken report.Stalin also strongly advocated revocation of the lease of the Panje wetland to Navi Mumbai SEZ (NMSEZ) since the lease conditions of not harming the environment have been violated. Moreover, the Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has itself categorised the area as CRZ-1.The committee chairman felt that the revocation could be considered if there were any violations.Meanwhile, Panje wetland has gone dry again after the monsoon wet spell, threatening the biodiversity, NatConnect Foundation Director, BN Kumar, has complained to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.Kumar has regretted that despite the CM’s instructions to the environment, UD and forest departments, the violations at Panje have been continuing. Thousands of migratory birds which are habituated to land at Panje would cause flutter at the airport grounds if they miss their traditional landing places, Kumar said quoting BNHS studies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/high-court-panel-directs-cidco-to-restore-tidal-water-flow-at-panje-wetland-101635257655544.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police to probe Sameer Wankhede-Nawab Malik allegations, counter-allegations||Mumbai Police has started an inquiry into the allegations and counter-allegations levelled by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik and Mumbai zonal chief of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), Sameer Wankhede. Police officers said in the past 48-hours, they have received six complaints in which allegations were made against both — Malik and Wankhede.A senior IPS officer said on Tuesday that of these six complaints, four were against the NCB personnel, while the other two were against Malik.One of the complaints filed with the Kurla police station, by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Atul Bhatkhalkar against Malik claimed that by bringing in religious angle in the ongoing matter, he was trying to create disharmony amongst the two religious groups.A complaint filed at Malad police station sought a first information report (FIR) against Malik and unknown people for conspiring, threatening and intimidating the trial court judge and Wankhede, who is supervising the probe in the cruise drug bust case and for allegedly giving political shelter to the drug mafia.The third complaint is received from Prabhakar Sail, a panch witness in the case.“An officer of the rank of assistant commissioner of police will conduct an inquiry into all these matters and we will register an FIR if the material discloses commission of a cognisable offence,” said the IPS officer.NCP leader Malik in a series of attacks has levelled serious allegations against Wankhede.However, the startling allegations made by Sail have forced the NCB to launch a vigilance probe by its deputy director-general of NCB Gyaneshwar Singh. In a notarized affidavit, Sail has alleged that he overheard his employer Kiran Gosavi, who too is a witness in the NCB case, talking to a person about settling the matter for ₹18 crore and that amount of ₹8 crore would be required to be paid to Wankhede etc.Malik, on Tuesday, disclosed a letter purportedly written by an anonymous employee of the agency alleging that Wankhede has framed innocent people in 26 fake drug cases. He also claimed that Wankhede engaged two private persons to tap the phones of the people to frame them.There was no immediate response from Wankhede to the NCP leader’s fresh allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-to-probe-sameer-wankhede-nawab-malik-allegations-counter-allegations-101635257595255.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Mula-Mutha project: after 5 years, estimated riverfront development project cost now ₹4,727 crore||PUNE: The general body meeting of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) gave its nod to the ambitious Mula-Mutha riverfront development project late night Monday after a hard-hitting discussion. The PMC initiated the project five years ago and the estimated total project cost at the time was ₹2,619 core. Now however, the project cost has gone up to ₹4,727 crore.The project will be executed in 11 stretches; during the first three years, the PMC will spend ₹700 crore on the first few stretches after which the project will be implemented as a public-private partnership (PPP). Srinivas Bonala, chief engineer of the projects department said, “The general body has sanctioned a proposal to execute the riverfront project. At present, we are making estimates of stretches that will be tabled before the standing committee and general body for approval. The actual work will start thereafter.”Congress leader Aba Bagul suggested implementing the project as a PPP and the same was accepted during the monthly general body meeting. Last week, the project was approved by the standing committee without much discussion following which concerns were raised over the irrigation department having clearly said that the PMC does not have the right to change the flood lines. The PMC however is changing the flood lines and creating land in the river. They are even planning to sell the government-owned 180 acre land around the river.The riverfront project will require 768 hectare land wherein gardens, jogging tracks and recreational areas will be built along the river. The project has already been cleared by the state government and environmental clearance has also been received. The state government has given its approval to the formation of a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for the project, and the PMC is working on the around 7 km first stretch from Sangamwadi (Engineering college) to Mundhwa.The Pune river development project involves building embankments for flood protection where low-lying areas along the river will be protected from flooding by building a variety of well-modulated embankments along Pune’s rivers. It also involves reducing the impact of indiscriminately built obstructions such as bridges and causeways on the water flow in Pune’s rivers.The project includes:• Building embankments for flood protection• Reducing the impact of man-made obstructions on the water flow of rivers• Creating a public realm along the river• Curbing pollution by drainage and sewage treatment works• Enhancing connectivity• Integrating the river into city life||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mulamutha-project-after-5-years-estimated-riverfront-development-project-cost-now-4-727-crore-101635257115227.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Rajasthan man becomes 3rd recipient in Mumbai to undergo hand transplant||On Monday morning, physiotherapists and nurses at Global Hospital in south Mumbai’s Parel area, helped 22-year-old Jagdev Singh stand on his prosthetic legs for nearly 12 minutes. Singh, a quadruple amputee, underwent a bilateral hand transplant procedure on October 15 and is now slowly recovering. It is a dual challenge for Singh – in addition to the recovery of his transplanted hands, he has to gradually learn to balance the weight and walk on his prosthesis.“His main challenge will be to balance the centre of gravity of the body,” said Dr Nilesh Satbhai, the plastic surgeon who led the hand transplant team that operated on Singh.“There is nearly 10-15kg of weight added to his body with the transplanted hands, the plasters and the bulky dressing. We have already started his chest rehabilitation, and will slowly move to build the core strength of his body,” said the surgeon who had also carried out Mumbai’s first hand transplant on train accident victim Monika More last August. The city’s second such procedure was conducted at the civic-run King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital. Singh, who hails from Rajasthan, is Mumbai’s third hand transplant recipient.Hands transplants are often termed as medical miracles, and can be transformative for double amputees. But the procedure is complex – a hand donation is hard to come by and the outcomes of the surgery are prolonged due to the extremely slow process of nerve recovery.“Every step involved in the hand transplantation – from the time of harvesting the limb from a brain dead donor to attaching it to the recipient – the process requires absolute precision,” said Dr Satbhai.The complexity of the surgery varies with the level of the amputation. Choosing the right candidate for a hand transplant is therefore crucial. A pre-operative assessment and work-up of an amputee involve x-ray, MRI, CT scan, angiography, cardiac and psychiatric analysis among other evaluations. The team of medical experts including the plastic surgeon, orthopaedic surgeon, vascular surgeon and others assess the amputation, the level of injury and the point at which healthy muscles are available. This assessment plan speeds up the procedure when a hand donation comes by.When a family of a brain-dead patient gives consent for a donation, and compatibility is ascertained, a team of doctors first harvest the hands, making way for other teams to harvest the internal organs. A University of Wisconsin solution, known as the UW Solution, is infused through the arteries of the hands in order to cool and preserve the tissues. Given the limited time available, surgeons harvest the hands at a slightly higher level than required.The hands are then wrapped using a ‘triple bag method’ – first in two bags and then in an ice-cold saline bag. At no point should the hands come in contact with water or ice as that can lead to tissue damage. Once harvested, the hands must have blood circulation restored within eight hours.Multiple teams working at the same time ensure that all the structures, including the arteries, veins, nerves, tendons etc, are identified in the donor hands as well as the recipient who is prepared for the surgery.“It takes a lot of coordination and large medical teams to conduct hand transplant procedures,” said Dr K Subramania Iyer, who carried out India’s first hand transplant in 2015 at Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences in Kochi. The transplantation procedure goes on for nearly 10-12 hours and sometimes more.“It takes about a year for the hand transplant patient to become independent,” said Dr Iyer, adding that full functionality depends on the level of the amputation. “The higher the level of amputation, the more time it takes in recovery,” he said.While there is no national registry of hand transplants, an estimated 18 such procedures have been carried out in the country. According to Dr Iyer, despite the surgical complexity, the biggest challenge in hand transplants is to get a donation.“Unlike internal organs such as kidneys, liver or heart, hand donation is a mutilating procedure and therefore, it becomes difficult for families to agree for it. As far as the surgery is concerned, we have gathered quite a bit of experience with more centres catching up,” he said.‘Hand transplant brought my life back’In March 2013, Kochi resident Manu TR, then a 28-year-old event manager, was on his way to a temple in Kollur, Karnataka, when he noticed some goons harassing a woman. When Manu intervened, he was pushed out of the train. He suffered severe injuries and both his hands were crushed in the incident. “I thought my life was over,” said Manu, who became India’s first bilateral hand transplant patient in January 2015 at Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences in Kochi. “Four days after the transplant, when I noticed some movement in my fingers, it felt like I had been given my life back,” he said. A year after his surgery, he was employed at the same medical institute as a counselling assistant for organ transplants. He married a nurse from the hospital and is now a father of two – an eight-month-old girl and a four-year-old boy. “The recovery was a slow process. By the third week, I was slowly eating with my hands and some support. In four months, I was able to use a pen and pencil to scribble. After eight months, I was able to do almost everything, I even worked on my farm,” he recalled.History of transplant•The first ever hand transplant in the world was attempted in 1964 at Ecuador. This transplant was performed without the availability of modern immunosuppression and the hand was rejected in two weeks•The world’s first successful hand transplant was carried out in Lyon, France in 1998. The recipient, however, faced rejection of the transplanted limb and he had to eventually undergo a graft removal procedure after two years•The first hand transplant in the US was carried out in 1999 by a team of doctors from Kleinert Institute in Louisville, Kentucky•India’s first hand transplant was carried out on January 13, 2015, at the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences in Kochi•Globally, an estimated 200 hand transplants have been carried out. India has done about 18 such procedures, three of them in MumbaiAnatomy of human hand•Brachial artery: Main artery of the upper limb that runs through the arm till the elbow level. The artery divides in the proximal forearm into two main branches –radial and ulnar•3 main nerves: Median, ulnar and radial nerves control the sensory and motor functions of hands•27 bones•Multiple muscles and tendons•Multiple superficial veins and nervesTransplant procedure•Detailed preoperative assessment and planning•Dissection and preparation of donor and recipient hands as per the requirement and level of amputation.Step 1: Fixing bones with help of metal plates, screwsStep 2: Arteries are hollow tube-like structures that deliver oxygenated blood from the heart to the tissues. Veins are also hollow tubes, but thinner and more fragile than the arteries. They carry the deoxygenated blood from the tissues towards the heart. Attaching the arteries and veins restores the blood circulation to the transplanted limb. The procedure is carried out under a microscope, and the suturing is done with the use of micro-sutures, which are thinner than a strand of hair.Step 3: The muscle mass and tendons are then repaired with the help of strong sutures. Tension adjustment is crucial during this process for optimal hand function. Doctors describe this as achieving the ‘normal finger cascade’ or the natural alignment of fingers when the hand is at complete rest. Perfect nerve repair is vital to ensure the motor and sensory function as the patient recovers.Step 4: Suturing of the skinPost-transplantation care•Doctors monitor any signs of rejection of the transplanted limb, for example, rashes or boil on the skin of the transplanted hand•Biopsies are conducted at regular intervals and doctors monitor if the patient’s antibodies are activated to fight against the donor hand, which the body may identify as a foreign object•Most rejection reactions are controlled by adjusting medications. But in case of hyperacute rejection, the graft may have to be removed as it can cause a threat to a recipient’s life•Doctors assess the transplant in terms of immediate and delayed outcomes•Immediate outcomes may include vascular patency or normal blood flow through the graft, hair and nail growth etc•Delayed outcomes depend on the recovery of the nerves. Nerve recovery starts after three-four weeks of the transplant. Typically, the nerve recovery happens at the speed of one millimetre per day. This is why the functional recovery of the transplanted hands can take six months to one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/22yearold-rajasthan-man-becomes-third-recipient-in-mumbai-to-undergo-hand-transplant-101635256995334.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Man beaten to death after trying to steal cash from food cart in Bhiwandi||A 32-year-old man who tried to steal the cash box of a Chinese food cart was beaten to death by the owner and his sons on Monday night.While the accused was closing the shop, the deceased came to the stall and tried to steal cash. The owner, his two sons and a friend of his sons who is a minor beat him to death. The Nizampura police arrested all the four accused and sent the minor to a children’s remand home.The accused are identified as Noor Siddhique, 64, popularly known as Puri Bhaji Wala Ustad, and his two sons, Afzal Siddhique, 28, and Afjar Siddhique, 26.According to a Nizampura police officer, the accused have their Chinese food business near Metro hotel in Bhiwandi. The deceased, Shafiq Shaikh, went to have food at the accused’s food stall. The deceased was behaving suspiciously and got into a fight with the servers unnecessarily.An officer said, “Shaikh was there till 11.30pm, when he saw the owner and the cook busy wrapping the day’s business. He took advantage of the situation and stole the cash box. One of Siddhique’s sons saw him and chased him as he tried to flee. Siddhique’s family and the minor friend started beating him up. They beat up Shaikh in the middle of the road until police intervened and stopped them. Shaikh was taken to a hospital where he was declared dead during treatment. We have arrested all four accused in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-beaten-to-death-after-trying-to-steal-cash-from-food-cart-in-bhiwandi-101635256755226.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Go with the flow, trust the course but stay attuned||It’s often advocated to go with the flow. Events such as graduation, job, marriage and arrival of children are blessings. As we proceed on these, roadblocks come in the way, affecting the flow, and sometimes forcing one to proactively chart one’s own path. However, going with the flow does help. It’s most often worthwhile to trust the course of life. Also, it is to be realised that children have an innate sense of right from wrong, which makes it sensible to let them be instead of perpetually trying to change them. There is an incident narrated by my mother in this context that has left an imprint on my mind. When my mother was eight years old, an elderly woman on the street used to lie down in the courtyard of any random household. Someone or the other would bring her food. Her husband was no more, and her two sons had abandoned her. Once, my mother had gone to a far-off market for buying some items. She spotted the woman, who waved at her. When my mother went up to her, presuming she needed assistance, the woman grabbed hold of her hand and started asking around for alms! At that age also, my mother could sense that this was uncalled for behaviour and somehow escaped from her clutches. Another narrative is when I was pursuing my undergraduate degree in psychology, and had once interviewed a favourite professor for a project. She told me about a couple who had a girl child. The girl was born with a deformity in both the thumbs. However, as she grew up, she could manage all her tasks using the hands in a different yet effective way. The parents, though, got her operated. The surgery corrected her thumbs but hampered their functionality as by that time she had become so adapted and accustomed to using her thumbs-with-deformity, that her new thumbs were useless to her. She didn’t know what to do with them! This is not to undermine the value of taking timely action, of being preventive instead of being curative, and to work towards solutions; but to know whether and when to do these, calls for both intuitive and pragmatic wisdom. Generally, life will give enough hints and indications in this direction. Consistent gauging, too, comes in handy. To shout, in a way, is also to go against the flow. Plus, whenever one shouts, it’s usually because of his/her own hurt. We feel we deserve more, that life has been unfair, or that we are elder/superior. However, in our constantly changing world, no one is entitled. Even if something is wrong, shouting mutes the message we intend to give. It’s always better to stay calm, and deliver or convey the message politely later on. It’s bound to have a better effect. Especially with parents, this is often the case. For instance, I once read that a kid is more likely to say, ‘Please play with me’ instead of, ‘I had a bad day’. But indeed, mindfulness and attunement are essential to be able to read such messages given by life. The best way to live life is to flow with it; accepting what is, making sincere efforts to repair whatever needs fixing and trusting the process, as said by Avis Viswanathan, the life coach, author and speaker. I’ll take the liberty to add that a basic consciousness, while taking life as it comes, also goes a long way. reemaban@gmail.com The writer is a Jagadhri-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/go-with-the-flow-trust-the-course-but-stay-attuned-101635255915402.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Bodies of 5 Bengal trekkers retrieved from Uttarakhand's Bageshwar||Bodies of at least five trekkers were retrieved from Sunderdhunga valley in Uttarakhand's Bageshwar district on Tuesday, about 360km from Dehradun, the state's disaster response force said.The Uttarakhand SDRF said the five victims were from West Bengal, and were part of a 10-member team that had gone to the valley for trekking but got trapped in snowfall during the recent disaster on October 21.While four trekkers were rescued on the same day six of them, including the five whose bodies were found on Tuesday went missing, with one person still missing. The SDRF retrieved their bodies after a search operation that continued for the past four days. The bodies were airlifted to Kapkot in a chopper of the Indian Air Force.Last week, at least 13 people, including 10 trekkers, died at separate places in Uttarakhand after getting trapped due to snowfall in the mountainous region.The victims include three porters working for the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, posted along the India-China border in Uttarkashi district. Five people have been rescued while six remain missing.Last week, the state authorities were forced to halt pilgrimage to the Char Dham as heavy rainfall triggered flash floods and landslides across Uttarakhand and claimed the lives of at least 75 people, including several tourists. However, the state authorities resumed the pilgrimage later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bodies-of-5-bengal-trekkers-retrieved-from-uttarakhand-s-bageshwar-101635251014250.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Fire breaks out in residential building of Raheja Gardens in Thane||A fire broke out on the fifth floor of a 12-storey building in Raghunath Nagar, Thane, early on Tuesday morning. There were no casualties but 15 families were evacuated as a precautionary measure by the fire department and disaster management team.“At around 4.45am, a fire broke out in the fifth floor of Ascona Building in Raheja Gardens. The cause of the fire is still unknown. Cooling operations continued till 10am. We have evacuated around 15 families staying in the adjacent floors,” said a fire officer.DK Soman, a well-known astrologer and who stays on the same floor but in a connecting block, said, “Our society fire security alarms woke us up early on Tuesday morning. There were flames erupting from flat No. 503 and the society security immediately alerted the fire brigade and helped the residents of that particular flat to evacuate. The fire brigade arrived within minutes and started dousing the fire. As a precautionary measure, other families were also asked to evacuate.”Soman and his wife are in their 80s and as the situation was under control, they were asked not to evacuate. “It would have been difficult to climb down so many floors for senior citizens and as we had started dousing the fire, we asked them to remain indoors. Although residing on the same floor, they were in a separate block, hence were safe,” said a fire officer who was on site.According to residents, it was a short circuit in the air-conditioning unit in the bedroom of the Barve family that caused the fire. “The Barve family recently lost a family member due to Covid and the fire has occurred today morning, leaving the entire bedroom charred,” said another resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-in-residential-building-of-raheja-gardens-in-thane-101635255135260.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Keep me away from this’: Aryan Khan’s lawyer to HC on Nawab Malik vs Wankhede||MUMBAI: Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi on Tuesday argued Aryan Khan’s bail application before the Bombay high court claiming that the 23-year-old son of actor Shah Rukh Khan was arrested wrongly by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), as there was no recovery and no material to suggest consumption. Rohatgi submitted that Aryan, who has done graduation from California and returned since Covid started, was not a customer on the cruise, he was invited as a guest by one Prateek Gaba, who knew the organisers. There is no recovery from him and no medical examination was conducted to show that the 23-year-old had consumed drugs and therefore, there was no occasion to arrest him, said the senior advocate. “No recovery, no consumption, I submit I am wrongly arrested,” he added.Referring to the NCB’s claim that 6gm charas said to have been recovered from Aryan’s friend Arbaaz Merchant was meant for the consumption by both of them, and therefore Aryan was also in conscious possession of the contraband material, the senior advocate said, what somebody else is having in his shoes can’t be conscious possession. “They will have to prove that I knew about it,” he stressed.He pointed out that the statements recorded by NCB officers under section 67 of the NDPS Act are not admissible in evidence. Besides, he said, six grams is a small quantity and even if it is assumed for the sake of argument that there was conscious possession, the maximum punishment is just up to one year.Referring to the NCB referring to WhatsApp chats involving Aryan Khan, Mukul Rohatgi said these chats relate to 2018, 2019, 2020 and were not regarding the cruise party which started on October 2.“These WhatsApp chats have nothing to do with the incident. Those are earlier chats, when I (Aryan) was abroad and on the basis of which they are claiming that I (Aryan) was dealing with people, they suspect to be international traffickers,” said Rohatgi. He added that Aryan is a young boy with no antecedents. Law provides that in case of consumption, one has to be taken to rehabilitation. “Approach is not to keep people in jails, the (Union) social justice ministry is talking about reforms,” he added. The senior advocate maintained that the 23-year-old was not concerned with other accused arrested by NCB on charges of possessing intermediate quantity of drugs. “There is no meeting of minds,” he said as regards the charge of conspiracy levelled by NCB against the accused, including Aryan. As regards the simmering controversy over the purported revelations made by Prabhakar Sail, a panch witness in the case, Rohatgi said Aryan was not concerned with the affidavit. “I have no complaint against any NCB Officer. I am not concerned with the panch witness,” said the senior advocate, urging the court to keep the 23-year-old out of the controversy.“Kindly keep me away from me this. I don’t want to go with either the political personality or the NCB officers. They (NCB) are concentrating on Pooja (Shah Rukh Khan’s manager Pooja Dadlani) and trying to rub it on me. This unsavoury controversy between political leaders and NCB officials cannot be rubbed on me.”Rohatgi, a former attorney general, said the NCB was claiming to have arrested one Aachit Kumar, purportedly on the basis of statements given by Aryan and Arbaaz and has seized 2.6 gms of marijuana from him. The agency, however, did not seek his custody after October 9, he added. He pointed out that Aachit Kumar himself is a young boy and a college student. Aryan has communicated/chatted with him about online Poker. “They (NCB) are using it (to connect Aryan with drug dealing). The communications are 14 months old and are about online gaming. He maintained that these chats are irrelevant and you cannot keep somebody in jail for days together. Immediately after Rohatgi completed his arguments, a lawyer sought to intervene, complaining about the purported preferential treatment given to Aryan Khan for hearing his bail plea.“I am supporting the prosecution, but have an objection that privileges are given to such bunch of petition,” said advocate Subhash Jha. “This is the concern of the bar as well. People are languishing in jails, but preference is given to such petitions,” he added.Justice Sambre responded to the contentions saying he finishes his board and then take up such matters (requiring lengthy hearings). “Everybody is given circulation and is heard in my court,” said the judge. The court has now posted the bail applications of Arbaaz Khan and Munmun Dhamecha, also arrested in the cruise drug bust case, for hearing on Wednesday. A team of NCB officials, headed by the agency’s Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, on October 2 searched passengers slated to take the cruise ship to Goa from the International Cruise Terminal at Green Gate in Mumbai and their rooms booked on the cruise ship. During the search, the agency claimed to have seized multiple drugs such as 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of mephedrone, 21 grams of charas, 22 pills of MDMA (ecstasy), and Rs. 1.33 lakh in cash.In all, NCB officials intercepted 14 people and after hours of interrogation placed 23-year-old Aryan, Arbaaz, 26, and Dhamecha, 28, under arrest on October 3 afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mukul-rohatgi-rebuts-ncb-to-seek-bail-for-aryan-khan-says-was-wrongly-arrested-101635255015152.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan to remain in jail for another day as Bombay HC adjourns bail hearing||The Bombay high court on Tuesday adjourned hearing on the bail application of superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan till Wednesday. The matter will be taken up for the hearing again in the Bombay High Court post-lunch at 2.30 pm, Justice Nitin Sambre said.The star-son, in jail since the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) conducted a raid on a Goa-bound cruise off Mumbai’s coast on October 2, will remain behind the bars for another day.Earlier, after hearing the arguments of former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi on behalf of Aryan and advocate Amit Desai arguing for Arbaaz Merchant, another accused in the case, Justice Sambre said everybody is given circulation and heard in his court.“I finish the board and take such matters, everybody is given circulation and heard in my court,” he said.The court would continue the hearing on the bail pleas of Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha on Wednesday, besides the arguments of Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB.Also read | As NCB remains opposed to Aryan's bail, his lawyers file counter affidavitMeanwhile, two men accused in the case were granted bail by a special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances ActManish Rajgaria and Avin Sahu became the first two accused to get court relief in the drugs seizure case that has caught the nation's attention since the high-profile arrest was made public late on October 2. Also read | For Aryan Khan’s bail plea in Bombay High Court, a battery of lawyersThe case has since seen too many controversies with the latest one being extortion allegations levelled against top NCB officials, including its zonal director Sameer Wankhede. An NCB team had busted the alleged drugs party on the Cordelia Cruise ship mid-sea on October 2. So far, 20 people, including two Nigerians, had been arrested in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-to-remain-in-jail-for-another-day-as-bombay-hc-adjourns-bail-hearing-101635252183335.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Colleges to upgrade infrastructure, conduct sanitisation, set up WiFi facilities, roster of vaccinated students and staff||Less than a week before officially closing for Diwali break, many colleges are busy setting up or upgrading their infrastructure to accommodate hybrid classes once classrooms reopen in the third week of November. Sanitisation and social distancing rules have, however, been implemented on campus.“Our teachers are proctoring online exams for second-year students at present, while they are also conducting classes at the same time because we had to restart physical classes as per the government orders. We are looking ahead and preparing for more students to join classes post-Diwali break,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra. At her college, classes have begun but to a low student turnout. Many colleges are expecting to see a higher number of students attending lectures post-holidays and are prepping accordingly.“For hybrid classrooms, we will need WiFi across the campus so that the same lecture taught by a teacher in the classroom is relayed to students sitting at home as well. We are ensuring the infrastructure is in place, but are unsure of how many students will attend regular lectures,” she added.In the second week of October, minister for state higher and technical education Uday Samant announced the reopening of colleges starting October 20 only for fully vaccinated staff and students. In a statement made on October 13, Samant suggested that colleges should continue online classes for students who are not yet fully vaccinated.Most colleges on October 20, the first day of college reopening, wore a deserted look. While undergraduate students are currently appearing for online exams, postgraduate students could not attend lectures either because they are not fully vaccinated or because they are currently attending lectures from different cities and states in the country. “Unless the government makes it compulsory for students to physically attend colleges, a majority will pick online classes. Colleges are helpless and even if five students show up for physical lectures, we will have to continue hybrid lectures,” said the principal of a south Mumbai college. He added that they are still waiting for consent forms from nearly 85% of students who have not yet agreed to attend physical classes and have instead chosen online lectures.“Other than students, we also need to make sure our teaching and non-teaching staff is vaccinated. We have, therefore, started collecting data to understand how many of them are fully vaccinated and by when will the rest complete their second dose,” said Naresh Chandra, principal of Birla College, Kalyan. “We can run the institute smoothly only once the full strength of staff is in place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/colleges-to-upgrade-infrastructure-conduct-sanitisation-set-up-wifi-facilities-roster-of-vaccinated-students-and-staff-101635252195143.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||UP govt to celebrate Charan Singh’s birth anniversary as Kisan Samman Diwas||LUCKNOW The UP government will celebrate late Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh’s birth anniversary on December 23 as ‘Kisan Samman Diwas’, said a government statement on Tuesday.Farmers, who have made significant contributions to traditional farming and done some remarkable work in the field of agricultural diversification or horticulture farming, will be honoured on the occasion.Under ‘Mission Shakti’, women farmers, who have done remarkable work in agriculture and the allied sector, will also be rewarded at the state and district levels.‘Kisan Samman Diwas’ will be celebrated at the state, district and development block levels. The main event will be organised in Lucknow under the supervision of the divisional commissioner in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath along with the agriculture minister and others, said the statement. The event will be held adhering to Covid-19 protocols.Agriculture director (UP) is the nodal officer for all the programmes, which will be organised on the occasion. Besides, agricultural universities will organise Kisan Goshthi and exhibitions at all Krishi Vigyan Kendras.AWARDS For doing excellent work at the state level, three awards will be given under the category of organic farming/natural farming and farmer-producer organizations (FPO).KVK SCIENTISTS TO BE FETEDAt the state level, three beneficiaries under the agriculture infrastructure fund (AIF), three scientists of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) and three officers of the district doing important work for stubble management will also be honoured by the state government.Agriculture and allied departments like the cooperative department, horticulture department, fisheries department, milk development department, sericulture department and sugarcane departments have been asked to ensure active participation in the Kisan Samman Diwas event and development seminar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-to-celebrate-charan-singh-s-birth-anniversary-as-kisan-samman-diwas-101635247936212.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Maharajganj multi-crore paddy purchase fraud mastermind held in Jharkhand||Lucknow: Shambhu Nath Gupta, the alleged mastermind of the multi-crore fraud related to the state government’s paddy purchase scheme for farmers in Maharajganj district, was arrested by the special task force (STF) of UP police from a hotel in Deoghar district of Jharkhand on Monday, senior police officials said in Uttar Pradesh capital Lucknow on Tuesday.They said Gupta, who owns a rice mill in the Shikarpur area of Maharajganj district, allegedly used to fraudulently purchase paddy at government rates by using the identities of different people and opening their bank accounts in which he would show them as farmers.Gupta and his aides are alleged to transfer the purchase amount to different accounts as if the money was being paid to farmers. They later withdrew the money via cheques. Officials said the mastermind fraudulently used the government scheme meant for farmers to earn crores of rupees.Sharing further details, a senior STF official said Gupta’s name surfaced in the fraud after the arrest of four people from Maharajganj district in February this year but he had been evading arrest since then. The Maharajganj police also declared a ₹50,000 reward on his arrest.He said Gupta had been living in a hotel in Deoghar district for several months on a fake identity.The official said the police will seek his custody to interrogate him and unravel the entire nexus involved behind it. He said the role of many other private and government employees is likely to surface during the investigation.The fraud came to light after the arrest of four people, Bhalendu Chaturvedi, Shatrughan Pathak, Bhagwat Prasad and Vyasmuni Pathak, from Maharajganj district on February 17 this year. Police also recovered 243 activated SIM cards issued in the name of different people, 297 cheque books and 331 cheques of different banks of Maharajganj and Gorakhpur. Police had registered an FIR against them for fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/maharajganj-multi-crore-paddy-purchase-fraud-mastermind-held-in-jharkhand-101635247934893.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Nawab Malik’s allegations baseless, made to humiliate me, kin: Sameer Wankhede||The allegations of forgery made by NCP leader Nawab Malik are baseless and made with the sole intention to humiliate him and his family, Sameer Wankhede, Mumbai Zonal Director of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has said. “The allegations made by Nawab Malik are baseless and are made solely to humiliate me and my family, and to divert my attention from the investigation (into the drug case involving actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan),” he said while responding to the allegations. Wankhede also released caste certificates of several of his family members, including his father, uncles and first cousins, showing that all of them belong to Mahar, a Scheduled Caste. Malik on Monday accused the Indian Revenue Service officer of using a fake caste certificate to get a government job under reserved quota. Malik claimed that Wankhede is a Muslim but made a caste certificate by forgery and got a government job under the Scheduled Caste (SC) category. The NCP leader also tweeted a copy of a birth certificate, which he claimed to be that of Wankhede and showed his father’s name as “Dawood K Wankhede”. The NCP leader had earlier said that Dnyandev Wankhede converted to Islam before marrying Zahera Bano years ago. The couple had two children, one being Sameer. “They were brought up as Muslim. Sameer Wankhede had a nikah (marriage as per Islamic law) in 2006 with a girl. However, since his father comes from a Schedule Caste (SC) Hindu family, he got a job under the reserved quota, he also made a SC caste certificate and got a job as IRS (Indian Revenue Service) under reserved quota,” Malik said. The NCP leader said that Wankhede is a Muslim but got a government job on the basis of a fake SC certificate by hiding his original religion. “Forgery by Sameer Dawood Wankhede started from here. The officer, who started his career with forgery, will never work with honesty,” Malik said. In a written statement, Wankhede denied the allegations and stated that publishing his personal documents on twitter was defamatory in nature and unnecessary invasion of the privacy of his family. In the statement, he clarified that his father’s full name is Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede, a Hindu and his mother was late Zaheeda and was a Muslim. “I belong to a composite multi-religious and secular family and I am proud of my heritage,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nawab-malik-s-allegations-baseless-made-to-humiliate-me-kin-sameer-wankhede-101635247156019.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad University plans 10 new integrated courses under NEP-2020||Allahabad University (AU) is gearing up to introduce as many as 10 new integrated courses under the proposals of the new National Education Policy (NEP) 2020.These integrated courses will be in diverse subjects, including food technology, fashion technology, food and nutrition, artificial intelligence, forensic sciences, music, law, disaster management, behavioural and cognitive sciences, said AU PRO Jaya Kapoor.The move was discussed in a meeting of all deans, heads of the department, coordinators-directors of the Centre University chaired by AU vice-chancellor in the North Hall on Monday, she added.The meeting also resolved to host the alumni meet in November 2022. The exact date of the reunion would be decided soon.In line with this proposal, a six-member committee of senior faculty members was formed by the vice-chancellor Prof Sangita Srivastava, said AU PRO.The heads of the departments will provide a list of the alumni of their respective departments to the committee to facilitate the event, the AU PRO shared.During the meeting, it was decided that Katra gate of Science Faculty campus of the university will remain open from 8.45 am to 11 am and 3.30 pm to 5 pm on all working days henceforth.The meeting also resolved that the teachers must follow the Act and Statutes pertaining to the leave rules. It was also decided that the child care leave will be given for a minimum period of 45 days at a time. Women teachers and other staff who are in the family way and are unable to come to the university must apply for maternity leave and get prior permission from the competent authority. Reiterating the decision to start offline UG final year classes from December 12, 2021, the VC instructed that this must be done while strictly observing the Covid guidelines. The HoDs were also asked to encourage students to fill up the online feedback forms available on the website regarding the faculty of their respective teaching departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-university-plans-10-new-integrated-courses-under-nep2020-101635247154708.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Rehab, not jail: Mukul Rohatgi cites Centre's reform plans in Aryan's bail plea||Former attorney general of India, Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son’s jailed son Aryan in the drugs seizure case, said on Tuesday the junior Khan was not a customer on the Goa-bound cruise from where the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) caught him following a raid and that he was only invited as a guest.Arguing before Justice Nitin Sambre in the Bombay High court, Rohatgi said there was no recovery of drugs from Aryan, nor any medical test conducted or consumption of drugs found -- hence, there was no occasion to arrest his client.“No recovery, no consumption, I submit I am wrongly arrested," the former AG said on behalf of the star-son, adding there was no material to show that Aryan financed illicit trafficking of drugs.“Penalty is for consumption or carrying it. I don't have it, possession of somebody else can't be my possession. Unless it is in my knowledge.”Citing the Central government's plans to bring in reform measures, the veteran lawyer further argued that Aryan being a young boy, he should be sent for rehabilitation and not put behind bars.“He is a young boy with no (criminal) antecedents. The law provides that if someone is found consuming drugs, one has to be taken to rehab. Approach is not to keep people in jails. The social justice ministry is talking about reforms,” the former AG argued.Rohatgi said controversy was rebounding Aryan Khan and urged that he be kept away from the same. He further said Aryan had no allegation against any NCB officer or had nothing to do with any political personality.“Controversy is rebounding on on me. Kindly keep me away from me this. I have a great great case to argue. I don't want to go with the political personality or the NCB officers. I am concerned with my case,” the veteran lawyer said.“I am not concerned with a lot of accused arrested in the case from whom intermediate quantity is seized. There is no meeting of minds.”The former AG and team of senior lawyers flew down to the country's financial capital on Tuesday to join an already massive group of legal eyes, including  Amit Desai and senior advocate Satish Manshinde.Rohatgi said that Aryan was a 23-year-old boy having completed his graduation in California and returning to the country since the Covid-19 pandemic hit.“Aryan was not a customer on the cruise, he was invited as a guest. Aryan was invited by a man called as Gaba, who knew the organisers,” he further said.Also read | As NCB continues to oppose Aryan's bail plea, his lawyers file counter affidavitStating that the submission made before the NDPS were inadmissible, Rohatgi said, "What somebody is having in his shoes can't be a conscious possession. They have to prove that I knew about it."The senior lawyer said the NCB's statement that they had recovered WhatsApp chats from Aryan's phone for years 2018, 2019, 2020, but none were regarding the said cruise party. “It is important to note they are not regarding the cruise party which started on October 2,” he said.“Whatsapp chats has nothing to do with the cruise terminal incident. It refers to earlier chats from which they are saying you know, you were dealing with people. When I was abroad also, they are connecting it with international traffickers. Trial court will decide if they are admissible or not,” Rohatgi added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-recovery-no-consumption-mukul-rohatgi-says-aryan-khan-wrongly-arrested-101635246294922.html
26-10-2021||Pune||In my opinion: Anonymous call for rescue must not be lost in Aryan Khan drug case||The gold standard for pop-cultural references remains the mega-buster, Game of Thrones.Pop cultural references are a writer’s currency saver, allowing the cited reference to save the spending of 200 words on setting the mood, context or visual drama. Just write “Game of Thrones”, allow a second or two for the reader’s imagination to sketch it out, and then, deliver what the writer hopes will be the killer blow.Television’s next Game of Thrones can easily be the Aryan Khan drugs’ case. (Scriptwriters remember, you heard it here first).As the plot unfolds and then folds again on top of all that is believed to have been revealed, only to unfold further – like a kind of never-ending rendition of a pasta dough – the promise of “solved!” “At last!” “Thank God!” “The End”, keeps TRPs buzzing, column centimetres filled and social media hashtags on a never-ending loop of funny punch lines and smarter counter-punch memes.Amidst all the noise the real issues that the words “narcotics” and “addiction” might allow to surface are likely to be drowned out.Narcotic addiction, like alcohol, or any other “definer” you might pick as the addiction factor destroying a human being’s life (sex, food, gambling), is a real-life, real-time social issue that can ill afford luxuries like politicisation, criminal intent, rule of law or bail pleas.People die. Every day.This is not to undermine or downplay the importance of law and order or the due legal process involved when the law is broken. By all means, let the hammer fall.The fear is the hammer is banging away and drowning out what may be cries for help.For an addict there is help. Today. Right now. Here in Pune. In whatever deadly or depraved situation s/he finds her/himself in. There is help. A solution and design for living that works.Aryan Khan might now be the face of the “narcotics and youth” dinner-table discussion at least till the end of the year, but on the streets of Pune, or in one of the reopened nightclubs of Pune or at a hotel room rented for the party just for one night – an addict might have taken the “first hit” on the road to destruction, or possibly, “the toke” that could be his/her last.Twelve-step programmes as the one-day-at-a-time solution to addictions have been around since 1935. By that measure the 12-step programme has met the scientific rigour of testing.It has worked for over 75 years, in different time zones, cultures, languages, peoples, and beliefs. As an experiment goes, it has run the gauntlet and proved, “it works!”In no way, shape or form do the 12-step “de-addiction” programmes claim exclusivity or “being the only answer” to heal addiction.Science continues to push for that boundary-defining breakthrough where physical addiction can be altered by popping a pill or tweaking a gene.The 12-step programmes have more than their fair share of critiques; generally wherever a “higher power” is involved that is more than likely to happen.The answer for an alcoholic, a drug addict, a sex addict, a gambling addict, a food addict, a shopping addict… the list goes on, is there is a programme that works and the only reason for the existence of these programmes is to help you.Narcotics Anonymous (NA). The “anonymous” word is, as the textbook of the 12-step programmes, colloquially referred to as the “Big Book” explains it, the “spiritual foundation of all its principles”.Anonymity is key to the recovery programme. Like a cloak of protection. Protection from? Pride to begin with. But also, in the case of many global superstars who are members of 12-step groups, protection from the vagaries of publicity and the distraction of fame.Anonymity is not to be confused with secrecy or some sort of underground cult. Anonymity is a spiritual principle employed in all 12-step groups.Addiction kills. The 12-step programme saves lives. What is at stake here is much, much more important than the self-indulgent coefficient of “serves them right”, that cases like Aryan Khan’s expose.The arguments for decriminalising small quantities of possession deemed as “for personal use” are growing stronger. Holland and Portugal are the countries to google if you want a quick reference point in terms of the effect of decriminalising possession of narcotics for personal use.Every day a new Game-of-Thrones-type twist in the Aryan Khan script emerges.What must not be lost in all the “hungama” is that for the addict, there is a real help. A real answer. A programme for living that works, and has worked in Pune for hundreds of addicts and alcoholics, thousands across India and in the world, the numbers run into the millions.Twelve steps. One step at a time. One day at a time.At its core, the Narcotics Anonymous programme is one drug addict working with another drug addict each helping the other to stay clean and sober.Are you an addict? Or an alcoholic?If you have heard any person in your immediate circle – family or friends or at work – use the phrases, “drinking problem”, “substance abuse”, “always stoned”, “never there”… it is time to find out. Even if it has, just for a fleeting moment, crossed your own mind, it is time to find out.Aryan Khan found out the hard way. No matter who, where, or how big or cool (or small) you are, if addiction finds you or the other way around, it will destroy you.As a recovered alcoholic and/or drug addict will testify, anonymously if it is in public, there is an answer.In Pune to get in touch withNarcotics Anonymous call – +919673606686Alcoholics Anonymous call 1800 345 1500||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-my-opinion-anonymous-call-for-rescue-must-not-be-lost-in-aryan-khan-drug-case-101635245296168.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Day before Captain's press conference, Navjot Kaur Sidhu says no Congress MLA would join him||A day before former Punjab chief minister and Congress veteran Captain Amarinder Singh is scheduled to address a press conference, party leader Navjot Kaur Sidhu, the wife of state unit chief Navjot Singh Sidhu, dismissed any possibility of any Punjab Congress MLA going with Singh, adding that the best option for the former Army officer was to have joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).Also Read | Amarinder Singh to address press conference tomorrow. What's on the cards?“Don't think any Congress MLA will leave with him (Singh). However, if he gives any favour to someone, they might. But people get attached to their party, one man alone doesn't form a party. Those attached to the Congress won't go,” Sidhu said, according to news agency ANI.She further remarked that though Singh was given “all freedom” by the party, he never openly met any minister or legislator. “Who will trust him? It would've been best for him had he joined the SAD. It would've laid people's suspicion to rest, and he would've been able to win a few seats,” Sidhu, who, like her husband, is a former leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), further said. He was given all freedom by the party but he didn't give power to any worker,never openly met any min or MLA. Who'll trust him? It would've been best for him had he joined SAD. It would've laid people's suspicion to rest&he would've been able to win a few seats: Navjot Kaur SidhuAt Wednesday's press conference, Singh is expected to formally resign from the Congress, and float his own party, which could be called the “Punjab Lok Congress.”Also Read | Capt Amarinder likely to launch Punjab Lok Congress tomorrowThe now-former Punjab chief minister, who resigned on September 18, said after submitting his resignation to the Governor that he felt “humiliated” by the Congress. The development, which came nearly two months after Navjot Singh Sidhu was made the president of the Punjab Congress amid a bitter feud with Singh, resulted in the elevation of Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister.However, following his resignation, Singh held several meetings with BJP leader and Union home minister Amit Shah, triggering speculations he could join that party. Then, on October 19, he announced he will float a new political outfit, adding that he was hopeful of entering into a seat agreement with the BJP for next year's assembly elections in Punjab, if the party, which has a government at the Centre, was able to resolve the ongoing farmers' protests over the three contentious central agricultural laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-before-captain-s-press-conference-navjot-kaur-sidhu-says-no-congress-mla-would-join-him-101635242759650.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana set to become North India’s industrial hub||The Punjab government is developing Ludhiana as North India’s industrial hub with Hi-Tech Valley being set up on 378.77 acres at Dhanansu village by the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation, a state government undertaking. Also read: Capt Amarinder likely to launch Punjab Lok Congress tomorrowApprovals for the layout plan, change of land use and environmental clearance have been received for the ₹365-crore project. Latest manufacturing technology Hero Cycles Limited, a prominent player in the cycle industry, has come up with its state-of-the-art unit to make high-end bicycles and e-bikes in the Hero Industrial Park on 100 acres in Hi-Tech Valley. The unit was opened in April 2021. The Hero Industrial Park will have ancillary units of the anchor unit. Aditya Birla Group, a Fortune 500 company, has chosen Punjab as an investment destination for its upcoming paints business through its flagship Grasim Industries Ltd. The group has procured 61.38 acres in Hi-Tech Valley for its new venture. The plant will deploy the latest manufacturing technology and ensure the safety and environment protection systems. Besides, 17 acres have been allotted to JK Papers Ltd for setting up their unit to make corrugated boxes and packaging products. Gurkirat Singh, the state minister of industries and commerce, said Punjab State Transmission Corporation Limited (PSTCL) will set up a grid station of 400 KV on 30 acres and work has started on the site. Internal development on course Hi-Tech Valley has been connected with the Chandigarh-Ludhiana national highway by constructing a 100-ft wide four lane and 8.3-km external concrete road since April 14, 2021. The internal development of Hi-Tech Valley, such as the construction of 33m and 24m wide internal concrete roads, storm water drainage system, sewerage collection and effluent collection system, have been completed and other works are in progress, said Gurkirat Singh, adding that the basic internal development of Hi-Tech Valley will be completed by February 28, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-set-to-become-north-india-s-industrial-hub-101635244994586.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||‘Wankhede framed people in 26 fake cases’: Nawab Malik cites anonymous letter||MUMBAI: Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday cited a letter purportedly written by an anonymous employee of the agency alleging Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB)’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede allegedly framed innocent people in 26 fake drug cases. He also claimed Wankhede engaged two private persons to tap phones of the people to frame them.Malik, who tweeted a copy of the four-page letter listing the 26 cases, said he has sent it to the NCB chief requesting him to look into the contents as part of the probe started by the agency’s vigilance department against Sameer Wankhede.NCB started probing on Monday allegations that Wankhede was part of a ₹25 crore extortion racket after the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, in a drug raid.There was no immediate response from Sameer Wankhede to NCP politician and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik’s fresh claims. Also Read: ‘My name is ...’: Sameer Wankhede’s father hits out at Nawab MalikMutha Ashok Jain, the NCB’s deputy director-general, said the agency has not received any letter. He added that NCB will take appropriate steps when it gets it. Malik, who has levelled a series of charges against Wankhede, said he received the letter from the employee, who wishes to remain anonymous, two days ago. The letter claims NCB allegedly planted drugs shown to have been seized in some of the cases.“The contents of the letter are very serious in nature and need thorough investigation. Since NCB has already started a probe against Wankhede, I will request...NCB (chief) to make the letter part of their investigation.”He said Wankhede was illegally intercepting the phones of some people with the help of two private people in Mumbai and Thane. “My fight is against injustice and not against NCB. I welcome the investigation started against Wankhede.”On Monday, Malik claimed Wankhede is a Muslim but made a Hindu caste certificate by forgery to get into the Indian Revenue Service (IRS) under the Scheduled Caste category. He tweeted a copy of a birth certificate, which he claimed is of Wankhede. The document shows his father’s name is Dawood K Wankhede while it is Dnyandev Wankhede as per the NCB website.Malik said a complaint will be filed in the alleged fake caste certificate case. “Many Dalit activists and organisations are in touch with me. Soon they will be filing a complaint...Wankhede has snatched the right of an eligible Dalit student for becoming an IRS officer by using the false certificate.”Sameer Wankhede has rejected the allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wankhede-framed-people-in-26-fake-cases-nawab-malik-cites-anonymous-letter-101635243613899.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder likely to launch Punjab Lok Congress tomorrow||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh may announce the launch of his political outfit on Wednesday. The party is likely to be called the Punjab Lok Congress, according to people familiar with the developments. Also read: Haryana gangster Papla Gujjar gets life term for brutal murder of rival’s motherThe announcement is likely to be made at a press conference to be addressed by the two-time former chief minister in Chandigarh. Event to be telecast live on Capt’ s FB page “The event will be telecast live on his Facebook page. Do tune in,” Singh’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted on Tuesday morning, extending an invite to the media. Capt Amarinder Singh was camping in Delhi last week and held detailed consultations with his supporters in the Congress. A week ago, he said that he planned to soon announce the launch of his political party and was hopeful of a seat arrangement with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) if the farmers’ issue was resolved. Though there is talk of his mediation between the central government and the farmers, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has denied being part of any such effort. Capt Amarinder Singh resigned as the Punjab chief minister on September 18 after a bitter tussle with state Congress chief and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu amid infighting in the state party unit. The Congress later picked Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister. A big mistake, says deputy CM Randhawa Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who had rebelled against Capt Amarinder and has been targeting him over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, said that no one can be stopped from charting his own political course, to stay in the party (Congress) or leave it. “Whether he is doing it because the BJP has asked him to or of his own accord, it will be a big mistake,” Randhawa said. He said the former CM’s exit will not dent the Congress in any way. “If he had so much sway, then he would have continued as CM,” the deputy chief minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-amarinder-likely-to-launch-punjab-lok-congress-tomorrow-101635242835324.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana gangster Papla Gujjar gets life term for brutal murder of rival’s mother||A Narnaul court on Tuesday sentenced gangster Vikram, alias Papla Gujjar, to life imprisonment for the murder of Bimla Devi, 65, a resident of his native Khairoli village, six years ago. The gangster, who faces 21 cases of murder, attempt to murder, dacoity, robbery and extortion in Haryana and Rajasthan was presented before the Narnaul additional district and sessions judge Sudhir Jeevan under tight security around noon. The judge sentenced him to life and fined him ₹10,000. Also read: Mufti links Pak T20 win against India with J&K status, Vij says DNA ‘defective’Ajay Choudhary, the lawyer appearing for victim Bimla Devi, said the court had convicted Gujjar on Monday. “I had sought death penalty but the court gave him life term. We respect the decision of the court. The forensic report of Bimla’s death confirms 23 bullet wounds,” he said. Gangster had killed woman’s son, father, too Gujjar is also accused of killing Bimla’s son Sandeep Fouji and her father, Sri Ram, in 2015 besides Bimla’s brother Mahesh in 2014, but the court acquitted him in the 2014 case due to lack of evidence. The gangster was brought to the Narnaul jail in Mahendragarh district of Haryana from Rajasthan’s high-security jail in Ajmer on September 29. The murder of Bimla Devi dates back to August 21, 2015, when assailants, led by Gujjar, shot her dead when she refused to a compromise in connection with the murder of her brother Mahesh and son Sandeep Fauji. Gujjar and his accomplices were booked under Sections 148, 149, 302 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act for Bimla’s murder. The court acquitted six others in the case due to lack of evidence on April 12, 2018. Avenged the killing of his mentor Gujjar entered the world of crime in 2014. He wanted to be a wrestler and had started training under Shakti Gurjar, who later became his mentor. His mentor had a rivalry with Sandeep Fauji and the latter had given a contract for Gujjar’s mentor’s killing to one Surender. He had been killed on February 4, 2014. “Shakti Gurjar’s brother-in-law had asked Gujjar to avenge his mentor’s elimination by Sandeep Fauji. Gujjar joined a gang in 2014 and attacked Fauji’s mother, Bimla Devi, in March 2014 after barging into her house. Both her legs were broken,” a police spokesman said. “Her father Sri Ram and brother Mahesh had come from their native village of Biharipuri to take her to hospital. Ram boarded the ambulance, while Mahesh was on a motorcycle. He was killed on the way to the hospital. Gujjar’s name figured in the case but he was acquitted for want of evidence,” he said. He killed Sandeep, who had been arrested for Gurjar’s murder in January 2015, outside Narnaul court when he had come for securing bail. In August, the gangster killed Bimla. Three months later, he killed Sri Ram as well as he was witness to Bimla’s murder. Gangster’s accomplices kill policeman The gangster was arrested by the Mahendragarh police for four murders on February 12, 2016. His accomplices had fired at the police when he was being taken to a Narnaul court on September 5, 2017, killing a policeman. He managed to escape from police custody, but his brother Mintu was arrested and remains in jail. Rajasthan Police arrested him this year A special emergency response team of the Rajasthan Police arrested the dreaded gangster from a house at Kolhapur in Maharashtra in January this year. His arrest had come one-and-a-half years after he had escaped following a jailbreak amid police firing from Rajasthan’s Behror police station where he was being held in Alwar district. His accomplices, armed with AK-47 rifles, had freed him from Behror police station. A team of 26 policemen, including commandos of the Rajasthan Police, had arrested him along with a woman friend. On September 6, 2019, Gujjar was arrested by the Rajasthan Police from the Delhi-Jaipur highway, but he had hoodwinked the police by identifying himself as Sahil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-gangster-papla-gujjar-gets-life-term-for-brutal-murder-of-rival-s-mother-101635239954358.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local train: Full vaccination mandatory to travel in suburban service||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced that all citizens, including essential workers and government employees, will have to be fully vaccinated in order to board and travel in Mumbai local trains.Currently, essential and government workers are allowed to travel irrespective of their vaccination status. For others, they are allowed to board the train only if they have taken both doses of Covid-19 vaccine and at least 14 days passed from the date of vaccination. With the new orders, the requirement has now been extended to even those working in essential and government sectors.Also read: Mumbai local trains to run at full capacity from ThursdayFull vaccination mandatory for travel in Mumbai local trains for essential workers and government employees: Government of Maharashtra#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/ULZYmeb1QiThe orders came after the state government said that suburban local train services in Mumbai will run at full capacity from the current 95%, from Thursday (October 28, 2021). The Central Railway (CR) will operate 1,774 local train services on the Central Railway (CR) and 1,367 on the Western Railway (WR) as opposed to the current 1,702 and 1,304 trains on CR and WR, respectively, people familiar with the development said.Mumbai local train services resumed for fully vaccinated passengers in August, after a hiatus of four months. Passengers were restricted from commuting in local trains in the first week of April after the second wave of coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-full-vaccination-mandatory-to-travel-in-suburban-service-101635238848298.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||As NCB continues to oppose Aryan's bail plea, his lawyers file counter affidavit||The lawyers of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s jailed son Aryan on Tuesday filed a counter affidavit in the Bombay High Court stating that the starkid has no connection with the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) witnesses Prabhakar Sail or his former employer Kiran Gosavi.Aryan’s affidavit came amid the NCB’s continued opposition to his bail application on grounds that he might tamper with the investigation in the drugs-on-cruise case, which it claimed was part of an international drug racket.The NCB said the 23-year-old is not just a consumer of drugs, but also involved in illicit drug trafficking. The agency also claimed that Aryan and a woman named Pooja Dadlani, Shah Rukh Khan's manager, are tampering with the evidence and witnesses in the case in an attempt to derail the investigation.Also read | For Aryan Khan’s bail plea in Bombay High Court, a battery of lawyers “There is an international drug racket going on and the agency needs time to unearth it. If given bail, Aryan can affect the investigation, influence the witnesses and tamper with the evidence,” the NCB said when Aryan’s bail plea came up for hearing in the high court during the day. Meanwhile, Aryan's affidavit further stated that the applicant is not a party to the ongoing allegations between the NCB’s zonal director and certain political personalities.Allegations of extortion have been levelled against the anti-drugs agency, its Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede and others in the drugs-on-cruise case in which Aryan and some others were arrested earlier this month.Also read | After birth certificate, Nawab Malik has another charge against Sameer WankhedeThe NCB said attempts are being made to tamper with the ongoing investigation with a malafide intention to derail the probe into the case. "This is evident from the contents of a purported affidavit of one Prabhakar Sail," the agency said, referring to the extortion allegations made by Sail. Regarding Dadlani, the agency said "this lady appears to have influenced panch witnesses when the investigation is ongoing". The NCB said the bail plea was "misconceived and ill-conceived". Investigation into the case so far has revealed Aryan's role in illicit procurement, transportation and consumption of drugs, the NCB said, adding prima facie probe has revealed that the Bollywood superstar's son used to procure drugs from his friend Arbaaz Merchant, also an accused in the case.The affidavit further said even though there has been no recovery from Aryan Khan, he has "participated in the conspiracy". "Prima facie investigation has revealed that this applicant is not just a mere consumer of drugs as sought to be made out by him," it said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/as-ncb-remains-opposed-to-aryan-s-bail-his-lawyer-files-counter-affidavit-101635239089704.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder Singh to address press conference tomorrow. What's on the cards?||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will address a press conference in Chandigarh on Wednesday, captain's media advisor Raveen Thukral said in a tweet on Tuesday. "Former Punjab CM @capt_amarinder will address a Press Conference in Chandigarh tomorrow (Wednesday, Oct 27) at 11 am. The event will be telecast live on his Facebook Page. Do tune in," Raveen Thukral tweeted.People familiar with the development said Amarinder Singh is expected to announce his resignation from the Congress and float his own party, which is likely to be named ‘The Punjab Lok Congress’.Also Read: 'Will stick to real issues': Navjot Sidhu amid Aroosa Alam row with CongressSingh tendered his resignation from the post of chief minister of Punjab last month following a bitter power tussle with Congress’ state unit president Navjot Singh Sidhu. The former chief minister later announced he will be quitting the Congress, and float his political party to serve the interests of Punjab and its people. He also said he will have no problem tying up with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) if the three central farm laws farmers are protesting against are withdrawn.Amarinder was recently embroiled in a controversy over his Pakistani friend Aroosa Alam, with deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa suspecting her links with Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI).Randhawa also said that the state government will conduct a probe into the matter. Amarinder Singh on Monday released Alam's photos with several senior politicians and other dignitaries, asking the detractors to think before speaking.Singh's address also comes ahead of the crucial assembly polls in Punjab early next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-singh-to-address-press-conference-tomorrow-media-advisor-101635234653493.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||For Aryan Khan’s bail plea in Bombay High Court, a battery of lawyers||Aryan Khan will on Tuesday have a battery of lawyers to represent him in the Bombay High Court, which will hear Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's son's bail plea in the Mumbai drugs-on-cruise case.The 23-year-old Aryan Khan, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on October 3, has been so far represented by senior advocate Satish Manshinde, who also represented Rhea Chakraborty in a drugs case. Amit Desai, who got Salman Khan acquitted in the hit and run case, also represented Aryan Khan in court.Now, the former attorney general of India Mukul Rohatgi will appear for Aryan Khan's bail plea in the Mumbai cruise drug case before the Bombay High Court physically to argue the matter. "I will appear for Aryan Khan in his bail matter today in the Bombay High Court," said Rohatgi, according to news agency ANI.Mukul Rohatgi was the state government's lawyer in the Supreme Court in the 2002 Gujarat riots case and recently said that Aryan Khan should be granted bail.Shah Rukh Khan has also roped in the law firm, Karanjawala & Company, to get bail for Aryan. Apart from Mukul Rohatgi, senior partners Ruby Singh Ahuja and Sandeep Kapur will also argue for Aryan Khan in the Bombay High Court. This army of lawyers includes big names like Anandini Fernandes along with Rustom Mulla, a partner at Desai Desai Carrimjee & Mulla.Also read | After birth certificate, Nawab Malik has another charge against Sameer WankhedeThe Bombay High Court said on October 21 that it would hear Aryan Khan's bail application on October 26. "We asked the court that the matter should be heard by video conferencing but the judge refused," Maneshinde said earlier.Aryan Khan approached the high court for an urgent bail hearing after the special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act denied his plea on October 20, and later extended his judicial custody till October 30.Also read | NDPS court disposes of NCB plea against interference in Aryan Khan caseThe Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) took Aryan Khan into custody after raiding a Goa-bound cruise ship on October 2 and was arrested on October 3. The NCB charged Aryan with offences under Section 8(c), 20(b), 27, 28, 29 and 35 under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.He was remanded to NCB custody till October 4, which was extended till October 7. Thereafter, he was remanded to judicial custody after which he immediately moved for bail. He has been in Mumbai's Arthur Road jail since October 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/for-aryan-khan-s-bail-plea-in-bombay-high-court-a-battery-of-lawyers-101635236698613.html
26-10-2021||Patna||Congress will go back to Lalu after Bihar bypolls: Sushil Modi||Former Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday termed the alleged rift between the Congress and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) in the state as “fake”. Modi claimed the fight between the Congress and the RJD is just a show and both the parties will unite on the last day of the upcoming assembly bypolls in the state.“Once the bypoll ends; wagging its tail, Congress will go back to Lalu...The two can't be separated, just pretending to cut NDA's votes... In the assembly polls people voted for the NDA not the RJD... This time too the NDA will win the bypolls with majority...,” news agency ANI quoted Sushil Modi as saying.Also read: Nitish says for us Bihar is family, for others family everythingModi also attacked RJD supremo Lalu Prasad Yadav, asserting why would people listen to a leader who can't even control his own sons, pointing to the apparent power struggle between Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap.The remarks by the BJP leader came a day after Tejashwi Yadav attacked Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar over "poor health facilities" in the state. He alleged that the bypolls are being conducted because the chief minister could not provide proper medical treatment to the MLAs of his own party.“In the NITI Aayog report, Bihar is the worst-performing state in Health. These by-elections are happening because CM Nitish Kumar's government didn't provide treatment even to their MLAs. So on what basis will Nitish Kumar ask for votes from the public,” Yadav told reporters, according to news agency ANI.There have been reports of fissures in the opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar. Lalu Prasad Yadav said that the RJD's candidates would lose their deposit in the elections if they remain in alliance with the Congress in the state ahead of the bypolls in two assembly constituencies, straining the relationship between the two parties. Meanwhile, Congress also fielded candidates for the two seats after the RJD announced its decision to contest the two seats, widening the rift between the two parties.Bypolls are slated to be held on the Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan seats on October 30, following the demise of the sitting MLAs, both from the JD(U).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/congress-will-go-back-to-lalu-after-bihar-bypolls-sushil-modi-101635224867211.html
26-10-2021||Patna||Bihar bye-elections: Ruling JD(U), main Opposition RJD gear up for intense fight||The ruling Janata Dal (United) and main Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) are gearing up for an intense contest in the October 30 bye-elections in Bihar for the two seats of Tarapur and Kushweshwar Asthan. Congress has also emerged as a key third player following cracks in the Opposition and a subsequent dispute in the allotment of seats. With a few days to go for the polls, campaigning for both the seats has been hectic, with both the JD(U) and RJD exchanging barbs on issues such as development, law and order and rising inflation. For the JD(U), the bye-elections are crucial as it had won both the seats in the 2020 assembly polls, and winning them this time will take the party’s tally of MLAs from 43 to 45. Defeat in any of the seats will be seen by many as an embarrassment for chief minister Nitish Kumar, who is running a government in alliance with the BJP, the HAM-S and the Vikashsheel Insaan Party (VIP) with a slender majority in the state assembly. The RJD, with 75 MLAs, is desperately seeking to win both the seats as such an outcome will send across a strong political message to its opponents of its mass support base in the two constituencies that have a high number of scheduled caste and OBC votes. The bye-poll’s outcome will also be significant for the RJD, given its rocky relations with the Congress, especially because RJD national president Lalu Prasad Yadav and son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav desperately want to win to justify their decision of denying the Kushweshwar Asthan seat to the grand old party.“For the RJD, winning the Kusheshwar Asthan seat is now a prestige issue to convey how the party has large support among Dalits and OBCs. If that does not happen, Congress would get a ready handle to accuse RJD of weaking secular forces,” said a senior leader of the Opposition grand alliance (GA), requesting not to be named. Also Read: Nitish says for us Bihar is family, for others family everythingChief minister Nitish Kumar, while holding his first election meeting at Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan, attacked the RJD, targeting the former ruling party by labelling its track record as “jungle raj”. It’s a widely used criticism of Lalu Prasad Yadav and Rabri Devi’s 15-year spell at the helm of Bihar from 1990 to 2005.Nitish Kumar said people haven’t forgotten the state of law and order in Bihar before his government came to power in 2005. Nitish Kumar underlined his government’s development initiatives, speaking about roads and infrastructure also getting a boost, apart from law and order. He also spoke about women’s empowerment through reservation in panchayats and its impact. “You vote for me or not, I will continue to work for Bihar’s development,” he said at an election meeting. Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has been steering his party’s campaign for the past one week in both the seats, especially travelling extensively in Kushweshwar Asthan. He accused Bihar’s CM of ignoring the general condition of roads in the last 16 years, apart from raising issues such as migration, unemployment and rising inflation as he slammed the ruling JD(U)-BJP led government. “I dare the chief minister to travel on road in the constituency. I am confident the experience will be back-breaking. The so-called development work by the Nitish Kumar government is all sham and people of Kushweshar Asthan are witness to it. The chief minister has only visited the constituency by helicoptrer,” Tejashwi said. The RJD is pinning its hopes on the charisma of RJD national president Lalu Prasad Yadav, who will address back to back rallies at Tarapur and Kushweshwar Asthan. Lalu Prasad, who is recuperating from an illness, returned to Patna on Sunday and took updates of election meetings held by his son and senior party leaders. Caste equations are expected to be the key in both the constituencies. The JD(U), supported by LJP leader and minister Pashupati Kumar Paras, is banking on Kushwahas and Vaisyas to clinch the Tarapur seat, while it is depending on upper-caste and Dalit votes in Kushweshwar Asthan. The RJD is banking on Yadav votes in Tarapur along with those of Muslims even as its decision to field a candidate from the “Musahar” community in Kushershar Asthan is seen as a strategic move aimed at getting a sizeable number of scheduled caste, OBC and Muslim votes. Poll observers feel the Congress, having fielded candidates from both the seats, is a challenge for the RJD and the JD(U) as it may cut into the voter base of both the parties. The polls will also be a test for LJP leader and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan, whose faction, the Lok Janshakti party (Ram Vilas), has fielded candidates in both the seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bye-elections-ruling-jd-u-main-opposition-rjd-gear-up-for-intense-fight-101635233174352.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Sextortion gang busted in Delhi, police say victims were targeted through Tinder||The Delhi Police on Tuesday busted a sextortion gang in Dabri, in Southwest part of the national capital, reported news agency ANI. Five people have been arrested, the agency report further said.According to the police, the members of the gang used to make contacts with the targets through the Tinder app and extort money, ANI further reported.Last week, the Ghaziabad Police arrested five people for allegedly running a sextortion racket and looting crores of rupees from innocent people.As per the information shared by the police, the accused used to communicate with people on an application called 'Stripchat' and earned profits. Later, they created morphed sexual videos of their victims while chatting with them.A huge sum of money was extorted from the victims by threatening to release the videos on social media, the police further said.The cops recovered sex toys, jewellery, four mobile phones, three cheque books, two passports, three Aadhar, PAN and ATM cards each, six web cameras and laptops and ₹8,000 worth of cash.The arrest today in Dabri comes days after the Delhi Police said they arrested the mastermind of an interstate sextortion gang from Bharatpur district in Rajasthan.The police said that the accused identified as Nasir, along with his associates, allegedly extorted lakhs of rupees from victims by threatening to circulate their objectionable videos on the internet. The videos were made via communicating with them on Facebook and WhatsApp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sextortion-gang-busted-in-delhi-police-say-victims-were-targeted-through-tinder-101635231176512.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Ghazipur mandi #flowerpower: Diwali achchi ban rahi hai iss saal, say sellers||New Delhi Rose, lily, mogra, marigold, orchid, chrysanthemum, carnation, glide or tuberose (rajnigandha) — you name it, and Delhi’s Ghazipur flower market has it! Known for its extraordinary variety of flowers, this wholesale market on the Capital’s outskirts usually gets fresh flower supply from almost every possible location within India and even abroad. But that changed a bit since Covid-19 hit the Capital. Today, flower isn’t coming in as much variety and not from everywhere, but still there’s lots to stock, in the market that’s operational on all days of the week. “Diwali ke time par khoob zyada bikri ho rahi hai. Diwali achi ban rahi hai. Idhar koi zyada response nahi hai mahamari ka. Aur yahan sabko teeka (Covid-19 vaccine) lag chuka hai,” says Dilip Kumar, a worker in one of the shops in the market, which supports over 400 licensed vendors — who make everything from wedding jaimalas (garlands) to bouquets. Eagerly waiting for the wedding season that begins from mid-November, and getting ready for the Diwali rush in the near future, Teg Singh Chaudhary, president, Ghazipur Flower Trade Center, informs, “Market is Covid compliant... The real rush starts as we get closer to Diwali and the wedding season. The prices depend on demand, and will increase a lot during the weddings. Flowers like orchids get imported, and we have to pay thrice the flight fare for them now (as compared to pre-Covid times). And local flowers like gerbera, carnation, rose, lily, glide, and genda (marigold) will see a price hike of 30-50%. So if the glide flower is being sold for ₹50 per bundle now, it can go up to ₹100 during peak demand.”Enter the market and the sight of ready bouquets and flower arrangements welcome the visitors, alongside a row of stalls selling garlands in flowers of all possible colours. Venture deeper into the mandi, and flower quantities get bulkier and deals, sweeter. “Karwa chauth se tezi aani shuru hui hai. Aur shaadi season mein saare type ke phool bikte hain, as they get used in the decorations,” says Liyaqat Ali, a vendor in the heart of the market. Rakesh Yadav, another vendors, adds, “Abhi bikri badh jayegi Diwali ke paas. Weddings will start from November 15 so mehenga rahega sab. Jaise purple daisy selling for ₹100 a bundle will be retailed for ₹200 in two-three weeks.” And Pintu, another flower seller in the mandi, also highlights the issue of low supply as he sprinkles water to freshen up his stock of flowers. “Imported flowers like tulip, orchid and portia, have been coming in neither required quantities, nor at desired cost prices.”Ruing how intimate wedding celebrations due to Covid-19 has reduced business opportunities for the florists, Vijay Pratap, a flower seller in the market, says, “Why would anyone decorate extensively when just 50 guests are allowed? Aaj ki shaadi 2019 ke sagai function se bhi chhoti hai. Of course it means there’s much less space for our flowers. Par iss saal market mein paisa lauta hai kyunki ab jo log ruke huye the badi shaadi karne ke liye, uske liye phoolon ki demand aa rahi hai.” Many like Pratap have kept their hands folded in prayers for the return of the Big Fat Indian Wedding, this season. And away from these worries can be spotted some older women and young girls plucking petals out of flowers such as roses and pink oleander (kaner), which are used to stitch together garlands for weddings and other occasions. Sonam, one of the young girls, sits plucking petals with other women folk who are on duty here everyday from 4am to 11am. She explains, “Phoolon ki pattiyon se mala banti hain. These are also for weddings, flower showers, and even shraddhanjali to those who have died.” But the buyers aren’t complaining. Reena Roy, a retail florist with her 40-year-old shop in Delhi’s Ashok Vihar reveals she’s only buying 8-10 bundles for now, but may buy more when closer to Diwali. “Abhi response kum hai. Covid ne grahak kaat diya hai humara. But even for retail, we are seeing some pick-up with festivities and weddings approaching. People have begun to make bookings for various functions.”Author tweets @siddhijainnFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ghazipur-mandi-flowerpower-diwali-achchi-ban-rahi-hai-iss-saal-say-sellers-101635230995413.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||'My name is ...': Sameer Wankhede's father hits out at Nawab Malik||Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) official Sameer Wankhede's father has slammed Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik, who suggested that the agency's zonal director forged personal documents, including his birth certificate. Malik also claimed on Monday that Sameer Wankhede is a Muslim by birth and that his real name is "Sameer Dawood Wankhede" as he accused the NCB official of forgery.Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Malik has been attacking Sameer Wankhede who allegedly seized drugs onboard a cruise ship on its way to Goa on October 2 during a raid and arrested Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan and others the next day.Wankhede's father said that Malik was playing very low-level politics. “It is an absolute lie that my name is Dawood Wankhede. I think there is some malafide intention of Malik behind releasing that birth certificate of Sameer Wankhede and defaming us. My name is Dnyandev Wankhede since my birth and it is still the same,” he said while speaking to a regional news channel, according to news agency PTI.Also watch | ‘If you send a hunter…’: Nawab Malik on why SRK & not Aamir Khan is ‘targeted’“I completed my graduation and post-graduation and even served in a state government department. How is it possible that none of them knew my name was not Dnyandev and it was Dawood? How come Malik alone gets the suspicious document?" he asked.'Have proof'Wankhede senior said that his wife, who died six years ago, once made an affidavit in which mentions that his name is Dnyandev Wankhede. "I even have a valid caste certificate with me. And not just me, even my relatives have similar documents to establish it," he added.Dnyandev Wankhede's comments came after Sameer Wankhede denied Malik's allegations of forging documents. He said that his father Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede retired as senior police inspector with the state's excise department in 2007. His father is a Hindu and his late mother Zaheeda was a Muslim, the NCB official said.Also read | NDPS court disposes of NCB plea against interference in Aryan Khan caseSameer Wankhede also mentioned that he married Dr Shabana Qureshi in 2006 under the Special Marriage Act and divorced mutually in 2016. He married Kranti Redkar in 2017.“When my son and his first wife had a son, even on the latter's birth certificate my son's full name is mentioned in which my name is stated as Dnyandev Wankhede. Those people (Malik) should understand it. God knows from where Malik drew this connection,” he said.“It looks like Nawab Malik was hurt after his son-in-law (Sameer Khan) was put behind bars by the NCB earlier. He never uttered a word against the NCB when his son-in-law was in jail. Malik started speaking out only after he was released,” the Wankhede senior said.Also read | Aryan Khan ‘has hope’ as he is Shah Rukh Khan’s son, says Arbaaz Merchant’s dad‘Will come out of this’When asked about the allegations of pay-off raised by Prabhakar Sail, an NCB independent witness, he said if Sameer Wankhede wanted a bribe from Shah Rukh Khan, he would have asked the actor to deliver it at home. "He would not have arrested his (Shah Rukh Khan's) son and then demanded it.”Prabhakar Sail seemed to have been beaten up and then forced to give the statement. “While talking Sail is coughing, drinking water. All these are signs of getting beaten up severely. Why was he quiet for so many days if he was made to sign some blank papers (after the alleged cruise ship raid by NCB officials)?” he asked.Sail, in a statement to the media on Sunday, claimed that ₹25 crore was demanded by an official of the NCB and other people, including absconding witness KP Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan in the drugs raid case. Sail said he overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of ₹25 crore and "to settle at ₹18 crore as they have to give ₹8 crore to Sameer Wankhede".Sameer Wankhede has denied the allegations and said they are a bid to scuttle the probe in the drugs raid case. The NCB is probing the extortion charge against Sameer Wankhede. Dnyandev Wankhede compared his son to Abhimanyu, a character in the epic Mahabharata who is surrounded by enemies, and said that he will come out of this chakravyuh or a multi-tiered military formation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/my-name-is-sameer-wankhede-s-father-hits-out-at-nawab-malik-101635221599543.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra reports lowest single-day cases in over a year||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 889 Covid-19 cases, its lowest single-day caseload in 511 days. A total of 841 coronavirus infections were reported on May 5 last year. The positivity rate in the state has dropped significantly as well during this period, down to 1.05% from 12.82%.The Covid-19 caseload was low also because relatively fewer tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. Fewer tests are conducted over weekends, while the turnaround time for the test results to be delivered also becomes longer. A total of 84,460 Covid-19 tests were carried out. On May 5, 2020, 6,561 tests were done, showing a positivity rate of 12.82%.Maharashtra’s overall tally of confirmed Covid-19 cases reached 6,603,850 on Monday.Also Read: Covid-19: To travel to United States, get fully vaccinatedRahul Pandit, an intensive care specialist and a member of the state’s Covid task force, cited two reasons for the fall in numbers - fewer infections of late and fewer tests being done on Sunday. “The number of cases is definitely decreasing. In addition, we always get lesser cases on Monday as fewer tests are conducted on Sundays. The factual indication is the numbers from Wednesday onwards,” said Pandit.Ameet Mandot, another doctor, attributed the decreasing numbers to the Covid-19 vaccination drive. “The mass [coronavirus] vaccinations taking place in Maharashtra have been effective in containing the virus. The vaccine has been able to blunt the effects of the virus significantly,” Mandot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-reports-lowest-single-day-coronavirus-cases-in-over-a-year-101635221593208.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||4 dead after massive fire breaks out at Delhi's Old Seemapuri building||As many as four people were reported to have died after a massive fire broke out in a three-storey building in the Old Seemapuri area of Delhi on Tuesday morning. Police officials told news agency ANI that four people were found dead and later identified the deceased.Four person found dead after a fire broke out at top floor of three-storey building in Old Seemapuri area early in the morning: Delhi Police pic.twitter.com/vdmJ7UWlQGThe fire broke out on the top floor of the building in Old Seemapuri, Delhi Police officials told the news agency. The deceased have been identified as Hauri Lal, Reena, Ashu, and Radhika, they added.Emergency responders rushed to the spot this morning as soon as news of the fire broke out. As many as four fire tenders were deployed and according to the latest updates, the fire department personnel have now managed to bring the flames under control.Further details are awaited in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4-dead-after-massive-fire-breaks-out-at-delhi-s-old-seemapuri-building-101635218583906.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Two 11-year-old boys drown in pit dug up for pipeline repair work in Mumbai||Two boys aged 11 drowned in a water-filled pit which was dug up for repairing a pipeline in Antop Hill locality here on Monday evening, police said. The incident took place in the CGS Colony area and the bodies were retrieved and sent to a civic hospital for postmortem, they said. The deceased were residents of the same area and students of Class 5, the police said. A water pipeline repair work was going on in the area and a pit was dug up as part of the project and it was filled with water, they said. It was not yet clear whether the kids jumped into the pit or accidentally fell into it, the police said. Necessary action will be taken if any negligence is found on part of those involved in the water pipeline work, they said. Family members of the deceased said they were not aware how the kids reached the spot where the incident took place. "We were at home when some people came searching for our kids. They showed us pictures of our kids and we identified them. They then informed us about the drowning incident," said a member of one of the grieving families. It was a case of sheer negligence, he alleged. "If the contractor had dug up the pit, he should have covered it for safety of local residents. But it was kept open resulting in our kids falling into it," he said. The Antop Hill police have registered an accidental death report and started investigation, an official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-11-year-old-boys-drown-in-pit-dug-up-for-pipeline-repair-work-in-mumbai-101635213770127.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||24-hour water cut in Mumbai from today. Check areas affected||Mumbai's water supply will be affected on Tuesday and Wednesday owing to repair works to be taken by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) at its water pumping station at Bhandup and Pise Panjrapur Complexes.According to BMC officials, maintenance work is scheduled for the replacement of two 1,200mm diameter sluice valves at the 1910 MLD pumping station of Bhandup Complex and replacement work of Stage 3 pump set at Pise Panjrapur Complex will also be carried out. Apart from this, the BMC also plans to attend leakages on 1,800mm diameter water mains.Owing to this, on Tuesday between 10am and 10pm there will be a 15 per cent water cut in all of the city and suburbs. There are also works proposed to arrest leakages at Powai on Tuesday and Wednesday from 10am to 10am next morning. It will result in a complete stoppage of the water supply in areas under K/East, S, G/North and H/East wards of the BMC.The areas to be affected due to water cut are Chakala, Prakash Wadi, Ramkrishna Mandir Road, JB Nagar, Bagarkha Road, Kanti Nagar in K East ward, Dharavi Main Road, Ganesh Temple Road in G North and Bandra Terminal in H/East Ward. Owing to the situation, the BMC has appealed to citizens to cooperate by storing sufficient water stock in their house for Tuesday and Wednesday. "All citizens are hereby requested to store water and co-operate with BMC," said the civic officials, reports news agency PTI.Earlier, the BMC announced a cut in water supply in a few areas of the city from October 5-7. The decision to curtail the water supply was taken due to routine maintenance work undertaken by the BMC.The BMC has been undertaking routine maintenance work to ensure the city keeps receiving good quality of water in sufficient amounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/24hour-water-cut-in-mumbai-from-today-check-areas-affected-101635210710547.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Will Aryan Khan walk out of jail? Bombay HC to hear his bail plea today||The Bombay High Court will on Tuesday hear the bail application of Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood star Shah Rukh Khan, in the Mumbai cruise drugs raid case. Aryan Khan approached the Bombay High Court for an urgent bail hearing after a special court under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act on October 20 denied his request in the drugs case, later extending his judicial custody in the matter till October 30."We asked the court that the matter should be heard by video conferencing but the judge refused," his lawyer Satish Maneshinde said earlier.The lawyer of Aryan's friend Arbaaz Merchant, who is also lodged in jail, said that they will move to Bombay High Court on Tuesday after NDPS rejected their applications.Also read | Aryan Khan drugs case: NCB probes extortion charge against Sameer WankhedeAccording to reports, Aryan Khan's bail plea has been listed at serial number 57 and that of Arbaaz Merchant has been listed at serial number 64. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) will oppose the bail of all accused in the case, including Aryan Khan, in the high court.Aryan Khan has been in custody for more than three weeks now after his bail application in the Mumbai cruise drugs case has been rejected by both the magistrate’s court and the special NDPS court. Shah Rukh Khan met his son on October 21 at Mumbai's Arthur Road jail.Also watch | ‘If you send a hunter…’: Nawab Malik on why SRK & not Aamir Khan is ‘targeted’Aryan Khan was arrested by the NCB after a team led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede conducted a raid on a cruise ship off the coast of Mumbai on October 2—where a rave party was allegedly taking place.Also read | Aryan Khan case: Being targeted because of my dead mother, says Sameer WankhedeAccording to NCB officials, they seized 13 grams of cocaine, 5 grams of MD, 21 grams of charas, 22 pills of MDMA (Ecstasy) and ₹1.33 lakh in cash during the raid. However, no drugs were found on Aryan Khan.The NCB has, so far, arrested 20 people in connection with the case. Meanwhile, the NCB's investigation is underway and actor Ananya Panday was called for questioning twice last week on the basis of WhatsApp chats found on Aryan Khan's mobile phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-aryan-khan-walk-out-of-jail-bombay-hc-to-hear-his-bail-plea-today-101635206974048.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Factionalism in Cong has rendered Punjab CM Channi ineffective, says Sukhbir Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday claimed that factionalism in the state Congress was costing people dear with all senior Congressmen having formed their own groups making chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi totally ineffective.Talking to mediapersons here after addressing a number of programmes with senior leader Gurbachan Singh Babbehali, the SAD president claimed that the Congress party was now divided into groups, including the Sukhjinder Randhawa group, Tript Rajinder Bajwa group, Sunil Jakhar group and the Charanjit Channi group.“On top of these, you have Pradesh Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu whom no one recognises as the boss. In such a situation there can be no governance and this is why the chief minister is limited to making announcements only with not a single rupee being released to give any relief to the people,” he said.“The chief minister has even claimed credit for releasing money to farmers whose crops were destroyed due to pink bollworm, but not a single farmer has been paid any compensation,” he added.Later, during an interaction with the district Bar association, Sukhbir said they would form a lawyers’ development board to fast-track infra facilities and work for the betterment of the legal community if their government comes to power in the state.Earlier, led by hundreds of motorcyclists, the SAD president participated in a massive roadshow in Gurdaspur city. During the day-long tour, the party president paid obeisance at the church there and interacted with the Christian community. He announced that a Christian welfare board would be established once the SAD-BSP alliance government was formed in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/factionalism-in-cong-has-rendered-punjab-cm-channi-ineffective-says-sukhbir-badal-101635196930695.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Commission agent, 3 others booked for killing truck driver in Tarn Taran||A commission agent and three others have been booked for killing a 45-year-old truck driver, Balwinder Singh.He was killed, while his son, Ranjit Singh, 20, received severe injuries in an assault reportedly by the commission agent at the grain market of Sabran village falling under the Patti sub-division on Monday.According to the family members of the victim, Jagtar Singh, commission agent, was infuriated over the unloading of paddy by Balwinder.“A few days ago, my father was asked by the commission agent to transport a stock of paddy to Ahmadgarh. The paddy was wet and fetched low price. After unloading the paddy in a godown in Ahmadgarh, my father and brother went to the commission agent on Monday morning. Some arguments ensued between my father and the agent over fetching a low price of the transported paddy,” said the deceased’s son, Daljit Singh.“The accused, who was accompanied by three more persons, stabbed my father and brother with a sharp-edged weapon. Both were rushed to a private hospital where my father was declared brought dead. Seeing the deteriorating condition of my brother, he was referred to an Amritsar hospital,” he added.Lakhvir Singh, SHO, Patti Sadar, said a case had been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Jagtar Singh and three unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/commission-agent-3-others-booked-for-killing-truck-driver-in-tarn-taran-101635196570616.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Put paddy procurement process back on track, Punjab CM Channi tells agencies||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Monday directed the procurement agencies to immediately take all necessary steps to put the paddy procurement process back on track after heavy rains lashed parts of the state over the past two days.Acting on the directions of the chief minister, a meeting of the heads of all procurement agencies, FCI and mandi board was convened on Monday by the secretary, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, Gurkirat Kirpal Singh. Officials took stock of the situation arising out of the heavy downpour and its effect on the paddy crop lying in mandis.The secretary, mandi board, Ravi Bhagat said necessary arrangements had been made in all mandis and paddy stock had been covered with tarpaulins. Waterlogging was reported in a few low-lying mandis in Sangrur and Patiala where motors had been pressed into action to drain out the water, he said. Meanwhile, the mandi board was also directed to ensure that arhtiyas should take immediate steps to dry paddy, wherever it had gained moisture, in order to facilitate its early purchase.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/put-paddy-procurement-process-back-on-track-punjab-cm-channi-tells-agencies-101635196270635.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||New high: 68 more dengue cases surface in Ludhiana||Just two days after Ludhiana’s single-day dengue count hit an all-time high of 65 cases, the district recorded a new high with 68 more cases coming to the fore on Monday. With this, the total count of confirmed cases has touched 827 in the district. Of these, 609 cases are from Ludhiana city while 35 have been reported from Jagraon, 29 from Sudhar, 27 from Khanna, 25 from Sahnewal, 24 from Koom Kalan, 15 from Pakhowal, 14 from Sidhwan Bet, 12 from Malaud, eight from Hathur, seven each from Machhiwara and Manupur, six from Samrala, five from Payal and four from Raikot.Besides this, the district also has 2,397 suspected cases.56- year-old woman dies of CovidA 56-year-old woman died of Covid while three others tested positive for the virus in Ludhiana on Monday. The deceased, a resident of Shivpuri, was undergoing treatment Christian Medical College and Hospital. With the latest death, the Covid toll of Ludhiana has reached 2,106. A total of 87,595 people have tested positive for the virus till date in the district, of which 85,464 recovered. There are currently 26 active cases in Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-high-68-more-dengue-cases-surface-in-ludhiana-101635196030560.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers lay siege to secretariat in Bathinda, want relief for pest-hit cotton crop||Activists of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) on Monday laid siege to the Bathinda district administrative complex (DAC) demanding compensation for farmers whose cotton crop was damaged due to pink bollworm attack.Union general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said the gherao of the DAC would continue till the state government announces a compensation of ₹60,000 per acre to farmers and ₹30,000 to each family of farm labourers engaged in cotton fields.He said the pest attack had caused severe damage to the standing crop in Bathinda, Mansa and other districts. Kokrikalan said the Congress government was “insensitive” to farmers suffering due to the widespread damage to the crop.“Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi had visited bollworm-affected areas on September 26. But even after a month, the Punjab government has failed to work out a financial package for cotton growers. Farmers are left with no money to sow next rabi crop,” said the union leaderA large number of farmers from various districts of the Malwa belt gathered in the city. They blocked all three entry gates to the secretariat.The movement of government and visitors to the DAC was affected due to the farmer agitation.Earlier, the BKU had held a 15-day-long dharna near the residence of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal at Muktsar district’s Badal. The agitation was called off abruptly last week after the minister did not visit even once the protesting farmers.Meanwhile, official sources said after a talk of BKU leaders with state officials failed, efforts were being made to find a solution.“The government has already ordered special girdawari and the district administrations have been directed the report by October 29 for the announcement of compensation to the affected farmers. As per the existing rules, the state government can grant a maximum of ₹12,000 per acre, but the government may enhance the amount,” said an official.Cotton rates cross ₹8,600 markAccording to Punjab mandi board data, cotton rates touched the record ₹8,640 on Monday.After an unseasonal rainfall on Saturday, cotton arrival in mandi slowed down on Monday. A total of 17,159 quintals of raw cotton was sold in various mandis of the region and to date 5.62 lakh quintal cotton was sold across the state.Minister orders special girdawari
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Commuters hassled as protesters block Samrala Chowk||Seeking the arrest of a Hindu organisation leader accused of hurting sentiments by allegedly making some objectionable remarks against religious figures, members of various organisations blocked traffic at Samrala Chowk, one of the major intersections of the city for eight hours on Monday. Commuters had a harrowing time as they were stuck in long traffic jams due to the protest.The flow of traffic from Chandigarh, Delhi and Jalandhar side and vice-versa was hit. Police had to divert traffic to alternative roads to ease the flow of traffic. A few commuters were also seen arguing with protestors over the blockade.After the police assured the protestors of action against the accused, they shifted their protest to a park under the flyover on National Highway 44 in the evening. They also announced that if the accused was not arrested within 48 hours, they would block the roads again.Police had earlier registered an FIR against Anil Arora, who had allegedly made some derogatory remarks. The organisations demanded the arrest of Arora and his aides. Taranjit Singh Nimana of Bhai Ghanaiya Ji Mission Sewa Society said the cops concerned assured them that action would be taken against the accused.Nimana added that they have not ended the protest but have only shifted it to a different site so that commuters don’t face inconvenience.Pritam Singh Khalsa of Naujwan Welfare Society said, “People from all religions and political parties have participated in the protest.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-commuters-hassled-as-protesters-block-samrala-chowk-101635195910708.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 of family killed in Jalandhar accident||Three members of a family were killed in a road accident in Jalandhar on Monday, while three other members sustained serious injuries.The deceased have been identified as Anoop Singh, 70, his wife, Surinder Kaur, 64, and granddaughter, Arsh Kaur, 5, while Arsh’s mother and two cousins sustained serious injuries and are undergoing treatment at a private hospital.The police said the family was going to Jalandhar in their car that hit a truck parked on the road from the rear near Kala Bakra village in the Bhogpur area. Three persons died on the spot. Passers-by rushed the injured to a hospital.The police handed over the bodies to the family after conducting a post-mortem examination.A case has been registered under Section 304-A and other relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code at the Bhogpur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-of-family-killed-in-jalandhar-accident-101635195490307.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||10 Punjab and Haryana HC judges take oath||The oath of office was administered to 10 additional judges as permanent judges on Monday at the Punjab and Haryana high court. However, confusion prevailed over extension/ appointment of justice Girish Agnihotri. His tenure too came to an end on Monday, but there was no confirmation over extension/ appointment as a permanent judge, it is learnt. He took oath as an additional judge on October 26, 2019. His name was also not in the list of judges recommended as permanent ones, sent by the Supreme Court collegium to the Central government on October 7. In the “cause list” too, put out for consideration on Tuesday, his name was not there. Meanwhile, oath of office was administered to justices Suvir Sehgal, Alka Sarin, JS Puri, Ashok Kumar Verma, Sant Parkash, Meenakshi I Mehta, Karamjit Singh, Vivek Puri, Archana Puri and Rajesh Bhardwaj, as per the seniority list. Their appointment notification came on Sunday. Justice Girish Agnihotri, in order of seniority, comes after Justice Suvir Sehgal.Meanwhile, the oath of office was also administered to justice Sureshwar Thakur, who has been transferred from the Himachal Pradesh high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-punjab-and-haryana-hc-judges-take-oath-101635195190854.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Show-cause notices issued to two contractors in Ludhiana||A day after two residents had a narrow escape after their car got stuck in a crater on Haibowal road and another resident fell into an open drain in Shivaji Nagar, municipal commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal issued show-cause notices to two contractors on Monday. The incidents took place after the city witnessed heavy rainfall on Saturday night.The first notice has been served to Kabir construction company for its failure to install signboards and barricades around the internal drain in Shivaji Nagar area while the other notice has been served to contractor Suresh Kumar for irregularities in work, which caused a portion of the Haibowal main road to cave-in. Both the contractors have been given a week to submit a reply.In the first incident, a resident of Joshi Nagar, Arun Sahni and his son had a narrow escape after their car overturned after getting stuck in the crater on Haibowal road. It has been learnt that the contractor had installed sewer lines on the road around a week ago and the road caved-in due to poor-quality work. In the second incident, a resident of New Shivaji Nagar, Sunny Talwar had a narrow escape after he, along with his two-wheeler, fell into an open drain, due to lack of barricading. Municipal commissioner Sabharwal stated that it is clear that both contractors had failed to comply with the instructions issued by the MC at the construction sites, due to which the accidents took place. “If the contractors failed to submit a satisfactory reply within a week, strict action will be taken against them,” said Sabharwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/showcause-notices-issued-to-two-contractors-in-ludhiana-101635195130543.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Raid on Ludhiana godown, 8,000 litres of fake fertiliser seized||The flying squad of the agriculture department on Monday conducted a raid and seized 8,070 litres of bogus biofertiliser worth over ₹76 lakh from an unauthorised godown at a grain market near the Gill Road.Chief agricultural officer Narinder Singh Benipal said the biofertiliser, Nutrozen Paddy, was being sold in the market and farmers were being fleeced.The action was taken close on the heels of a survey carried out by two Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) experts who highlighted wasteful use of pesticides, fungicides and biofertiliser insecticides on mature paddy crops.Benipal said the biofertiliser was kept in an unauthorised godown. Company employees produced bogus bills for the seized products.After sealing the godown, a complaint has been sent to the police for taking action under Sections 420 and 120- B of the IPC and the Essential Commodities Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/raid-on-ludhiana-godown-8-000-litres-of-fake-fertiliser-seized-101635194710531.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Man, female aide held with 200 gm heroin, ₹2.80 lakh drug money||A 23-year-old man and his 50-year-old female aide were arrested after the CIA staff of Ludhiana police recovered 200 gm heroin and ₹2.80 lakh drug money from their vehicle during checking.The accused, identified as Sahil, 23, of Sanjay Gandhi Colony and Sunita Rani, 50, a widow residing in Guru Ram Das Colony of Bhamian Khurd, were allegedly going to deliver a consignment when they were nabbed. Police have seized the Hyundai i-10 grand car used in the crime,Inspector Parveen Randev, in-charge at CIA Staff 2, said the accused were caught when they were crossing the Guru Ram Das Colony. “When the team stopped him for checking, Sahil introduced the woman as his mother, hoping to evade checking. He later confessed that he thought that cops won’t check vehicles having women passengers,” said the inspector.The cop further said that the woman agreed to accompany Sahil as she is a widow and has no source of income. “She had started accompanying Sahil for delivering drug consignments about three years ago,” said the inspector.Sahil, a factory worker, had previously been arrested by the Doraha police on January 26, 2019, after 30 gm heroin was recovered from his possession. He got out on bail on March 13, 2019 and got back to the crime. A case under Sections 21B, 61 and 85 of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act has been registered against the accused at Jamalpur police station. Police produced the accused in the court on Monday following which they were sent to two-day police custody for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-female-aide-held-with-200-gm-heroin-rs-2-80-lakh-drug-money-101635194470238.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Elderly woman loses bag to bike-borne men who offered her lift||Two bike-borne miscreants allegedly robbed an elderly woman of her bag containing property documents, jewellery, passport, cash and other valuable documents after offering her lift on Sunday. Complainant Nachattar Kaur, 68, of Badhni Khurd village of Moga, said she had come to Malak Road in Jagraon on Sunday. As she was waiting for an auto to take her to a jeweller’s shop, two men came on a bike and offered her lift. They took her to an isolated place and then fled after snatching her bag.The woman claimed that her bag contained ₹8,000 cash, property documents of her house, silver bangles, passport, a PR card, an Apple i-phone and gold earrings.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Angrej Singh, the investigating officer, said an FIR under Section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified persons. A hunt is on for the accused, the ASI added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-elderly-woman-loses-bag-to-bike-borne-men-who-offered-her-lift-101635194170310.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Spurt in militancy exposes Centre’s claims of normalcy: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference president Dr Farooq Abdullah on Monday said that the spurt in militancy across Jammu and Kashmir had exposed the claims of the Centre that terror would end after revocation of Article 370. “Militancy it is on the rise and home minister Amit Shah needs to answer why”, Abdullah said, while addressing a rally at Poonch. “They have deceived the people by snatching their unique special status, which owed genesis to the era of the Maharajas, who had incorporated permanent residence provision in view of the special circumstances of the state”, he said. He cautioned people to remain steadfast in maintaining amity and brotherhood, especially on the face of the machinations being perpetrated to create fear, psychosis and a wedge between different segments of society. He said the National Conference had surmounted these challenges since its inception by pursuing the cherished philosophy of secularism and democracy. “This has been the strength of this party in a diverse state like Jammu and Kashmir,” he said. “The atmosphere is aimed at polarisation to garner votes. This is the tested tool of those who want to remain in power at all costs”, he said, adding that politically mature people will not get swayed by hate being spread by divisive forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/spurt-in-militancy-exposes-centre-s-claims-of-normalcyfarooq-101635193449430.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||1 death, 60 fresh Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 60 fresh Covid cases on Monday. Of the total cases, 51 cases were reported in Kashmir valley, while the Jammu division saw nine infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 90 with active positive cases reaching 835.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 66,578 vaccine doses were administered taking overall doses administered in the UT to 1.4 crore.Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 408 followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 108 and 78 active cases, respectively.Officials said with 31 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 10 in Baramulla with no or single-digit cases in 18 districts.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,26,433 prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.41%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,31,698 and the death toll stands at 4,430.The officials said that 27,553 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT.The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,145 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 844 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1-death-60-fresh-covid-cases-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101635193210367.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Notorious women robbers’ gang finally busted||The notorious women robbers’ gang, which has been giving police the slip for over a decade, has finally been busted. The gang, comprising three women and their male accomplice, is known to have targeted at least 100 persons, mostly elderly women in Punjab and Haryana. They used to lure the victims by claiming to be their relatives or acquaintances and offering them a lift or engaging them in a friendly conversation, before making off with their valuables.The accused have been identified as Jeeto, 60, of Jalaan village in Sangrur, Goga, 45 and Rajji, 40, of Sheetanwal village. The sole male member of the gang has been identified as Sukhchain Singh, 38, of Rauti Shanna village in Patiala. Police have recovered eight gold bangles, two gold bracelets, a gold chain, a Maruti Suzuki Swift car used in the crime, fake registration certificates and fake number plates from their possession.The gang has committed robberies and snatchings in Jalandhar rural, Amritsar, Kartarpur, Moga, Khanna, Jagraon, Hoshiarpur and parts of Haryana. It had been active in Ludhiana since 2018.Police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said the gang was involved in 11 cases falling under the jurisdiction of Ludhiana city police and all cases have been solved with their arrest.He added that Jeeto is the kingpin of the gang and she has at least four criminal cases against her at various police stations. She is also a proclaimed offender in Garhshankar of Hoshiarpur. Goga faces six cases while Sukhchain Singh has three cases against him. Rajji has one FIR against her. Goga and Rajji are sisters-in-law, police officials said.Cops also stated that Jeeto’s family members were aware of her criminal activities but chose to keep quiet as she was able to ensure a steady source of income. Police are now on a lookout for the jewellers who had bought the stolen items from the gang members.Bhullar said that CIA Staff-1 was entrusted with the job of busting the gang following which the team started zeroing in on them. Following a tip-off, police laid a trap at Goanspur village in Malerkotla district and apprehended them. The police chief announced appreciation certificates for CIA-1 staff who busted the gang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-notorious-women-robbers-gang-finally-busted-101635193150261.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu border murder: Victim Lakhbir’s kin meet SC commission chief||The family members of Lakhbir Singh, who was brutally murdered at Singhu border on October 12, met National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) chairman Vijay Sampla in New Delhi on Monday. Lakhbir’s wife Jaspreet Kaur, daughters Tania, Sandeep Kaur and Kuldeep Kaur, sister Raj Kaur, father-in-law Baldev Singh, and brother-in-law Sukhchain Singh, pleaded before the commission for justice.“The victim’s family said they have got no support from any quarter, not even from the Punjab government. The commission will ensure that the culprits are booked under the sections of the Prevention of Atrocities Act, which will ensure free education to Lakhbir’s daughters and monthly pension to his wife. Monetary compensation of at least ₹8.25 lakh will be ensured,” said Sampla.Sampla further said that those calling for a boycott of the victim’s family will also be booked under the Prevention of Atrocities Act. “Lakhbir was accused of disrespected a holy book but no evidence to prove that is there,” he said.Sampla said he will summon the civil and police authorities to ensure early release of financial aid to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singhu-border-murder-victim-lakhbir-s-kin-meet-sc-commission-chief-101635192790874.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Blind murder case solved with arrest of victim’s two friends||The Samrala police claimed to have solved a blind murder case with the arrest of two friends of the victim. They had allegedly murdered him following a verbal spat in an inebriated condition.The accused have been identified as Ajay Rai and Bajrangi Paswan of Behlolpur road of Samrala. The victim was identified as Dalip Kumar Paswan, 38, of Sirhind.Inspector Kulwant Singh, Samrala station house officer, said locals had spotted the body lying near Sua bridge in Sihala village on October 19 and informed the police. Police said the victim had been bludgeoned to death with stone slabs. Initially, unidentified assailants had been booked for the murder. During the course of the investigation, police found out that the victim had last been seen with two of his friends on October 18. The cops then rounded up the two friends. After persistent questioning, the accused confessed to the crime.According to the SHO, the victim had come to Samrala to see his brother Mukesh Paswan, who works at the shop of former municipal councillor Jeera Ram. After meeting him, the victim went with the accused to consume liquor.The accused stated that while consuming liquor, they got into a spat following which they took a slab near the spot and bludgeoned him to death. They fled from the spot soon after the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/blind-murder-case-solved-with-arrest-of-victim-s-two-friends-101635192669310.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||3 critically injured as shooting stones hit vehicle on Srinagar-Jammu highway||Three people, including a child, were seriously injured when their vehicle was hit by shooting stones after the Jammu-Srinagar national highway opened for regular traffic on Monday, two days after being closed due to inclement weather. Officials said the vehicle that was travelling from Kashmir to Jammu was hit by shooting stones at Khooni Nallah in Ramban, injuring six travellers seated in the vehicle. “Three people have been critically injured, while the other three suffered minor injuries,” said a police official of Ramban.The victims, Mudasir Ahmed, his wife Rashida Begum, both in their 30s, and their child, have been referred to the Anantnag district hospital.National highway senior superintendent of police Shabir Ahmad Malik said the child is critical and may be referred to Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura. Malik said the road was opened for general traffic on Monday after the weather remained pleasant for the second consecutive day.“The hilly terrain of the road has become fragile due to rainfall. So, we are witnessing shooting stones and landslides at certain places. Although there was no rainfall yesterday, there was a landslide in Udhampur,” he said.  “On Monday, we allowed light motor vehicles from both sides while heavy motor vehicles were allowed from Jammu to Srinagar,” he said. The highway was closed after heavy rainfall and snow on Friday and Saturday across the union territory.Over the last two days, five people have lost their lives due to inclement weather in different incidents in the Valley. Two people had died after the vehicle they were travelling in got stranded in snow on Sinthan Pass in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, while three persons putting up in tents at Awantipora had died after a soil embankment collapsed due to heavy rainfall in Pulwama. Director meteorological department in J&K Sonam Lotus on Sunday said that the weather outlook for the next 10 days is mainly dry. “Light rain or snow may occur at isolated places during November 1-2, although chances are less,” he said. The union territory was under the influence of a western disturbance since Friday evening bringing heavy rains and snowfall in the region, according to weather department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-critically-injured-as-shooting-stones-hit-vehicle-on-srinagar-jammu-highway-101635192490351.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Housing Board to auction 159 properties||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) is set to put another 159 commercial and residential properties on auction. While 113 commercial and 27 residential properties will be offered on leasehold basis, 19 residential units will be on freehold basis. After reducing the reserve price of its leasehold properties by up to 20%, the CHB had invited e-bids for the sale of 191 vacant units (132 commercial and 31 residential) besides 28 freehold residential units in September this year. During the auction held on October 19, the CHB sold 19 commercial and four residential units on leasehold basis and nine residential units on freehold basis to the highest bidders. It had earned ₹16.29 crore against the total reserve price of ₹14.54 crore. MORE NEWS IN SHORTSEstate office: 7 more services go onlineThe Chandigarh estate office has digitalized 16 of its property-related services. The UT administration launched five services online on September 28. Thereafter, four more services were made available to residents online on October 12 and the remaining seven services were launched online on Monday. All information about the services are available on the website estateoffice.chd.gov.in Couple held for stealing car A day after a con woman fled with the car and cash from an Ambala resident, the Balongi police arrested her along with her husband on Monday. The arrested couple has been identified as Arshpreet Kaur and Roshan Singh, who were staying as paying guests in Balongi. Ruckus after India-Pak match in KuraliThere were reports of ruckus after four Kashmiri students of a private university allegedly burst crackers in Kurali after India lost to Pakistan in a T20 World Cup match on Sunday. While J&K Students Association alleged that the students were thrashed by their neighbours, police denied it and said the students were safe and secure in their house. “We will ensure their safety,” said the Mohali SSP. UNDP-backed workshop kicks offA two-day workshop on “Future Ready Chandigarh 2030 & Beyond” was inaugurated by UT administrator Banwari Lal Purohit on Monday. Being organised by the UT administration, the workshop is supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) with an objective of sustainable improvement of urban infrastructure and services. The workshop is encompassing informative sessions by visionaries of diverse areas and will touch crucial subjects directly connecting to the development of the City Beautiful. Man booked for hurting religious sentimentsA man from Boh village in Ambala Cantt was booked for hurting religious sentiments after he posted an objectionable post on social media. He has been identified as Fuljeet Singh Cheema. Earlier, members of the other community blocked the Ambala-Saha national highway for nearly an hour. Meanwhile, the other group met the Ambala SP and demanded action against the fellow villagers who allegedly attacked the suspect’s house. Four held for gambling in Sector 25 Police arrested four men for gambling near community centre in Sector 25. The accused have been identified as Satish, Vishal, Amit and Parveen, all residents of Sector-25, Chandigarh. A total of ₹3,000 in cash was recovered from them. A case under Gambling Act was registered at Sector 11 police station. They were later released on bail. Two held for assaulting woman, sonTwo men were arrested for assaulting a mother-son duo. In his complaint, Suresh Kumar, a resident of Manimajra, alleged that Manjit Singh and Daljit Singh, both residents of same locality, had assaulted him and his mother (name withheld) with sticks near his house on Sunday. They were injured and admitted to GMCH-32. A case under Sections 323, 324 and 341 of Indian Penal Code was registered at IT Park police station.Vishesh’s hat-trick sets up Stephen’s FC’s winRiding high with a hat-trick of goals by Vishesh, Stephen’s FC beat Molon Labe FC 4-1 in a match played on Day 1 of the Chandigarh Police Shaheed Memorial Football Trophy at Sports Complex in Sector 46 on Monday. For Molon Labe FC, Yash Rana scored the lone goal. In other matches, Le Professor outplayed PGGC-11 FC 2-0, while Sai Baba International FC outclassed City FC by 2-1. Chandigarh Police Kinds FC thrashed Young FC by 7-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-housing-board-to-auction-159-properties-101635192136235.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records coldest October night in three years||The minimum temperature in Chandigarh dropped to 13.2°C on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday, lowest for the month of October since 2018. Three notches below the minimum temperature recorded the previous night, it was also three degrees below normalMeanwhile, the maximum temperature rose from Sunday’s 19.3°C to 27.5°C on Monday, still four notches below normal. In fact, Sunday was the coldest October day in the city’s recorded history.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), though the day temperature will increase in the coming days, the night temperature will remain on the lower side.“After snowfall in Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, cold winds are going to continue towards Chandigarh which is placed at the foothills. With clear skies expected in the coming days, while day temperature will start rising, nights are likely to remain colder,” said an IMD official.According to the weatherman, the maximum temperature rose on Monday as the western disturbance affecting the city on Sunday had crossed.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain between 28 and 29 degrees while the minimum temperature will remain between 12 and 13 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-coldest-october-night-in-three-years-101635192135095.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Police trace gang behind theft from cash van||More than two weeks after a trunk carrying ₹39 lakh was stolen from a cash van in Sector 34, Chandigarh Police have arrested one member of the interstate gang involved in the crime. The accused has been identified as Satiyaseelan, 27, who belongs to Ramji Nagar in Trichy, Tamil Nadu. He was arrested from his home town and brought on transit remand to the city. With his arrest, police have recovered ₹4 lakh and also identified his five accomplices. “The accused was among six persons who committed the theft. He is a member of a well-organised gang that targets cash vans or people outside banks. His role was to conduct recce and then transport the stolen money to Chennai,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh. Bhupinder Singh, who works as a custodian with a security firm based in Sector 47, had lodged a complaint regarding misplacement of the trunk from a cash van on October 8. Under stress after being questioned by police, the driver of the cash van had committed suicide by jumping in front of a train on October 11. How the gang was busted Police procured the CCTV footage of the route taken by the cash van. The footage collected from Sector 34 showed three men carrying the trunk while the cash was being loaded at an ATM. “The driver was sitting in the van when a member of the gang approached him and told him that the engine oil is leaking. As the driver got down, the other gang members took out the trunk by opening the passenger-side window. The driver was alone in the vehicle while his three colleagues, including the gunman, had gone to load the cash,” said a police official. All six accused had then left on foot in separate groups. Police said that apart from the footage, a call made by the main suspect helped trace them. The accused had thrown the mobile phone, but police traced the SIM card to Trichy. According to police, Ramji Nagar is notorious for gangs involved in crimes executed by diverting the attention of their victims. The gang involved in the present case has set up its base in Delhi and targets different cities in Punjab, Delhi, Chandigarh and Rajasthan. After committing the crime, the gang members leave for Haridwar where they reassemble. Satiyaseelan acted as the “receiver” in the present crime. His role was to transport the stolen cash to Chennai and hand it over to the wife of the gang leader, who would then distribute the money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-trace-gang-behind-theft-from-cash-van-101635192133895.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||‘Think before speaking’: Capt posts Aroosa Alam’s pictures with politicians, actors||Amid a political row over his Pakistani friend Aroosa Alam, former Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday released her photos with several senior politicians and other dignitaries, asking the detractors to think before speaking. Alam, a defence journalist from Pakistan, has been in the midst of a controversy after deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Randhawa said that the state government will conduct a probe into her alleged links with Pakistan’s spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Singh, who termed it a “baseless investigation”, posted on Facebook about a dozen purported photos in which Alam is seen with Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj, former UP chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav, actor Dilip Kumar and film director Mahesh Bhatt, among others. “I am posting a series of pictures of Mrs Aroosa Alam with various dignitaries. I suppose they are all also contacts of the ISI. Those who say so should think before speaking (sic),” Singh wrote on Facebook. The ex-CM further said that unfortunately visas were banned at the moment between India and Pakistan otherwise he would have invited her again. “Incidentally, I am going to be 80 in March and Mrs Alam 69 next year. Narrow minded ness seems to be order of the day (sic),” he added, taking a dig at those raising questions over their friendship. Singh was made to resign from the chief minister’s post in September following months of rift and turbulence in the state unit. The Congress leaders have stepped up their attacks on the two-time former chief minister after his announcement that he would form his own political outfit and have an understanding with the BJP for the upcoming state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/think-before-speaking-capt-posts-aroosa-alam-s-pictures-with-politicians-actors-101635192132670.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Underage driver killed in car-truck crash in Ambala||In a case of underage driving, a Class-11 student of PKR Jain Vatika School died while his classmate received severe injuries after their car rammed into a truck on the Ambala-Amritsar highway in the wee hours of Monday.Police said Madhur Grover, 16, of Baldev Nagar was driving the Maruti Suzuki Swift while his friend Garv Baweja, 16, of Milap Nagar was sitting next to him when the accident took place near the New Sabzi Mandi in Ambala. The car belongs to Garv’s family.The two were taken to the civil hospital in the city, where Madhur was declared brought dead and Garv was referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. Assistant sub-inspector Resham Singh said that Madhur’s body was handed over to the family for last rites after an autopsy around noon and Garv is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mohali.The victim’s father, Dheeraj Grover, a businessman, told police that his son had gone to study overnight at his friend’s place and told them that he would return the next morning.“Around 3:30 am, I got to know about the accident. At the hospital, I met Garv, who told me that they were coming to drop Madhur home and had just crossed the mandi, when a truck driver suddenly slammed the brakes and the car rammed into it from the rear. The car got stuck and was dragged for several metres,” said Grover.Madhur suffered head injuries while Garv injured his right leg and also suffered some wounds on his face. A case of death due to rash and negligent driving was registered against the unknown truck driver, who fled leaving his vehicle behind. Police have so far taken no action into underage driving.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/underage-driver-killed-in-car-truck-crash-in-ambala-101635192131423.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue claims three more lives in Mohali||Three more people succumbed to dengue in Mohali on Monday, pushing this year’s death toll to 24, which is the highest in at least one decade. The health authorities also confirmed 135 fresh infections in the district, taking this year’s tally to 2,191. Only 471 cases were detected in 2020. Among the 24 deaths recorded this year, 22 took place in October alone and two in September. In the past two years, only one death each was confirmed. The latest victims of the viral infection are a 39-year-old man from Kakaur in Dera Bassi, a 65-year-old woman from Dhakoli and a 56-year-old woman from Fatehullapur village in Kharar. Meanwhile, district epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra on Monday visited Balongi village, where as many as 211 cases of dengue fever have been reported so far. Dr Nagra said the purpose of the visit was to find out why so many cases are surfacing in the area. He said the health department team noticed that there was a lot of plastic waste, especially empty bottles and disposable glasses, scattered at many places in the village. He said plastic waste is the most suitable breeding site for mosquitoes as rainwater collects in them. Similarly, many people have stored large quantities of water in homes where mosquito larvae are gathering. Apart from this, a large number of condemned vehicles are parked in front of the police station, in which water keeps accumulating. 39 cases surface in Chandigarh, 22 in PanchkulaMeanwhile, 39 residents were found infected with dengue in Chandigarh on Monday, taking this year’s tally to 654. However, no fresh fatality was reported. So far in October, the city has reported 570 cases while the death count remains at three. In October 2020, Chandigarh had reported 89 dengue cases.On Monday, as many as 17 cases were reported from Manimajra alone besides nine cases from sector 45.“The health department teams are conducting regular fogging and challaning in these areas and are also organising awareness camps. Also, special focus is being given in the areas where infections are being recorded. So far this year, 453 challans have been issued to people besides 332 show-cause notices,” said Dr Suman Singh, director, health services, Chandigarh.In Panchkula, 22 new cases of dengue were reported on Monday, taking the total count to 468 this year. As per the official data, no dengue-related death has been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-claims-three-more-lives-in-mohali-101635192071604.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula protest: Eight cops, 15 teachers injured in clash||Eight cops, including women personnel, and at least 15 protesting vocational teachers were injured in a clash in Panchkula after police tried to stop the protesters from marching towards Chandigarh.Hundreds of vocational teachers from across Haryana who were gathered in Panchkula were demanding wage hikes and better salaries. Police had to resort to lathicharge and use of water cannons to disperse them as they tried to march towards Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence in Chandigarh. During the melee, eight cops, including five men and three women, were also injured. Earlier, the protesters had gathered in Sector 5 for their three-day “maha andolan” under the banner of Haryana Vocational Teachers Association. Their main demands include better salaries, no involvement of contractors in employment and job security.The protesters left the spot around 3.45 pm to move towards Chandigarh but were met with police blockade near the Housing Board Chowk. After the police action, the protesters claimed that around 30 of them were injured.Anoop Dhillon, state president of the association, said: “We were just moving to gherao the CM’s residence in Chandigarh. We don’t know why they stopped us. When we started moving further, police and paramilitary forces started lathicharge and used water cannon.”Dhillon claimed the injured protesters are being treated at the civil hospital in Sector 6, and among them around 15 are “seriously injured.” However, police claimed that only 15 protesters were injured besides eight cops.ACP Vijay Kumar Nehra said: “The district magistrate and tehsildar asked the protesters to submit their representation to them but they did not agree and wanted to enter Chandigarh. They were given a warning, after which water cannon was used. Despite this, they tried to break the barricades, after which light lathicharge was carried out to disperse them.”Teachers block roads in Mohali In the neighbouring Mohali district, commuters were at the receiving end for nearly four hours as the ETT-TET Qualified Unemployed Teachers Union members blocked the national highway near Desumajra in Kharar. In another protest, unemployed physical training instructors’ union blocked the Airport Road near Singh Shaheedan Gurdwara for over three hours before police lifted the barricades put up by the protesters. Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni also joined the protesters. Police diverted the traffic as long snarl-ups were witnessed at various junctions on the busy Airport Road. The two teachers’ unions are protesting for the past many days demanding job regularisation and appointments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-protest-eight-cops-15-teachers-injured-in-clash-101635192070209.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||252 fresh Covid cases in Himachal, spread in schools continues||The upward trend in Covid cases continued in Himachal Pradesh on Monday, with the state recording 252 fresh infections, many of them school children, taking the state’s tally 2,22,890. The death toll climbed to 3,721 after one patient succumbed to the infection. Kangra district, which is again emerging as a hotspot, reported 109 cases alone. Fifty of them are school children, 27 from one school in Dehra area. Fifty cases were reported from Hamirpur, 27 from Bilaspur, 26 from Mandi, 21 from Una, twelve from Shimla, three each from Kullu and Solan and one from Kinnaur. The active case count has shot up to 1,657, while the recoveries reached 2,17,495. Kangra remains the worst hit district with its case tally mounting to 50,286 followed by Mandi with 31,496 cases and Shimla 27,463.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/252-fresh-covid-cases-in-himachal-spread-in-schools-continues-101635191709717.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||BSF jurisdiction: Parties agree on special assembly session to reject Centre’s move||Strongly criticising the Union government’s decision to extend the jurisdiction of BSF from 15km to 50km along the international border in Punjab, political leaders, at an all-party meeting chaired by chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi, on Monday agreed for a special assembly session to reject the move, besides challenging it in the Supreme Court.The BJP abstained from the meeting, while representatives of the Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party, Lok Insaaf Party and other parties were present.“By calling the Vidhan Sabha session, all (the parties) will jointly reject the notification. All parties are unanimous on it,” Channi said, while asserting that law and order was a state subject. Two resolutions were unanimously passed in the meeting, one against the BSF jurisdiction and another against the three farm laws.Channi assured all political parties that the posts of chief minister and ministers do not matter to them when it came to safeguarding the interests of Punjab. “We are ready to make any sacrifice but will not allow Punjab’s interests to be looted,” he said. The decision about convening the Vidhan Sabha session will be taken in the next Cabinet meeting, he said.The chief minister said the Centre’s three “black” laws on farming will also be rejected in the coming assembly session.When told that the Opposition was blaming him for agreeing to the extension of the BSF jurisdiction during his meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, Channi rejected the charge and said he had raised several issues, including the curbing of drugs smuggling from across the border, with Shah.Talking to the media, Punjab Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu accused the Centre of “weakening the federal structure by creating a state within a state”. He also slammed it for “disregarding the democratic rights of the people of Punjab” by extending the BSF’s jurisdiction and expressed fear of “torture, false cases, arbitrary detention and illegal arrests” against them.He called it a “political move” of the central government for its “vested interests” while questioning the timing of its move just a few months ahead of the assembly polls. “After CBI, ED and various other institution now BJP will use the BSF to interfere in the autonomy of states ruled by opposition parties. As BJP can never win Punjab, it is creating unrest, so that peaceful elections don’t happen in Punjab,” said Sidhu.AAP blames Cong, SAD Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) attacked the chief minister for his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah before the Centre handed over half of Punjab to the BSF.“The NIA Act and Clause 2 of sub-section of the BSF Act 139, was introduced during the then Manmohan Singh government. With what mouth is the Congress opposing it now?” said AAP’s state chief Bhagwant Mann. He said when these Acts were enacted, SAD-BJP coalition government in Punjab did not oppose the move.First set your own house in order: SAD to Channi The SAD delegation asked the Congress government to first set its own house in order as some of the leaders, including former CM Capt Amarinder Singh, have appreciated the Centre’s move.The delegation also asked chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi to clarify on his meeting with home minister Amit Shah as there were apprehensions in the minds of Punjabis that he had agreed to the move.“Former Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar had also accused the chief minister of handing over half of Punjab to the Centre,” the Akali leaders said.Petty politics, says BJP The Punjab unit of the BJP, on the other hand, accused the Congress government of playing petty politics over the issue of national security. Senior party leader Manoranjan Kalia said the move of extending the BSF’s jurisdiction is meant to protect the national interests.Another Punjab BJP leader Subhash Sharma accused the state government of using the national security issue for petty politics and alleged that it was trying to divert attention from the burning issues of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-jurisdiction-parties-agree-on-special-assembly-session-to-reject-centre-s-move-101635191590364.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||HP bypolls | BJP transferred 3.5 lakh employees within a year:Harshwardhan Chauhan||With just three days left for the bypolls, Congress described the Bharatiya Janata Party government as anti-employee and alleged that over 3.5 lakh employees had been transferred within one year during the BJP regime. Shillai MLA Harshwardhan Chauhan said, “The transferred employees had no choice but to seek relief from courts. The outcome of the poll will be a referendum of chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s regime and the BJP’s policies. The claims of the BJP government are just on paper, nothing has translated on ground,” he said. “Himachal’s GDP in 2017 ,when the Congress was in power, was 7.5. It subsequently dipped to 6.5, 4.5 and minus 6.5 in 2020-21,” he said, while slamming the government for inflation. Petrol prices have crossed ₹100, while cooking gas cylinders’ price has crossed ₹1,000. “The BJP is blaming the Congress for all the bad things that happening during its regime. They have been in power for over seven years in the Centre and also have a government in the state . They should tell people what the double engine government has done to give relief to the common man,” he said.“People from outside the state are being given jobs, especially at a time when unemployment is very high, which speaks volumes about the concern the BJP regime has for the educated jobless youth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-bypolls-bjp-transferred-3-5-lakh-employees-within-a-year-harshwardhan-chauhan-101635191349716.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Inflation the latest brake to potters’ wheel in UP’s Nandpur||After the Covid-19 crisis and the government restrictions, now it’s inflation that is giving nightmares to the potters of Nandpur village. Nandpur is barely a mile away from erstwhile pottery hub of Chinhat, on the outskirts of Lucknow.While highlighting the issues they face, the potters said that the non availability of mud and skyrocketing prices of cow dung and other fuels are adding to the cost of earthenware.“There seems no respite for us. In the previous years, it was the Covid-19 crisis that left us hand to mouth, and this time, it’s inflation that is breaking our backs,” said Mohammed Afsar, a traditional potter from Nandpur village.Of the other issues, the availability of mud is the biggest one in recent times, the potters of Nandpur said. “We are all traditional potters and it’s just because it is our ancestral trade, we are into it and keeping it alive. Initially, we used to depend on the mud from the Chinhat area that used to be a rich source of the ‘chikni mitti’--a special kind of mud used in pottery-making. But almost a decade back, the rising colonisation affected that resource and the shortage of mud started hitting us,” said Jafar Ali, another potter from Nandpur.Ali said that now they have to get the ‘chikni mitti’ from Barabanki which is around 52km from their village. “Other than the cost of the mud, the transportation costs have also increased, especially after the recent rise of diesel and petrol prices,” said Ali.He said that this was not the end of the story. Once unloaded, the raw earthenware needs proper baking and this phase again costs much money. “In order to bake the earthenware, we need to heat up the oven for which fuel like cow dung cakes or wood is required. The cost of the fuel has again gone up. Cow dung cakes that used to cost us ₹1.30 paisa each are now costing ₹3. In one shift, if we bake earthenware with a sale price of ₹6,000, the cost of fuel required is around ₹2,500, which is too high,” he added.The potters said that owing to the peculiar nature of the business, they can’t increase the cost of the earthenware much as it would affect sales. “But there is no profit in the business left at all. It’s just because it’s our ancestral business, we are keeping tradition alive by continuing it,” he said.Not only the potters of Nandpur, but the potters from Chinnhat too are badly affected by the issues. They demanded government intervention. “We have heard our Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji emphasising on earthen lamps on Diwali. This year too, he has appealed to people to light at least two diyas at every house. In such a situation, the state government should pay a little attention to our dwindling trade.The UP government, too, is making efforts to boost the dwindling business. Last year, the state government’s department of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) had provided space to roadside potters to showcase their talent and had organised a fair for them.Recently, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had held a meeting with the people of the Prajapati community which largely includes potters. In the meeting, the CM recounted the measures taken by the UP government to boost their dwindling business. Besides, the CM also said that the government has made pond mud, used in pottery-making, duty free. He also assured all help to the potters and said that they would be provided with the electric wheels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/inflation-the-latest-brake-to-potters-wheel-in-up-s-nandpur-101635191112143.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||BJP getting immense support in tribal areas: Himachal chief minister Jai Ram||The contest for the Mandi parliamentary seat in the upcoming bypolls looks to be a one-sided affair in favour of the BJP and we will be back with MP Khushal Thakur, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday.He was addressing an election rally at Reckong Peo, the administrative headquarters of Kinnaur. The chief minister said after elections his government will compensate the apple growers of Kinnaur who have suffered losses due to the recent snowfall.“I have heard that apple trees were damaged in parts of the district. I can very well understand this loss to the fruit growers and efforts will be made to compensate them,” he said. Thakur said he also comes from a remote area and he can understand the difficulties faced by the people of Kinnaur in their day-to-day life.He hailed the people of Kinnaur for their contribution in the fight against Covid by achieving a 100% vaccination target among all districts in India.Launching a stinging attack on the Congress, the chief minister said the Congress was in power for 50 years, but did nothing to upgrade the health infrastructure. “Before the BJP government took reins, there were only 30 ventilators and two oxygen plants in the health institutions across the state. Today the there are about 900 ventilators 30 oxygen plants,” he said, alleging that the Congress was continuing to play petty politics even during the pandemic and did nothing to help the state cope.“Congress leaders even raised fake bills worth crores to extract money from their party high command,” he alleged. “Today, the same Congress has made people, who were accused of sedition, its star campaigners in the state,” he added.He urged people of Kinnaur to support BJP candidate Brigadier Khushal Thakur and make his victory as grand as that of former MP Ramswaroop’s victory in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-getting-immense-support-in-tribal-areas-himachal-chief-minister-jai-ram-101635190873387.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||SKM leaders to hold rallies in Ellenabad against BJP candidate||Leaders of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions, have decided to hold two rallies on October 27 in Ellenabad constituency which will go to bypoll on October 30.The seat had fallen vacant after Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala had resigned from the state assembly on January 27 in support of farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws.Abhay, who is seeking a fourth consecutive term from Ellenabad seat, has been pitted against Congress’s Pawan Beniwal and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nominee Gobind Kanda (brother of Sirsa MLA Gopal Kanda of Haryana Lokhit Party).Bharatiya Kisan Union state youth chief Ravi Azad said SKM leaders including Rakesh Tikait, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan and others will hold two kisan rallies in poll-bound Ellenabad.“We will appeal to people not to vote for the BJP and choose anyone except Kanda. Our mission is to ensure the defeat of the BJP candidate as the Union government has failed to address our issues and has defamed us on multiple occasions,” he added.Meanwhile, a day after Haryananvi folk singer and dancer Sapna Choudhary announced to campaign for BJP nominee Gobind Kanda, her husband Veer Sahu announced that they will not canvass in Ellenabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/skm-leaders-to-hold-rallies-in-ellenabad-against-bjp-candidate-101635190751356.html
26-10-2021||Other||Young Writers’ Meet starts in Amritsar||Amritsar A two-day Young Writers’ Meet started in the city on Monday with the Sahitya Akademi, National Academy of Letters, in collaboration with Bhai Vir Singh Sahitya Sadan, the joint organisers. The event’s purpose is to encourage young writers and poets across the northern states of India. The inaugural day had three sessions. Prominent writers Rana Nayar, Madhav Kaushik, Madhu Acharya ‘Ashawadi, Jyoti Krishan Verma, SS Johl and Sukhbir Kaur were the key speakers in the introductory session, with the next two sessions dedicated to young writers; eight of these young writers got the chance to recite their poetry and short stories across in seven languages.Rana Nayar, who has more than 40 publications to his credit, gave the keynote address, saying, “We should encourage young writers as they have lots of energy, but we should also make sure that this energy is used to write something that stands the test of time.” He added, “Young writers are more sensitive to what is going around them than people who are experienced, but they not look to write for money and fame, anybody can sell books, they should strive for quality and not get swayed away by marketing,” He added.Madhav Kaushik, who along with being a prominent writer, is the vice-president of the Akademi said that everything should be done to encourage young writers and poets across languages. Jyoti Krishan Verma, assistant editor at the Akademi, said, “Youngsters should try and write art that is worthy and that forces you to take note. We will also be providing grants to writers under the age of 40 to encourage and support them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/young-writers-meet-starts-in-amritsar-101635190509559.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers block road over DAP shortage in Haryana’s Mahendergarh||Farmers blocked the Narnaul-Rewari road on Monday due to shortage of DAP fertiliser. Police struggled to clear the traffic and long queues of vehicles were seen in Mahendergarh’s Narnaul.The farmers alleged that the government has failed to provide them sufficient quantities of DAP and farmers are struggling to start mustard cultivation.The protesting farmers cleared the road after officials assured of providing the fertiliser soon. As per agriculture officials, they are getting less supply of the fertiliser while the demand has soared.“Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had assured that the supply will be increased by Monday. The demand is likely to come down in the coming days as over 60% of the area of mustard crops has already been cultivated,” officials said.Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal reiterated that there is no shortage of DAP supply in state. “Efforts are on to increase supply of DAP in every store,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-block-road-over-dap-shortage-in-haryana-s-mahendergarh-101635190452308.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh resident accused of cheating escapes Jalandhar police custody||A city resident, who was arrested by the Jalandhar police in a cheating case, escaped from custody when he was brought to his house here for the arrest of his mother. The accused has been identified as Himansh Verma, a resident of Sector 8, Chandigarh.Inspector Bhagwant Singh, in-charge, crime branch, Jalandhar, told police that accused Himansh is an accused in a case registered at Navi Bardari police station of Jalandhar on October 15, 2021. He has been booked under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust.), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forging document), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (dishonestly uses as genuine any document) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Pena Code. His mother Chandrakanta, his acquaintance Prithvi Singh and a Manimajra resident, Saurab Gaba, are also accused in the case. Prithivi has already been arrested but Verma’s mother and Gaba are still at large. The case was registered on the complaint of Robin Talwar, who is also into the immigration consultancy business. Talwar had alleged that he had paid money to Himansh for a study visa but was cheated of the money.Police had arrested Verma on October 21, and had brought him to his residence for the arrest of his mother. Though his mother was not found at home, Verma requested the cops to let him use the toilet. When a constable escorted him to the toilet, the accused pushed him and jumped out of the window. A fresh case under Sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Sector 3 police station. The accused faces four other cases of cheating on pretext of sending people abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-resident-accused-of-cheating-escapes-jalandhar-police-custody-101635190450808.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: JS Randhawa takes over as superintendent of police||Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, 33, a 2012-batch IPS officer, took over as the Ambala superintendent of police on Monday. He is replacing 2008-batch officer Hamid Akhtar, who was transferred to the state crime branch on Friday. Akhtar will, however, still hold the additional charge of AIG, Welfare. Randhawa, who was the earlier top cop of Sonepat, had also held the charge of DCP (urban) in Ambala around 2016, when Ambala and Panchkula were together under a single commissionerate.On his first day in office, Randhawa said the prime motive of the police will be to curb the drug menace and crime against women, a police statement reads. He added that awareness against cyber crime is the only possible way to remain safe from the rising number of online frauds.Randhawa is the fifth officer to take over the post in the last three years. In December last year, HPS officer Rajesh Kalia was replaced by Akhtar, after protesting farmers had allegedly blocked and attacked the convoy of CM Manohar Lal during the campaigning for the municipal corporation elections.Kalia held the post for nearly five crucial months, when the farmer agitation against the contentious farm laws (then bills) started brewing and unions made their way towards the national capital. Before Kalia, Abhishek Jorwal was the SP for over a year.IGP of Ambala Range, Bharti Arora, was also among 33 other officers to be transferred on Friday. The charge is still vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-js-randhawa-takes-over-as-superintendent-of-police-101635190269777.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka makes another poll promise: Free treatment up to ₹10 lakh for people of UP||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, on Monday, made yet another poll promise, assuring people free treatment up to ₹10 lakh at a government hospital, if her party was voted to power in 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.“Everybody has seen the utter government neglect and the poor health infrastructure during the Covid-19 and the spreading fever in the state now. Uttar Pradesh Congress in consultation with the manifesto committee has decided to give free treatment for up to ₹10 lakh at a government hospital to patients suffering from any ailment,” said Priyanka on social media, in an announcement made in Hindi.This is the eighth promise that Priyanka has made to the people ahead of 2022 UP assembly elections. She has announced seven ‘pratigya’ (poll promises) and three ‘pratigya yatras’ to take them to the people across the state, which were flagged off on Saturday.Besides, 40% party tickets to women in 2022 UP assembly elections other promises made to the people include free smartphones to 12th class pass girls students, free Scooties to graduate girls, farm loan waiver, ₹2,500 MSP for paddy and wheat and ₹400 state advised price for sugarcane, 50% cut in power bills and waiver of Covid-19 period power dues, financial assistance of ₹25,000 to help economy of Covid-19 hit families and 20 lakh government jobs.Priyanka Gandhi has announced that the Congress would bring out an election manifesto for women soon. Her announcement indicates that the Congress would bring out more than one poll manifesto for 2022 assembly elections. The Congress has set up a manifesto committee, led by senior party leader and former union minister Salman Khursheed, to work out the promises the party proposes to make to people in 2022 assembly elections. Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) minority department on September 6, 2021 released a 16-point ‘Sankalp Patra’ listing the promises the party’s minority department proposed to make to the people amid indications that some of these promises may be incorporated in the main manifesto for 2022 polls to be released in coming weeks.“The Congress has no base among the people of Uttar Pradesh. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is trying to mislead people now by making announcements by offering such package deals. The people are aware of the performance of the governments in Congress ruled states,” said Uttar Pradesh BJP spokesman Avnish Tyagi.“This is part of an electoral campaign. If she had done this earlier, the Congress would have been in a better position. The Congress should have been active and worked for the people in the past five years. People understand that these are political announcements and it is a bit late for the party to make such announcements,” said Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of department, political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-makes-another-poll-promise-free-treatment-up-to-rs-10-lakh-for-people-of-up-101635190214275.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Need four months to complete probe of Karnal lathi-charge: Justice SN Aggarwal||Justice Som Nath Aggarwal (retd), head of the commission of inquiry to probe the sequence of events that led to police lathi-charge at Bastara toll plaza in Karnal on August 28, said the commission will require around four months to complete the investigation.Aggarwal, a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, said it will take around four months to complete the investigation of Karnal lathi-charge. The commission has already written to the government seeking an extension of three more months to complete the investigation.Earlier, the government had announced that the commission will submit its report within one month of its formation or by October 25. “We have written to the government for a three-month extension to complete the investigation,” said Aggarwal.On Monday, the commission reached Karnal to record statements of witnesses. Of the seven witnesses called for testimony, six farmers appeared before the commission.“We got a list of 35 people as witnesses of the incident and statement of six residents of Moonak village have already been recorded,” he said, adding that the statement of the then Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha will also be recorded along with Karnal deputy commissioner, superintendent of police and farm leaders.He said Haryana BKU (Charuni) president Gurnam Singh Charuni has also been called to record statement before the commission on November 2. The statements of more people, including doctors who treated the injured farmers, will also be recorded.Aggarwal said the government will act as per findings of the investigation and this is the motive behind setting up of the commission.He said the statements of the district magistrate, superintendent of police, the then Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha, and other cops will also be recorded.Following an indefinite protest by farmers, the BJP government had agreed to set up a one-member commission for inquiry behind the lathi-charge in which farmers claimed that many protesters had sustained injuries and one farmer had allegedly died due to the trauma.The farmers had started an indefinite dharna on September 7, seeking suspension of the then Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha for use of force against the agitating farmers who were protesting a BJP meeting at a private hotel in Karnal on August 28.IAS officer and the then Karnal SDM Ayush Sinha was caught on tape allegedly telling policemen to “break their heads” if protesters crossed the line.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/need-four-months-to-complete-probe-of-karnal-lathi-charge-justice-sn-aggarwal-101635190212708.html
26-10-2021||Other||Zonal Youth Festival begins at GNDU||Amritsar IG (Border Range Amritsar), Mohnish Chawla on Monday inaugurated the ‘Zonal Youth Festival of Education Colleges’ at the Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU). Addressing the staff and the students, Chawla said that such competitions develop talent and creativity skills among students, helping them develop well-rounded growth and positivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zonal-youth-festival-begins-at-gndu-101635190149763.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid situation stable in Chandigarh tricity; health officials advise precaution||Even amid the ongoing festive season , there was no major change in the number of Covid cases recorded last week. In the week ending on Sunday (October 24), a total of 51 Covid cases surfaced in the tricity, as compared to 50 in the previous week. However, between October 4 and October 10, the tricity had reported only 47 cases, the lowest weekly tally since the second wave.Though the rise is marginal, health department officials have cautioned that complacency, especially during the ongoing festival season, can cause the caseload to shoot up further.Of the 51 cases, Chandigarh and Mohali reported 21 each while only nine people tested positive in Panchkula, where no cases were reported on three days of the week. The tricity also reported no death owing to the virus for the 19th straight days on Sunday.At the peak of the second wave in May, the tricity had recorded 46,245 cases and 790 deaths in just one month. With restrictions on public movement being put in place, the curve started flattening thereon and only 50 cases were recorded in the last week of July. The weekly cases have been fluctuating ever since, but have never crossed the 100 mark. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said, “Cases in Mohali are fluctuating every week and even if the transmission rate is under control, people must follow Covid-appropriate behaviour as any complacency can lead to another surge, especially after the festive season. We have increased testing and are concentrating on contact tracing to avoid infection spread.”Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) said, “For the last one month, more severe Covid-19 patients are getting admitted to PGIMER. Vaccination is the key to avoid getting severely infected and it will automatically avert the third wave. Increase in cases at this time will be risky and not only children, but adults will be equally prone to getting infected.”Slight uptick in daily casesThe tricity on Monday recorded six fresh infections, against the four cases on Sunday. All the three areas reported two infections each. Also, no death was recorded for the 20th consecutive day.In Mohali, the cases surfaced from Dhakoli and in Chandigarh, the infected patients are residents of Sector 5 and 16.Meanwhile, at 1.19%, Panchkula’s positivity rate crossed 1% mark on Monday. However, tricity’s active cases tally stands at 76, with 30 patients still being infected in Mohali, 29 in Chandigarh and 17 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-situation-stable-in-chandigarh-tricity-health-officials-advise-precaution-101635190094805.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: School students attending virtual classes feel neglected||Students of Chandigarh schools, who are still attending classes virtually, feel that those attending physically are being given preference over them. It has been three months since schools reopened for students of Class 9 onwards for physical classes and then subsequently for lower classes. A parent, whose ward attends a private school in Sector 26, on condition of anonymity, said, “Students present for offline classes are being preferred to get all students to attend school. Many times, doubts of students attending virtually remain unanswered as teachers ignore them.” Nitin Goyal, president of the Chandigarh Parents Association, added, “Once teaching begins, it is not possible to admit students into online classroom and many times, they are unable to get their questions answered. Schools should make helplines for parents if they face issues and an IT team must help them. There are some complaints, but parents remain wary of coming forward.” Goyal added that many parents will not send their kids for offline classes until they can get vaccinated and the schools must be asked to adjust and cooperate with them. President of the Independent School Association HS Mamik said, “Schools are not pushing parents to do anything and we continue to take both classes simultaneously even though it’s double the work for teachers. Our association has approached the administration over switching to either completely online or offline classes, as it will make it easier for the teachers and students to follow.” District education officer Prabhjot Kaur, said, “Although I have received no such complaints from parents, those facing such issues should write to us with the name of the school and we will ask the school for an explanation.” No school buses add to parents’ woes Due to financial reasons and low footfall, buses of private school aren’t operation yet, even as offline classes have started. Many working parents are unable to send their children to school even if they want to as they don’t get time to drop and pick them up. General secretary of the Chandigarh School Bus Operators Association Jiwan Rattan Sharma, said, “While classes have started, the footfall of students isn’t enough for us to run our buses.” He added that during the pandemic, bus operators had faced many issues and had demanded the government to exempt them from taxes and increase the life span of the buses. Vivek High School in Sector 38-B remains one of the only schools running its buses, with around five of them plying for the last few weeks. Mamik, who is also the chairman of the school, said, “Right now, we are financing the buses ourselves and helping out bus contractors, as it is important that children don’t miss out on school. We will continue this till schools reopen properly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-school-students-attending-virtual-classes-feel-neglected-101635190093702.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: 7 acres of panchayat land in Bari village auctioned off for construction of hospital||The gram panchayat of Bari village in Mohali on Monday held an open auction for around seven acres of Panchayat land on lease for 33 years at zila parishad office in Phase 6, Mohali.Cardiologist Dr TS Kaler quoted the highest price of ₹1.08 lakh per acre per year, against the reserve price of ₹1 lakh per acre. He opted for the land on behalf of his trust for the construction of a hospital. There were three more bidders for the land.Block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) Hiten Kapila, who was present during the auction, said, the land will be given on lease for 33 years. For final approval, the bid will be sent to the state government, he said.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal had on Sunday held a protest against the auction at Bari village and alleged that former health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu was facilitating the forcible takeover of prime village land in Mohali for construction of a private hospital. He added that it was shocking that the government is planning to lease prime land worth ₹90 crore for 33 years at ₹1 lakh per year, after overriding the sentiments of the people of the area.Meanwhile, Sidhu on Monday held a press conference where he termed SAD a party of liars, which has been betraying farmers by looting Punjab for 10 years and forcibly taking over every sector of trade.He added that SAD has mortgaged its ideology to the BJP and the Centre. He alleged that senior SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra gave all grants to his near and dear ones during his tenure as MP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-7-acres-of-panchayat-land-in-bari-village-auctioned-off-for-construction-of-hospital-101635190092424.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate: Former student leader elected from graduate constituency||Former student leader Simranjit Singh Dhillon was declared elected to the Panjab University (PU) senate from the registered graduate constituency on Monday. Dhillon managed to clear the quota and secured 2,902 votes. Besides Dhillon, three other candidates have been declared from the constituency so far. As many as 22 candidates have been eliminated due to low number of votes till Monday. Around 40 candidates were in fray from the graduate constituency that will elect 15 members into the senate. Dhillon was among the few former student leaders who are in fray from the constituency. He was the president of Panjab University Students Union (PUSU) from 2008 to 2010 and later joined Student Organisation of India (SOI) in 2015, which is the student wing of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). Dhillon, who is also the former national general secretary of SOI, said, “Now, I will be able to work with policy makers for the formulation of student-oriented and future friendly policies to repair the harm caused by the pandemic.” The counting process began last Monday at the varsity’s gymnasium hall. The registered graduate constituency is the largest among the eight constituencies of the PU senate. Even though it had 3.61 lakh eligible voters, the voter turnout was only 14.57%. The counting of votes will continue on Tuesday and more results are expected||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-former-student-leader-elected-from-graduate-constituency-101635190089647.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU teachers’ body elections: Community has lost trust in incumbent group, say rivals||The rival group of Manu Sharma, who are contesting the upcoming Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) election, on Monday said that the teaching community has lost trust in the incumbent teachers’ body.While addressing mediapersons on Monday, they stated that faculty should not vote for incumbent PUTA, because of frequent deception and betrayal.“To make our university a better workplace with ease of teaching/research and administration, we will fully cooperate with all stakeholders like the vice-chancellor, senate, political representatives or civil society. However, if faculty welfare is threatened, we will not hesitate to bring the full force of our community to fight for the common cause,” said Manu Sharma’s team in their statement.Incumbent president Mritunjay Kumar, said, “Our team is contesting primarily on performance, which the whole teaching community has witnessed during the last four years. The very fact that our team members have been with us all these four years, as a part of our struggle, gives our team a strong credibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-teachers-body-elections-community-has-lost-trust-in-incumbent-group-say-rivals-101635190029543.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Singhu lynching: Sonepat court sends all four accused to two-week judicial custody||The Sonepat court has on Monday sent all four Nihangs arrested in connection with the lynching of a SC labourer at Delhi’s Singhu border to two-week judicial custody.Earlier on Saturday, the court had extended their police remand by two days.Police produced accused Sarabjit Singh, Narain Singh, Govindpreet Singh and Bhagwant Singh before the court, a Sonepat police official said.The official said more suspects in the case had been identified on the basis of CCTV footage and further investigations are on to establish their role in the incident.The labourer, Lakhbir Singh, was brutally killed earlier this month and his body was strung to a barricade at the Singhu border with his hand chopped off and multiple wounds caused by sharp-edged weapons.The accused Nihangs maintained that Lakhbir, who hails from a village in Punjab’s Tarn Taran, had been “punished” over alleged desecration of Guru Granth Sahib.Sarabjit was arrested for the murder. Later, Narain, a key member of the Nihang group, was held from Amritsar. Govindpreet and Bhagwant, from Fatehgarh Sahib, had surrendered before the Sonepat police.The Haryana Police had formed two special investigation teams (SITs) to probe the incident.One SIT was tasked to carry out the overall probe into the case and the second one was constituted to investigate the videos of the incident that were circulated on the social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/singhu-lynching-sonepat-court-sends-all-four-accused-to-two-week-judicial-custody-101635189909541.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: Petrol pumps to open for one shift from November 7||Citing the increasing cost of fuel and the difference in prices between Punjab and its adjoining states, the Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association Punjab (PPDAP) announced on Monday that they will open petrol pumps for a single shift only from November 7 onwards for the next 15 days.PPDAP president Paramjeet Singh Doaba, said, “Petrol pump dealers in Punjab are facing losses due to higher VAT on petrol and diesel compared to the neighbouring states and UTs. The non-revision of dealer margins for the last four years and state-owned oil marketing companies offloading their expenses on to dealers and locking supplies is hitting us badly.”Saying that they will operate in a single shift only to cut expenses, Doaba added that all petrol pump dealers will keep their pumps closed on November 22 if their demands aren’t met.Manjit Singh, general secretary, said, “Nearly 800 dealers of the eight border districts in Punjab are suffering losses due to 70% drop in sales. In fact, the whole fraternity is facing volume loss due to high fuel prices and non-increase of margins since last revision in August 2017. Fuel prices have gone up by nearly ₹38 per litre in the last 18 months, whereas the crude has risen to just $85 per barrel from $70 per barrel in January 2020.”Mohali Petroleum Dealers’ Association president Ashwinder Mongia added how an oil mafia is starting to emerge in Punjab due to this difference in rates and how oil consumption of petrol pumps in Mohali is going down while the same is rising for adjoining Chandigarh and Haryana at Punjab’s expense and the state government is missing out on revenue because of this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-petrol-pumps-to-open-for-one-shift-from-november-7-101635189789450.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster held guilty of Haryana villager’s murder||A local court in Mahendergarh’s Narnaul on Monday convicted notorious gangster Vikram alias Papla Gujjar in connection with the murder of his co-villager as Bimla Devi, 65, six-years-ago at Khairoli village.He had also been accused of killing Bimla’s son Sandeep Fouji and her father Sri Ram in 2015, and Bimla’s brother Mahesh in 2014 but the court had acquitted him in the 2014 case due to lack of evidence.‘Court likely to decide life imprisonment or death penalty’Ajay Choudhary, lawyer appearing for victim Bimla Devi, said the court had convicted Papla Gujjar and his sentence will be pronounced on Tuesday.“The court will decide whether to award the gangster life imprisonment or death penalty. The forensic science laboratory report of Bimla’s death ascertains that 23 bullet wounds were found on her body,” he added.Long list of crimesThe gangster, who has been booked in at least 21 cases of murder, attempt to murder, dacoity, robbery, extortion, etc in Haryana, Rajasthan and other places was presented before the Narnual additional district and sessions judge Sudhir Jeevan.The judge convicted the gangster in connection with the murder of Bimla Devi and his sentence will be announced on Tuesday. The gangster had been shifted to Narnaul jail from Rajasthan’s high-security jail in Ajmer on September 29.The case dates back to August 21, 2015 when a group of assailants, led by Papla Gujjar, had shot dead Bimla after she had refused to compromise with him in connection with the alleged murder of her brother Mahesh and son Sandeep Fauji.The Mahendergarh Sadar police had booked Papla and his aides under Sections 148, 149, 302 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act for Bimla’s murder. The court had acquitted six others in the case due to lack of evidence on April 12, 2018.As per police and locals, Papla Gujjar had entered the crime world in 2014. He wanted to be a wrestler and had started training under Shakti Gurjar alias Dudhia, who later became his mentor.His mentor had rivalry with Sandeep Fauji and the latter had given contract for Papla’s mentor’s killing to Surender alias Chika. He had been killed on February 4, 2014.“Shakti Gurjar’s brother-in-law had asked Papla to take revenge of his mentor’s elimination from Sandeep Fauji. The former wrestler had joined a gang in 2014 and attacked Fauji’s mother Bimla Devi in March 2014 after barging into her house. He had broken both legs of Bimla,” police said.“Her father Sri Ram and brother Mahesh had come from their native village Biharipuri to take her to hospital. Ram boarded the ambulance while Mahesh was on bike. On the way to the hospital, he was killed. Papla’s name had emerged in the case but he had been acquitted by the court due to lack of evidence,” he added.“Later, he had killed Sandeep, who had been arrested for his mentor Shakti’s murder, in January 2015 outside Narnaul court when the latter had come for bail. Then, in August, the gangster had killed Bimla. Three months later, he had killed Sri Ram as well as he was witness to Bimla’s murder,” they said.The gangster was arrested by the Mahendergarh CIA for four murders on February 12, 2016. The gangster’s aides had fired shots at police when he was taken to a local court in Narnual on September 5, 2017 in which a policeman was killed.He had managed to escape from police custody, but police managed to arrest his brother Mintu, who remains in jail.Rajasthan police had arrested him this yearA special emergency response team (ERT) of the Rajasthan Police had arrested the dreaded gangster from a house in Kolhapur in Maharashtra in January this year.His arrest had come one-and-a-half years after he had escaped following a jailbreak amid police firing from Rajasthan’s Behror police station where he was being held in Alwar district.His associates, carrying AK-47, had freed him from Behror police station. A team of 26 policemen, including commandos of the Rajasthan Police, had arrested him along with a female friend.On September 6, 2019, Papla was nabbed by the Rajasthan Police from the Delhi-Jaipur highway, but he had fooled the police by identifying himself as Sahil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-held-guilty-of-haryana-villager-s-murder-101635189729445.html
26-10-2021||Other||Warring gives job letters to kin of Mansa farmers killed in stir||Bathinda Transport minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, on Monday, handed over appointment letters to family members of seven farmers of Mansa, who lost their lives during the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Warring reiterated that the Punjab government stood with the farming community and it had expedited the process of providing financial assistance of ₹5 lakh to the aggrieved families, besides providing jobs to a family member of each deceased farmer. The Gidderbaha legislator has been designated as the minister in-charge of the Mansa district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/warring-gives-job-letters-to-kin-of-mansa-farmers-killed-in-stir-101635189669559.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana residents relieved as air quality of most cities returns to good category||Residents of Haryana, especially those living in the national capital region (NCR), heaved a sigh of relief as the air quality of most cities returned to good or satisfactory category after a long gap.The bulletin of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) revealed that not even a single city in Haryana has poor, very poor or severe air quality this month.They said recent rains in most of the parts Haryana have played a significant role in improving the air quality.The air quality of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonepat, Ballabgarh and industrial cities of Panipat and Yamunanagar has been categorised as satisfactory as the air quality index (AQI) of these cities was measured between 50 to 100.The air quality of Karnal and Kurukshetra districts, which have reported maximum incidents of stubble burning this year, was flashed as good and satisfactory, respectively.Of the 20 cities in Haryana mentioned in the air quality bulletin, Hisar is the only city which has moderate air quality with 113 AQI. For the first time in October, not even a single city in state was in the list of places with poor, very poor and severe air quality.As per the CPCB, AQI between 0 to 50 is considered good, 51 to 100 satisfactory, and 101 to 200 moderate, 201 to 300 poor, 301 to 400 very poor, and it crosses over to severe zone at 401 AQI.The improved air quality ahead of Diwali has brought a major relief for officials of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board which is appointed to monitor air pollution.Last week, the air quality of Haryana’s Ballabgarh had reached very poor category and that of 15 other cities was poor owing to the continuous rise in stubble burning cases in state.Officials of the state agriculture department said incidents of stubble burning have declined considerably due to rains as only 38 active fire locations were reported on October 24.They said there is around 53% decline in farm fires this year as the state has reported 1,764 active fire locations between September 15 and October 24 against 3,773 of last year.Haryana State Pollution Control Board member secretary S Narayanan said they expect that the air quality will be better in coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-residents-relieved-as-air-quality-of-most-cities-returns-to-good-category-101635189369935.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Centre to respond on altering land use of bus depot, park for Central Vista revamp||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the central government on a petition questioning the change of land use of a public park and a bus depot in the national capital’s Central Vista to build residences of the Prime Minister and the Vice President.The petition was filed by lawyer Rajeev Suri, who had earlier challenged the clearances given for the Central Vista project, resulting in an elaborate judgment of the top court in January that allowed the government to proceed with the construction.The Central Vista project includes building a new Parliament that would seat 1,200 members of both Houses, and 10 buildings that will house 51 ministries. The January judgment did not deal with the change of land use of plot number 1, the land meant for the residences of the Prime Minister and the Vice President, which was approved on October 10, 2020.The Prime Minister’s residence will be built behind the South Block, while the Vice President’s residence will be located behind the North Block. These areas are now used as a public park and a bus depot. The petition questioned the change of land use from part recreational to residential, resulting in a loss of public recreational space for citizens.“The government must show how the change of land use is justified in public interest,” said lawyer Shikhil Suri, arguing for the petitioner. A bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and CT Ravikumar issued a notice to the Centre. “The petitioner wishes to pursue only one contention, namely, before modification of the plan concerning plot No. 1, it had provided for public recreational area also, as noticed from the public notice. However, now that has been completely done away with and the land use stands converted to residential only.” The central government will file an affidavit in three days, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said. Posting the matter for Friday, the bench said, “The respondents may file a short affidavit to deal with this contention…including to justify the necessity for such modification.”The petitioner informed the court that the land at plot number 1 has a facility for transportation spread across nine acres, while the park consists of six acres, which will be lost to the residences. The bench asked the Centre whether any alternate recreational space has been considered while acquiring the present plot. “From the petition it is clear that the public recreational area is not available now. Are you giving it up completely or is it being shifted to any other place?” the bench asked. “If Parliament is coming up nearby, from the security point of view, there cannot be any recreational spot,” Mehta said, arguing for the government. The work on the new Parliament will be completed before India’s 75th Independence Day next year, according to estimates by the Central Public Works Department. The Central Secretariat complex will be built by 2024. The residence of the Prime Minister, along with a building to house the special protection group will be completed by December next year, while work on the Vice President’s house is expected to completed by May 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-to-respond-on-altering-land-use-of-bus-depot-park-for-central-vista-revamp-101635189189270.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Workers’ fight leads to attempted murder at Market Yard||PUNE: The Pune police arrested five persons for the attempted murder of a pomegranate packing worker in Marketyard on Sunday. The complainant was taking a break from work Sunday afternoon when the five men approached him and beat him up causing grievous injury, according to the police. The arrested accused and the complainant are pomegranate packing workers in Pune’s Marketyard.The injured man was identified as Atish Shirsath, 27; while the arrested men were identified as Atul Shinde, 27; Saibanna Koli, 26; Tousif Khan, 27; Zaheer Shaikh, 28; and Vikas Davle, 27; according to the police.Assistant police inspector Ramdas Mundhe of Marketyard police station who is investigating the case, said, “They are all pomegranate packing workers. They fight amongst themselves over who gets how much work and the assailants wanted Shirsath to leave the job.”A case under sections 307, 323, 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and section 37(1)135 of the Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Marketyard police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/workers-fight-leads-to-attempted-murder-at-market-yard-101635189129201.html
26-10-2021||Pune||1 held, two booked for murder in Pimpri-Chinchwad||PUNE One man has bene arrested while at least two others were booked on Sunday by the Pimpri- Chinchwad police for murder.The deceased was identified as Pravin Ramdas Gavari and was known to the assailants. The murder was committed on Saturday night along the road leading from Moi village in Khed towards Mhalunge.The arrested man was identified as Mahesh alas Bunty Jayvant Yewande, a resident of Moi in Khed.Gavari allegedly went to Yelwande’s house and pushed his child, according to police. Yelwande then plotted to get Gavari drunk and hit him on the head with a blunt object, leading to his death, according to the police.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sandeep Ramdas Gavari, brother of the deceased.A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chakan police station. Police inspector Dashrath Waghmode is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/1-held-two-booked-for-murder-in-pimprichinchwad-101635188950901.html
26-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Two men killed in road accidents||Two road accidents were reported from Mohali in the last 24 hours.A 41-year-old man was killed after his bike was hit by a truck near Bhankarpur light point in Dera Bassi on Monday.The deceased has been identified as Kailash Chander Bahugana, a resident of Barwala Road in Dera Bassi. He was a native of Uttarakhand and working at a private firm in Mohali.Investigating officer Balbir Singh said that Bahugana was on his way to work at around 12.30pm and as he reached Bhankarpur light point, the truck hit his motorcycle. The impact removed his helmet and his head hit the road.He was rushed to the civil hospital in Dera Bassi, where he was declared brought dead.The truck driver fled the scene, leaving the vehicle behind. A case has been registered against the driver under Sections 279, 304-A and 427 of Indian Penal Code and the truck was impounded. After the postmortem, the body was handed over to his family members.68-yr-old pillion rider mowed down A 68-year-old man was killed after an SUV hit the Uber motorcycle on which he was a pillion rider in Sector 71, late on Sunday evening. The bike rider suffered minor injuries. The deceased has been identified as Jaswinder Singh, who runs a shop in Sector 71 and was a resident of Sector 94 in Mohali. After the accident, he was rushed to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared brought dead.A case under Sections 304A and 279 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Mataur police station. against the unknown SUV driver on the complaint of the deceased’s son, Chanpreet Singh. The registration number of the SUV has been traced and on the basis of that, the accused will be arrested, police said.After the postmortem, the body was handed over to the family members||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-two-men-killed-in-road-accidents-101635188949739.html
26-10-2021||Pune||State approves funds to help SHGs develop “Savitri” brand of products||PUNE To create more women entrepreneurs instead, the state government has approved funds on Monday which will be used to develop 75 products made using local raw materials in Pune, all of which will be branded “Savitri”.The district administration along with the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will now action the plan totally valued at ₹39 lakh. On Monday the state government approved the plan and the money, as drafted by the SPPU.Shalini Kadu, project director, District Rural Development Agency said, “The entire plan is drafted to cost ₹39 lakh of which the District Planning committee has already approved ₹21 lakh and the state government approved ₹18 lakh on Monday.” Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Zilla Parishad (ZP) said, “The central government has allocated every district a product which they must take up and deliver, not just as a raw agricultural goods but also as a finished product and add value to the same. Pune received the product, tomato, which is produced in large quantities in Narayangaon. However, instead of just going with tomatoes we decided to add 74 more products and produce them as fully processed or at least semi-processed goods, which could be then delivered to factories or consumers. All these brands will be marketed under the name Savitri to honour Pune’s very own Savitribai Jyotiba Phule.”Kadu added, “This plan was submitted about two months ago and we have got approval. The SPPU will now draft an action plan as to how we can take the processed products forward and find a market for the same. The university would act as a consultant and help us to ensure that the women who work in various self help groups earn more and use their skills in a better way.” At least 200,000 women who work in 23,000 self help groups (SHG) would benefit from this scheme and it would primarily be run by women. The money will be used for consultation, setting up infrastructure and also for marketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-approves-funds-to-help-shgs-develop-savitri-brand-of-products-101635188709390.html
26-10-2021||Pune||BH-series: Same number plate valid in all states... now available in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government on Monday announced the launch of the BH (Bharat)-series number plates for vehicles that move from one state to another. This, according to government, will enable hassle free inter-state re-locations.Satej Patil, minister of state for Transport, Home and Information Technology, said that BH-series registration has started in Maharashtra from Monday and people can now take their cars and relocate from one state to another. “BH-series registration has been started in Maharashtra. Now you can take the delivery of your car happily before Diwali and enjoy a long drive from one state to another without any hassle. @CMOMaharashtra @advanilparab,” Patil tweeted on Monday.In order to free vehicle owners from the hassle of procuring an NOC from the current state and then re-registering the vehicle in the next state while relocating, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had earlier notified the Bharat series or “BH” series of registration which people can opt for. Until now, according to the Motor Vehicle Act 1988, a vehicle registered in a state when kept in another state for a period of more than 12 months is subject to assignment of new registration. The registration process which was tedious in nature, has now been done away with after the launch of BH-series.This means when a person is to relocate to another state taking his vehicle along, he or she had to first get a no-objection certificate from the state where the vehicle is currently registered. The government calls it the “parent” state of the vehicle. The parent state’s NOC is a must for assignment of a new registration in another state. Subsequently a new registration is a must because under Section 47 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, a vehicle can reside in another state with the same registration for 12 months during which it has to be re-registered in the new state. The vehicle owner can also apply for refund of the road tax in the parent state on a pro rata basis. “Our department could launch this scheme because of the great support and encouragement from the CM. Our minister Anil Parab too played a key role in it,” Patil said.Earlier on Thursday Patil has said that the module was ready and the trials are underway. “Maharashtra Government has initiated implementation of BH series in the state and its on our top priority. The module is almost ready & trials are going on so it will run smoothly once it’s launched, in a few days the government will start the BH registration. @CMOMaharashtra @advanilparab,” he had tweeted on October 18.On the question about to the GST on registration, Patil has said, “As per the law, the GST is paid on homologation price which is given on the Vahan Portal, and Motor Vehicle tax is calculated at the end. We will ensure that this is strictly followed in Maharashtra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bhseries-same-number-plate-valid-in-all-states-now-available-in-maharashtra-101635188469338.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Second FIR against Mumbai-based Talwalkars for defrauding private bank of ₹180 crore||The economic offences wing (EOW) of Mumbai Police has registered a second first information report (FIR) against Talwalkars – India’s largest chain of gyms and health clubs – for allegedly defrauding Lakshmi Vilas Bank of ₹180 crore. Last week, EOW had registered the first FIR in the case for cheating Axis Bank of ₹206.35 crore.The latest cheating and forgery case has been registered against Talwalkars Better Value Fitness Ltd (TBVFL) and Talwalkars Health Clubs Ltd, its directors and others – Girish Talwalkar, Prashant Talwalkar, Vinayak Gawande, Anant Gawande, Harsh Bhatkar, Madhukar Talwalkar, Dinesh Rao and Girish Naik.“The accused company had taken money from the private bank for one purpose but utilised the funds for some other use with fraudulent intent and this has clearly surfaced during the preliminary inquiry. We have now registered a case against the directors of the group,” said Niket Kaushik, joint commissioner of police, EOW.Panirselvam A, the vice-president of the bank’s treasury department had lodged the complaint against Talwalkars, following which a case was registered at Shivaji Park police station. EOW’s banking-3 unit has now taken over the investigation.As per the FIR, between 2016 and 2019, the two accused companies had submitted false information, concealed their real financial condition and accepted investments from Laxmi Vilas Bank by issuing debentures.“The accused companies and their directors fraudulently hyped credit worthiness of the companies to convince the bank to invest in their business. Initially, the bank received some interest, but later the accused companies started defaulting. The bank claims by doing so, the accused companies caused wrongful loss of about ₹180 crore to it,” said an EOW inspector, who is part of the investigation.He added that during the inquiry, multiple financial irregularities and illegalities emerged, and accordingly, the statements of witnesses were registered.While commenting on the earlier complaint, Prashant Talwalkar had said, “When the alleged irregularities took place, we had no access or control over the financial dealings of the company. We have conveyed our side of the entire matter to EOW officers. We have faith in police and the judiciary. As the matter is sub-judice, I won’t be able to comment further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-fir-against-mumbai-based-talwalkars-for-defrauding-private-bank-of-180-crore-101635187990591.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Baner-Pashan residents see red over garbage segregation at amenity space||PUNE: Residents of Baner Pashan Link Road (BPLR) – a congregation of 60 societies – are fed up of the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) apathy towards their problem of garbage segregation and organic waste dumping being carried out at what are meant to be amenity spaces, repeated complaints notwithstanding. According to the residents, the available amenity spaces are being used for activities like dumping of organic waste and segregation of garbage even as their locality continues to be devoid of utilities such as playgrounds and gardens. Rajendra Chuttar, president, BPLR Welfare Trust, said, “The PMC is blind and is not ready to look into the problems of residents. Or they are pretending to be dumb. Since the past over three years, we have repeatedly complained but it is very surprising that there is no response at all. People are paying heavy taxes but getting a big zero in return…”Ravindra Sinha, secretary, BPLR Welfare Trust, said, “There are two amenity spaces for the welfare of citizens for creation of a garden or playground. At one place (open plot near Regent Plaza), SWACH is carrying out segregation of garbage. While the space has been allotted to them by the PMC, the surrounding buildings are facing a lot of problems.”There is another amenity space near Star Bazaar where residents have been demanding a garden for more than five years now. However, the PMC is using it to dump organic waste and one can see biomass and vermiculture residue falling outside.Sinha said, “The concern is that these spaces which are being used for dumping of organic waste and segregation of garbage are actually meant to provide residents with amenities. What is happening is illogical. The PMC claims they will keep the area clean but being an open air space, it is creating problems for residents. There should be a properly covered segregation plant but they are carrying out segregation in an open space.”As mohalla meetings have ground to a halt due to Covid-19 restrictions, residents are filing complaints on online portals.Meanwhile, Sandip Khalate, Aundh-Baner ward officer, claimed, “The garbage segregation plant is there on a temporary basis and will be removed. It was an open plot and there was no budget issued for the garden so it is being used for garbage segregation. In future, a garden will be built there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/banerpashan-residents-see-red-over-garbage-segregation-at-amenity-space-101635187989360.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Action committee claims debris dumping as blocked nullah in Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary||PUNE The Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary, a treat for bird watchers and nature enthusiasts, is situated by the river between Yerwada and Kalyani nagar. The sanctuary is once again facing the dumping of debris on its precincts. Residents and activists from the area have complained and claim the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials are not paying any heed to the issue.The Dr Salim Ali Bird Sanctuary Action Committee on Monday alleged that despite repeated complaints made at the PMC ward office there has been no action at all, as a result of which a nullah in the bird sanctuary is now blocked. “Before the pandemic, the area was very well taken care of by bird watchers. We had planted trees and carried out cleanliness drives in the stretch near the Mula-Mutha river. However, during lockdown, there has been a decrease in the number of visitors to the sanctuary. Now, we can see that there is debris being dumped in the region,” said action committee volunteer Meghana Baphna. Once popular among birdwatchers within and outside Pune as the “Yerawada Birding Point”, the spot, in its heydays, used to feature at least 30 different species of birdsm including the ruddy shelduck, red wattled lapwings and black headed ibis. However, due to massive garbage dumping and polluted river water, it is no longer frequented by birds, or bird watchers, in large numbers. Pradeep Raheja, another volunteer of the action committee said that there was a natural nullah in the sanctuary. “This nullah is now blocked due to debris dumping in the area. Blocking of such a natural nullah can cause flooding when there is intense rainfall It has also led to mosquito breeding here. Authorities should take action immediately to stop this dumping,” said Raheja. Sameer Nikam, another volunteer from the action committee said that the members will stage a fast on October 30 to highlight the issue. “We have written to several authorities, but no immediate relief has been given. Debris is being dumped as we speak now. To protest this, we will be organising a one day fast on October 30 to spread awareness about the issue and bring attention to this matter,” said Nikam. Assistant municipal commissioner Suhas Jagtap said, “The bird sanctuary is under the forest department. We are looking into the matter of debris dumping. And we will take action against those who are dumping debris in the region.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/action-committee-claims-debris-dumping-as-blocked-nullah-in-salim-ali-bird-sanctuary-101635187874399.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||With private vends shut in Delhi, liquor prices in Gurugram shoot up unbridled||In this season of cheer, Gurugram’s liquor store owners are discovering that their “cup runneth over” , with the fact that almost 40% of Delhi’s liquor stores being shut allowing them to charge a premium. The result: prices of imported liquor and Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) have increased in the city after private liquor shops were shut in Delhi from October 1, a closure that coincided with a seasonal spike in demand on account of the festive season. The price of imported scotch was up by between ₹400 and ₹1,200 for a 1 litrebottle, and that of IMFL whisky by between ₹250 and ₹400. Even beer has become more expensive, by up to ₹300 for a case of 12.  Haryana does not have maximum retail price on liquor bottles, and shopkeepers are selling at a premium. Many store owners said they suffered losses during the pandemic and hope to make good now. The hike in price is because of a transition to the Delhi government’s new excise policy due to which 40% or 260 of the city-state’s liquor shops, all the private owns shut on October 1 and will stay closed till November 16. During the transition, only government-run liquor outlets will remain open. And on November 17, all (including the government owned ones) will reopen under new private management. That’s worked out very well for Gurugram’s liquor store owners, who previously offered discounts to match prices in Delhi which were lower. Sonu Yadav, who owns a liquor store on Golf Course Extension Road said the number of customers has increased, causing a shortage of some kinds and brands of liquor. “We have increased the prices as we have limited stock of the Scotch, which is high in demand. Most of the people are Delhi residents who are buying liquor for gifting purposes.” Shashank Sangal, owner of Aralia Beverages Pvt Ltd claims sales are up almost 40%. Gurugram has almost 400 liquor shops, mostly in prime locations. Ran Niwas Rathi, a resident of DLF Phase 1, said liquor prices differ from shop to shop , and that discounts in the city have now stopped. “For the last 10 days they have stopped giving any discounts and have increased the prices. A single malt which was sold for around ₹5,800 is now being sold at ₹7,000 and shops have stopped all discount offers they had planned for Diwali.” Excise officials have formed teams to keep a check on prices but said they were yet to receive any complaints. VK Beniwal, the deputy commissioner of excise and taxation, Gurugram (east), said the owners of liquor shops have been directed not to charge exorbitant prices and to keep a check on the salesmen as they often try to make money on the side by charging more. “We can only check minimum retail price but if anyone is selling above that, there is no such policy to stop or take action against them,” he said.Delhi residents, meanwhile said they were resigned to travelling to cities in the National Capital Region for their stock.“It will not be wrong to say that liquor is just not available in Delhi any more. Only a few government shops are open which have almost not stock. They only have low-range alcohol on offer. So, people are left with no option but to purchase from Gurugram or Noida. All of us are doing that,” said Akash Tyagi, a resident of Ashok Vihar in north Delhi. A manager at one of the government liquor shops in Malviya Nagar acknowledged that many customers are returning empty handed because the popular brands are unavailable. “The stock of premium liquor is almost nil because manufacturers have signed new contracts with the new licensees which will start operations from November 17. They are on the verge of ending their contracts with the government, so the balances are getting cleared at present,” said the official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-private-vends-shut-in-delhi-liquor-prices-in-gurugram-shoot-up-unbridled-101635187689449.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Pune police form two teams to trace Gosavi||Pune police on Monday said they have formed at least two teams to trace KP Gosavi, an independent witness of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the Mumbai cruise drugs case, who is wanted in connection with a 2018 cheating case registered against him in the city.The local police have already arrested Gosavi’s assistant Sherbano Kureshi in connection with the cheating case filed by one Chinmay Deshmukh has alleged that Gosavi cheated him of ₹3.09 lakh under the pretext of providing him with a job in Malaysia in the hotel industry. Kureshi had received the money in her account.Pune Police had issued a lookout circular to prevent Gosavi from leaving the country. While speaking to news channels, Gosavi over the phone said he is planning to surrender before the police.When contacted, the deputy commissioner of police Priyanka Narnavare said he had not yet approached them.“We came across reports in media in which he is heard saying about surrendering. We have alerted our teams in court and at the police station level, in case he turns himself in,” she said.The DCP said two teams of Pune Police are set out to trace Gosavi.A huge row has erupted after Gosavi was spotted in a selfie with Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan after the latter was arrested by the NCB in connection with the cruise drugs case earlier this month.A video clip that surfaced recently showed Gosavi purportedly recording audio of Aryan Khan at the NCB office in Mumbai, in which hotelier Kunal Jani, who was earlier arrested in a separate drugs case, was also briefly seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-form-two-teams-to-trace-gosavi-101635187629103.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Capital just 30mm rainfall away from eclipsing all-time record||Sunday’s sudden downpour dumped 27.5mm of rain in Delhi, taking the volume of rain recorded in the Capital this year to beyond 1,500mm for the first time since 1933 — and only a little over 30mm shy of the all-time record.Since January 1, the Safdarjung weather station – representative of weather records for the city – has recorded 1,502.8mm of rain. In a typical year, Delhi gets 779mm, which means 2021 has brought the city close to twice the amount of rain as a normal year. The year 1933 is when the city received the most rain over a year at 1,534.3mm.Experts say one or two spells of ‘moderate’ rainfall due to La Nina conditions in the next two months could not only see this record tumble, but bring a harsher, colder winter as well.
26-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The pied piper of B block||The dainty ornamental park at the B block in genteel Hazrat Nizamuddin East is ringed by trees. All day long they swell with the twittering of birds. The surrounding bungalows remain cocooned in quietude.But this morning a different tune is wafting through the air. It can’t be coming from the red house in A block, whose dweller daily practices the piano accompanied by an opera singer’s accomplished voice. This sound is of a bansuri. Has a flautist move into one of these homes?And suddenly the mystery is resolved. The musician is sighted. He is carrying a bouquet of flutes in one hand; the other hand is holding the flute he is playing. The tune, inspired from an old Hindi film song, is extraordinarily calming. One is tempted to suspend whatever one is doing, and settle down into a rocking chair with eyes closed.Qurban Ansari is a hawker of flutes. He commutes from Gurugram to Delhi everyday on hawai chappals. At 18, he has only a whisper of soft moustache lining his upper lip. He lives with parents near the town’s bus stand, and supplements the family income with his street hawking. “I can easily sell the flutes within Gurgaon alone, but I like travelling to great distances.” Mr Ansari’s voice is as markedly dolce as his flute rendition, though he has no familial history with music of any kind. “Father works in the office.” Standing beside a parked car, the young man confesses thar his vending career could have centered on any consumable item “but I always liked bansuri…. even in my childhood, I repeatedly watched the film songs in which the hero played bansuri.” Nobody taught him to play the instrument. “I learnt gradually as I started to sell these (flutes) two years back.”Mr Ansari follows a different itinerary every new day. Today he boarded a bus to Sarai Kale Khan, from where he crossed the rail tracks to reach this central Delhi neighbourhood. He lands here four or five times a month. Showing his flutes, he informs that they are made in Mathura town. “This one is for ₹750 and this one is for just ₹40.” Very often, “instead of buying bansuri, people give me ₹100 or even ₹500 after hearing me play a song.” Once, while walking through B block, he was invited to a residence, and was generously remunerated for his impromptu drawing-room concert.Mr Ansari plans to end the day in Mandi House “where I will board the bus to Kapashera… from there I will get a shared auto to home.” He now walks ahead, with a new tune—this one is of a love song from the film Dilwale Dulhania Le Jayenge||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-pied-piper-of-b-block-101635187282649.html
26-10-2021||Noida||Amrapali project in Noida: Fully paid-up buyers told they have pending payments||On September 5, Amit Tiwari woke up to a rude shock. The 42-year-old insurance professional, owner of a flat in Noida’s Amrapali Sapphire housing project, figured in a list of 10,000-odd homebuyers in a newspaper advertisement. They had all been asked to enter their flat transaction details on an online portal and settle any outstanding amounts within 15 days. Failure to pay up, the advertisement warned, would result in cancellation of their flat allotments. Alarmed, Tiwari rushed to the office of the court receiver (CR) – senior advocate R Venkatramani who was appointed by the Supreme Court in July 2019 to revive and finish all Amrapali housing projects after the real estate developer went bankrupt in 2017-- who had issued the notice. He explained he had paid the full amount of for his flat in Sapphire (as per builder buyer agreement), and its conveyance deed (a document that transfers property rights) was registered in 2020 after being duly verified and cleared by the court receiver himself. “I was told I had not paid ₹18,000 in service tax. But why would the builder (Amrapali) hand me over my flat without full payment?” he asked. Tiwari isn’t alone. Rajiv Punetha, who owns a flat in Amrapali Silicon City, is the first name on the list published on September 5. He said he had made full payment and has been living in the flat since 2015. “There are around 50 flat owners in Amrapali Sapphire alone whose names appear on the list. All their papers have already been verified by the CR office, some once, some twice. At least 18 of them have even got their conveyance deeds registered with CR’s approval post verification,” said commodore R K Srivastava (retired), who heads the Apartment Owners’ Association of the housing society. The notice and associated problems with getting conveyance deeds registered represent the latest hurdle for homebuyers who have spent years hoping to move into their flats and later battled legal tangles due to Amrapali’s alleged financial misappropriations. Amrapali declared bankruptcy in 2017, plunging thousands of homebuyers in Noida and Greater Noida into uncertainty. On July 23, 2019, a two-member Supreme Court bench of justices Arun Mishra and UU Lalit ordered the arrest of promoters Anil Sharma and Shiv Priya, and tasked Venkatramani with reviving seven Amrapali projects in Noida and nine in Greater Noida, which are currently in various stages of development. “It’s a classic case as it set the template for resolution of future disputes between developers and homebuyers. It’s the first case where the Supreme Court took it upon itself to complete the project. The only other template is the case of Unitech where its board of directors was dismissed and replaced with central government nominees for reconstruction of company assets,” said senior advocate ML Lahoty, who represents homebuyers in apex court proceedings. And yet, for the 42,000 people whose dreams of owning a home were put in a limbo by Amrapali’s financial woes, the last two years have brought forth unexpected challenges. Registration of deeds At the time of the Supreme Court order in 2019, around 9,000 Amrapali homebuyers had already moved into their flats after making full payments. In the same order, the apex court also directed that conveyance deeds of all such buyers must be registered within a month. Two years later, hardly 1,600 such deeds have been registered, mostly in the two phases of Amrapali Sapphire, Princely Estate and Platinum, all in Noida, according to data compiled by various residents’ associations. There is no data available on the number of registered deeds on the CR’s portal. Many flat owners say that they are nowhere close to getting legal property rights documented despite endless rounds of document submission and scrutiny. “At least five camps for verification of papers have been held in Silicon City since the Supreme Court order, but we haven’t seen any real progress. No updated data is available. It’s unending torture,” a homebuyer said on condition of anonymity. In a hearing in early 2019, before it appointed Venkatramani as court receiver, the apex court ordered a forensic audit of all transactions of Amrapali group. The report, which contains the list of “undervalued” flats and suspicious transactions, is yet to be put up on the CR’s portal. To be sure, the challenges before Venkatramani were staggering. He had to walk on a legal minefield -- same unit sold to more than one persons, benami transactions, undervalued flats, owners untraceable, arbitrary change in areas of flats for which promoters collected money etc. Another serious problem, allege a cross-section of homebuyers, is the retrospective pricing of flats. For instance, a buyer who managed to get a discount from the erstwhile promoters of Amrapali at the time of booking is being asked to pay the difference now, even though they have made full payments as per the builder-buyer agreement. “This amounts to altogether trashing a legal contract entered into buyer and seller years ago,” said a flat owner, not wishing to be identified. Asked about the fate of homebuyers whose names appeared in the September 5 notice, Venkatramani said, “We are going slow on this. We will take our next action only after a committee appointed by the Supreme Court meets.” He didn’t give a timeline. Stalled projectsVenkatramani informed the Supreme Court on September 3 that a consortium of six banks -- Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of India, Bank of India, UCO Bank, and Punjab and Sind Bank-- had agreed to fund stalled Amrapali projects, which account for 33,000-odd housing units. “We already have funds for works in six projects -- Silicon City-1, Silicon City-2, Crystal Homes, Centurion Low Rise, O2 Valley and Tropical Gardens. Work is going on smoothly and we hope to deliver units on time,” said KP Mahadeva Swamy, the executive director of NBCC (India) Ltd, a Navratna central public sector enterprise assigned the task of project monitoring and construction by the apex court in its July 2019 order. But some residents of partially completed projects have raised doubts over the NBCC’s quality of work, complaining of waterfalls in basements, long power shutdowns without sufficient notice and general lack of accountability. “On September 11, there was a minor blast at the electrical substation at Silicon City that left two of the workers injured and around 10,000 residents in 2,500-odd flats sweating it out without power for over 17 hours. Over the last 2-3 months, the housing society has faced over 100 hours of power shutdowns announced at very short notices,” one of the residents said on condition of anonymity. Asked for a response on NBCC’s working, Venkatramani declined to respond. An NBCC official, asking not to be identified, blamed the delay on the lack of cooperation by electricity distribution companies and other agencies. The official, however, declined to comment on the poor quality of work. Lahoty blamed the delay on paucity of funds despite the Supreme Court’s repeated pleas to the banks. “For the last one year, the court has been asking banks to consider lending for Amrapali projects, but lenders have been shy of committing funds. In one of the recent hearings, the Supreme Court went to the extent of saying that the highest court of the land was the guarantor, after which banks have agreed to release loans. Things look bright now,” he added. No Amrapali representative was available for comment as its directors are still in jail and its offices have been sealed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/amrapali-project-in-noida-fully-paid-up-buyers-told-they-have-pending-payments-101635187389242.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||East Delhi likely to soon get two more CNG crematoriums||East Delhi may soon get two more crematoriums equipped with CNG furnaces. A proposal to set up the facilities in Seemapuri and Jwala Nagar, with the help of NGOs, was cleared by the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Monday. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the corporation had set up CNG crematoriums in Ghazipur and Karkardooma Shamshan Bhumi, where two furnaces each are currently operational. The pandemic — especially the second wave when 13,210 people died of Covid-19 in the months of April and May, as per government records— had brought to the fore the glaring need for additional crematoriums.A senior EDMC official from the public health department said the CNG units will provide eco-friendly, economical and faster cremation options. The house also cleared several other policy proposals on Monday including the project of allowing milk booths/kiosks in municipal parks in lieu of handing over the maintenance of select parks, EDMC spokesperson Rakesh Gupta said. The corporation also cleared the proposal to appoint an agency for carrying out bio-mining of 50 lakh tonnes of legacy waste accumulated in Ghazipur landfill site. The agency, which will be selected after inviting open bids, will also be responsible for disposal of excavated material, reclamation of land and development of new engineered landfill facility at the same site. Gupta said a period of 27 months has been fixed for the entire process. The dumpsite in Ghazipur was established in 1984 and it is one of the major landfill sites in the country that has accumulated over 14 million tonnes of legacy waste. The landfill site is spreads over 70 acres and a deadline of September 2024 has been fixed for clearing the entire space. Mayor Shyam Sunder Aggarwal had granted anticipatory approval to this proposal on September 30, 2021.The EDMC house on Monday turned down and “referred back” the proposal from the executive wing to lease out the office space in newly constructed zonal headquarter building in Karkardooma. With construction work of the 12-storey office space nearing completion, the municipal commissioner had proposed to lease out office space of around 1 lakh square feet for revenue generation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/east-delhi-likely-to-soon-get-two-more-cng-crematoriums-101635187332499.html
26-10-2021||Mumbai||Two kids drown in water pit in Antop Hill at south Mumbai||Two children have died by drowning in a 10-feet-deep water pit at Antop Hill area on Monday. The pit was dug for some pipeline repairing work, but was left unguarded and without barricading, leading to the deaths. A Mumbai Police spokesperson said the Antop Hill police have registered two accidental death reports (ADRs) and are further investigating the matter. They will soon register a case of causing death by negligence against the contractor who was carrying out the repairing work.The victims have been identified as Yashkumar Chandravanshi, 11, and Shivam Jaiswal, 9, both residents of a local slum. According to the police, the central public works department has given the contract of a pipeline-repairing work for CGS Colony in Antop Hill to the contractor. He had dug a pit for the purpose of repairing work at sector 7.On Monday around 4pm, some kids who were playing in the area saw the victims in the pit. They raised an alarm, following which the locals pulled the children out and rushed them to the civic-run Lokmanya Tilak Hospital in Sion. However, they were declared dead on admission.A police officer said they are inquiring with locals to verify if the children fell in the pit or died while trying to swim. Some children from local slum used to swim in the pit, said locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-kids-drown-in-water-pit-in-antop-hill-at-south-mumbai-101635187330403.html
26-10-2021||Other||Noida authority to inaugurate six infra projects before Diwali||The Noida authority will inaugurate six projects (with a total budget of nearly ₹160 crore) in November this year, just before Diwali. Officials on Monday said the work on these projects has been completed. Diwali this year will be celebrated on November 4. One of the major projects is an underpass (with a budget of nearly ₹59.33 crore) located at the traffic intersection between sectors 71-72 and 51-52.The officials said that the Noida authority will provide “much-needed relief” to the thousands of daily commuters who have been facing traffic snarls at this point since the work started, as vehicles had to be diverted to the service lane.“The work on the 780metre-long stretch along the road above has been completed and painting works will be finished prior to its opening ahead of Diwali this year. This underpass will provide a smooth commute to at least 50,000 motorists every day on this stretch, which connects Noida with Greater Noida West,” said Rajiv Tyagi, chief general manager of Noida authority.Once ready, the underpass will make the ride from Vikas Marg, the arterial road linking Noida to Greater Noida West, and Vishwakarma Marg, which connects the expressway in the city to Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram, much smoother, officials said.In June 2019, the Noida authority had started working on the project and the original deadline was set for December 2020. It got delayed because of the restrictions in place following the Covid-19 outbreak, according to the officials.The other five projects on the list are a mini stadium in Sarfabad (built at a cost of ₹54.16 crore), developmental work in industrial areas in sectors 145, 151 and 158 (at a cost of ₹39.59 crore), an entry gate at the Noida-Greater Noida border (built at a cost of ₹4.99 crore), and an entry gate between sectors 157 and 159 (built at a cost of ₹1.6 crore).The Noida authority will also inaugurate seven more projects worth nearly ₹480 crore by December-end 2021, before the model code of conduct is put in place in view of the Uttar Pradesh assembly elections in 2022, officials added. These projects include a bus terminal in Sector 82 for ₹204 crore, three underpasses on the Noida Expressway for ₹204 crore, resurfacing on the Noida Expressway for ₹61.54 crore, a cow shelter near the Sector 15A park for ₹7.12 crore, and an entry gate at the Kalindi Kunj Delhi-Noida border for ₹2.72 crore.“Thousands of commuters, who use the Noida Expressway, will be benefitted once these underpasses are opened for the public. The work has been fast-tracked, and the projects are scheduled to be ready for use by December-end,” Tyagi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-authority-to-inaugurate-six-infra-projects-before-diwali-101635187329204.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi man stabbed, friend injured in argument over payment for gutka||In yet another instance of murder and violence over a trivial issue, an 18-year-old man was killed and his friend injured after they were attacked with a sharp weapon on Sunday night in north-east Delhi’s Seemapuri, allegedly by a shopkeeper and his two associates following an argument over payment for a packet of chewing tobacco (gutka).The main attacker, identified as Narsingh, 45, was arrested along with his cousin, Hemant,28, and friend, Mohammad Amir,30. Narshingh and Amir were drunk at the time of the crime, police said. A pair of scissors that Narsingh used to attack the two men has been recovered, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said around 11.30pm Sunday, the police received information from Guru Teg Bahadur (GTB) hospital that two persons were admitted there with stab wounds. A police team reached the hospital and learnt that one of the injured men, identified by a single name as Shoaib, was declared brought dead. He had suffered a stab wound to the chest, which punctured his heart, the DCP said, quoting doctors. His injured friend was identified also by a single name as Suhail,18, and he suffered a stab wound to his abdomen, the DCP said. A case of murder and attempt to murder was registered and investigation was taken up. During the investigation, the victims’ two friends, Anees and Subhan, told the police that their friend Sameer had gone to buy gutka from a shop in Old Seemapuri around 9.30pm. The kiosk was run by Narsingh, who was consuming liquor with his friend Amir.“Narsingh’s cousin, Hemant, was present at the shop when Sameer went to buy gutka. An altercation broke out between the two over payment for gutka. Hemant put a towel around Sameer’s neck and pulled him. Sameer left after threatening Hemant,” said the DCP, quoting the statement of the arrested persons as well as the victims’ two friends.Police said Sameer informed his friends Anees, Subhan, Suhail, Shoaib and Arshad about the altercation. Thereafter, all six persons went to Narsingh’s shop to teach Hemant a lesson. They overpowered Hemant and began assaulting him. As Amir tried to intervene, they assaulted him as well.“Seeing that, Narshingh picked up a pair of scissors and stabbed Shoaib and Suhail. The six people panicked and ran away. On the way, Shoaib and Suhail complained of breathlessness. They were taken to a local doctor, who referred them to GTB hospital,” said the DCP, adding that the police are looking for Sameer to get his version of the events that led to the fight.This is the sixth case of murder over trivial issues in the city this month. On October 8, a 30-year-old taxi driver was stabbed to death allegedly by his friends after he turned down their request to give them a free ride to their homes in his cab in north-west Delhi’s Sawan Park near Ashok Vihar. Both the alleged attackers were arrested – one by the public from the crime spot and the other following police raids the same night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-stabbed-friend-injured-in-argument-over-payment-for-gutka-101635187209082.html
26-10-2021||Noida||With 12 fresh cases, dengue tally in Gautam Budh Nagar hits 338; 1 death so far||Amidst an increase in the dengue cases in Gautam Budh Nagar, the total tally in the district reached 338 with 12 fresh cases reported on Sunday, officials said on Monday. This year, the district also reported the first dengue death on October 19, after a 14-year-old boy died of the vector-borne disease.Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “The total number of dengue cases this season has reached 338 so far. There are 52 active cases, and others have been cured. A 14-year-old boy died of dengue on October 19 -- the first such death in the district.”The 14-year-old lived with his family in Noida Sector 12, and was admitted to a nearby private hospital, where he died during treatment. A team from the health department in Gautam Budh Nagar has launched a fogging exercise Noida in Sector 12 following the boy’s death.The rising number of dengue cases in the district is a matter of concern as the number of such cases in Gautam Budh Nagar this year is the highest in the past decade.According to official data, the district health department recorded 14 dengue cases in 2012, 69 in 2013, nil in 2014, 176 in 2015, 17 in 2016, 13 in 2017, 28 in 2018, 40 in 2019, and 28 in 2020.VB Joshi, manager of Kailash Hospital in Noida Sector 27, said that the patients of viral fevers are on the rise this year. “There are nearly 150 patients with viral fevers, and with similar symptoms in the hospital. Some of them are most probably suffering from dengue. We have put additional beds to cater to these patients,” he said.“Dengue cases are being monitored daily, and the situation is under control as the patients are recovering quickly. There are also fewer critical cases... We are carrying out testing in areas where fresh cases are being reported, and conducting extensive fogging and anti-larvae medicine spraying drives,” Sharma said, adding that five rapid response teams (RRTs) have been formed in the district and block levels, to inform and take action on viral fever cases immediately.“We have also advised the people to take precautions to be safe from catching dengue. People should regularly clean areas and prevent mosquito breeding. They should use mosquito nets while sleeping so as to avoid mosquito bites. They should consult doctors if they suffer from symptoms of fever, body ache, joint pain, skin rashes among others,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-12-fresh-cases-dengue-tally-in-gautam-budh-nagar-hits-338-1-death-so-far-101635187149158.html
26-10-2021||Other||Uttar Pradesh: Discoms asked to adjust interest on security deposit in electricity bills||Lucknow: Power consumers’ long wait to get the bank interest on their security deposits that they paid to the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) while taking an electricity connection seems to be over now. The UPPCL has finally set in motion the process of feeding the amount of the security deposits in official records and then start paying the same to them, albeit, in a staggered manner. UPPCL managing director Pankaj Kumar has written to all the five state-owned discoms asking them to immediately start feeding consumer’s security deposit amount in computers and start adjusting the same in the electricity bills as per the formula chalked out by the Board of Director on July 29, 2021. According to an estimate, in UP there are around 50 lakh power consumers whose security deposit data have not been fed and never got annual interest payable to them since 2003 when the Electricity Act came into being mandating discoms to pay interest on the security deposit at the prevailing RBI bank rate or more once a year. The UPPCL has not been regular and consistent in paying the interest to other consumers as well. Kumar, in his circular dated October 21, has asked the discom MDs to ensure that the data related to amount of security deposit of 12,10,698 consumers who subscribed to an electricity connection prior to 1993 was entered into official records at the division level within next two months. “Discoms will also ensure feeding of the security deposit amount of 37,94,465 consumers having electricity connections of 2kw and below within two months,” he added. The MD further said that there were 29,725 consumers using power load above 10kw. “These are the consumers whose power connection date is fed, but the security deposit amount is not fed. Discoms must see to it that the interest amount is calculated in respect of all such consumers,” he said, asking discoms to rectify another 16,028 consumers’ inflated security deposit amount. Welcoming the UPPCL’s move, UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad, chairman Awadhesh Kumar Verma, who filed several petitions in the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) demanding payment of interest to consumers, said, “It is a good decision that will enable lakhs of power consumers to get their lawful due.” A year ago, the consumers’ consolidated security deposits which the five discoms had together stood at ₹3,164.03 crore in 2019. The commission, a few months ago, had also passed an order asking the UPPCL to pay interest on security deposits and warned of action in the event of non-compliance. Security deposit that is refundable on surrender of the power connection is charged, in the case of domestic consumers, at the rate of ₹300per kw. The amount is much higher in case of commercial and industrial consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttar-pradesh-discoms-asked-to-adjust-interest-on-security-deposit-in-electricity-bills-101635187091366.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt launches e-auto mela to encourage prospective buyers||Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Monday inaugurated an electric auto-rickshaw mela at the Institute of Driving, Training and Research (IDTR) in Sarai Kale Khan. The exhibition is aimed at encouraging prospective auto drivers, especially women, to buy an e-auto and use it as a means of self-employment. The exhibition is simultaneously being held daily from 9am to 4pm at two locations-- IDTR Sarai Kale Khan and Loni-- and will continue till October 31.“The visiting prospective e-auto drivers of Delhi will be able to see and drive all the available models of e-autos and explore the attractive loan terms available. E-auto manufacturers Mahindra, Piaggio, and ETO Motors, and financiers such as Mahindra Finance, Bajaj Fincorp, Convergence Energy Services Limited (CESL) are participating in the Mela. The experts at the e-auto mela will also guide the applicants on how to register for the e-autos and will brief them about the various environmental benefits of e-autos, their batteries and how to charge them, maintenance methods, subsidies, interest relief etc. and allow test drives of various models,” said Gahlot. With this, Delhi intends to induct the largest number of e-autos in any Indian city. In the two months, these autos will start plying on Delhi roads, he said. “I appeal to not just auto drivers, but all license holders of LMVs (light motor vehicles) in Delhi to visit and learn the benefits of getting an e-auto. They can also drive and see the e-autos,” the minister said. Under the ongoing campaign, which is in accordance with the city’s electric vehicle (EV) policy, a total of 4,261 e-auto permits are up for grabs in Delhi, and of these, at least 1,406 (33%) are reserved for women. The application window is open only till November 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-e-auto-mela-to-encourage-prospective-buyers-101635187090368.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Three injured as fight breaks out in Tihar Jail; four arrested||At least three prisoners were injured after a fight broke out between two groups of inmates at Tihar’s Jail Number 1 on Saturday evening. All three of them were attacked with a sharp object, police said.Four inmates were arrested on charges of attempt to murder and assault. The exact reason behind the fight is being ascertained, jailers and police said. The arrested prisoners were identified as Rohit Kapoor, Rajesh, Sunil Sehrawat, and Sandeep Dalal. They are from cell number-2 and ward number-7 of jail-1, the police said.A senior police officer said the incident took place on Saturday and the police were informed about the injured persons by the authorities of Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital, where the inmates were admitted with stab wounds.“We received the medico legal cases (MLCs) of Pinku (24), Sunil Sherawat (32) and Sunny (32). They received injuries from a sharp object. Sunil and Pinku were referred to Safdarjung Hospital while Sunny’s statement was recorded.A complaint from seputy superintendent of Central Jail Number-1 was received regarding the incident and a case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 34 (common intension) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Hari Nagar police station, the officer said, adding that further probe is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-injured-as-fight-breaks-out-in-tihar-jail-four-arrested-101635187089140.html
26-10-2021||Other||{Drugs charges on cops} Punjab wants sealed cover reports on role of officers examined||Chandigarh The Punjab government on Monday moved the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking the opening of some sealed cover reports filed on the role of Punjab police officers in drugs cases. The application was taken up by the bench of justice AG Masih and justice AK Verma and posted for hearing on Tuesday, when the main case on the state’s drugs menace, Bhola Drugs Racket is to be taken up for hearing. The court is to examine on Tuesday whether the sealed cover reports on role of influential persons on drugs trafficking submitted in 2017-2018 by the state Special Investigating Team (SIT), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and a government panel can be opened. Now, the court will also take up Monday’s plea from the state in which government is seeking that one report submitted by another SIT led by S Chattopadhyaya and a report signed singularly by him be opened. These reports were submitted on May 8, 2018. It also demands opening of two more status reports filed on January 30, 2018 and March 15, 2018 submitted by the SIT. All these reports are lying in a sealed cover before registrar judicial of the high court. “The investigating agency could not proceed further against the delinquent officers/ persons whose role has been inquired into at the asking of this court and the reports submitted by the SIT headed by S Chattopadhyaya as well as by (then) STF head Harpreeet Singh Sidhu are lying in sealed covers,” Punjab’s plea says adding that there is urgency to file this plea in public interest, so as to control the drug mafia operating in Punjab and to bring the “delinquent to book”. The Chattopadhyaya, led SIT was roped in by the high court in December 15, 2017 to probe a case involving then Moga SSP Raj Jit Singh Hundal. In this case an inspector and a former DSP were accused. The case was being probed by then special task force on drugs headed by HS Sidhu. As Hundal alleged “implication” at the hands of Sidhu, the high court constituted fresh SIT for this case with Chattopadhyaya and two others, IPS officer, Prabodh Kumar and former IPS officer Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, as members. TWO REPORTS FILED ON SAME DAY IN 2018 One of the two reports filed on May 8, 2018 by the then Chattopadhyaya before high court in Hundal’s case, deals with the “role” of the then DGP, Suresh Arora and DGP, Dinkar Gupta. However, two other members of SIT Prabodh Kumar and Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh had not associated themselves with this report, which talks about “role” of these two. The second report was signed by all three officers. On May 23, 2018, the high court while taking both the reports on record had said that “all these reports need to be examined in conjunction with reference to the issues formulated by this court or the task assigned to the SIT by way of orders passed from time to time.” The then advocate general Atul Nanda had opposed the report, filed singularly by Chattopadhyaya. After this hearing, the issue of these reports has not been taken up. Pertinently, it was during the hearing of Hundal’s case that Chattopadhyaya, in March 2018, had alleged that he was being “implicated” in the suicide case of Inderpreet Chadha, son of former Chief Khalsa Diwan president Charanjit Singh Chadha, due to his investigation into the drugs case. Acting on his plea, the high court had stayed probe against Chattopadhyaya in the suicide case. Chadha shot himself on January 3, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drugs-charges-on-cops-punjab-wants-sealed-cover-reports-on-role-of-officers-examined-101635186848856.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Temperature to fall in the coming days, pollution expected to rise in Delhi||It is going to get colder in the city as cold winds blowing into Delhi from states that have recently reported snowfall, India Meteorological Department scientists said, adding that the minimum temperature may reach 14 degrees by the end of this month, normal for this time of the season.On Monday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which provides representative data for the entire city, was 28.4 degrees Celsius, three degrees below what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature was 16.4 degrees Celsius.At the Palam weather station, the maximum temperature was 28 degrees Celsius, and the minimum was recorded at 18.2 degrees Celsius.
26-10-2021||Delhi||During Delhi’s Master Plan 2041 public hearing, DDA’s ‘haste’ draws flak||From noise pollution concerns to problems with mixed land use policy, the issues raised by residents on Monday, during the third public hearing on the draft Master Plan of Delhi 2041 (MPD-2041), touched upon the five key subjects of economy, shelter, environment, transport and mobility, and physical infrastructure.The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has divided the public hearings, which are being held online between October 18 and November 10, into nine parts. On Monday, DDA officials invited over 1,200 people to discuss MPD-2041 chapters related to economy, shelter, environment, transport and mobility, and physical infrastructure. The draft MPD-2041, which is the vision document for the city’s development for the next two decades, was put in the public domain in June this year.During the hearing, many questioned the urgency shown by the DDA in completing the entire public consultation process in a hasty manner to finalise the master plan. “The DDA plans to decide the future (the development over the next 20 years) of Delhi citizens in 20 seconds. When there are no Covid restrictions, why is the DDA insisting on holding public hearings online? Why do they want to rush everything? Those belonging to the economically weaker sections are unable to present their views, as they don’t have the equipment or access to internet,” said Vishal Ohri, general secretary, LSC Federation of Delhi, a traders’ body.Refuting the claims made by residents, a senior DDA official said on condition of anonymity, “This is incorrect. All people were given adequate time. Many of them spoke multiple times also.”BS Vohra, president of East Delhi RWA joint front, said he got less than two minutes to put forward his point before DDA officials during the public hearing. Vohra said the entire process is faulty, as the DDA has no data or assessment on existing population, housing, transport requirement, water availability and increase in demand. “They are planning for the next 20 years based on the 2011 Census data. The DDA doesn’t have any data about existing housing. What is the projected demand for housing? How will the water requirement be met? These are questions that DDA should answer first. The MPD should link provision for new developments to availability of water,” said Vohra.Another pressing concern raised by residents’ welfare associations was regarding the provision of mixed land use. Rajiv Kakria, convener of Save Our City campaign, said, “Despite the strong protest of all RWAs and observations by multiple courts, the DDA has not done away with the provision of mixed land use. This provision will turn entire Delhi into a marketplace. This non-stop commercialisation of residential areas needs to stop.”Other RWA members and trader bodies of planned commercial complexes also raised the issue. They said planned commercial centres will not develop if the conversion of residential property for commercial use is allowed.From the Walled City (Old Delhi) areas, traders demanded that the new MPD-2041 have the special area regulations so that properties are protected from the stringent action taken by municipal corporations. “Due to ambiguity in master plan provisions, traders have to live in the fear of sealing. The MPD-2041 should clearly state provisions for pre-1962 markets and properties in Walled City,” said Sanjay Gupta, who has an office in Chandni Chowk.The draft MPD-2041 proposes new policies such as redevelopment of unauthorised colonies, provision for night time economy, promoting nightlife etc. But people said the land-owning agency should fix a timeline for implementing these policies.Bhupender Bazad, member of master plan committee, Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch, said, “There are so many policies such as transit oriented development, land pooling etc., which were proposed in 2013 but are yet to see the light of the day. What’s the point of planning policies, when there is no mechanism in place to ensure its timely implementation? It is the people who suffer due to lack of implementation of policies.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/during-delhi-s-master-plan-2041-public-hearing-dda-s-haste-draws-flak-101635186008812.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Hospital beds fill up fast as dengue cases cross 1,000-mark in Delhi||After a massive second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) earlier this year, hospitals in the city are now witnessing a surge in dengue cases -- the figure crossed the 1,000-mark as 283 new cases were reported in the city last week -- with doctors reporting over 60% increase in the number of cases over the last month.The Capital reported 1,006 cases of dengue till Saturday, of which 665 were reported in October alone, according to the weekly report released by the municipal corporations of Delhi.To be sure, October is the month that the city sees the highest number of dengue cases each year – 346 cases of dengue were reported in October last year, accounting for 32.2% of the cases reported in the entire year; 787 cases (38.6%) in 2019; and 1,114 cases (39.8%) in 2018.With the increase in the number of cases, fever beds in hospitals are filling up fast in the city, doctors said.
26-10-2021||Delhi||Raids at residences, offices of former Unitech promoters, 32 Tihar jail officers||At least 37 teams of the Delhi Police on Monday conducted raids at the residences and offices of former Unitech promoters, Ajay Chandra and Sanjay Chandra, and Tihar jail officers as part of their probe in a case against 32 jail officers for helping the Chandra brothers operate a “secret underground office in south Delhi”. The raids were conducted in Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan by the police’s crime branch.All the accused 32 jail officials were posted in jail number 7 of Tihar, where the Chandra brothers were lodged until the morning of August 28, before being shifted to Arthur Road and Taloja jails in Maharashtra on the orders of the Supreme Court.The accused jail officers include one superintendent, one deputy superintendent, seven assistant superintendent, 10 head warders, 11 warders and two contractual employees. One of the contractual employees is a data entry operator and another is a nursing orderly. Police said they seized cell phones, bank statements and other documents of all the accused during the raids.Confirming the raids, Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, “Prominent places where crime branch teams conducted search and seizure operations include residences of Unitech Ltd owners, Ramesh Chandra, Ajay Chandra, Sanjay Chandra, and their employees. Search and seizure have also been conducted at the residences of former Superintendent of Tihar Jail No 7, former deputy superintendent, assistant superintendents, head warders, warders and contractual staff of Tihar Jail.”Biswal also added that police have seized evidence in the form of mobile phones and documents: “The investigation is underway.”The Supreme Court had on August 26 asked police commissioner Rakesh Asthana to personally conduct an enquiry and look into the role of jail officers who helped the former Unitech promoters violate prison rules. As part of the probe, Asthana had recorded statements of all jail officers, inspected jail 7 in Tihar and also questioned the former Unitech promoters at the two jails in Maharashtra. After reading Asthana’s enquiry report, the Supreme Court had on October 6 ordered the government to suspend the officers named in the report, and also register an FIR in the case.The Chandra brothers were arrested in April 2017 for duping homebuyers in 74 Unitech projects. The two are also being probed by the Enforcement Directorate. The ED in a report to the apex court in August had said that the two men were instructing their people outside on how to transfer the proceeds of crime. The ED had said that it also unearthed a secret underground office’ in Delhi, which was being operated by erstwhile Unitech founder Ramesh Chandra and visited by his sons Sanjay and Ajay, when they were on parole or bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/raids-at-residences-offices-of-former-unitech-promoters-32-tihar-jail-officers-101635185830163.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||One dead as SUV rams goods tempo on Outer Ring Road in southeast Delhi||A 35-year-old driver of a goods tempo was killed and three others, including a 15-year-old boy, were injured after a speeding MG Hector car hit the three-wheeler they were travelling in on Outer Ring Road near Nehru Place in southeast Delhi in the early hours of Monday, police said.The errant car driver, identified as 25-year-old Aditya Khurana, was caught at the spot by the policemen who were on duty in the area, said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Esha Pandey.“Khurana was driving the MG Hector car under the influence of alcohol. He was arrested and booked for rash and negligent driving causing death and injuries. A case under Indian Penal Code’s sections 304A, 279 and 337 was registered against him,” said Pandey.Police said that around 2am on Monday, the police control room received information regarding an accident near Bhairo Mandir. A police team reached the spot and found that an MG Hector car had hit a Champion tempo from behind on the Nehru Place-Okhla carriageway.“The impact of the hit was so powerful that the cabin of the Champion Tempo got detached from the carrier used for transporting goods,” said a police officer associated with the accident case.According to the officer, two persons, including the driver, were inside the driver’s cabin while two others were on the carrier when the mishap took place. All four persons suffered serious injuries and were taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre in an ambulance and a police vehicle.“The driver of the tempo, identified as Radhey Shyam, was declared dead on arrival. He had suffered severe head injuries. The other injured persons are undergoing treatment,” the officer added.The two injured men were identified as 21-year-old Pankaj (known by his first name) and 36-year-old Neeraj Aggarwal. The identity of the injured minor boy has been withheld.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-dead-as-suv-rams-goods-tempo-on-outer-ring-road-in-southeast-delhi-101635185768840.html
26-10-2021||Delhi||Three injured as auto-rickshaw flips during snatching bid in south Delhi||A 41-year-old woman fractured her collarbone, and her 48-year-old friend and the driver of the auto-rickshaw in which the two were travelling suffered injuries after the vehicle overturned as she fought two men on a bike who tried to snatch her phone on the Sarai Kale Khan flyover in south Delhi on Friday, police said.The snatchers sped away with the cellphone, leaving behind the two women and the auto driver injured on the flyover. They have not been arrested so far, police said. The incident, latest in a series of snatching cases in which the victims suffered fatal or serious injuries besides losing their property, came to light on Monday.On Monday, Tashi Yangzon Bhutia, who is a native of Darjeeling, visited a private hospital where the doctors told her that she will have to undergo a surgery for her fractured left collarbone that will cost around ₹1 lakh, police said.She said her friend, Tsering Wangmo, who had come to Delhi from Madhya Pradesh’s Indore to buy readymade garments for her business, suffered injuries to her legs and hands. Wangmo returned to Indore on Sunday.Police said the auto driver, identified as Monu, suffered serious head injuries as he was trapped under the toppled auto-rickshaw.According to Delhi Police data, Delhi reported 5,108 snatching cases till 15 this year -- 851 more than what was reported during the same period in 2020.When contacted over phone about Friday’s snatching incident, Wangmo said she was travelling in an auto with Bhutia towards Majnu Ka Tila in north Delhi from East of Kailash in south Delhi. Bhutia was seated on the left side of the rear seat, and was holding her iPhone in her hand. Around 1 pm, when the auto was crossing the Sarai Kale Khan flyover, two bike-borne men wearing helmets started riding parallel to the auto.“Suddenly, the pillion rider tried to snatch my friend’s (Bhutia’s) iPhone from her hand. When she resisted, she slipped and her left leg came out of the auto rickshaw. The sudden jerk caused by my friend resisting the snatchers led to the auto driver losing control over the vehicle. The auto overturned and both of us fell on the road. The auto driver, however, came under the vehicle. The snatchers fled with my sister’s phone,” said Wangmo.According to Wangmo, some passersby stopped and helped them. One of them used her phone to inform the police about the crime. A police team arrived and rushed the three injured to Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital.“After treatment all the three injured were discharged from the hospital. The statements of the injured persons were recorded and accordingly a case of voluntarily causing hurt in committing a robbery and common intention was registered under Indian Penal Code’s sections 394 and 34 at the Sunlight Colony police station. An investigation is on,” said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) Esha Pandey.Bhutia, who has been living in Delhi for the past 11 years and runs a hair extension business, said this is the second such violent incident that she has faced in the city in the past couple of years. According to her, she faced another snatching in north Delhi’s Civil Lines areas, however she did not remember the year.“That time, I was travelling in a cycle-rickshaw and my daughter was sitting in my lap. The criminals tried to snatch my purse. I resisted their attempt. They gave up because my daughter was in my lap and we could have fallen down from the moving rickshaw,” said Bhutia, refusing to speak further on the incident, saying she was in extreme pain because of the fracture.In a series on crime in Delhi in March, HT reported that unemployed, illiterate, school drop-outs, arrested for the first time are common threads that connect almost every person arrested for snatching in Delhi since 2018, highlighting how one of the most serious concerns on the streets of the national capital is also its biggest gateway crime.On February 27 this year, a woman was stabbed to death in north Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar even as she held her two-year-old daughter in her arms while trying to defend herself against snatchers.On August 22, a 38-year-old woman suffered injuries and later succumbed to them after she fell out of a moving e-rickshaw, and dragged on the road by two bike-borne snatchers in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri. The snatchers fled with her purse containing her cellphone and other articles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-injured-as-auto-rickshaw-flips-during-snatching-bid-in-south-delhi-101635185590909.html
26-10-2021||Pune||Fire at furniture godown in Gangadham area in Pune; no casualties reported||PUNE: A fire broke out at a furniture godown in Gangadham area on Monday night.The fire department initially sent 15 fire tenders to the godown located at Sriji Lawns.No casualties were reported from the fire which was reported at 8:43pm. The dousing process ended at 10:22pm while the cooling process took hours.“It was a furniture godown. The fire has been doused. No casualties were found initially. Cooling process is on. Private tankers were also called,” read a statement from a fire brigade spokesperson.The fire damaged the products in the godown completely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-at-furniture-godown-in-gangadham-area-101635183727930.html
26-10-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: On fodder from Lalu, Cong tweaks strategy||The state Congress has tweaked its strategy in the middle of campaigning for the October 30 bypolls in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly constituencies in the wake of its bitter fallout with ally Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), party leaders said.In its bid to paint disparaging remarks by RJD chief Lalu Prasad against All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, as an assault on the Dalit self-respect, the state Congress has decided to field senior leaders of the community, including former Lok Sabha speaker Meira Kumar, for the campaign for its nominees, Atirek Kumar and Rajesh Mishra from Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur, respectively.Meira Kumar is likely to join the campaigning from Tuesday. Other party MLAs hailing from scheduled castes (SCs), like Rajesh Ram, Poonam Paswan, Murari Gautam, have been given block-wise responsibility to mobilise Dalit votes for the party. “The outbursts of Prasad reflect RJD’s anti-Dalit mentality,” said former Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Anil Sharma.Former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) leader Kanhaiya Kumar, who recently joined Congress, has already been holding public meeting with packed crowds in Tarapur ever since he reached the state on October 22. “Kumar has addressed two public meetings in Kusheshwar Asthan, where he would stay till the last date of campaigning,” said party MLC Prem Chandra Mishra, who has been camping there.The party, insiders say, has also decided to “expose” the anti-Muslim role the erstwhile Janata Dal, of which RJD is an off-shoot, allegedly played in the aftermath of Bhagalpur riots in 1989. BPCC working president Kaukab Quadri is out with his teams of senior Muslim faces of the party, they said. “Popular Urdu poet Imran Pratapgarhi would also adding spice to the party’s electioneering from Tuesday,” said BPCC chief spokesman Rajesh Rathore.Accusing the RJD of back-stabbing minorities, Sharma alleged that then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi took serious exception to the Bhagalpur riots and removed the party’s chief minister and ordered a judicial inquiry. “But Janata Dal not only protected the perpetrators of the riots, but also awarded key conspirators,” alleged Sharma, adding that the Congress has finally freed itself of RJD’s clutches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-bypolls-on-fodder-from-lalu-cong-tweaks-strategy-101635178208106.html
26-10-2021||Lucknow||Health infra mission will prepare country to fight future pandemics, says PM||VARANASI Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the ₹64,000-crore Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission will also prepare the country to fight future pandemics.“Ayushman Bharat Mission has been launched to give strength to the health infrastructure of the country, including UP, so that there are high level preparations to prevent and deal with future pandemics. This also aims at bringing self-confidence and self-reliance in our healthcare system,” said Modi while launching the national medical infrastructure mission during his visit to Varanasi.The PM also inaugurated various development projects worth more than ₹5,200 crore for his constituency, while addressing a public rally in Varanasi. “No other place could be better than Kashi for launching the mission as it is the abode of Lord Shiva and Shakti,” he said. “After independence, for a long period, health facilities and infrastructure were not given much attention. The previous governments deprived the country’s healthcare system of facilities,“ alleged Modi. He said villages lacked hospitals while hospitals at block level lacked testing facilities and district hospitals didn’t have facilities for treatment of serious diseases.“In big hospitals, there were long queues and patients had to wait for long. There were shortcomings in the healthcare system,” he added. The PM said there were three major aspects of the Ayushman Bharat Mission to address gaps in the health sector. The first was related to the creation of elaborate facilities for diagnostics and treatment. Under this, health and wellness centres were being opened in villages and cities to provide facilities for early detection of diseases. The second aspect of the scheme was related to the testing network for diagnosis of diseases. A total of 730 districts of the country would get integrated public health labs and 3,000 blocks would get block public health units. Apart from that, five regional national centres for disease control, 20 metropolitan units, and 15 BSL labs will further strengthen this network, said Modi.The third aspect, according to the PM, was the expansion of existing research institutions that study pandemics. The existing 80 viral diagnostic and research labs will be strengthened, 15 bio-safety level labs will be operationalised, four new national institutes of virology and a national institute for health were being established. “This means, through PM Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission, an entire ecosystem for services – from treatment to critical research will be created in every corner of the country,” he said.“Our government understands the pain of the exploited, deprived and backward lot. Earlier, public money used to go into scams, but today it is being used for big projects, said the PM. He added: “The speed with which new medical colleges are being opened in UP will have great impact on the number of medical seats and doctors. Due to more seats, children of poor parents will also be able to dream of becoming doctors and fulfill it.” .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-health-infra-mission-to-prepare-country-to-fight-future-pandemics-101635173467524.html
