27-10-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC tells Centre, state to inspect Corbett tiger reserve, file report||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday ordered the union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and the state’s top officials for forest and wildlife to inspect the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) and submit its action-taken report by November 9 on complaints about illegal constructions and felling of trees in the tiger reserve, and in context of a previous report by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA).Lawyer and wildlife activist Gaurav Bansal said the NTCA was earlier ordered by the Delhi high court to look into complaints flagged in his petition regarding illegal construction, felling of trees and construction of approach roads in the tiger reserve.The committee constituted by NTCA submitted its report on October 22, Bansal said, adding that the panel referred to the possibility that forest officers may have forged government records to allow illegal construction of roads and buildings in CTR.The committee described the illegal construction in CTR an excellent example of “administrative and managerial failure”, recommended vigilance inquiry against Uttarakhand forest officers and recommended that the union ministry take strong action against erring forest officers.Bansal said the main finding of the NTCA committee, according to its report, included illegal construction in CTR without any approval and without financial sanctions, instead of building cottages inside the reserve “illegal” construction of buildings was permitted, no statutory approvals /sanctions were obtained for construction activities on Kandi road, Morghatti road, Pakhrau forest rest house and water body near Pakhrau forest rest house.“The NTCA committee pointed out that all these works were in violation of Indian Forest Act 1927, Wildlife (Protection) Act 1971, and Forest (Conservation) Act 1980”, he said.The committee also sought verification of the documents produced before it since they seem to be forged and recommended immediate demolition of illegal construction. It also asked that the forest survey of National Remote Sensing Centre should undertake remote sensing to ascertain the accurate number of felled trees in CTR.In September, the central empowered committee constituted by the Supreme Court also sought the response of Uttarakhand chief secretary and the union ministry to allegations of illegal cutting of trees for Pakhrau tiger safari, construction of structures and water body in Corbett tiger reserve landscape.Bansal, who approached the panel, said his complaint pointed to the felling of thousands of trees in the name of the establishment of Pakhrau tiger safari in CTR.Bansal said a tiger safari is being developed in the Gujjar Sot, Pakhrau Block, Sonanadi Range, Kalagarh Division in Corbett Tiger Reserve.Bansal said the union ministry’s forest advisory committee earlier recommended the proposal only after the written assurance from Uttarakhand forest officials that only 163 will be felled for the setting up of the tiger safari.“Contrary to its undertaking, forest department officials have uprooted thousands of trees in the name of establishment of Pakhrau Tiger Safari and that too within Corbett Tiger Reserve, which is one of the best and oldest National Park in the Country. It is not only against the statutory approvals granted by National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and Forest Advisory Committee (FAC) but is also contempt of the 2001 SC order in which the apex court expressly observed that no tree whatsoever shall be felled in the Corbett Tiger Reserve by the State or anyone else,” he said.According to the minutes of the meeting of the forest advisory committee (FAC) held on September 21, 2020, the proposal for seeking prior approval of the Centre for non-forestry use of 106.16 hectares of forest land for setting up of the tiger safari, was recommended by FAC on the condition that all requirements listed in the statutory approvals obtained from NTCA and CZA would be complied with and the state government will ensure the infrastructure of the tiger safari is created mainly from bamboo and other natural materials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-hc-tells-centre-state-to-inspect-corbett-tiger-reserve-file-report-101635359199717.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fireman who suffered burns dies 18 days after firefighting op in Narela||A 31-year-old fireman died at Lok Nayak Hospital on Wednesday morning, 18 days after he suffered burn injuries during a firefighting operation at a paper plates manufacturing factory in Narela industrial area, fire officials said. Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that fire operator Praveen Kumar joined the fire department in June 2019. He was posted at the fire station in Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (DSIIDC) Bhorgarh in Narela.“Kumar will be remembered as an excellent and brave firefighter, who possessed an extraordinary daredevil spirit towards saving the life and property of citizens. His death is a loss to our department,” said the fire department chief.On October 9, a major fire broke out at a three-storey factory building on a 300-square metre area, which was operating without a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department. Thirty-three fire tenders and nearly 120 firemen were carrying out the firefighting operation, when an explosion took place inside the factory building.The impact of the explosion was such that the flames burst out of the building and hit four firefighters who were standing nearly 12 metres away from the factory. Nearly half the building also collapsed. The injured firemen were first taken to a private hospital in central Delhi. But in the absence of a burn ward, the injured men were admitted to Lok Nayak Hospital“Praveen suffered around 40% burns and his condition was critical. Today (Wednesday) at 9.11am, he died due to heart failure in the hospital,” added Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhifireman-who-suffered-burns-dies-18-days-after-firefighting-op-in-narela-101635359021847.html
27-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj: NCC cadets successfully complete river sailing and boat pulling expedition||PRAYAGRAJ: The cadets of 3 UP Naval NCC units, under the aegis of NCC Group Headquarters-Lucknow and NCC Directorate Uttar Pradesh, completed one of the most arduous and challenging expeditions in the Ganga on Wednesday. The sailing-cum-boat-pulling expedition was flagged off by Brigadier Ravi Kapoor, Group Commander, NCC Group HQ, Lucknow at a ceremony held at Dhori Ghat in Kanpur on October 18. On Wednesday, Group Commander, NCC Group HQ, Prayagraj, on behalf of NCC Directorate Uttar Pradesh, welcomed the contingent upon the successful completion of the expedition, at Saraswati Ghat here. The expedition was led by the Commanding Officer, Captain (Indian Navy) Navendu Saxena, along with his executive officer Lieutenant Commander Ashwani K Singh. A team of 10 combatant naval sailors headed by chief instructor Anand K Verma, and civilian officials from the Naval NCC Unit, Lucknow, trained the cadets and guided them during the voyage. A total of 63 NCC cadets, including 38 boys and 25 girls, participated in this highly challenging expedition using two DK Whalers and an Assault Boat, a Gemini craft and two Rescue Boats, informed PRO (Defence) Shantanu Pratap Singh. “The expedition provided a valuable experience to the cadets in boat handling, sailing, seamanship and navigation, and gave them a glimpse of the challenges faced by the Indian Navy personnel at sea. It also helped inculcate camaraderie and leadership amongst cadets under difficult conditions of river voyage. This is in accordance with the overall mission of NCC to develop strong character, unity and discipline amongst NCC cadets, and help them grow as responsible citizens who can positively contribute towards nation-building,” he added. The expedition passed through seven districts—Kanpur, Unnao, Fatehpur, Raebareily, Pratapgarh, Kaushambi and Prayagraj—touching over 50 villages in the riverine areas of Ganga. The prominent locations included Baksar Dham, Dalmau, Kalakankar Ghat, Kada Dham, Shringverpur, Rasulabad, and Sangam before culminating at Saraswati Ghat, Prayagraj. During the transit camps enroute, the cadets carried out unique social messaging campaigns on “Covid vaccination”, ‘Namami Gange” and “Clean Ganga Mission” to spread these nationally-relevant issues amongst the locals, particularly those belong to rural communities. The contingent also interacted with gram sabhas as well as students of schools and colleges on the way and spread awareness about the armed forces through motivational lectures and displays.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-ncc-cadets-successfully-complete-river-sailing-and-boat-pulling-expedition-101635358719241.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Enforcing Covid SOPs among young students major challenge: Delhi schools||With the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) giving the go-ahead for the reopening of schools for students of all classes, both parents school authorities said the key challenge will be to ensure compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour among younger children.All schools and educational institutes in the national capital will reopen from November 1 for all students, with online classes still continuing for those who wish to study from home, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the education portfolio, said on Wednesday.Next Monday will be the first time that children in primary classes will be going to school since the pandemic broke out in March 2020. Students of entry-level classes (kindergarten and Class 1) started their schooling virtually and have only met their teachers and peers online; they have no experience of a physical classroom, and regulating their behaviour to ensure compliance with Covid SOPs, changing classroom dynamics, will be a challenge, principals said.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “Just like we teach alphabets to children, we will have to teach them Covid SOPs. We will have to inform them about the protocols in a manner that they understand. Little children need to be trained to follow the SOPs through reinforcement. Right now, since children have been studying at home, they may not be in the habit of wearing masks for a long period of time,” said Joshi.The school will be reaching out to parents to seek their feedback and consent before calling students to school for in-person classes. Joshi said while inculcating Covid appropriate habits in children will be a task, resumption of in-person classes was needed. “After sitting at home for so many months, the psyche of children has been adversely affected. Their social skills have not developed. Even senior students who have started coming to school don’t sound very confident. With children in primary grades, the challenge would be to ensure that they get adjusted to the normal school life,” said Joshi.She said the school will brainstorm with key stakeholders and take a decision on when to reopen. Teachers will also be counselled to ensure that they help children gently ease back into school life, especially those who started schooling virtually. “Children in kindergarten started school virtually. It will be a big challenge to make them sit in the classroom. The teacher will need to assist and keep a close watch on children in line with the changed scenario amid the pandemic,” said Joshi.While most parents agreed that a physical classroom experience was crucial for shaping children’s growth and development, they are not ready to send younger children to school just yet.Driyana Aggarwal, a parent whose child started kindergarten this year, said she was wary of sending her child to school. “I don’t feel confident enough right now and will wait for my child to get vaccinated before I send her to school,” said Aggarwal. She said while there were challenges in online classes, vaccination of children was crucial. “Children are not able to concentrate much during online classes. They struggle to sit in one place. There is no interaction with peers or practical experiences. School is necessary but I’d prefer to wait for vaccination,” said Aggarwal. Yogendra Singh, another parent, whose child studies in class 2, said he would wait for some more time before sending his son to school. He said while online classes were fraught with challenges, sending younger children to school was a difficult decision to make.“As a family, we are still taking Covid-19 seriously. My son can continue with online classes for some more time. He is young and I am not sure if he will be able to comply with all Covid SOPs. Online classes are not easy either and my son has become physically weaker over the past year His eyesight has also been affected but we will wait and see how the Covid situation pans out in the coming weeks,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/enforcing-covid-sops-among-young-students-major-challenge-delhi-schools-101635358599173.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Actor Kamya Panjabi joins Congress, says 'looking forward to serving nation'||Actor Kamya Shalabh Dang, popularly known as Kamya Panjabi, joined Congress in presence of Mumbai Congress president Jagtap Bhai. Bhai made the announcement on Twitter and said that the party is happy to welcome the actress. “Actress Kamya Punjabi joined the Congress party today. We warmly welcome her to the Congress family,” Bhai said in a tweet loosely translated from Marathi.The actor was also welcomed by political analyst Tehseen Poonawalla. “Best wishes to @iamkamyapunjabi as she joins the @INCMumbai family today . Inspired by Smt Priyanka Gandhi Vadra ji & under the leadership of Smt Sonia Gandhi and Shri Rahul Gandhi. I know Kamya will serve the citizens. She is fortunate to have @BhaiJagtap1 as her president,” he said.“Thank you so much Tehseen! I always wanted to join Congress and really appreciate your guidance and support to make this happen. Thanks again @tehseenp and @BhaiJagtap1. Looking forward to serving the nation @INCMumbai,” Kamya said in response.Kamya Shalabh Dang is also a former contestant of Bigg Boss.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/actor-kamya-panjabi-joins-congress-says-looking-forward-to-serving-nation-101635355718121.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||Sharpshooter accused of BJP leader’s murder gunned down in Lucknow||LUCKNOW A sharpshooter of the Mukhtar Ansari gang accused in the murder of a BJP leader was gunned down along with his accomplice in an encounter with the Special Task Force (STF) in Madiaon area of Lucknow on Wednesday, said officials. The police had declared a reward of ₹1 lakh on his head.The two were planning to murder a businessman in Lucknow when they were intercepted by the STF. The team recovered a 30 mm carbine, two pistols, a country-made pistol and a large quantity of cartridges from them, said STF officials. “One Ali Sher, 34, alias Doctor, and his accomplice Bannu alias Kaamran were injured in the exchange of fire with a STF team. The two were taken to the hospital where doctors declared them brought dead. Ali Sher is a sharpshooter of the Mukhtar Ansari Gang and is accused in the murder of a politician, Jeetram Munda, in Ranchi district of Jharkhand,” reads the press statement by the STF. Jeetram Munda, a BJP leader, was shot dead on September 22 when he was with a friend at a hotel in Ranchi. According to reports, bike-borne assailants opened fire on Munda that resulted in his death.Ali Sher, a resident of Gambhirpur area of Azamgarh district, was absconding since the incident and was on the radar of police. The action was in line with the crackdown on gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari by police that began after the BJP came to power in UP. Ansari is currently lodged in the Banda jail. Over the last couple of years, the police had attached Ansari’s properties worth crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sharpshooter-accused-of-bjp-leader-s-murder-gunned-down-in-lucknow-101635358539036.html
27-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj police begin crackdown against sale of banned firecrackers||PRAYAGRAJ: Ahead of the Diwali festival, Prayagraj police have launched a crackdown against illegal cracker manufacturing units and people involved in selling banned firecrackers. In a recent drive, police arrested some persons and recovered banned firecrackers which they were selling without any license and permission. On Tuesday, Sarai Mamrez police arrested an illegal firecracker trader and recovered nine sacks of banned crackers, manufactured locally. SP (Crime) Ashutosh Mishra said, “Strict instructions have been issued to all police stations in the district to keep an eye on illegal manufacturing and sale of banned firecrackers under their jurisdiction. Strict action will be taken against those found involved in the illegal trade.” In a meeting held on Monday, senior officials issued strict instructions to cops, to enforce the guidelines as per the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Officials said, no new firecracker shops would be allowed to open in the district and licensed holders would have to follow all the rules for selling the crackers. During the last few years there have been a series of small and big incidents of explosions and fire incidents at illegal firecracker manufacturing units which claimed lives of workers. “Permission for selling firecrackers has only been given at the designated spots and only to the licensed holders. The sale of firecrackers will be strictly monitored to check that only green firecrackers are on sale instead of traditional ones which contained pollutants harmful for environment,” the officials said. As per the guidelines issued by the NGT only those firecrackers can be sold which fulfil the AQI (Air Quality Eligibility). Despite the NGT guidelines, traditional firecrackers are still being made illegally and sold by some traders. These firecrackers are not only dangerous but also contain elements which are harmful for environment, and cause sound pollution as well. In a bid to control their manufacturing and sale, police officials have issued instructions to carry out rigorous checking drives across the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-police-begin-crackdown-against-sale-of-banned-firecrackers-101635357999637.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||Future of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha uncertain after SP-SBSP alliance||LUCKNOW The alliance between the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) has raised a question mark over the future of the SBSP-led alliance of nine smaller political parties – Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha as the prominent constituents of the Morcha maintained distance from the rally organised by the party in Mau to cobble up a bond with the SP before the 2022 UP assembly election. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi, an important partner of the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, organised a parallel rally in Muzaffaranagar, which was in the news in 2013 due to the communal violence.Before the SP-SBSP rally in Mau on Wednesday morning, the state unit president of AIMIM Shaukat Ali released a video message on various social media platforms to inform the party supporters that AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi would not participate in the Mau rally. “The supporters should attend the rally organized by the party in Muzaffaranagar in strength to make it successful. The party chief had not been invited by the SBSP to participate in the Mau rally,” said Ali.In Muzaffarnagar, Owaisi launched an attack on the Samajwadi Party reminding people about the 2013 communal violence when the SP was in power. “Muslims were targeted during the riots. They had to flee from home to stay in refugee camps. The BJP government withdrew cases against the accused, but the Muslim community has been left in the lurch. The SP, BSP, Congress and RLD use Muslims only as a vote bank,” he said.Launching a veiled attack on SBSP-SP alliance, Owaisi said whoever tried to get close with AIMIM or praised him was being wooed by SP chief Akhilesh Yadav for pre-poll alliance. “SP chief knows that AIMIM has made inroads among the Muslims across Uttar Pradesh,” he added.Not only AIMIM, but other members of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha including Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar, Jan Adhikar Party president Babu Singh Kushwaha, Rashtriya Uday Party president Babu Rampal, Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party chief Premchanda Prajapati and Janata Kranti Party president Anil Singh Chauhan did not attend the rally. SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar said talks with the Morcha allies were continuing to join the larger alliance under the Samajwadi Party. Meanwhile, Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) chief Shivpal Yadav said he had not joined the Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha and urged SP chief Akhilesh Yadav to take a final decision over the pre-poll alliance between the two parties (PSP (L) and SP) soon. Once the SP chief makes his stand clear, the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) will decide over the assembly election strategy and alliance, he added.But SBSP says Morcha unitedVARANASI Despite the absence of prominent allies of the SBSP-led Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha (BSM) at the mahapanchayat held in Mau on Monday, SBSP leaders said “all is well” and strongly ruled out any split in the Morcha.SBSP state unit vice president Shashi Pratap Singh said, “All is well in the Morcha. We invited each ally of the Morcha and requested them to attend the mahapanchayat. Everyone is free. Why they didn’t come to the Mahapanchayat, they can say it better. We cannot force anyone. Our mahapanchayat has been a great success because lakhs of people gave us their blessings by attending it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/future-of-bhagidari-sankalp-morcha-uncertain-after-sp-sbsp-alliance-101635357939111.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC agrees to provide land for Phase-4 Vasant Kunj Metro station||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC)has decided to allocate a portion of municipal land in Vasant Kunj to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for the construction of the Phase 4 Metro station, officials in the know of the matter said Wednesday. A proposal for allocating the land was cleared by the civic body by the house in a meeting held on Wednesday. Leader of the house Inderjeet Sehrawat said the Metro Phase 4 segment, from Saket to Aerocity, is a crucial infrastructure project and the corporation has decided to provide municipal land in public interest. “If this pocket was not made available, the DMRC would have had to change the alignment of the line. The land will be provided on a no profit, no loss basis,” he said. The civic body will charge DMRC at the rate of ₹5.73 crore per acre, the proposal cleared by the house stated.The land pocket is managed by the horticulture department of the SDMC. “We received a request from the DMRC to allocate two pockets of land in Vasant Kunj. A land pocket of 175 square metres (sqm) will be allocated for three years, on a temporary basis, while 336.6 metres will be provided on a permanent basis for the construction of entry exit points and lifts to access the station. A joint inspection of the site was carried out by the land and estate department, horticulture wing and DMRC officials,” a senior municipal official said, asking not to be named.The proposal cleared by the corporation mandates that the allotted land will not be used for commercial purposes without taking prior approval from the corporation. “The DMRC shall not use the allotted land for commercial purpose without taking prior approval; otherwise it shall be liable to pay incidental commercial charges to the SDMC along with a penalty decided by the corporation,” the proposal stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhisdmc-agrees-to-provide-land-for-phase-4-vasant-kunj-metro-station-101635357878952.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi serosurvey: 90% people found to have antibodies against Covid-19, seroprevalence over 85% in every district||Over 90% of the people who were covered in the sixth serological survey in Delhi were found to have developed antibodies against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), several news agencies reported on Wednesday.The prevalence of antibodies against the disease in such a larger section of the people surveyed would imply that the national capital is unlikely to witness a fresh wave of Covid-19 infections as deadly as the second wave until a new variant of the virus emerges, news agency PTI reported citing a senior government official.However, herd immunity has not been achieved in the city despite the higher seroprevalence, PTI reported citing the official. Also, it could not be confirmed if vaccination against the disease had any role behind the high seropositivity rate, the official further said.Also read | Har ghar dastak: Govt to launch door-to-door Covid vaccination drive next month“We cannot say exactly if Delhi has achieved herd immunity because there are no studies or data to show that the virus won't spread after a certain percentage of population is affected,” PTI quoted an official familiar with the development. “However, the same variant of the virus (Delta) cannot lead to a major epidemic. So, we can say there won't be another wave of coronavirus as big as the second wave until a new severe variant emerges,” the official further said.The sample collection process for the sixth serosurvey began on September 24 and as many as 28,000 samples were collected from the 280 wards in the national capital.Further, the survey also showed that the seropositivity rate was above 85% in every district. More women were also found to be seropositive compared to men, the report further showed.After the fifth round of serosurvey conducted in January this year, 56.13% of the people were found to have antibodies against the disease. The national capital was one among the several places that was battered due to a deadly second wave of infections aggravated by shortage of medical oxygen in hospitals. At its peak, Delhi reported over 28,000 daily infections with the case positivity at one point reaching 36.2%.As many as 73,512 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the city in the last 24 hours and so far 7,251,851 people have been fully immunised against the disease, the Delhi health department bulletin on Wednesday showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-serosurvey-90-people-found-to-have-antibodies-against-covid-19-seroprevalence-over-85-in-every-district-101635356494486.html
27-10-2021||Noida||Yeida starts cleaning Dhanauri wetland ahead of arrival of migratory birds||With migratory birds slowly making their presence felt in the city’s wetlands but not in Dhanauri--one of the largest wetlands that was once home to huge number of bird species, the horticulture department of Yeida has started cleaning the wetland ahead of the birding season. Currently, hyacinth removal at Dhanauri is going on in full swing after a few birders approached Dhirendra Singh, requesting him to get the wetland cleaned before migratory birds start coming in by mid November. The MLA said he asked the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) to get the wetland cleaned. “We have deputed about 15 workers at the site; they will be clearing hyacinth from over 25 to 30 hectares of the lake. We have also taken the forest department in loop. It’s important to remove the hyacinth as birds get stuck in it. It will take maximum two weeks to complete the work,” said Anand Mohan, deputy director of horticulture department, Yeida. “It is a matter of pride that we have such a big wetland in our area. Now that the Noida International Airport is coming up at Jewar, we can also develop Dhanauri as a major tourist place. However, this time, the wetland suffered from lack of upkeep, with hyacinth covering the entire lake. We urged the Yeida’s horticulture department and now, they are removing hyacinth from the wetland. The work will be completed in the next few days,” said Singh. He added they had even approached the forest department. “The divisional forest department had some issues with regard to release of funds, so the work (cleaning Dhanauri) was getting delayed. We took help of the Yeida’s horticulture department to get the work done as migratory birds may start arriving soon,” said Singh. According to birders, migratory birds, especially waterfowls, start arriving in large numbers by November. Its population in the wetlands peaks in December. Many birders claimed that a few migratory birds have already been spotted at other habitats of the city while Dhanauri is completely devoid of such birds. “We observed some of the migratory bird species at Okhla bird sanctuary and Surajpur like Osprey and a few smaller falcons but not waterfowls yet. However, it’s compete silence at Dhanauri . Migration is yet to begin properly, though factors, such as hyacinth growth, slows down the process,” said Jaswinder Singh, a Noida-based birder.One of the major wetlands and birding hotspots of the city, Dhanauri is spread over 101 hectares. Once home to over 211 species of birds, the wetland has suffered in terms of habitat loss, which in turn has led to a drop in the bird population over the years. This April, the forest department rushed to fill the wetland using borewell after it ran dry for the first time due to lack of conservation efforts and heat. Yet, in September, maximum Sarus cranes (84) were found in this wetland out of the 170 spotted in the district. In January, the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) 2021, held by Wetlands International South Asia and the district forest department, found over four times drop in bird population as compared to 2020. The AWC 2021 found only 1,344 birds of 48 species (20 resident and 28 migratory) in Dhanauri against 6,227 birds of 59 species (21 resident and 38 migratory) found in January last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yeida-starts-cleaning-dhanauri-wetland-ahead-of-arrival-of-migratory-birds-101635357278850.html
27-10-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar: 70% dengue cases in 18 clusters||With seven new cases recorded in Gautam Budh Nagar on Tuesday, the dengue tally has reached 363 in the district. Officials said that the district health department has identified 10 clusters in Noida and eight in Greater Noida which have reported maximum number of dengue cases this season.The officials also said that they are conducting the fogging exercise and making inspections in areas with such cases. “We reported seven dengue cases on Tuesday. Of the total 363 cases in the district, 39 are active. These patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district,” said Rajesh Sharma, district malaria officer, Gautam Budh Nagar. The officials said that the daily dengue tally is compiled a day late in the district, hence Wednesday’s count will only be known on Thursday. A 14-year-old boy died due to dengue at a private hospital on October 21, they said. This year’s dengue count is the highest in the past 10 years. According to official data, the district saw 14 cases in 2012, 69 in 2013, 0 in 2014, 176 in 2015, 17 in 2016, 13 in 2017, 28 in 2018, 40 in 2019 and 28 in 2020.According to the officials, the clusters identified by the health department include Sadarpur, Chhalera, Mamura, Nithari, Barola, Chhajarsi, Sector 5, Sector 9, Sector 22 and Sector 51 in Noida, and Sector Alpha 2, Sector Beta 1, Sector Gamma 1, Gaur City, Haibatpur, Kulesra and Surajpur village in Greater Noida. “Nearly 60% dengue cases have been reported from these areas. A cluster is the area from where five or more cases have been reported,” Sharma said. Residents have expressed concerns over the increasing number of dengue cases.Sanjeev Kumar, general secretary of Sector 51 RWA, said, “There is an old water body -- developed for boating – in the sector where the water is stagnant for some months. We feel that it has turned into a hot spot for mosquito breeding, leading to high number of dengue cases. Although the RWA conducted fogging and anti-larval spray in the sector, we demand the health officials to dry up the water body and close the facility.” KK Jain, general secretary of Federation of Noida RWAs, said that the health department should conduct intense fogging and anti-larval spray in the affected areas. “We have also advised resident welfare associations in different sectors to observe precautions and maintain cleanliness,” he said. Dr DK Gupta, chairman of Felix Hospital, Noida Sector 137, said that prevention is better than cure. “People should wear full sleeve clothes and use mosquito repellent. Fogging is also very important. People should meet a doctor if they suffer symptoms like fever, headache and joint pain,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-70-dengue-cases-in-18-clusters-101635357220771.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s south municipal House suspended after ruckus||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) house meeting on Wednesday descended into chaos and was suspended after the Congress accused the civic body of not raising the salary of workers engaged in controlling vector-borne diseases, and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) charged the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of misbehaving with an IAS officer during a ward inspection. SDMC mayor Mukesh Suryan condemned the ruckus and said that the Opposition parties are “only interested in disrupting the house”. Senior Congress leader Abhishek Dutt, the councillor from Andrews Ganj, alleged that his party workers were allegedly manhandled by the ruling party when they tried to bring in a fogging machine to the house. “These machines, weighing around 15kg, are being operated by the domestic breeding checkers (DBCs) and contractual field workers (CFWs), who get a monthly salary of ₹12,000. This when their counterparts in New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) are getting ₹21,060 per month there. Despite repeated requests, their salaries have not been matched. Not only that, the old and heavy fogging machines, running on kerosene oils, are causing health hazards to them,” he said. Dutt also said that his party councillors will continue their protest till SDMC brings the salaries of frontline corona warriors at par with their counterparts in other civic bodies. “The BJP-ruled SDMC has nothing to do with democratic values. Their leaders use muscle power, when anybody questions them,” he said. AAP councillors too protested against an alleged incident of misbehaviour by the husband of councillor when a deputy commissioner inspected his ward.“Is this a way to deal with the officer? The BJP leaders want to create fear among the common people,” said Prem Chauhan, the leader of Opposition.SDMC mayor Suryan said the Opposition parties have only an agenda to disrupt the House. “The behaviour of the Congress and AAP councillors is condemnable in any case. They don’t like to come forward for a healthy discussion, on the issues of development,” he said. Meanwhile, hundreds of employees of the SDMC west zone staged a “pen down, tool down” strike on Wednesday, against the alleged misbehaviour against the IAS officer. “We, the employees of engineering, sanitation, building, licensing, health and education departments of SDMC (west zone) strongly condemn and protest against the shameful act of the councillor’s husband,” the SDMC (west zone) employees’ group said in its statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-south-municipal-house-suspended-after-ruckus-101635357218979.html
27-10-2021||Noida||GB Nagar court to provide free legal aid to victims of cyber, realty fraud||The chief judge of Gautam Budh Nagar court and president of the district legal services authority has decided to make the general public aware of the procedures to get justice and also provide free legal assistance to those who cannot afford it, especially those who have become victims of cyber fraud or have cases related to the realty sector. The move comes after the national legal service authority and the Uttar Praseh legal service authority directed the district authorities to start a campaign to connect directly with victims, who are unable to get justice amid ‘poor awareness’ among public about the legal remedies in urban or rural areas of every city. According to the district legal services authority, at least 70% of the total cases that are brought to the courts are of cyber crimes. “We have observed that the cyber crime cases, involving banks, online shopping, digital platforms, mobile app business and cheating via online transactions, are rising daily. The sad part is many people are unaware of what to do in case they become victims of a cyber fraud. The awareness level, with regard to available legal tools pertaining to all kinds of crimes, such as sexual harassment at workplace, financial cheating by realtors, cheating of different consumers and other such wrong doings, is poor. We want to make people aware about how easy it is to seek justice from the legal system,” said Ashok Kumar, who is about to begin an ‘outreach’ campaign to connect with victims. As part of the outreach campaign, the district legal services authority will publish and distribute booklets guiding people on how to seek help for a particular crime, start ‘legal aid vans’ and mobile apps in a month’s time. “We will provide free legal assistance to those victims, who are financially weaker and cannot afford the fee of legal services. Many accident victims do not get state’s financial support because they are not aware about the schemes available for them. With the help of the booklet and the awareness campaign, we will try to help as many victims as we can,” said Kumar. “If the district legal service authority has a will, then it can benefit thousands of victims who cannot afford fee of lawyers and are denied timely justice. There has been promises and discussions for justice to the needy in the past too but nothing has happened on ground,” said Atul Sharma, former president of Gautam Budh Nagar Bar Council. The state government set up the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) to address issues faced by the real estate sector, particularly the homebuyers, who have paid for their flats but have not gotten possession. There are around 6,500 cases pending in UPRERA, of which at least 70% of the cases are from Noida and Greater Noida. “We are trying to get in touch with the local authorities and UPRERA so that all such victims who have been duped can get speedy justice,” said Kumar. “We were happy and had set our hopes on the UPRERA when it was instituted to resolve buyers’ issues. But after five years, justice delivery is still late and troublesome. I bought a flat from the Greater Noida authority, which delayed handing over the possession. When I approached the UPRERA, they gave a ruling in my favour and asked the Greater Noida authority to do justice. But the authority is yet to implement an order, that will give me relief from unwarranted penalty,” said Suman Sharma, a homebuyer in Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-court-to-provide-free-legal-aid-to-victims-of-cyber-realty-fraud-101635356438881.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||Making it to Lucknow IPL team will be no cakewalk for Uttar Pradesh players||Even though Lucknow now has an Indian Premier League team of its own, it won’t help Uttar Pradesh or the state capital’s cricketers get a chance to play for the new franchise next season unless they do “extraordinarily well” at the upcoming Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 Trophy, beginning November 4 at Gurugram.Outstanding performance will be the only criterion for a cricketer to impress the talent scouts of different franchises. Inconsistent showing by the UP team in the last few seasons has raised doubts about the prospects of its players. Barring a few practice bowlers for the team nets, there is no chance of anyone new making it to the side.“It’s going to be big entertainment for cricket fans in Lucknow as well as in Uttar Pradesh, but saying that having an IPL team would benefit UP or Lucknow cricket is baseless as we don’t entertain cricketers on the basis of their location, but yes we pick them for their performances,” a talent scout official of an IPL team said on condition of anonymity.“Look at the performance of UP cricketers in the past few years. They couldn’t make it to the knockouts after 2016 and that’s the reason why no new player from UP (is) getting a chance to showcase their ability at the IPL for different franchises,” he said, adding, “Barring a few, most of the UP cricketers were made to sit on the benches during the just concluded IPL at UAE.”He, however, said that since the IPL family has grown to 10 teams now, a number of talent scout teams would be watching the 500-plus cricketers in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy next month, and only the outstanding performers will have a chance to be picked for the different sides. “Many new faces from UP will have a chance to play in the IPL next season only when the side wins the trophy this season,” he added.In the 13 editions so far, Uttar Pradesh could win the prestigious Syed Mushtaq Ali Twenty20 Trophy only once in 2016 when Suresh Raina-led side defeated Baroda by 38 runs in Mumbai. Skipper Raina and opener Prashant Gupta batted well and helped the side put up a decent total of 163/7 and, thereafter pacers, Ankit Rajpoot and Amit Mishra, along with chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav, bowled superbly to restrict Baroda to 125/7. In 2013-14, UP finished runners-up, losing to Baroda in the final.After the success of the Uttar Pradesh team at the national championship that year, franchises at the Indian Premier League found a good pool of talent among UP cricketers. Along with Raina, Bhuvaneshwar Kumar, Praveen Kumar, RP Singh, Piyush Chawla, many new faces found a chance to showcase their ability at the mega event.Thereafter, successive failures in the T20 Trophy, where UP struggled to make it to the knockout rounds, dashed all hopes of the state’s cricketers making it to the IPL teams. Except “old warhorses” like Raina, Bhuvneshwar, Ankit Rajpoot, Chawla, and, to some extent, the Under-19 pacers Shivam Mavi and Kartik Tyagi, none could impress the talent scout teams of different franchises.Raina, one of the top run-getters in IPL history who usually turned out for Chennai Super Kings, also played for the Gujarat Lions for two seasons, after the suspension of two teams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/making-it-to-lucknow-ipl-team-will-be-no-cakewalk-for-uttar-pradesh-players-101635356258999.html
27-10-2021||Noida||Noida district magistrate Suhas L Y recommended for Arjuna Award||The selection committee of the National Sports Awards has recommended Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas L Yathiraj’s name for the Arjuna award, along with other Olympic and Paralympic medallists.The Arjuna award is India’s second highest sporting award bestowed by the ministry of youth affairs and sports to sportspersons for their outstanding performance in international as well as national events. The selection committee has also recommended javelin thrower and Tokyo Olympics gold medallist Neeraj Chopra, silver medalist wrestler Ravi Dahiya and nine others for the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna Award, formerly known as the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award, the country’s highest sporting honour.Suhas secured a silver medal in the final of the men’s singles badminton SL-4 event at the Tokyo Paralympics 2020 held on September 5 this year. He also become the first ever IAS officer to win a medal at the Paralympics. “I am very happy that I have been recommended for Arjuna award. I thank all the citizens for giving me so much love and affection,” said Suhas. He said he is enjoying the attention that he has been receiving after bagging the silver medal and that there is no big competition in the coming months. Suhas outwitted Indonesia’s Fredy Setiawan 21-9, 21-15 in 31 minutes in the semi-final but lost to France’s Lucas Mazur by 21-15, 17-21, 15-21 in the finals. A computer engineer, Suhas went on to become an IAS officer and has been posted as a district magistrate of Noida since last year. According to a PTI report, cricketer Shikhar Dhawan, para table tennis player Bhavina Patel, high jumper Nishad Kumar and others have also been recommended for the Arjuna Award.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-district-magistrate-suhas-l-y-recommended-for-arjuna-award-101635356018753.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan case: Mumbai Police team records Sail’s statement over allegations against Wankhede||Mumbai Police team, which has begun an inquiry against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede, based on the complaint of Prabhakar Sail, recorded Sail’s statement on Wednesday. Milind Khetle, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Azad Maidan division, recorded a detailed statement of Sail, one of the panch witnesses in the Aryan Khan-cruise drug bust case, who recently levelled serious allegations against Wankhede and others. Sail is the bodyguard of Kiran Gosavi, also a witness in the Aryan Khan-cruise drug case, who had previously courted controversy for accosting Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan at the NCB office. In a notarised affidavit, Sail has alleged that he overheard Gosavi talking to a person about settling the matter for ₹18 crore and that amount of ₹8 crore would be required to be paid to Wankhede. The recording of the statement took 17 hours. “He shared all details to substantiate his claims,” said Sail’s lawyer Tushar Khandare. Sail has also alleged that Gosavi took ₹50 lakh from an individual after the raid at the cruise ship. He said that he assisted Gosavi during the Mumbai cruise drugs case. Sail has levelled allegation of extortion against Wankhede and others. Wankhede has already denied the allegation. Sail has submitted a police complaint regarding the alleged extortion and misuse of power by the NCB officers in the Aryan Khan case. Based on this complaint, the Mumbai Police started an inquiry and recorded Sail’s statement. “We will verify the information shared by Sail with the help of phone call locations, messages shared, CCTV footage of the location where alleged meetings and sharing of cash filled bag exchanged hands. Once it is done and if prima-facie cognisable material is found against any individual, an FIR would be registered and further investigation would be commenced as per due procedure,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity. Mumbai Police are currently looking at four complaints (including that of Sail’s) it received against NCB officers, including zonal director Wankhede. On the basis of Sail’s revelations, the NCB too has initiated a vigilance probe. However, the NCB named Sail as a “hostile witness” in its affidavit in the court. Sail’s lawyer Khandare also said the NCB has not approached him for recording his statement and he is ready to share all information with them if they give him official intimation or summons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-case-mumbai-police-team-records-sail-s-statement-over-allegations-against-wankhede-101635355778893.html
27-10-2021||Noida||UPPCB to conduct fortnight-long air quality monitoring for Noida, Ghaziabad||The Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has decided to conduct a special air quality monitoring in Ghaziabad and Noida -- one week during the pre-Diwali period and again for another week after the festival concludes -- to find out the impact of toxic pollutants, which get generated during the festival. Officials said the special monitoring will be done at UPPCB’s regional offices in Ghaziabad’s Vasundhara and Noida’s Sector 1 and the inputs will be sent to Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), Lucknow, for further analysis. The IITR Lucknow is a constituent laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). “With this special monitoring, we will be able to find out the toxic elements and metals, which may arrive with the spike in pollution levels around Diwali. The pre-Diwali monitoring samples will have a certain level (of pollutants) while the post-Diwali samples will contain another set of samples. The increase in toxicity and the presence of metals in air will be ascertained,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. “Presence of specific pollutantswill indicate to us the source, which could be stubble burning, vehicular pollution, road dust or even firecrackers,” he added. Another UPPCB officer said the difference between the two samples will ascertain the pollution level contributed by firecrackers, which are usually burst during Diwali. “The difference between the pre and post-Diwali samples will also help us ascertain the contribution of firecrackers to air pollution and accordingly, corrective measures can be taken. With the pre-Diwali samples, we will be able to ascertain the contribution of dust, vehicular pollution to air quality,” said Sharma. “The monitoring will be with the help of special filters installed at the three places and these will be sent to IITR, Lucknow for analysis. The monitoring will span out over 24 hours,” added the officer. Experts said air pollution during Diwali is loaded with organic compounds and metals. “These may include sulphur oxides, nitrogen oxides, benzene, lead, potassium nitrate and organic compounds, besides dust or particulate matter. These are harmful for human beings and may aggravate conditions of bronchitis, infection to kidney, liver and eyes among others. The sulphur oxides, when mixed with mist having high water content, leads to formation of sulphurous acid and may cause acid rain, which affects vegetation and human beings as well,” said Dr Chandra Vir Singh, retired scientist from Haryana pollution board. Over the past few years, it has been observed that there has been a considerable increase in air pollution during Diwali and the air quality in the cities falling in the National Capital Region often spike to “severe” levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/uppcb-to-conduct-fortnight-long-air-quality-monitoring-for-noida-ghaziabad-101635355658889.html
27-10-2021||Noida||Two accidents slows traffic on Noida-Greater Noida Expressway||Traffic moved slowly on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway due to two accidents on Wednesday. The traffic police said a Honda City car lost balance and overturned near Sector 147 in Noida, which slowed down the movement of vehicles on the Noida-Greater Noida side. “The incident took place at 3:30pm. A car going towards Pari Chowk from Noida hit the divider and overturned. The police team rescued the victim and rushed him to a hospital. The traffic police personnel cleared the road in 30 minutes,” said deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ganesh Saha. The Noida traffic control room said a truck coming from Greater Noida to Noida overturned near Sector 154 on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway at 8am. “The truck had some goods which were scattered on the road. Some passerby informed police and a team soon reached the spot. The truck was removed using a crane,” the official said. Noida traffic police also shared the information and advised people to take alternative routes to avoid jam. The road was cleared in an hour. Meanwhile, due to construction of an underpass at Sector 126, one lane on both sides of the Noida-Greater Noida expressway has been shut for vehicles. Saha said this too slows traffic during peak hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-accidents-slows-traffic-on-noida-greater-noida-expressway-101635355358757.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: Seven smaller parties back BJP after pact between SP, SBSP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) got leaders of seven smaller parties with caste appeal to announce support for it in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls at about the time when Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar held a joint rally in eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP) on Wednesday. Before entering into a pact with the SP, Om Prakash Rajbhar had put together a confederation of several smaller parties under the umbrella organisation of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha and BJP’s move is being seen as a counter to the SP-SBSP tie-up. The caste-based smaller parties that BJP roped in included Bhartiya Manav Samaj Party led by its chief Kewat Ramdhani Bind, Musahar Andolan Manch (Gareeb Party) led by Chandrama Vanvasi, Shoshit Samaj Party under its chief Babu Lal Rajbhar, Manavhit Party led by Krishna Gopal Singh Kashyap, Bharatiya Suheldev Janata Party of Bhim Rajbhar, Prithviraj Janshakti Party led by Chandan Singh Chauhan and Bharatiya Samata Samaj Party led by Mahendra Prajapati. These smaller parties were previously part of the Hissedari Morcha, with representation from various OBC groups including Bind, Gadariya, Kumhaar, Dhivar, Kashyap and Patel. Some of them, BJP leaders claimed, were earlier with the SBSP but have since parted ways. The BJP has also been holding a series of caste meets featuring members of Other Backward Castes (OBCs) and Dalits. Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who is the BJP’s election in-charge for UP, had recently said though his party had stitched alliances with Apna Dal (Sonelal) and Nishad Party, both influential OBC players from eastern UP, it was still open to more alliances with smaller parties. Responding to the SP-SBSP joint rally, UP ministers Sidharth Nath Singh and Anil Rajbhar accused the new alliance of bringing paid people to their rally. “The SP wants to play a game by projecting the SBSP here. All those people who came to attend the rally were brought by the SP. On November 23, we would respond to this mahapanchayat,” Anil Rajbhar said. “Na khela hobe, na khadeda hobe, vikas hobe (neither any twist, nor ouster. Only development would happen),” said Sidharth Nath Singh stating that in 2022 UP polls BJP will prevail again. Sidharth Nath was responding to the slogan “khadeda hobe” at the SP-SBSP rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-seven-smaller-parties-back-bjp-after-pact-between-sp-sbsp-101635355298674.html
27-10-2021||Ranchi||Anti-corruption team raids police station, thrashed by cop they tried to arrest||RANCHI: A team of Jharkhand’s anti-corruption branch (ACB) was attacked by some police officers at Ranka police station in Garhwa district on Wednesday evening when the ACB team raided the station to arrest an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) for accepting a bribe.Police officer Kamlesh Kumar, who was on the radar of the ACB team, led the offensive against the raiding party. He is on the run, an ACB official said outside the police station in Garhwa, 200km from state capital Ranchi.ACB assistant sub-inspector Ajit Kumar Ekka was injured in the incident.ACB deputy superintendent of police Karunanand Ram told reporters that the ACB team reached the police station on a complaint of a local resident Santosh Korea against Ranka police station ASI Kamlesh Kumar who allegedly demanded a ₹36,000 bribe to settle a police complaint.“When we reached here, the complainant was asked to hand over the bribe money to Chowkidar Sunil Thakur. In the meanwhile, Kamlesh Kumar and others attacked our team. Our ASI and other constable were beaten in one of the rooms by Kamlesh and others including another ASI. They also threatened to shoot the raiding team. I managed to pull them out after revealing our identity. Ajit was injured in the incident,” said Ram.Rama said they have detained chowkidar Sunil Thakur and are initiating the process to get a case registered against the people who attacked the ACB team.Senior district police officers are also camping at the police station to resolve the matter and further legal action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/anticorruption-team-raids-police-station-thrashed-by-cop-they-tried-to-arrest-101635355180235.html
27-10-2021||Noida||No honking in Gautam Budh Nagar’s silent zones, violators to be penalised ₹1,000||The Gautam Budh Nagar transport department, along with the traffic police, has launched a drive to check noise pollution in silent zones across the district. Officials said blowing horn or playing loud music will be prohibited in such zones and violators will be fined. Prashant Tiwari, assistant regional transport officer (enforcement), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that the 100 square metre area around hospitals, educational institutions, courts, religious places, among others, is considered as a silent zone. “We have planned to ensure enforcement around all such places. Officials from the traffic and transport departments will conduct an awareness programme for a week and then they will start issuing fines for the violation,” he said, adding that the department is yet to figure out the total number of silent zones in the district.Tiwari said that a fine of ₹1,000 will be slapped on a violator for needless honking, while use of pressure horns will attract a penalty of ₹10,000.Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar, said that signboards will soon be placed in the silent zones for awareness. “We will also deploy traffic police personnel in such zones,” he said. The permissible noise limit in a silent zone is 50 decibel during the day and 40 during the night, the officials said. Tiwari said that the transport department is also conducting a drive against old diesel and petrol vehicles which have completed 10 and 15 years, respectively. “On Wednesday, we seized three trucks which were older than 15 years in Noida Phase 2,” he said. The DCP (traffic) said that the traffic police have also set up a grievance cell to address the traffic-related problems. “People can contact us at the control room number – 9971009001 – and register complaints like traffic jam, breakdown of vehicles, non-functional traffic light, wrong fines, among others. The control room will share the information to the grievance cell and the staff concerned will resolve the matter in a time bound manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-honking-in-gautam-budh-nagar-s-silent-zones-violators-to-be-penalised-1000-101635354998667.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Kanhai T-point to be turned into a roundabout for smoother flow||The Kanhai T-point, a major traffic bottleneck, is set to be revamped into a roundabout, along with pavements and cycle lanes by early 2022, officials of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) said on Wednesday.Officials said that the T-junction of sectors 44, 45 and 52, known as the Kanhai T-point, will be made into a roundabout, for smoother traffic flow.Traffic from Vikas Marg, Sohna Road, Saint Thomas Marg, Golf Course Road, Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg and Huda City Centre converge at the intersection.“The Kanhai T-point is a busy intersection where traffic from all three sectors meet along with traffic moving towards Golf Course Road or Huda City Centre. There is a traffic signal there at present, but during peak hours, congestion is reported at times. We have now decided that this signal would be converted into a roundabout and free left turn would be allowed, further easing movement of vehicles. Tenders have been issued and the work will be completed within six months,” JS Sindhu, a traffic engineer with the mobility division of GMDA, said.Last year, the mobility division of GMDA had earmarked this area as one of the busiest junctions where measures to reduce traffic were needed. The authority will also construct footpaths and side lanes for the movement of non-motorised transport and pedestrians, while a dedicated cycle track is also likely to be developed as bollards for the same has been installed.In September, the issues at the intersection were discussed in detail during a GMDA meeting, with special emphasis on improving a left slip road and a right turn for commuters heading from Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg.Among the main issues is a boomerang-shaped free left near Sushant Estate, which is avoided by commuters heading from Saint Thomas Marg as it takes longer to navigate this stretch instead of taking a left turn on the main carriageway, despite the movement being regulated by a signal. Due to this, the number of vehicles taking a left tends to be higher than those moving straight, towards Bhagwan Mahaveer Marg, causing congestion on the carriageway.Mobility experts termed the turning of the signal into a roundabout a good decision, provided it is designed properly.“Roundabouts help in smooth movement of traffic and are also safer compared to traffic signals, but it can work only when they are designed properly. With a traffic signal, there are higher chances of accidents taking place, but in roundabouts, people generally slow down, reducing the chances of collision. A free left turn also helps reduce the traffic moving towards the junction and there is constant movement of vehicles,” Sewa Ram, an urban transport systems design expert and a faculty member at the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi, said.He said that during peak hours, when there is heavy traffic movement, the roundabout can also be managed with traffic signals as is done at a few locations in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/kanhai-t-point-to-be-turned-into-a-roundabout-for-smoother-flow-101635354940222.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Temperature to dip next week, western disturbance may lead to early winter onset: IMD||Temperatures in south Haryana, including Gurugram, are likely to drop over the next week, with a possibility of light rain around Diwali, officials from India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. According to the weekly forecast of the Meteorological Centre Chandigarh, between October 29 and November 4 (Diwali), temperatures in the district will remain below normal. “Over the next week till Diwali, temperatures in the south Haryana region, including Gurugram, will remain below normal with clear sky during the day. Some western disturbance activity is likely to start around November 1, and light rain is expected, which will lead to a further drop in temperature. If drop in temperatures continue, then we might see winter setting in early this year, instead of by third week of November,” Manmohan Singh, the director of MeT Centre in Chandigarh, said. A western disturbance is a wind originating over the Mediterranean region, which carries moisture in the form of rainfall or snowfall, while travelling up to northern regions. The official said that the exact intensity of rain can only be ascertained by the next weekend. With rain, the air quality is also likely to improve in the city around Diwali. Over the past two days, the air quality in the city was in the ‘moderate’ category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s daily air quality bulletin. On Wednesday, Gurugram reported an air quality index of 168 with particulate matter, both PM10 and PM2.5, and carbon monoxide as the prominent pollutants. Meanwhile, the maximum temperature was five degrees below normal in Gurugram for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, recording a maximum temperature of 26.4 degrees Celsius (°C), and a minimum temperature of 16.5°C, two degrees above normal. As per IMD data, the normal temperature in the last week of October and the first week of November is 31.7°C for Gurugram. According to the weather bulletin issued by Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi on Wednesday, the air quality over the national capital territory is likely to deteriorate gradually but remain in the ‘poor’ category on Thursday and Friday. Over the next five days, the air quality is likely to remain in the ‘poor’ to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category, with PM2.5 as the predominant pollutant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/temperature-to-dip-next-week-western-disturbance-may-lead-to-early-winter-onset-imd-101635354938727.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Except Mumbai, Maharashtra municipal corporations to have 17% more seats||The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to a 17% rise in the members of 26 municipal corporations, except Mumbai and city councils, in proportion to the projected rise in population. The decision will result in collective number of seats in 26 corporations going up to 2,789, from the existing 2,509. After the decision, the number of corporators in poll-bound Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan-Dombivli corporations will increase to 142 from 131; 122 from 111 and 133 from 122 respectively. Vasai-Virar and Mira-Bhayander corporations will see the rise to 126 from 115 and 106 from 95 corporators respectively. Pune, Nagpur and Aurangabad corporations will see a rise to 173 from 162, 156 from 151 and 126 from 115 corporators respectively. Maharashtra has 27 corporations, 26 of which are a government according to the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, 1949, while the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation is a government under its own Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act 1888. The increase has been initiated on the basis of formula which has been determined in Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, 1949. Based on the population, the maximum number of corporators range from 96 to 185. For the corporations with more than 3 million population, the number ranges between 168 and 185, while for the corporations with the population between 3 and 6 lakh the number of corporators ranges between 76 and 96. “Keeping the rapid speed of population rise in mind and the need to ramp up urban development schemes , the state government has decided to increase the number of members in coporations and city councils. In the wake of the changes in the structures of the urban areas, expediting the pace of the development work is necessary. The decision of rise in the number of seats is to ensure overall development of these urban areas,” a statement issued by the govdrnment states. The statement further stated that since the 2021-census data has been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic it was necessary to take the decision of the rise in the seats on the projected figure of the population growth. The projected growth of population in the past 10 years in urban areas is expected to be more than 15% in the last decade. The overall population growth reported in 2011 was 15.99%, against 22.57% in 2001. It is expected to be more than 129 million currently, from 112 million in 2011. An official from the urban development department said that the respective corporations will have to go for the delimitation on the basis of the change in number of seats and density of population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/except-mumbai-maharashtra-municipal-corporations-to-have-17-more-seats-101635354891389.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Bandhwari landfill: Processed waste to be burnt at Sonipat WTE plant from next month||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to transport processed waste (refuse-derived fuel), generated at the Bandhwari landfill to a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant in Sonipat, near Murthal, from next month, to clear space for setting up a WTE plant at the Bandhwari landfill.Officials said that the waste cleaning process would also be expedited as increased space would facilitate the operation of all available trommel machines at one location.“The RDF [refuse-derived fuel] carried to the Sonipat WTE will be incinerated for producing electricity. Currently, RDF is occupying around 1.5-2 acres of the Bandhwari landfill. Once this land is vacant, we can place all trommel machines at one location, and also create space for starting the WTE project. This will further help expedite clearing of both fresh and legacy waste,” Sunder Sheoran, executive engineer, Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) of MCG, who is overseeing the project, said.The MCG has floated tenders and bids will be opened on November 5, officials said on Wednesday. Sheoran said that the tender process is expected to be completed next month, following which transportation of RDF will commence right away.“In the tender, the carrying capacity has been defined. The contractor would have to transport at least 2,000 metric tonnes of RDF to the Sonipat WTE on a daily basis,” Sheoran said.The WTE plant in Sonipat is located nearly 90 kilometres from the Bandhwari landfill, which lies at the Gurugram-Faridabad border. It is Haryana’s first functional WTE project and was inaugurated by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on August 17.The development holds importance as the Bandhwari landfill has been struggling for space, not only to store solid waste but also RDF generated at the site.RDF is essentially derived from non-recyclable plastic and paper derived from municipal solid waste, and is burned in a WTE plant to produce electricity. Trommel machines are used for screening combustible items, such as metals and glass, which are removed from the waste pile and separated for RDF.Around 2.5 million tonnes of legacy waste is estimated to be lying at the Bandhwari landfill, which receives around 1,900 tonnes of fresh waste daily from Gurugram and Faridabad. In addition, the landfill also has around 60,000 metric tonnes of RDF stored over two acres.Any waste dumped at a site for more than a month is considered legacy waste.In April, environmentalists and residents alleged that the MCG was dumping legacy waste and RDF in forest land near Mohtabad and Pali villages of Faridabad — an ecologically sensitive leopard corridor — due to a lack of space available at the landfill.MCG officials said that moving the RDF will clear space to accommodate all 17 trommel machines at one location as well as open up space for the civic body to set up its WTE plant.According to MCG officials, trommel machines are currently placed at different corners of the landfill, which is affecting its output. Also, a total of 10 acres is needed to set up a WTE plant.By September, the MCG had cleared six acres using trommel machines and is aiming to clear four more acres at the earliest.“Depending on the size of the vehicle, it will take at least 15-20 trucks to transport 2,000 metric tonnes of RDF on a daily basis. The journey from Bandhwari to Sonipat WTE takes around three hours one-way, and each truck will be expected to carry RDF on a one-time basis per day,” a senior MCG official said.The official said that if the daily target of carrying at least 2,000 metric tonnes of RDF to WTE is maintained by the contractor, it will take around two months for the MCG to clear the two acres where RDF is currently stored.During a public hearing over the Bandhwari WTE on August 31, several environmentalists had also suggested carrying legacy waste from Bandhwari to the Sonipat WTE.“On paper, the project of transporting waste from the Bandhwari landfill to the Sonipat WTE makes complete sense. If done properly, the need for setting up a WTE amid forest land in Bandhwari will no longer be required and instead, the Haryana government could focus on expanding the Sonipat WTE to cater to the waste load of Gurugram and Faridabad,” Vaishali Rana, a city-based environmentalist, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bandhwari-landfill-processed-waste-to-be-burnt-at-sonipat-wte-plant-from-next-month-101635354880173.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Cop assaulted in row over sweets at Sector 56 market||A row over standing in a queue for buying jalebis (a deep-fried sweet dish) turned into a show of arms at the Sector 56 market on Tuesday night, with a group of around 10 locals beating up a police constable, the police said. However, no arrests were made till Wednesday. The constable, identified as 27-year-old Ashwani Kumar, of Jhajjar, was assaulted with baseball bats and the butt of a pistol. However, he did not suffer major injuries.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that one of the suspects was identified and they are conducting raids to arrest him and his associates. “The suspects are regulars to the market and we have traced their car numbers,” he said. A case was registered at the Sector 56 police station against the suspects under sections (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (assault), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act. Kumar, presently posted at the Sector 53 police station, said that the incident took place around 8pm during his visit to the Sector 56 market to have dinner. “When I reached the market I saw a man was making fresh jalebis, so I ordered one plate. Before I could receive my order, a man in his early 30s started abusing me and started fighting to get ahead of me in the queue. Before I could react, he punched me in the face and called his friends who were standing nearby,” he said. As the situation escalated, Kumar said that the suspects pulled out pistols and threatened his life, following which he immediately tried to calm the proceedings. “I told him that I am a cop and had come to buy jalebis and that I was in a hurry, but they threatened to set the police station ablaze; they also threatened to drag me to the police station and assault me in front of senior police officers,” he said. Onlookers informed the police control room following which a nearby van rushed to the spot. In the meantime, the suspects fled the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cop-assaulted-in-row-over-sweets-at-sector-56-market-101635354878699.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram crime: 30-year-old held for extorting ₹20K a month from cleaning staff||The police on Tuesday arrested a 30-year-old man for allegedly trying to extort ₹20,000 per month from at least 10 car cleaners working at a society in Sector 67 and threatening to brutally assault them if they did not pay. The police said that the man also regularly called them to threaten them.The suspect was identified as Gaurav alias Rahul of village Bar Gujjar in Manesar. He was arrested from Sector 31 market when he was having dinner. The suspect was sent to 14-day judicial custody on Wednesday, said police. The police said they were able to zero in on the suspect, upon realising that the suspect was using the SIM card of a woman who had approached the Sector 10 police on September 5 to complain about her lost SIM. Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the car cleaners had also complained to Sector 65 police station regarding the extortion calls. “During investigation, it was revealed that the mobile number used to make extortion calls was the same number that belonged to woman. We tracked the location and arrested the suspect,” he said. Sangwan said during questioning, they found that the suspect had picked up the SIM card from a local market in Sector 10 and started making calls to car cleaners. “We thought he would not get caught as he was not using his own mobile phone number and got the mobile recharged for three months. The police said that he had extorted money from car cleaners in Manesar area as well but none had complained to the police,” he said. The police recovered the suspect’s mobile phone and found around 400 cleaners’ contacts. They said he regularly used to harass 28 from the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-crime-30-year-old-held-for-extorting-20k-a-month-from-cleaning-staff-101635354759957.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Distributor held for black marketing LPG cylinders to make a quick buck||The chief minister’s flying squad on Tuesday night arrested a Bhiwani resident for alleged illegal supply of domestic and commercial gas cylinders from Wazirabad and recovered 27 liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinders from his possession.The suspect was arrested by a team of the CM flying squad and Sector 53 police before he could allegedly sell any of the cylinders. He is alleged to have procured over 27 cylinders worth ₹2 lakh to sell them at inflated prices to sweets shops ahead of Diwali.The suspect, identified as Rajesh Kumar, was arrested from his rented house in Wazirabad, which he had turned into a godown to store the cylinders.Harish Budhiraja, inspector, chief minister’s flying squad, said that they seized 22 LPG domestic cylinders and five commercial cylinders from the spot, a weighing machine, and related equipment. Kumar’s neighbours said they thought he was running a gas agency as regular supply was sent from the godown, the police said.Budhiraja said Kumar was associated with an LPG agency but was not authorised to keep agency stock at home. “We found 182 LPG gas cylinders of his agency, which we did not seize as he had documents for them; but in the garb of the agency, he was also doing black marketing due to which he was under the scanner,” he said.The police said that the illegal supply of LPG cylinders is rampant in the city, especially during festival season, at sweets shops and restaurants.A case under sections 7 and 10 of the Essential Commodities Act was registered at Sector 53 police station on Tuesday night. Kumar was produced before a court on Wednesday and sent to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/distributor-held-for-black-marketing-lpg-cylinders-to-make-a-quick-buck-101635354758616.html
27-10-2021||Noida||Bursting of green crackers subject to air quality in Ghaziabad, GB Nagar||If the air quality of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad is “moderate” or better, people will be allowed to burst green crackers this Diwali, said administration officials of both districts on Wednesday.Diwali will be celebrated on November 4 this year.However, according to the Central Pollution Control Board, the air quality index (AQI) readings of both districts are already in the “poor” category--Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, and Noida on Wednesday recorded 278, 232, and 228, respectively.An AQI reading between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.RK Singh, the Ghaziabad district magistrate, said that the Supreme Court, as well as the National Green Tribunal, have given several orders with regard to bursting crackers.“We will comply with and strictly enforce the directions given by the Supreme Court and the tribunal. Bursting of any type of crackers will be subject to the levels of AQI. It is in the best interest of the environment and also to protect the lives of residents from harmful effects of crackers,” the DM said.Ghaziabad officials added that as of now they have not allowed anyone to issue licenses for the sale or manufacture of green firecrackers.Suhas LY, the district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, also reiterated that any bursting of crackers will be subject to AQI levels.“We will follow the directions of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal--any bursting of crackers will be subject to the AQI levels. The issuing of licenses for the sale of green crackers is subject to the police’s discretion,” he added.Officials of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said the Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas had put together the norms for firecrackers with regard to AQI levels.The norms ensure a “total ban on the sale and use of all kinds of crackers, during the Covid-19 pandemic, where the ambient air quality falls under ‘poor’ or worse than ‘poor’ category”.“This means that bursting of crackers will be subject to the condition that if AQI remains ‘poor’ or worse, no bursting of crackers will be allowed. If the AQI is better than ‘poor’, bursting of green crackers may be allowed, but only for a limited period of time,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB for Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar.“The AQI readings of Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, and Noida are already in the ‘poor’ category. So, it is likely that the AQI readings may remain ‘poor’ or worsen during Diwali,” he added.“There are several legal directions in place, but past experience shows that there is hardly any enforcement regarding bursting of crackers. The bursting of crackers has already started. There also seems to be hardly any enforcement against traffic snarls. Agencies are also taking up road construction during the period when the Graded Response Action Plan is in place,” said Akash Vashishtha, an environmentalist and lawyer in Ghaziabad.“If the AQI is not controlled now, there will be much deterioration around Diwali,” he added.Firecrackers traders have expressed dissatisfaction over the issue.“The AQI is already in the ‘poor’ category due to factors which do not include bursting of crackers. It shows that the agencies have failed to curb the rise in pollution, and, as a result, people will not be able to use green crackers. Further, there is no word from officials whether they will allow licenses for the sale of green crackers,” said Ashutosh Gupta, president of Footkar Cracker Association, Ghaziabad.“They have not been able to show us any written order which says whether there is a ban on the sale of green crackers. As a result, we are facing a grim situation and our investments are stuck,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bursting-of-green-crackers-subject-to-air-quality-in-ghaziabad-gb-nagar-101635354638777.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||MH-CET results: 28 students score 100 percentile across PCM and PCB categories||Results for the state common entrance test (MHT-CET) were announced on Wednesday evening and 28 students from across Maharashtra have emerged as toppers at cent percentile. Kolhapur’s Tapan Chiknis and Mumbai’s Dishie Vinchhi were the male and female toppers in the physics-chemistry-maths (PCM) category whereas Fatema Ayman and Aniruddha Ainwale, both from Nanded, were the female and male toppers in the physics-chemistry-biology (PCB) category this year.State minister for higher and technical education, Uday Samant, on Wednesday tweeted news of the results. “MHT-CET 2021 results will be announced online and students can check their individual scores on the official CET website post 7pm,” tweeted Samant.17-year-old Neeraja Patil had already made her mark in the Joint Entrance Examination-Advanced (JEE-Adv) by bagging the first rank among female candidates in Maharashtra. She managed to score 100 percentile in MH-CET as well. “My focus was mainly on JEE exams because I eventually want to bag a seat in the computer science department of IIT-Bombay, but I had prepared for the CET exam as well and I’m happy with the results,” said Patil, a resident of Santacruz. Patil is one of 11 students who scored cent percentile in the physics-chemistry-maths (PCM) category.Of the 228,100 students who have registered for the PCM exam, 192,000 appeared for the exam. Similarly, of the 276,000 who registered for the PCB exam, 222, 000 students appeared for the exam in September this year. According to figures shared by the state CET cell, 180,000 out of these were female candidates and 234,000 were male candidates.In August this year, the state government announced that CET exams will take place in two phases and will be conducted over a week in both sessions to avoid malpractices and ensure social distancing. The total number of exam centres were also doubled this year from 190-odd to over 300 exam centres across the state.For years now, engineering course across institutes and states has witnessed a dip in interest among students. This year, figures released by the state CET cell revealed that the total registrations for the exam this year stood at 500,000, nearly fifty thousand lower than the numbers registered in 2020. Of those registered, 414,000 students finally appeared for the exam in September.“One of the reasons for a large number of registered students to not appear for the exam was because many competitive exams were scheduled at the same dates. It’s unfair to expect students to appear for such difficult exams around the same time,” said Anuradha Patel, mother of an engineering aspirant.18-year old Nikita Maurya bagged the 14th position in the PCB category in the state this year. She’s among the top 28 students scoring a 100 percentile in the exam. “I appeared for the state CET as well as the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-UG) this year. I’m currently waiting for the NEET-UG results and really hope to get through a medical institute in the city,” said Maurya, who stands overall on the 14th position in PCB category.Janam Khandelwal, 19, has bagged the 10th position in the PCM category and is hoping to be allotted a seat in one of the top engineering institutes in the city. “I have appeared for JEE as well as CET, but my score on CET is better so I’m looking forward to the admissions process,” said Janam, a resident of Bhayandar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mhcet-results-28-students-score-100-percentile-across-pcm-and-pcb-categories-101635354583793.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||As Covid cases decline, over 700 hospital beds vacant in Lucknow, other patients need care||Over 700 hospital beds in Lucknow health facilities that were reserved for Covid patients during the second wave are now lying vacant, even as Covid cases have fallen to their lowest level with just four or five patients recuperating in hospitals in the state capital. On the other hand, the need for beds for admitting patients afflicted with other illnesses, especially dengue, is gradually going up.Sample this. There are 320 beds at King George’s Medical University’s department of physical medicine and rehabilitation (DPMR) and 200 hospital beds are kept for Covid patients at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences. Also, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) has 260 beds which are kept unused. No patient is admitted at these wards. Officials of these institutes say they are waiting for instructions to de-notify these wards as Covid wards and use them for other general illnesses. Experts say these hospital beds should now be used for other patients.Besides, a 40-bed paediatric unit made in anticipation of the Covid third wave at Balrampur Hospital, too, is kept in reserve. “The intimation about a third wave is still coming. Hence, these beds have been made ready for admission of children with all equipment and life support systems,” said Dr Alok Kumar Srivastava, director of Balrampur Hospital.Not just in Lucknow but in other places also, beds are kept in reserve in anticipation of a third wave. At the Rajarshi Dashrath Autonomous State Medical College in Ayodhya, 210 beds were reserved for Covid patients on three floors in a building and 70 beds are still reserved for Covid patients.“The ward made at the women and child wing of the institute has 140 ICU/HDU beds and, in all, there are 200 beds that were reserved for Covid patients for the past several months. We treated patients during the first and second wave,” said Dr Srikesh Singh, spokesperson for the Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences in Lucknow.He said, “The beds are still reserved for Covid patients and we are waiting for instructions to use them for other illnesses.”He said once instructions from the state government come, the beds will be used for other patients. Senior officials at SGPGIMS say they are now planning to start admission of other patients on 170 out of the total 260 beds reserved for Covid patients at Rajdhani Covid Hospital that was made at the apex trauma centre of the institute, while a decision on the remaining beds will be taken later.Experts feel that with a rise in the number of dengue cases, there is a need is to arrange hospital beds for those suffering with high fever as dengue may cause more trouble in the coming four weeks.“If there are no Covid patients in need of hospital care, the beds should be used for dengue patients or patients suffering with other illnesses,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president of Indian Medical Association, Lucknow.As per statistics, Lucknow had over 7000 beds for Covid patients during the second wave, including 3000 in private hospitals. All private hospitals are now using their Covid beds for non-Covid facilities. Dr Anoop Agrawal, president of the Lucknow Nursing Home Association (LNHA), said, “It is advisible to keep some beds for Covid even if there are no cases since Covid cases rise rapidly. But the need can be evaluated and the remaining beds should be opened fo other health need.”Dr Agrawal said another plan can be kept ready on how to add Covid beds if cases start rising rapidly.On the other hand, the Lok Bandhu hospital that had 150 beds for Covid patients reserved during the second wave is now admitting dengue patients in the Covid ward after disinfection and other formalities. “We are getting dengue and high fever patients; hence we are admitting them. We cannot refuse admission. We are admitting them in the ward that was earlier for Covid patients,” said Dr Ajai Shankar Tripathi of the Lok Bandhu Hospital. At the medical college in Ayodhya, two-thirds of the 210 reserved beds are being used for general patients.“We have started using Covid wards for other patients as there are no Covid patients now. Soon, the remaining 70 beds will also be used for general patients,” said Prof Vijay Kumar, principal of the college.Doctors have advised people that irrespective of whatever information is available on the species of mosquitoes causing dengue, there is only one solution to it and that is to avoid mosquito bites. “Mosquitoes thrive in areas close to human population and a spoonful of water is enough for mosquito breeding. The dengue mosquito lays its eggs in water-filled containers inside the house and the surrounding areas of dwellings including unused bottles, containers, discarded waste, tyres or any item which can hold water,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.Doctors said that information such as mosquito bite during the morning causing dengue or that they bite up to a certain height, say knee level, should not be considered and people should keep themselves protected all the time.“There is only one thing to follow and that is to avoid mosquito bite. After biting a dengue infected person, mosquito will transmit the disease to several others by biting more people. Hence, it is necessary that one uses all preventive measures such as mosquito nets,” said Dr PK Gupta.The hospital beds reserved for Covid patients in Lucknow include 320 at KGMU, 200 at RMLIMS and 260 at SGPGIMS. A total 850 dengue cases have been reported in Lucknow this year and over a dozen dengue patients are currently admitted in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/as-covid-cases-decline-over-700-hospital-beds-vacant-in-lucknow-other-patients-need-care-101635354399026.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||State cabinet decides not to hike property tax||Months before the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) elections, the state cabinet on Wednesday decided to not increase the property taxes for buildings and lands in Mumbai for the year 2021-22. The decision was taken in the wake of the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Urban development department officials said that with the decision, people would continue to pay the existing property tax for any building or land as they were paying in 2021-20. “A similar decision was taken in November 2020, and it has now been extended by another one year,” said an official adding that the government will promulgate an ordinance to give effect to it. The BMC is estimated to lose revenue worth ₹1,042 crore through the decision. The civic revises the capital value of the properties every five years, based on which the property tax is levied.Officials added that the BMC had received several requests from various stakeholders about waiver or concessions in the property tax in light of the weak economy after Covid-19. The lockdown imposed by the government had impacted the financial transactions of many small businesses, educational institutions, development works, factories and industrial areas, among others.“Looking at the situation of the economy, which is trying to gain momentum post-lockdown, the decision, to not revise the capital value of any building or land in the current year, has been taken. The BMC could revise the capital value of the buildings and lands in the next financial year,” said an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-cabinet-decides-not-to-hike-property-tax-101635354158957.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Task force set up to review Mumbai’s islanding system||Over a year after Mumbai experienced a power outage affecting lakhs of consumers, a committee that looked into the reasons found that the emergency standard operating procedures (SOPs) fall short to tackle the ‘failure’ and recommended the use of digitisation and automation to deal with such incidents in the future. A task force has also been set up to review the islanding system of Mumbai.The energy department on Wednesday submitted the action-taken report on the recommendations made by the committee constituted to look into the power outage in Mumbai on October 12, 2020.Dinesh Waghmare, principal secretary, energy department, said the observations of the committee have been adopted and the department has taken corrective measures. “The committee observed that our SOPs in an emergency should be revised and we have revised the SOP. A task force has been set up to take corrective measures, regarding the Mumbai Islanding System and the transmission system. The present islanding system has to be reviewed as it was set up in the 1980s. We have formed a task force to review it. All stakeholders including MSEDCL, Tata, Adani, BEST will get covered in this task force,” he said.The islanding system, built by Tata Power in 1981, is designed to isolate its electricity network from the rest of the western grid during widespread grid disturbances. Under the system, power plants within the Mumbai region continue generating electricity during grid failures, supplying power for rail transport and essential consumers such as hospitals. However, it failed in October last year, causing an outage of up to 15 hours depending on the area within Mumbai.Waghmare added, “The committee had indicated that SOPs for outages and emergencies should be revised, which has been done now.” Several systems are working in analogue which has to be digitised. He further said that the department has adopted various other maintenance techniques including replacing insulator strings, its maintenance, use of drones and thermal cameras to monitor hotspots. “They had recommended identifying and monitoring of hotspots. We have identified over 250 locations where 140 thermal scanning cameras, both handheld and Drones, are used for 400 KV lines. We have 24 drones which have thermal scanning cameras in it,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/task-force-set-up-to-review-mumbai-s-islanding-system-101635353618690.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Eight injured as BEST bus crashes into dumper in Mumbai’s Matunga||A speeding BEST bus crashed into a moving dumper at Matunga on Wednesday, leaving eight passengers including the driver of the bus seriously injured. The injured are undergoing treatment at Sion Hospital. The police are trying to ascertain the exact cause of the accident. According to information shared by the BEST, bus number 648 of the Marol Bus Depot which was plying on route number 22, on Wednesday morning met with an accident near Khodadad Circle in Matunga while it was moving towards Vijay Vallabh Chowk from Marol Maroshi Bus Station. In the CCTV footage of the accident, it can be clearly seen that the BEST bus was travelling at high speed and its driver could not apply the brakes in time leading to a collision with the dumper that was slowly moving ahead. The police said that the bus rammed into the dumper’s rear left side. The impact of the collision was so high that a passenger was thrown out of the bus. The passenger was seriously injured and fell unconscious. Later all the injured people including the driver and the conductor were rushed to the Sion Hospital. The bus driver has been identified as Rajendra Sudam Kale, 52 and the conductor has been identified as Kashiram Ragho Dhuri, 57. The other six injured passengers who are under treatment are Tahir Hussain, 52, Rupali Gaikwad, 36, Mohammed Sultan Ansari, 50, Mansoor Ali, 52 Shrawani Mhaske, 16 and Vaidhai Bamane, 17. Two injured passengers did not come to the hospital and went home. The Matunga Police have registered a case against the driver of the bus. “We have registered a case under Section 279, 337 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code against the driver and recording of statements of witnesses is underway,” said Nitin Bobade, senior inspector of Matunga Police. Only the driver of the bus could tell what exactly went wrong and why the bus could not be stopped in time, another police officer said. “For now our priority is to pay attention to the injured passengers and the treatment of the staff. Inquiry and checking the health background of the driver will be done once they are all fine,” said Manoj Varade spokesperson for BEST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eight-injured-as-best-bus-crashes-into-dumper-in-mumbai-101635353078588.html
27-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Woman raped by former CWC president, FIR registered||PRAYAGRAJ: Kotwali police on Wednesday registered an FIR against a former president of Child Welfare Committee (CWC), Prayagraj, for allegedly raping a 20-year-old woman on the pretext of helping her in a legal case. Teams have been formed to arrest of the accused, police said. According to reports, the husband of the woman, who hails from Kaushambi district, had taken away her six-year-old daughter following their estranged relations. Some months back, the woman reached the CWC where she met its then president. The woman claimed that the man assured her of bringing back her daughter and even offered to bear expenses of the court. The accused then started exploiting the woman sexually and raped her on different occasions at different locations in Civil Lines, George Town, Daraganj and Bahadurganj areas of the district. The woman approached the police some days back when the man allegedly started threatening her on the phone. Station house officer (SHO) of Kotwali police station, Narendra Prasad, carried out investigations and got medical examination of the woman done, and registered an FIR against the former CWC president. Police also carried out raids at the places where the woman claimed she was raped by the accused. Help is also being taken from CWC authorities and district probationary officer. Circle officer Satyendra Tiwari said that further investigation was on in this connection and teams had been constituted for the arrest of the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-woman-raped-by-former-cwc-president-fir-registered-101635352718564.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||AY.4.2 not detected in Maharashtra samples: state health officials||The new descendant of the Delta variant of novel coronavirus – AY.4.2 – that is closely being monitored in the United Kingdom has not been found in Maharashtra, state health officials said on Wednesday. This Delta variant sub-lineage was labelled as a Variant Under Investigation (VUI) by the UK Health Security Agency (UKHSA) on October 20 and is said to have “modestly increased growth rate compared to Delta”. Principal secretary of the state’s public health department Dr Pradeep Vyas said the AY.4.2 sub-lineage has not been detected in any sample from Maharashtra so far. State’s epidemiologist Dr Pradeep Awate reiterated it. “AY.4.2 has two additional mutations along with the Delta and the AY.4 mutation. None of the samples from Maharashtra have found these additional mutations,” said Awate. The Delta variant (B.1.617.2) continues to be a concern globally as well as in Maharashtra. As of October 25, nearly 73% samples from the state that were sent for genome sequencing under the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) and to the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research–Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR–IGIB) had the Delta variant. Nearly 5.5% samples had the Delta sub-lineages starting from AY.1, AY.2 and so on. AY.4.2 INFREQUENT IN INDIA Globally, the Phylogenetic Assignment of Named Global Outbreak (PANGO) nomenclature is being used by researchers and health agencies to classify the SARS-CoV-2 genomes and variations. Based on the PANGO classifications, 17 AY.4.2 sequences were found in India. These 17 cases also reflected on GISAID, an open-source database tracking the genomic signature of coronavirus variants. However, INSACOG on Wednesday clarified that none of these sequences had both the mutations together. “Manual analysis of these 17 sequences has revealed that 8 sequences have only Spike_Y145H, 2 sequences have only Spike_A222V, whereas the remaining 4 sequences do not have either of the mutations,” the INSACOG release stated. “These 17 samples included 10 from Gujarat, two from Assam, and one from Maharashtra among others. But all these samples were from May, June and July,” said Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). The INSACOG also stated that based on the case definition used by UK health authorities, AY.4.2 is very infrequent (below 0.1%) in India. “Most sequences from India that are being classified by PANGO as AY.4.2 have only either Y145H or A222V in Spike, not both mutations appearing together,” it said. AY.4 to AY.33 Among the AY sub-lineages, AY.4 has been dominant in Maharashtra. But INSACOG on Wednesday said that many cases earlier labelled as AY.4 are now reclassified at AY.33 in the new revised system. Maharashtra’s task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said genome scientists are not in agreement with the mutation classification and terminology as far as the AY.4.2 is concerned. “At the moment, we largely have immunity for Delta and Delta derivatives as it has been the dominant strain. Therefore, it’s unlikely that the new sub-lineage will pose a threat, but we have to constantly keep a vigil,” he said. Experts said the AY.4.2 scenario should be looked at from a global perspective. “This particular mutation is creating a problem in UK, north China, Spain, Germany and parts of Europe. But we still know little about its transmission and pathogenicity, so we have to keep a close watch on the global scenario while assessing our own situation,” said infectious disease expert Dr Om Srivastava who is also a member of the state’s task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ay42-not-detected-in-maharashtra-samples-state-health-officials-101635352178488.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Extortion row: Mumbai Police records Prabhakar Sail statement, but NCB unable to contact him||A team from the Mumbai Police on Wednesday recorded the statement of Prabhakar Sail, a witness of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the drugs-on-cruise case, on his allegations of extortion against the agency and its Mumbai zone chief Sameer Wankhede. Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is in jail in the alleged drugs bust case.Sail has alleged he had overheard KV Gosavi, another witness of the NCb in the case, speaking over the phone about the ₹25 crore demand out of which " ₹8 crore is to be given to Wankhede" to let off Aryan. Sail has claimed to be a former driver/bodyguard of Gosavi, a private detective, according to the NCB's records.Also read | Sameer Wankhede quizzed for 4 hours; drugs case probe to continue under himThe Mumbai Police recorded the statement of Sail on a day the NCB’s vigilance team said it was unable to contact Sail and Gosavi to join its investigation that it is separately conducting into the allegations.NCB's deputy director-general Gyaneshwar Singh, who is heading the vigilance probe, said, "We have tried our best to contact them but could not. Through the media I would like to tell them they are free to join in two days and give evidence to special inquiry team which has been staying at CRPF mess at Bandra (West)."In a statement, police said an ACP-rank officer recorded a detailed statement of Sail, one of the panch witnesses in the NCB’s drugs bust case.Also read | NCB decided not to act, Sameer Wankhede went aheadSail reportedly said the NCB had not approached him for recording his statement and he was ready to share all information with them.Earlier, Singh said the NCB had requested its South West region office to serve notices to the key witnesses - Sail and Gosavi. "An NCB team tried to serve notices to both the witnesses, but found the residence of one of them locked while the other witness cannot be contacted," the DDG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-records-prabhakar-sail-statement-but-ncb-unable-to-contact-him-101635351643274.html
27-10-2021||Other||Rising Covid cases in Bengal put Bihar bordering districts on high alert||All Bihar districts bordering West Bengal have been put on high alert following the reports of rising Covid cases in the neighbouring state post Durga Puja. A few Covid cases were reported from the adjoining districts in Bihar on Tuesday, where infected people of West Bengal are receiving treatment.“Yes, the cases are coming here from the neighbouring state and we can’t help them. After the Durga Puja, West Bengal has witnessed a sudden surge in Covid cases,” a senior doctor of Kishanganj, requesting anonymity, said.Kishanganj district magistrate (DM) Dr Aditya Prakash said, “We are on alert and conducting testings of passengers coming from Bengal at both Kishanganj and Thakurganj railway stations, besides Kishanganj Bus Stop, check posts of BSF and SSB and other identified spots on /near the West Bengal border.” There are four active cases in the district and all are outsiders, he added.Katihar DM Udyan Mishra also said that the administration carried out Covid testing in the whole district. We are keeping watch over all those coming from other states, including West Bengal. Testing at Railway stations on the WB border is mandatory.”“Over 10,000 people were tested for Covid on Tuesday and no case was reported.” Katihar is among ten top districts in vaccination drive, where 67.50% people have already been vaccinated for the first dose.”In Araria, civil surgeon Dr M P Gupta said two confirmed cases of Covid were reported on Tuesday. However, one of them was from Nepal.In Purnia, no case of Covid-19 has been reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rising-covid-cases-in-bengal-put-bihar-bordering-districts-on-high-alert-101635351398533.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Residents protest as Thane civic body begins demolition work of 6 buildings in Diva||The Diva suburb in Thane was tense on Wednesday following a demolition drive undertaken by the Thane Municipal Corporation in mid-morning. Hundreds of people thronged the streets opposing the demolition of six buildings housing 120 flats near Diva station for road widening projects.While the corporation claimed alternate accommodations were provided to each of the residents and enough time was provided to shift, residents refused to move out claiming the new houses were in far off villages, difficult to access from the railway station.Manish Joshi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC, said “We have been taking various measures to inform the residents to vacate the houses. We also provided keys to homes in an alternate premise with all the facilities. It is only after repeated warnings that we have undertaken the demolition work on Wednesday.”Suresh Waghmare, 30, local resident, said, “We have been given an alternate space at Padle Village, which is quite far from our current accommodation. Until now, to go to work or college, everyone could just walk down the road and reach Diva station. Now, we will have to spend around ₹100 a day to reach Diva station. Moreover, there are no other facilities. This is the only building in that village area.”Padle Village is around 8km from Diva station and one way is around half-an-hour ride.Savita Rathod, 45, resident of Diva, said, “We have been staying here for more than two decades. Shifting to a remote area would be inconvenient for us. If they had provided alternate accommodation in the vicinity or within the city precincts, we would have been happier and eager to move.”Residents have protested in the past as well, forming a 500m long human chain in 2019. Anticipating such a reaction, a heavy police bandobast was in place on Wednesday. The residents argued, tried to stop the demolition work and many women wept while a 40-year-old Riza Ahmed fainted on seeing her home being demolished. Sandeep Malvi, additional commissioner, TMC, said, “This was an illegal structure. Also, we had to widen the road and hence provided them with an alternative. The road block near Diva station caused traffic jams. Widening the road would be beneficial for all. We made repeated announcements in these areas and also put up banners announcing that the structure will be demolished. It was not a sudden decision. We also turned off the water and electricity supply first so that the residents are alerted.” The demolition is undertaken to make way for a road widening project from Diva Circle to the railway station. Diva ROB is a part of this widening. It will be 723m long and 14.80m wide. Central Railway and TMC have contributed 50% each for construction of the ROB.The TMC, with the help of JCB, has only demolished certain parts of the buildings and hence residents on Wednesday evening entered their homes and packed the remaining belongings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/residents-protest-as-thane-civic-body-begins-demolition-work-of-6-buildings-in-diva-101635351164534.html
27-10-2021||Patna||9 convicted for blasts at Modi’s Patna rally in 2013||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court here on Wednesday convicted nine people in connection with the serial blasts at Patna’s Gandhi Maidan in 2013 during an election rally of Narendra Modi, who was then the Bhartiya Janata Party’s prime ministerial candidate, which left six dead and 90 others injured.Special public prosecutor Lalan Kumar Sinha, who represented NIA in the court, said nine of the total 10 accused were convicted under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including under 302 (murder), besides sections of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, Explosives Act and the Railways Act. Sinha said all convicts were members of the banned outfit, Students’ Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). The explosive devices at Gandhi Maidan had gone off after a blast in the toilet at platform number 10 of Patna Junction, according to police. Two of the accused, Imtiyaz Ansari (Gandhi Maidan) and Mohammad Tariq Ajam (Patna Junction), were also injured in the incident and revealed the name of other associates. Later, Ajam died during the treatment at Patna Medical College and Hospital. A total of 17 IEDs were found in and around Gandhi Maidan, according to police. Additional district and sessions judge of the special NIA court, Gurwinder Singh Malhotra, which has held nine people guilty, let off the 10th accused, Fakruddin, for want of evidence.Those pronounced guilty are: Imtiyaz Ansari, Haider Ali alias Abdullah, Noman Ansari, Umar Siddiqui, Azharuddin Qureshi, Ahmed Hussain, Mohammed Iftekhar Alam, Mohammed Mujibullah Ansari and Feroz Aslam.The court will pronounce the quantum of sentences on November 1.Sinha said five of the convicts have already been held guilty in the 2013 Bodh Gaya blasts case. He said he has demanded death sentences for all accused. In its charge sheet, NIA said that the accused had planned the Patna blasts after they failed to get close to Modi at his previous rallies in New Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Uttar Pradesh. Meanwhile, widow of one Ramnarayan Singh from Patna who was among those killed in the blast at Gandhi Maidan, alleged that despite the assurance by the government, she was yet to get either pension or a job as a part of the compensation to kin of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/9-convicted-for-blasts-at-modi-s-patna-rally-in-2013-101635350438560.html
27-10-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: JD(U) says unfazed by Lalu’s campaign||The ruling Janata Dal (United) in Bihar on Wednesday dismissed suggestions that the campaigning by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad could damage its winning prospects in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly seats, where bypolls are to be held on October 30. Both seats were won by JD(U) in 2020 state elections. Prasad, who has been away from the state since December 2017 when he was convicted and jailed in fodder scam cases, held election rallies in both constituencies on Wednesday.“Lalu unleashed his tongue while Nitish Kumar’s work speaks for him. Nobody can forget the journey to Kusheshwar Asthan from Darbhanga 16 years ago and the smooth ride today. It would have been better had Laluji talked about what his government had done. People enjoying round-the-clock electricity supply will never like to even remember the lantern age they were condemned to live in earlier,”said Bihar minister and JD(U) general secretary Sanjay Jha, who has been camping in the area for weeks.“If Bihar today has infant mortality rate (IMR) less than the national average, which is reflected through the Centre’a report released on Tuesday, it shows how the Nitish Kumar government has worked at the basics,” he said.JD(U) spokesman Neeraj Kumar said that despite his illness, Lalu Prasad going for campaigning shows he does not have trust in the ability of his son and heir apparent Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. “There has been no change in his approach despite consistent drubbing at the hands of the voters since 2005 and the bypoll results will also be no different. Nitish Kumar has given him enough of political treatment in the last 15 years. It is strange that a man who cannot contest even panchayat polls is seeking votes in assembly election,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-jd-u-says-unfazed-by-lalu-s-campaign-101635350138577.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||BMC to study crocodiles at Powai Lake||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), as part of its proposal to build a 10.2km long, circumambulatory cycle track around the periphery of Powai lake, has commissioned a six-month-long study to assess the population of Indian marsh crocodiles, that are known to live in the water body.This will be the first time that such a study will be undertaken. This has been a long-standing demand of environmentalists. While an official census has never been conducted, the Maharashtra State Angling Association (which is situated on the banks of the lake) has previously pegged their number at between 40-50 adult individuals.The study, a proposal for which is currently awaiting approval from BMC, will be led by herpetologist Dr Kedar Bhide, who is one of six experts on the BMC-appointed panel to oversee sustainable implementation of the project, which also involves steps to remediate the water body through aeration, management of weeds and other vegetation, stopping sewage ingress and monitoring of dissolved oxygen levels.“As part of the study, we will do day counts (when natural daylight is available) and eyeshine counts at night. These are accepted methodologies to determine crocodile numbers in a given area and will tell us exactly how many adult crocodiles are inhabiting the lake. While we know they are there, and that there is an indication of breeding, there has been no official study or data collection done so far. We will also study where the crocodiles are basking and nesting, where they take shelter in the water, and what food sources are available to them,” said Bhide to Hindustan Times on Wednesday.Bhide said he expects the population count and basking survey to begin by the end of the year, while nesting surveys are scheduled to be conducted sometime in 2022, between February and June, which is the nesting season for the Indian marsh crocodile. “Now that the monsoon is over, we are just waiting for the water levels in the lake to recede further before we can start our fieldwork. We will compile our findings in a report which will present mitigation measures that the BMC should adopt during the development of the cycle track. Powai Lake is already a sub-optimal habitat for crocodiles and other wildlife, and part of the project involves restoring the area and implementing better biodiversity management,” said Bhide.In addition to mitigation measures, the report will also develop a standard operating procedure for conflict management. “Since the cycle track will be used as a public space where humans and crocodiles will be in close proximity to one another, it is important to plan these SOPs. Hypothetically speaking, if a crocodile wanders onto the cycle track, the BMC will need proper instructions on how to respond. For this, we are considering roping in local wildlife rescue teams who are already experienced in dealing with these animals,” said Bhide.The cycle track component of the Powai lake rejuvenation project, however, has drawn the ire of environmentalists who say they are opposed to the area being developed as a public space for tourists, citing possible harm to the crocodile population. “Why has a project proposal been drawn up without first conducting such a study to understand the impact? Does wildlife become a priority only when it gets in the way of some other development? The forest department and wildlife experts have proposed to conduct such studies in the past but they have not materialised until now. It is needed, but can be done independently without the cycle track,” said Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti.Crocodile populations in Powai Lake are also allegedly in decline. An honorary wildlife warden with the forest department, who has been conducting rescue operations in the city for close to a decade, said, “Sightings of crocodiles in Powai lake were far more frequent around 10-15 years ago. Now a lot of the areas which were available for them, have been encroached, and fish stocks have declined due to pollution and overfishing. Desilting projects have also eroded little islands in the middle of the lake where they would bask.”P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner (projects), BMC, confirmed that such a study has been commissioned. “We will approve the budgets and contract soon. As far as completion of the cycle track is concerned, we will wait until the report is done so as to leave the crocodiles’ basking and nesting areas untouched.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-study-crocodiles-at-powai-lake-101635349778543.html
27-10-2021||Patna||Bihar bypolls: Lalu says Sonia called, Cong junks claim||Confusion prevailed over the RJD-Congress alliance in Bihar on Wednesday after Lalu Prasad hinted at a thaw and said Sonia Gandhi spoke to him on phone about his health and discussed the opposition’s unity, a claim promptly dismissed by Congress leaders.Before leaving Patna to campaign for by-elections in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur assembly constituencies, Prasad told reporters, “Sonia Gandhi spoke to me on phone and enquired about my well-being. We also discussed opposition’s unity.”Hours later, All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Bihar, Bhaktra Charan Das, who Prasad had called “bhakchonhar (simpleton)”, categorically ruled out any discussion between the Congress president and RJD chief on Wednesday. “This is baseless talk intended to create confusion among the masses at the peak of electioneering. There is no alliance between Congress and RJD (Rashtriya Janata Dal) in the by-elections and the party would contest all the 40 seats in the next Lok Sabha elections on its own,” said Das.“I am the in-charge for Bihar and a representative of the Congress president. She (Sonia Gandhi) would surely give me the direction about the political line if there was any talk as referred to by Prasad,” said the AICC in-charge, adding that the RJD chief must have lied out of frustration to create confusion among the electors after realising heavy erosion in his party’s vote bank in both the seats.Prasad’s RJD and Congress, which fought the 2020 Bihar polls in alliance, are contesting separately in the bypolls for the two seats, which were earlier won by chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United).Das said Congress’s victory would give a new direction to politics in Bihar. “Our victory in two seats is not that crucial as to tilt the balance of power. But it would certainly revitalise Congress,” he said.State Congress leaders, already belligerent after Prasad’s remarks against Das, too dismissed RJD chief’s claim of telephonic call with Sonia Gandhi as a ploy to confuse voters.Congress legislature party (CLP) leader Ajit Sharma said, “Prima facie, it appears to be fake. RJD chief is a master dramatist.” Kadwa MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan said, “RJD has begun taking recourse to lies knowing well Congress was winning both the seats.” Congreas has fielded Rajesh Mishra and Atirek Kumar from Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan, respectively. In 2020, the party had lost Kusheshwar Asthan by less than 6,000 votes.When contacted, RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said there should be no confusion over talks between top leaders of the two parties. “Lalu Prasad and Sonia Gandhi know each other and RJD has supported Congress and the party chief in critical times. Moreover, there has been no denial (of telephonic all) from Sonia ji,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress legislator Prem Chandra Mishra alleged that leaders and ministers of the ruling alliance are distributing cash to influence voters and using official machinery for election purposes. “The Election Commission has been requested to act against them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bypolls-lalu-says-sonia-called-cong-junks-claim-101635349718541.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Shah Rukh Khan son Aryan’s case ‘different’: Judge explains why 2 arrested got bail||MUMBAI: The case of Odisha residents, Avin Sahu and Manish Rajgaria, arrested during the Cordelia cruise drugs bust, is different from the case of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and model Munmun Dhamecha, the special Mumbai court said in its detailed orders granting the two bail on Tuesday, explaining that no case of prima facie conspiracy and abetment was made out against them.The court said there was no prima-facie material that they were part of any larger network and their case can be distinguished from that of others against whom there was evidence of conspiracy.“The respondent (Narcotics Control Bureau, or NCB) failed to produce on record any evidence to show that he was either in contact with any of the accused or that in any way that he is connected with co-accused. The prosecution failed to show nexus of the applicant with co-accused to prima-facie make a case of conspiracy. Merely because the applicant was present on the cruise, he cannot be said to be acted in conspiracy with the co-accused,” Vaibhav Patil, the special judge designated to hear cases relating to the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), said in a 12-page order on Avin Sahu’s bail request. He cited similar circumstances in his order granting bail to Manish Rajgaria.Also Read: No recovery from Aryan Khan, WhatsApp chats not proof: lawyers to high courtJudge Patil said section 29 of NDPS Act, which relates to punishment for abetment and criminal conspiracy, is not applicable in the case of the two Odisha residents hence rigours of section 37 of NDPS (relating to offences to be cognisable and non-cognisable) would not apply to them. The court said there is no prima-facie material that the present applicant is part of a larger network and his case can be distinguished from the case of others accused against whom there is evidence of conspiracy. As argued and according to the remand report, the accused is arrested only for violation of 8C (prohibition, control and regulations), 27A of NDPS Act (punishment for financing illicit trafficking and harbouring offenders) which attracts punishment for one year. Hence section 29 of NDPS is not applicable to him. “The role attributed to the present accused is different from the role attributed to accused Aryan Khan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha and that no case of prima-facie conspiracy and abetment is made out against the applicant as alleged by the prosecution. Hence section 29 of NDPS Act is not applicable,” the judge said.Judge Patil also observed that the prosecution has failed to point out any circumstances during arguments which “show the nexus of the applicant Rajgaria with any co-accused to prima facie make out the ingredients of the conspiracy”.“Merely because some contraband was allegedly recovered from the applicant, he cannot be said to be acted in conspiracy with co-accused. Moreover, so far as in respect of recovery is concerned, panchnama states that contraband was handed over to the NCB officers by the security officer. Thus, there is prima facie no cogent evidence on record regarding recovery of contraband from the applicant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shah-rukh-khan-son-aryan-s-case-different-judge-explains-why-2-arrested-got-bail-101635349298508.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||More than 100 BJP workers join NCP in Thane||Thane’s Ulhasnagar witnessed an exodus of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers as 114 of them joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Wednesday. 21 corporators of the BJP in the Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation also crossed over to the NCP during a function.They switched parties in presence of Maharashtra state housing minister Jitendra Awhad and former MP Anand Paranjape. The Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation has a total of 32 BJP corporators.Along with these workers, 19 former corporators of the UMC and the sarpanch, deputy sarpanch of Warap, Mharal and Kamba gram panchayats also joined the Sharad Pawar-led party.Pancham Kalani was also appointed as NCP Ulhasnagar president, news agency PTI reported.BJP lawmaker joins TMC in BengalMeanwhile, West Bengal also saw a BJP legislator join Trinamool Congress. Krishna Kalyani, MLA from Raiganj in north Bengal, joined the TMC on Wednesday.“In BJP there is no audit of good performance. There is only conspiracy. You cannot win an election with just conspiracy. To win an election you need development,” Kalyani was quoted as saying according to a report by HT. Kalyani is the fifth legislator who joined the TMC following BJP’s defeat in the West Bengal elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-than-100-bjp-workers-join-ncp-in-thane-101635349063887.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||BEST bus crashes into dumper at Matunga, 8 injured||A speeding Brihanmumbai Electricity Supply and Transport (BEST) bus crashed into a moving dumper at Matunga on Wednesday. Eight passengers including the driver of the bus have sustained serious injuries and are undergoing treatment at Sion hospital. The police are trying to ascertain the exact cause of the accident.According to the BEST, bus plying on route number 22 Limited, on Wednesday morning met with an accident near Khodadad Circle in Matunga while it was moving towards Vijay Vallabh Chowk (Pydhonie) from Marol Maroshi bus station.In the CCTV footage of the accident, it is seen that the BEST bus was at high speed and its driver could not apply brakes on time, leading to a collision with the dumper.The police said that the bus driver side rammed into the dumper’s rear left side. The impact of the collision was so high that a passenger was thrown out of the bus. All the injured people including the driver and the conductor were rushed to the Sion hospital.The bus driver has been identified as Rajendra Sudam Kale, 52 and the conductor is identified as Kashiram Ragho Dhuri, 57. Other six injured passengers are Tahir Hussain, 52, Rupali Gaikwad, 36, Mohammed Sultan Ansari, 50, Mansoor Ali, 52 Shrawani Mhaske, 16 and Vaidhai Bamane, 17. The Matunga police have registered a case against the driver of the bus. “We have registered a case against the driver under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. We are recording statements of witnesses,” said Nitin Bobade, senior inspector of Matunga police.“Inquiry and checking the health background of the driver after discharge,” said Manoj Varade spokesperson for BEST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/best-bus-crashes-into-dumper-at-matunga-8-injured-101635348878579.html
27-10-2021||Pune||SPPU issues October-end deadline to 400 students to clear out hostel rooms||PUNE After the state government allowed colleges and universities to reopen campuses for students, from October 22 offline lectures started at several colleges in the city. To prepare for accommodation of students coming in after the Diwali vacations, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has issued notices to 400 students to immediately take away their belongings from and vacate hostel rooms.A large number of final year students and those that have passed out, have not yet taken away their luggage and other belongings from the rooms. Many rooms are locked and now a notice with a final ultimatum to vacate the rooms by the end of this month has been given to students. Those students who will not take away their belongings or luggage, will find the luggage at the hostel luggage room if the deadline is not met. Currently, a majority of students are still in their villages and hometowns for the Diwali vaccations and will return to Pune only after the festival. Students have demanded an extension for this deadline.Kiran Waghmare, a final year student said, “I am ready to take away my luggage, but I can come only after the Diwali vacation to Pune. Considering this request of most of the students, SPPU should give us an extension.”SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar said, “We have already given enough time and several notices to students to vacant their rooms, but still many students have not taken away their luggage. Post Diwali, new student admissions for the hostel will start and for that our preparations are going on. Now for the remaining students we have issued this circular, and if there is any problem they can contact us and we will surely help and cooperate with them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-issues-october-end-deadline-to-400-students-to-clear-out-hostel-rooms-101635348278571.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||No new corona case in 67 UP districts: Yogi Adityanath||Lucknow: No new corona case had been reported in 67 districts, while only 13 new cases had come to notice in remaining eight districts in the past 24 hours in Uttar Pradesh, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath here on Wednesday. In all, 0.17 million Covid-19 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. Seven patients have fully recovered during the period, bringing down the number of active cases to 100 in the state. There was no active corona case in 39 districts of the state while only one active case each was reported in 18 districts. Addressing a high level meeting, the chief minister said in all, 1.68 million patients had recovered from Covid-19. He said corona had been checked with the state government’s tracing, testing, treatment, and vaccination policy but there was a need for precaution and maintaining vigil to keep Covid-19 under control. He said special attention should be paid during the festival season. HIGHEST VACCINE DOSES Yogi said the number of people getting both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine was highest in the state. He said 30.8 million people had been given both doses of Covid-19 vaccine. Out of 127.70 vaccine doses given so far, 96.9 million were first doses. This was nearly 60 per cent of the state’s population eligible for vaccination. He said the people eligible for second dose should be fully vaccinated and a regular communication should be maintained with the Centre to ensure availability of vaccines. MAINTAIN CLEANLINESS Yogi said special attention should be paid to cleaning, fogging and sanitization, keeping in view dengue, diarrhoea and viral infections. He said compensation should be paid to farmers whose crops had been damaged in floods and added that 0.5 million farmers had been identified for payment of compensation. Work in this regard should be carried out expeditiously with sensitivity, he said. ACT AGAINST THOSE BLACK MARKETING FERTILISERS Yogi said district magistrates should inspect procurement centres and there should be no delay in payment to farmers. He said there were reports of man-made shortage of DAP fertilizer through black marketing and hoarding. The agriculture production commissioner should take note and work out a system in this regard. He said district magistrates should ensure expeditious disposal of complaints and strict action be taken against those indulging in black marketing and hoarding. The state government was committed to protecting interests of employees and high level committees had been constituted to resolve their issues, Yogi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-new-corona-case-in-67-up-districts-yogi-adityanath-101635346838681.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||1,026 college students get vaccination in Kalyan, Dombivli in 2 days||In two days since the vaccination for college students started, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has managed to vaccinate 1,026 of them. The special vaccination drive for students in KDMC started on October 25 after the state government announced a week-long vaccination drive for the students across Maharashtra state. “In two days, we have managed to vaccinate 1,026 students who came to the college. The response is less as many students are not present,” said an officer of the health department of KDMC.On Wednesday, the staff deployed for vaccination at Mohinder Singh Kabul Singh College in Kalyan (W) were sitting idle as no students turned up for vaccination. “As of now, there is no list of students that we are targeting to vaccinate till November 2. However, we are trying to reach out to as many colleges as possible in the coming days,” added the officer.KDMC has managed to start vaccination at eight out of the 30 colleges in the city. As of now, out of the 1,026 students who took their doses, 516 took the first dose and 510 took the second.Vinod Narayane, Thane district coordinator, said, “The response across the district is good, so far. Students are coming for their doses. There is no major crowd at colleges. However, students are arriving continuously.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/806-college-students-get-vaccination-in-kalyan-dombivli-in-2-days-101635346719510.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Avoid firecrackers, large gatherings during Diwali: Maharashtra govt||In a new set of guidelines issued by the Maharashtra government on Wednesday for the upcoming Diwali festival, the state government has asked citizens to avoid the use of firecrackers in order to avoid noise and air pollution. It has also asked citizens to celebrate the festival by lighting lamps.“Increasing the level of air and noise pollution adversely affects the health of people and animals after Diwali. Citizens should avoid bursting firecrackers this year and instead celebrate by lighting lamps, although rules have been relaxed as per revised guidelines,” reads the state government guidelines.Further, the state government has asked citizens to avoid crowding and large gatherings during the festival.“Care should be taken to ensure that the guidelines are adhered to while celebrating the festival. During Diwali, the shops and streets are crowded. Citizens should avoid crowds as much as possible. Especially, senior citizens and children should avoid leaving the house. Restrictions on large gatherings of citizens should be maintained,” states the guidelines.The state government has also asked the citizens to wear facial masks and observe social distancing during the festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/avoid-firecrackers-large-gatherings-during-diwali-maharashtra-govt-101635346419595.html
27-10-2021||Pune||Junnar is ground zero for leopard attacks on humans, livestock||PUNE Pune city witnessed its first leopard attack this year on Tuesday, when Sambhaji Athole (45), out on a morning walk in Gosavi Vasti in Hadapsar was attacked.However, there is another part of the district which has been grappling with the issue for multiple years.Junnar has lost 34 people and had 108 injured in leopard attacks since 2001, according to data provided by the office of Jayant Gauda, deputy conservator of forests, Junnar.While the number of deceased in Junnar has been restricted to one per year since 2015, barring 2018, when there were two deaths, and 2020 when there were no deaths, the livestock in the area has seen an increased threat over the years.With 382 animals attacked by leopards in 2001, the number has gone up to 1,178 in 2021, according to the records of the forest department.The highest number of livestock attacks in the past 20 years was in 2019, just before the Covid-19 lockdown, where 1,995 animals were affected in 1,704 incidents.Even though the attacks reduced in 2020, the number of livestock affected remained high with 1,626.In 2021, 1,178 livestock animals have been attacked within seven months.Wild animals and birds have also become targets of the leopards in the area - with three attacks in 2018, two in 2019 and two in 2020. 2021 witnessed six animals injured by leopards within six months. The injured animals and birds include Sambar (deer), peahen, monkey, fox, and peacock.The forest department along with ResQ foundation and local rescue teams have rescued 30 leopard cubs - 10 female and 20 male - since 2018 in Junnar. In the same period, 22 adult leopards have been rescued – six females and 16 males.The forest department has trained local people and associates with ResQ foundation of Neha Panchamiya to deal with the increasing sightings of wild animals and man-animal conflicts. However, the need for a comprehensive policy is felt with every incident - be it leopard attacks or the death of a Gaur that strayed into Pune.Earlier in August this year, the 11-member committee set up by the Maharashtra government to study leopard-human conflict, had re-stated the importance of co-existence with the big cats and focus on engagement with locals. The committee rejected suggestions of capturing or trans-locating leopards from the conflict zone besides suggesting a “Living with Leopards” (LwL) programme. While leopard attacks have grown over the years, deaths of big cats in Maharashtra have also seen rise over the years. During 2020 went up to 174, 60% more than the figure registered in 2019 that saw 110 leopard deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/junnar-is-ground-zero-for-leopard-attacks-on-humans-livestock-101635346418190.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||49 indicators to monitor progress in 100 aspirational blocks of UP||LUCKNOW The Uttar Pradesh government has worked out 49 indicators to effectively monitor development in 100 aspirational blocks identified recently on the pattern of the union government’s aspirational district programme being implemented in eight aspirational districts of UP. A portal/dashboard is being developed to set up data on the progress of implementation of these indicators in 100 aspirational blocks in 34 districts. “Additional chief secretaries/principal secretaries will review the progress of implementation of these indicators linked to their respective departments in the aspirational blocks (along with districts) on a fortnightly basis and take follow-up action to bring about improvement, if their performance was found below expectations,” stated chief secretary RK Tiwari, in an order sent to senior officers on Wednesday. Initially, the state government had shortlisted about 80 indicators on the basis of recommendations made by different departments. The number of indicators was then brought down to 49. The state government had consulted the NITI Ayog as well while identifying the aspirational blocks and the indicators. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the aspirational district programme on January 5, 2018. UP’s eight districts had been included in the programme. These included Balrampur, Shravasti, Bahraich, Siddharthnagar, Chandauli, Sonbhadra, Fatehpur and Chitrakoot. The programme proposed to quickly and effectively transform selected districts by convergence (of central and state schemes), collaboration of central, state level officer in-charges and district collectors, competition among districts and focus on the strength of each district. The state government issued directives to ensure that the data with regard to indicators was available on the portal by the 15th of every month. A senior officer said the union government too identified 49 indicators to monitor progress of various programmes/schemes in aspirational districts in five thematic areas that include medical and nutrition, education, agriculture and water resources, financial inclusion & skill development and basic infrastructure. The 49 indicators identified for the aspirational blocks include percentage of pregnant women receiving antenatal care, institutional deliveries vis-à-vis total deliveries, percentage of low birth weight babies, percentage of underweight children in under six-year age group, sex ratio at birth and percentage of primary health centres compliant with public health standards of India. Other indicators relating to education sector included transition rate from primary to upper primary, transition rate from upper primary to secondary, mathematics performance in Class 3 and language performance in Class 3, mathematics performance in Class 8 and language performance in Class 8, female literacy rate in 15-plus age group, percentage of schools with functional drinking water facility, percentage of schools with functional electricity facility, schools complying with RTE specified pupil-teacher ratio, disbursement of Mudra loan, percentage of gram panchayats with Internet connection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/49-indicators-to-monitor-progress-in-100-aspirational-blocks-of-up-101635346118250.html
27-10-2021||Other||Jammu and Kashmir records 70 fresh Covid cases||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 70 fresh Covid cases and no death due to the disease on Wednesday.Of the total cases, 64 were reported in Kashmir valley, while the Jammu division saw six infections. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 86, with active positive cases reaching 838.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 63,941 vaccine doses were administered, taking the overall doses in the UT to 1.44 crore. Srinagar district has the highest number of active cases at 428, followed by Baramulla and Budgam districts with 108 and 77 active cases, respectively.Officials said with 49 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections with no or single-digit cases in the other 19 districts.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,26,596, prompting the recovery rate to reach 98.41%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,31,865 and the death toll stands at 4,431. The officials said 34,994 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. The Jammu district has the highest number of fatalities at 1,145, followed by Srinagar with 845 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-and-kashmir-records-70-fresh-covid-cases-101635346058232.html
27-10-2021||Pune||Health services’ director puts Nyasa on notice over recruitment exam fiasco||PUNE Coming down hard on Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL) over mismanagement on the first day of state health department’s recruitment examination on October 24, the joint director of Health Services in Pune Dr R S Adkekar, has sent a notice to the firm with a copy to the state commissioner of the health department. The notices refers to a detailed report about mismanagement of the exam, from question papers not reaching in time, to the allocation of wrong papers, seating arrangements not done, and allegedly, one paper was leaked out before the exam. A major complaint was also that mobile jammers were not in place at the exam centres.Dr Adkekar has stated in the notice: “The public health department has given personal instructions… and this office issued guidelines with respect to the conduction of written examinations in the state. Earlier occasion, with the request of NCPL, the department allowed to conduct the examination on September 25 and 26. However, at the eleventh hour NCPL expressed their inability to conduct the exam on above dates. Department accepted the request and allowed to reconduct the examination on October 24. Inspite of all support and regular monitoring, the following serious issues were observed by the department supervisors and the media that also covered these,” Apart from the above issues, at the Pune centres complaints also came in centres being locked at the time of the exam, the examination having to be delayed due to availability of insufficient invigilators, and a mismatch of admit cards and original application forms.“These issues indicate mismanagement, improper planning, unaware of the ground reality at exam centres, lack of training and coordination of the invigilators, centre superintendents, centre coordinators and NCPL senior officers. Submit an explanation in detail within 48 hours. If not received in the stipulated time, then the department will take punitive action or initiate a procedure of black listing,” said Dr Adkekar in his letter. The state government outsourced the conducting of exams to Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL) As many as 800,000 job aspirants have applied for various posts under the group C and group D categories of the public health department. Students due to appear for a second exam on October 31 have demanded a cancellation of the exam if NCPL is conducting it.Students who have taken the October 24 exam are nowdemanding a re-examination, with a new agency in place to conduct the exam||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/health-services-director-puts-nyasa-on-notice-over-recruitment-exam-fiasco-101635345880278.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath launches ₹1132 crore projects in Gonda||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday launched 144 development and medical projects worth ₹1132 crore in Gonda district in the eastern region of the state. Every district will soon have a medical college to provide accessible healthcare services to citizens in Uttar Pradesh, he said. “The government has worked in a planned and phased manner to improve the existing healthcare system and expand the health infrastructure in the state,” Yogi Adityanath said while laying the foundation stone of the Government Medical College that will come up at an estimated cost of ₹282 crore in Gonda. “Today, the foundation stone of a medical college in Gonda is being laid with the resolution to start admissions in this institute by the year 2022-23,” he added. “Despite facing natural calamities like floods, Gonda has made great progress. This has been possible because of several growth-oriented reforms implemented by the government at the ground level, along with ensuring the safety of every individual,” Yogi Adityanath said. He reiterated that before 2017, curfews were imposed during the festive season and the common man was not even allowed to celebrate festivals in peace. While the previous governments did not respect the religious sentiments of the people, Uttar Pradesh has been transformed in the last four and a half years, he said. Today, people are being given the gift of welfare schemes right before festivals, he asserted. He went on to say that, unlike the previous governments, “our government fulfilled the aim of benefiting every eligible person and worked to push the unserved places on the path of development without discriminating on any basis.” He emphasised that the state government is functioning to achieve the goals set by it. “We fulfilled our promise of building the grand Ram temple and now others are claiming to be honest devotees of Lord Ram,” he added. The chief minister handed over the symbolic keys of the houses to beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Rural and Urban), and also gave benefits to the eligible beneficiaries under welfare schemes like Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojana, Kanya Sumangala Yojana, Rashtriya Grameen Aajeevika Mission and Kanya Vivah Sahayata Yojana. Medical education minister Suresh Kumar Khanna, social welfare minister Ramapati Shastri, minister for MSME Sidharth Nath Singh and Gonda MP Brijbhushan Sharan Singh, among others, were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-launches-1132-crore-projects-in-gonda-101635345878768.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Officials took my signatures on blank papers, says 2nd NCB witness in drugs case||MUMBAI: An independent witness in a raid conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on August 26 came forward on Wednesday to claim that he too was made to sign several blank papers by officers of the federal drug enforcement agency. Shekhar Kamble, a Navi Mumbai resident, is the second witness in a drugs seizure case to level the allegation after Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the drugs case filed by the agency in which the son of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, was arrested earlier this month.Shekhar Kamble said the signed blank documents were used by the NCB to draw up the panchnama, the document in which citizens, who are not part of the investigating agency, sign off as independent witnesses on the details of the search operation, items found at the particular location or from an individual along with statements of the persons concerned.Kamble said he was an independent witness in a case registered by NCB on August 26 when agency officials conducted raids in Kharghar and arrested Nigerian national Kingsley Ukwueza. The agency claimed to have seized 55 grams of Mephedrone (commercial quantity) and a small quantity of ganja in the raid. “I was present at the time of raid with NCB officials and one Nigerian managed to flee away while NCB nabbed another. I am not aware if they (NCB officials) have recovered any drugs from him,” said Kamble, a Navi Mumbai resident. Also Read: NCB decided not to act on cruise info, Sameer Wankhede went ahead“Three days later one NCB official, Anil Mane, called me and asked me to come to NCB office in south Mumbai where I was made to sign at least 10 blank papers which were later used as panchnama,” he added. Kamble said he came stepped forward after he learnt that the anonymous letter sent to the chief minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik also mentioned the Kharghar case. “I got scared and meanwhile I got a call from Anil Mane on Tuesday night, instructing me to not speak about the episode with anyone. NCB officer Ashish Ranjan is investigating the case,” said Kamble.Shekhar Kamble said he approached the Kopar Khairane police station in Navi Mumbai to seek police protection. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede denied Shekhar Kamble’s claim. “I completely deny this and I will appropriately reply in the court”. An internal inquiry was ordered by NCB after Prabhakar Sail’s allegations came to light. Sail, also claimed that his former boss, private detective KP Gosavi whose role has come under scrutiny, and who is currently on the run, and NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, were part of an attempt to secure a ₹25 crore payoff to let Khan go.Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Nawab Malik on Tuesday cited a letter purportedly written by an unnamed NCB employee alleging that Wankhede framed innocent people in 26 fake drug cases. He also claimed Wankhede engaged two private persons to tap phones of the people to frame them. The letter claims NCB allegedly planted drugs shown to have been seized in some of the cases. Malik has also alleged that the day Aryan Khan was arrested, NCB detained many others in connection with the same case but those linked to a Bharatiya Janata Party leader were released. NCB has insisted it detained around 14 people and released six while the remaining eight, including Aryan Khan, were arrested.Malik has also accused Wankhede of framing his son-in-law and two others in a drug peddling case in January and delaying the process for their bail. He said NCB showed 200 kg herbal tobacco as ganja and produced photographs of seizures taken at its office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/officials-took-my-signatures-on-blank-papers-says-2nd-ncb-witness-in-drugs-case-101635345578251.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir govt extends compensation to non-local militancy victims under SRO-43||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Wednesday approved relief under SRO-43 to the families of non-locals killed in suspected militant attacks this month.The decision was taken in the Jammu and Kashmir administrative council, which met under the chairmanship of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. “The administrative council extended relief under SRO-43 to the next of kin of victims who were non-residents of Jammu and Kashmir and died in the recent violence in Kashmir valley as per the eligibility criteria of the SRO,” the government said.Under SRO, the kin of the family is provided a government job or cash compensation to a person who is the family member of a civilian, government employee or armed forces person killed in militancy-related action in Jammu and Kashmir.In the meeting, advisors to lieutenant governor Farooq Khan and Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar, chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta and principal secretary to lieutenant governor Nitishwar Kumar were present. “This will enable the government to provide cash compensation to this category of militancy affected people,” the statement said.Eleven people have been killed in targeted attacks by suspected militants this month, including five non-locals, three from the local minority communities and the remaining three from the local majority community. Seven of the killings were in Srinagar.While the locals would be automatically eligible for the relief, the decision will help the families of five non-locals. The deceased, mostly residents of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, had migrated to the Valley for employment and would earn roughly between ₹300 to ₹600 per day.Raja Reshidev and Joginder Reshidev, who are construction labourers from Bihar, were killed when gunmen opened fire on them on October 17 at Wanpoh, Kulgam. On October 16, 30-year-old Arvind Kumar Sah, a resident of Banka area in Bihar, were shot dead at Eidgah in Srinagar by militants while he was selling golgappas. On the same day, Saghir Ahmad, 53 of Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh, was killed at Litter village in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. He had been coming to Kashmir for the past year to work as a carpenter.On October 5, Virender Paswan, 55, of Bihar, was killed at Medina market at Lal Bazaar hours after the killing of famous chemist ML Bindroo inside his shop. He was also selling golgappas when he was killed in a targeted attack. He is survived by four daughters and two sons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-govt-extends-compensation-to-non-local-militancy-victims-under-sro43-101635345458160.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||Smriti in Rae Bareli, BJP eyes clean sweep in Cong bastion||LUCKNOW To build on the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) growing political heft in regions considered to be Congress bastions, union minister Smriti Irani on Wednesday visited Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha constituency of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. Smriti, who replaced Sonia Gandhi as the chairperson of Rae Bareli’s District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) in July, arrived in Munri village and spent time with girl students of a local school before attending a public function to announce the launch of several government schemes. She had defeated the then Congress chief Rahul Gandhi from Amethi in 2019 Lok Sabha elections – only the third Congress defeat from here. Since then, the BJP has been expanding its hold on the region, winning the recent zila panchayat chairpersons’ polls for the first time. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had fielded former Sonia loyalist Dinesh Singh against her from Rae Bareli. Though Singh lost, he subsequently played a part in the Congress defeat in the election for zila panchayat chairpersons’ post. Munri village is part of the Salon region that traverses between Amethi and Rae Bareli – part of Amethi Lok Sabha (which falls in Rae Bareli district and where she said BJP has kept promises made to the people). “I had made promises to the people here and today I can say that I have fulfilled them,” Smriti Irani said pitching herself and the BJP as ones that honour commitments. Smriti also took a veiled swipe at the Congress chief. “The district is one, but has two MPs. If one asks whether your MP is seen in this region, people go quiet. Which colony has got a proper road built in front of their house and people go quiet. On the other hand, Salon residents can proudly state that their ‘didi’ can give a detailed breakup of development initiatives and is regularly involved in people’s good and bad times,” she said. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi too had visited Rae Bareli recently and Smriti’s visit is being seen as an attempt by the BJP to symbolically indicate the ruling party’s interest in this Congress citadel. “Having firmed up its grip on Amethi, the BJP is now looking to Rae Bareli.But before the 2024 LS polls, the BJP would like to test its growing presence in Rae Bareli from where it won two seats in 2017 UP polls, as many as the Congress. With both Congress lawmakers having turned rebels since, the BJP is looking to scale up its political presence,” said Irshad Ilmi, a political veteran. The BJP leaders admitted that having won 6 of the 10 assembly segments of Amethi and Rae Bareli in 2017 UP polls, the party is looking towards a clean sweep. “Of course, we will sweep the region but we aren’t focusing on any one particular belt. People are connecting with us everywhere due to pro-poor policies launched by the Modi and Yogi governments,” said Vijay Bahadur Pathak, vice president, UP BJP. The 2022 UP polls are expected to be announced by December-end or January and on the ruling party’s nudge, Smriti Irani has stepped up her presence in the region, visiting Rae Bareli on one pretext or the other. In October 2020, she had reviewed development projects in Amethi from Salon and was back here in December, laying foundation stones for various development works, baring political intent to wrest Rae Bareli in 2024, followed by a visit to Hajipur village to hear Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio talk show ‘Mann Ki Baat’. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya also said, “Rae Bareli never witnessed the kind of development it is witnessing now. Just as despite losing Amethi in 2014 LS polls, the BJP continued its association with the constituency, we have not forgotten Rae Bareli just because we didn’t win here. Unlike the Congress, which failed to do anything for even those regions from where its leaders had been getting elected for decades, the BJP is developing all constituencies.” The Congress, however, dismissed Smriti’s visit. “She is a political tourist. Our leadership has a familial relationship with the area but there are some outsiders who have been polluting the atmosphere. However, the people won’t let them succeed,” said Congress leader Zeeshan Haidar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/smriti-in-rae-bareli-bjp-eyes-clean-sweep-in-cong-bastion-101635345398301.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||In a big blow to BJP (Ulhasnagar) in Thane district, 21 corporators quit party to join NCP||In a huge blow to Bharatiya Janata Party in Ulhasnagar, 21 corporators who had joined the party in the previous elections have returned to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Along with these 21 corporators, 19 former corporators and the entire Team Omi Kalani too have joined NCP, informed Housing Minister, Jitendra Awhad, in a press conference in Thane on Wednesday.Omi Kalani’s wife, Pancham, who is an ex-mayor of the city, is now the city president of Ulhasnagar NCP after entering the party.Awhad has claimed that a few more corporators will join NCP in the next few days. In the last five years, many corporators had joined BJP from several other parties, leading to BJP’s victory in the previous Assembly elections.Awhad claimed that 114 people joined NCP including 21 BJP corporators, 19 former corporators and gram panchayat members of the nearby villages. Awhad said, “The Kalani family has joined NCP along with several corporators and ex-corporators. They were included in the party after the directives of Cabinet Minister, Jayant Patil. Some of them have joined today (Wednesday). Others will gradually join us in the coming days.”The Kalani clan has also claimed that in the next elections, the mayor would also be from NCP. “We did not have a good experience with the BJP when it came to the development of Ulhasnagar city. I have received the letter of being appointed as the president of the NCP for Ulhasnagar city. Total 22 corporators of Team Omi Kalani have merged with BJP already, 10 more are on talking terms. Slowly, around 40-45 of our corporators will merge with NCP,” said Pancham Kalani, ex-mayor of UMC. (Inputs by Sajana Nambiar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-a-big-blow-to-bjp-ulhasnagar-in-thane-district-21-corporators-quit-party-to-join-ncp-101635345044000.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Cartel of contractors duping BMC, says BJP; alleges scam in selling of scrap||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday alleged that a cartel of contractors was duping the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for over three decades into selling the scrap materials.The allegations were made by the BJP in the standing committee meeting on Wednesday over a proposal of selling the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) scrap worth over ₹2.18 crore. The BJP was supported by the Shiv Sena and the Samajwadi Party on the issue. The matter was discussed after MFB proposed to sell unused vehicles in the scrap.Bhalchandra Shirsat, BJP corporator and standing committee chairman in the BMC said, “The bids for selling the scrap are by the same contractor, from the same address, but with different company names. The auctioning of scrap from 2017-18 has come up after a span of three years. The cars like the Ambassador and jeep are being sold at ₹25,000. The overall value of scrap is over ₹2 crore, but it is being undervalued. A cartel of contractors has been duping the BMC for over 25 years.”Supporting the BJP, Yashwant Jadhav, a Shiv Sena corporator and standing committee chairman said, “The BJP claims there is a cartel of contractors duping the BMC for 25 years, but this has been happening for over 40 years now. Members of ‘one family’ are bidding with different company names and getting contracts. They are not allowing any outsiders. This same in case of contracts of demolition and parking lots.”Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party corporator and Bhiwandi Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) said, “The BMC administration should investigate the matter, considering the involvement of cartel in the sale of scrap and demolition works.”After the opposition, the standing committee has put the proposal of selling fire vehicles in scrap on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cartel-of-contractors-duping-bmc-says-bjp-alleges-scam-in-selling-of-scrap-101635344618004.html
27-10-2021||Pune||Former NCP corporator digs up cycle track; PMC files complaint against unknown person||PUNE: While the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is promoting the use of bicycles and spending crores of rupees on the development and maintenance of cycle tracks in the city, some of its former members are going about destroying what the civic body has achieved. In the latest incident on Saturday, a former Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator dug up a cycle track in Hadapsar saying it was obstructing traffic. What’s more, he bragged about his action in public even as the PMC filed a complaint against an unknown person.V G Kulkarni, chief engineer of the road department said, “The incident took place on Saturday. When we came to know about it, we instructed Hadapsar ward officials to file a complaint against an unidentified person as we did not know who was behind the action. The cycle track is part of the bus rapid transit route (BRTS) and is around 225 metre long and runs adjacent to the footpath.”The 1.5 metre wide cycle track is located on the Pune-Solapur road near Hadapsar Gadital and runs adjacent to the service road before the beginning of the Saswad road flyover. The PMC in 2007-08 developed the footpath and cycle track along the 8 kilometre BRTS from Swargate to Hadapsar Gadital as per union government guidelines. It was part of the pilot BRTS in India developed from Hadapsar to Swargate and Swargate to Katraj. However, locals have been complaining for long that the cycle track obstructs traffic as it has been developed just before the beginning of the Saswad road flyover. They have been demanding that the width of the cycle track be reduced.Sasane said, “We have received complaints from locals who have been demanding removal of the cycle track as it is creating traffic problems on the Pune-Solapur road near the Gadital flyover. We have received an application addressed to the road department regarding inconvenience caused by the cycle track. However, there has been no response from the administration. So, we have removed the cycle track for the convenience of residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-ncp-corporator-digs-up-cycle-track-pmc-files-complaint-against-unknown-person-101635344500520.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||SBSP has closed BJP’s door to power, Samajwadi Party will lock it: Akhilesh Yadav||The Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) on Wednesday asserted that the BJP will be voted out of power in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections.They gave the slogan “Khadeda Hobe” (call for ouster) at the Vanchit, Pichhda, Dalit and Minority Bhagidari Mahapanchyat held at Haldharpur in Mau district of eastern Uttar Pradesh.SBSP, which leads Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, organised the mahapanchayat on its 19th foundation day.This was the first public meeting held by SBSP with Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav since the two parties formed an alliance for the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. They had firmed up the alliance on October 20.Akhilesh Yadav said Rajbhar has closed the door through which the BJP came to power (in UP in 2017) and the SP will lock it. For his part, Rajbhar, who spoke before Yadav, made several poll promises.He said if Akhilesh Yadav forms the government, domestic electricity bills will be waived for five years and a law will be passed for free education up to the post-graduation level, adding that those who do not send their children to school will go to jail.He also said there would be a law for the free treatment of the poor, and old government pensions will be restored. The SBSP chief promised that government schools will provide facilities like private schools and police personnel will be posted in districts neighbouring their home districts.In a show of solidarity and unity, Akhilesh Yadav wrapped a yellow scarf around his neck, commonly used by SBSP workers, while Rajbhar wore a red cap, usually donned by SP workers. “Red and yellow have come together and have gathered in Mau. Seeing us together, some people will be turning laal-pila (red and yellow or angry). Om Prakash Rajbhar knows it well as to who is turning red and yellow in Lucknow and Delhi,” the SP chief said in an apparent reference to the ruling BJP.The slogan “Khadeda Howe” is on the lines of ‘Khela Hobe’ (game on), which was coined by the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress for the West Bengal assembly polls that saw the party defeat the BJP and storm back to power for a third consecutive term.“Slogan ‘Khela Hobe’ was given in West Bengal and ‘didi’ drove out the BJP from the state. Similarly, in Uttar Pradesh it will be ‘Khadeda Hobe’ and the BJP government will be removed by the people of the state,” Rajbhar said.Akhlesh Yadav also said, “Rajbhar ji has said that something has happened in West Bengal. People of eastern UP will do khadeda (driving out). As I said in Lucknow, Om Prakash Rajbhar has closed the door through which the BJP came to power. Together SP and SBSP have latched the door.” “I am confident that the BJP will be wiped out in UP in coming assembly elections,” claimed Akhilesh Yadav.“When the alliance was not finalised, experts used to do analysis of who will win how many assembly seats in UP. But after the alliance (between SP and SBSP), analysts changed their figure. The SP and SBSP have come together to work for the rights and self-respect of the poor, Dalit, OBCs and minorities. Now, may the public make us win 400 seats,” said Akhilesh Yadav, adding that no one will be able to stop the alliance in UP.The Samajwadi Party chief hit out at the Centre for growing inflation and unemployment. He said that bikes of poor people had stopped running due to the rising price of petrol. Alleging that the BJP government didn’t give any help to the poor during the Covid-19 crisis, Akhilesh Yadav claimed people didn’t get oxygen and medicines. The former chief minister also accused the BJP of not listening to farmers who are agitating against the Centre’s three new farm laws.Recently, when the farmers went to ask for their rights in Lakhimpur Kheri, union minister of state of home Ajay Mishra Teni’s son mowed down some (four) farmers under his vehicle, the SP chief alleged, adding that the minister hasn’t been removed yet. As long as he (Mishra) remains minister, the victims will not get justice, Yadav said. The minister’s son Ashish Mishra has been arrested in connection with the case. Both the minister and his son have repeatedly denied Ashish Mishra’s involvement in the incident.Akhilesh Yadav further said if the three new laws were implemented, the famers will become daily wagers in their fields and contractors will decided what to sow. Addressing the gathering before the SP chief, Rajbhar said he has brought the future CM in front of the people, adding that he will contest the assembly elections in association with the Samajwadi Party.Cautioning the people that BJP will spread rumours about him, SBSP chief asked them not to believe them.Reacting to the rally addressed by SP and SBSP leaders, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya of the BJP said, “Rally or mega rally, nothing is going to happen. The BJP is going to win these 2022 UP polls with 320 seats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sbsp-has-closed-bjp-s-door-to-power-samajwadi-party-will-lock-it-akhilesh-yadav-101635344138649.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||Drug addicts should be sent to rehab centres, not jail: Athawale||LUCKNOW Union minister and Republican Party of India (RPI) chief Ramdas Athawale on Tuesday stressed that there was a need to make the film industry “drug-free”, but said people caught consuming drugs should be sent to rehabilitation centres instead of jail and there must be a change in this law.“People who consume liquor are not put behind bars, but are sent to de-addiction centres to get rid of the habit,” he said.Addressing a press conference here, Athawale said: “My ministry has proposed an amendment to the law under which the accused charged with drug consumption will be not sent to jail but to the rehabilitation centre. Those indulging in smuggling, sale and other unlawful activities should be lodged in jail.”Possession of drugs is a criminal offence in India and Section 27 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act prescribes imprisonment of up to a year or a fine of up to ₹20,000, or both, for consumption of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance. Bollywood Actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan was recently arrested under this section.Defending the Narcotics Control Bureau’s action in the drugs-on-cruise case, Athawale said the rejection of the bail petition six times by the court in Aryan Khan case indicates that the arrest made by the agency was appropriate, he said. Refuting the allegation made by Maharashtra minister Nawab, Malik against NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, the RPI chief said: “Wankhede is a Dalit belonging to the Mahar community from Maharashtra’s Nagpur region. His father Dayandev Wankhede married a Muslim woman. Sameer’s first marriage was with a Muslim woman. Malik is trying to tarnish Sameer’s image as he had earlier arrested his son-in law in a drug case.”RPI’S UP POLL PLANAthawale said RPI had decided to contest the 2022 assembly election in UP in alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and it would field candidates on 8 to 10 assembly seats.The RPI had launched a statewide yatra from Saharanpur on September 26 to mobilise its cadre for the assembly election. The party will also organise Bahujan Kalyan Maharally at Ramabai Ambedkar ground here on December 18 and senior BJP leaders would participate in it, he said.“The RPI is a true representative of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar’s ideals. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati has grabbed our ground in UP but we will try to make inroads into the BSP support base by winning the support of the Dalit community,” he said.Athawale said along with Dalits and backwards community, people of the upper castes were also joining the RPI and to win the support of the upper caste, the RPI was organizing Brahmin conference. “The India Jan Shakti Party, Ekikrit Brahmin Mahasangh and Parmarth Trust led by the Brahmin community leaders merged with the RPI,” he added.The RPI leader stated that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not against farmers, but opposition parties were instigating farmers against the three farm laws to serve their vested interests. The central government had made it clear that it was ready to talk with the farmers to bring necessary amendments to the farm laws, he said. “Union minister of agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar has held several rounds of talks with representatives of farmers, but the dialogue remains inconclusive. The central government has made it clear that it will not withdraw the farm laws,” said Athawale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/drug-addicts-should-be-sent-to-rehab-centres-not-jail-athawale-101635343719457.html
27-10-2021||Other||Jammu and Kashmir approves posts for four additional district and sessions judges||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Thursday accorded approval to posts of four additional district and sessions judges.The administrative council met under the chairmanship of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and accorded approval for creation of four courts of additional district and sessions judges at Samba, Bandipora, Ganderbal and Poonch.The administrative council also approved the creation of 40 new posts of different categories (10 each) at the new court complexes in the four selected districts, which will cost ₹258 lakh in salary and ₹21.6 lakh under the national pension system per financial year. The official spokesman said that the gradual increase in the population of Jammu and Kashmir has substantially enhanced the judicial workload, which has necessitated the opening of new court complexes to cater to the increased public demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-and-kashmir-approves-posts-for-four-additional-district-and-sessions-judges-101635343717926.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||70% fire incidents due to short circuit; BMC wants housing societies to conduct electrical audit||After the level-4 fire at 60 storeyed Avighna Park, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) wants housing societies in the city to conduct electrical audits. According to the civic body, 70% of fire incidents are due to electrical short circuits.The BMC on Wednesday said they will write to the public work department (PWD)’s electrical division to develop a mechanism to regulate housing societies to conduct electrical audits. However, the civic body officials said that the Maharashtra Fire Act does not have a provision for mandatory electrical audits.According to officials from the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB), in case of fire at One Avighna Park, the fire started in a video doorbell due to short-circuit and later spread to other areas. The exact cause will be known after a thorough investigation, said MFB officers. The officer added, “In 70% of the cases, fire is due to short-circuit.”Ashwini Bhide, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC informed the standing committee, “There is no mechanism for having societies conduct electrical audits. We are in communication with the state government to develop a regulatory mechanism for the same. We are also reviewing fire safety in hospitals and in the malls of the city.”Bhide added, “In case of high-rises also we have been conducting fire drills and inspections regularly and taking all appropriate steps to ensure there is zero-tolerance for fire safety,” an officer said.According to BMC officials, the MFB in the past three months have conducted fire drills at 52 high-rises and inspected 1,526 buildings in the past 20 months. Notices have been issued to 327 buildings, while 78 buildings have complied with violations, 109 are in the stage of compliance and prosecution against three housing societies is under process.Further, the BMC’s standing committee on Wednesday also cleared a proposal of ₹3.15 crore for the procurement of 24 fire bikes for the city. According to BMC officials, the fire bikes will help firefighting in congested areas like chawls and slums. These fire bikes will be added to the fire-fighting fleet of the MFB. However, corporators across the party line asked the BMC administration to ensure that firefighting equipment is efficiently used. Ravi Raja, leader of Opposition in the BMC and Congress corporator said, “The standing committee should be informed on how these bikes will be used, where they will be parked followed by how many litres of water will be stored in it?”Rais Shaikh, Samajwadi Party corporator in the BMC said, “Such flowery words are used and such proposals are brought in the standing committee, but we should also look how useful these modern equipment are? Earlier, we brought robots and drones. but we all know how much use they have been. We are not against modernisation but there should be an efficient use of the resources.”Bhide said, “We do understand that there are challenges in fire-fighting. The response time of our fire brigade is 20 minutes in peak hours, which ideally should be around six-seven minutes, as per the Central government norms. However, despite this, let me assure you that Mumbai Fire Brigade is the most technologically equipped. We have 35 fire stations and 18 mini fire stations, and we are in the process to have more mini fire stations. These fire bikes will in a way help the fire brigade improve a lot of things when it comes to responding to fire incidents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/70-fire-incidents-due-to-short-circuit-bmc-wants-housing-societies-to-conduct-electrical-audit-101635343178092.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||RLD chief promises to waive off pending power bills of farmers||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary on Wednesday promised complete waiver of pending electricity bills and rates slashed to half in future electricity bills for farmers once his party comes to power in UP that goes to polls next year. Addressing a public meeting in Jat dominated Kirawali town of Agra, he also promised ₹12,000 every year in one installment to farmers in Uttar Pradesh and one crore jobs to youths. The RLD chief has been addressing public meetings as part of his ‘Ashirwad Path’ yatra wherein he is seeking blessings of elders in run up to UP assembly polls.“Farmers are much worried about exorbitant electricity bills as the present government is not thinking about farmers. When our government is formed in the state, we will waive total pending electricity bills of farmers and curtail rates of electricity to half for farmers,” he said.Chaudhary further said “We will also give ₹12,000 in one installment to farmer in a year once we form the government. The marginalized farmers having no means for irrigation will be given ₹15,000 per annum.”Chaudhary said the present fund of ₹6000 that too in three installments was insufficient.“We will make this announcement on December 23, the birth anniversary of Chaudhary Charan Singh which will be celebrated as Kisan Diwas,” he said.“People ask me why we are releasing our manifesto so early for assembly elections. My answer is that this is to create pressure on other parties to make promises for masses, especially farmers,” he said.He later left for Bajna town of Mathura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rld-chief-promises-to-waive-off-pending-power-bills-of-farmers-101635342758141.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||In a first, two-day apple festival to be held in Kashmir||In a first, the Jammu and Kashmir government has organised a two-day apple festival on the banks of the Dal Lake to promote Kashmiri produce among buyers from different states. The festival, which starts Thursday at the Sher-e-Kashmir International Convention Centre, will be inaugurated by lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and Union minister for agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar. Horticulture director Ajaz Ahmad Bhat said, “During the festival, big buyers and entrepreneurs will come to Srinagar and will directly speak to growers and cold store owners. Growers from all districts have been invited for the festival. Our aim is to act as a bridge between growers, big buyers and companies. Several states are unaware of fruits produced in Kashmir and could be our future market.”There will also be a roundtable session between growers and traders. “Earlier, a carton of apples would fetch ₹200 to ₹300. Now, it fetches over ₹1,000. So, the involvement of big buyers will help fruit growers fetch a better price,” Bhat said. Ghulam Rasool Bhat, former president, fruit growers and dealers association, says interactions always help to build relationships between buyers and the sellers. “Similar festivals should be held at the mandis of apple producing districts.”However, some growers are sceptical. “Whenever new governments come, they organise new festivals, conferences and tours for the traders. On ground, the government must take several initiatives to promote the trade,” said Habibullah Bhat, a fruit dealer in North Kashmir. “Even today, our growers are using old technologies and are behind from their foreign counterparts. We still have a long way to go,” he said. As per official records, seven lakh farming families (approximately 35 lakh people) are directly or indirectly associated with the sector. The apple trade contributes to around 8% of the UT’s GDP and the government is trying to increase production by introducing high-density plantations. Officials attached with the high-density plantations say even if 25-30% of the existing orchards are replaced with high-density plantations, then the production of fruit can double or triple. Currently, Kashmir produces around 23 to 24 lakh metric tons of fruit. “There are many new measures underway that will increase apple production in the coming years, besides new varieties are being introduced that will fetch good money in the fruit markets across the country,” a senior horticulture officer said. During the last year, the Jammu and Kashmir government has added up 40,000 metric tons of storage, taking the cold storage capacity to 1.65 lakh metric tons. Another 35,000 metric tons of storage capacity is being built.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-a-first-two-day-apple-festival-to-be-held-in-kashmir-101635342218098.html
27-10-2021||Dehradun||5 tourists from Bengal killed in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar as vehicle falls into gorge||Five tourists including three women died and around 7 others were injured after their vehicle fell into a 40-metre-deep gorge near Farsali on the Munsiyari-Kapkot road in Bageshwar district on Wednesday. They were returning to Nainital from Munsiyari area of Pithoragarh district. “Five tourists from West Bengal including three women have died near Farsali after the vehicle they were travelling in fell into a gorge. They were coming from Munsiyari and were on their way to Nainital,” said Amit Srivastava, superintendent of police, Bageshwar district. Srivastava said the incident took place at about 2 pm on Wednesday at a curve in Farsali area, about 45 km from Bageshwar district headquarters. The tourists from West Bengal were on their way to Nainital, he said. The accident allegedly involved three vehicles. He said the driver of the vehicle which was ahead of all three vehicles suddenly applied brakes at a curve on the road, due to which the vehicle just behind it overturned on the road in a bid to avoid collision. Following this, the driver of the last vehicle lost control and the car fell into a gorge after hitting the overturned tempo, he said. The five deceased were in the last vehicle, he added. Srivastava said the injured have been rushed to a nearby hospital.A team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) retrieved the bodies from the gorge and handed them over to the local police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/five-tourists-from-bengal-killed-in-uttarakhand-s-bageshwar-as-vehicle-falls-into-gorge-101635341497827.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Robbers onboard Konark Express pelt stones at passengers, 2 injured||Two passengers aboard the Konark Express were injured after the robbers pelted stones at them at Naveej, near Pune, on Tuesday night. The passengers were travelling to Bhuvaneshwar from Mumbai.The government railway police (GRP) said the incident took place around 11.30pm at Nanveej, 50km from Pune, when the train had halted at a signal.The injured commuters were asleep when they heard screams from fellow commuters. The robbers had allegedly snatched their gold chains and were trying to flee. The duo, along with other commuters chased them and engaged in a scuffle as the robbers got off the train. The robbers then began pelting stones at the passengers, injuring two of them.“The commuters were rushed to the nearby hospital and are undergoing treatment,” said a GRP officer. Police suspect that the signal was tampered with.“We are preparing sketches of the accused based on the description of the commuters,” said a GRP officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/robbers-onboard-konark-express-pelt-stones-at-passengers-2-injured-101635341317827.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Look out circulars issued against directors of Talwalkars||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police has issued lookout circulars (LoCs) against eight directors and other top office bearers of Talwalkars – India’s largest chain of gyms and health clubs, after registering two first information reports (FIRs) against them for allegedly duping two private banks of over ₹386 crore. A senior EOW officer confirmed that LoCs have been issued against directors and other office bearers of Talwalkars Better Value Fitness Ltd (TBVFL) and Talwalkars Health Clubs Ltd – Girish Talwalkar, Prashant Talwalkar, Vinayak Gawande, Anant Gawande, Harsh Bhatkar, Madhukar Talwalkar, Dinesh Rao and Girish Naik. “In order to ensure that the accused do not flee the country (to avoid facing the investigation) we have got the LoCs issued against them. We would soon summon them for investigation and ascertain their role in the case. If no evidence is found against any accused during the investigation then his/her name would be dropped from the case in due course,” said a senior EOW officer. Talwalkars and its eight directors and some senior officers are facing two FIRs for allegedly defrauding Axis Bank and Laxmi Vilas Bank of ₹206 crore and ₹180 crore, respectively. “The accused company had taken money from the private banks for one purpose but utilised the funds for some other purposes with fraudulent intent. This has clearly surfaced during the preliminary inquiry. We have registered fraud cases against the directors of the group and further investigation is on,” said Niket Kaushik, joint commissioner of police, EOW. On being booked by the EOW, Prashant Talwalkar had said, “When the alleged irregularities took place, we had no access or control over the financial dealings of the company. We have conveyed our side of the entire matter to EOW officers. We have faith in the police and the judiciary. As the matter is sub-judice, I won’t be able to comment further.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/look-out-circulars-issued-against-directors-of-talwalkars-101635339697734.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Utility over, ‘pankhis’ fan memories of time gone by||As soon as the car began its slow ascent, my eyes fell upon a small shop under the flyover. A man sat outside the shop on a wooden bench, fanning himself with a colourful bamboo-leaf hand-fan, popularly known as ‘pankhi’. He was trying to ward off the heat on a humid August morning. Nostalgia hit me like a cannon ball as I recalled the varieties and designs of hand fans I had come across in my lifetime. The first variety that came to mind was the foldable bamboo leaf version, spread out in a full circle with polished bamboo handles that was a permanent feature in my mother’s handbag. I remember it was purchased from a small shop in the then highly recommended and a must-visit Lakkad Bazaar of Shimla. Later, she replaced it with one of those Japanese folding hand fans called Ogi, made of bamboo or wooden strips threaded together and held at the end with a rivet. These fans when spread out, boasted of a beautiful picture of a dainty Japanese girl in the traditional kimono. In Punjab, ‘pankhis’ formed a part and parcel of the cultural heritage. Colourful woollen or phulkari pankhis embellished with ghungroos and frills mounted on a metallic frame with wood carved and polished handles can be seen adorning the walls of a traditional ‘baithak’ in Punjabi households. Many families take pride in the handmade or hand woven ‘pankhis’ by the matriarchs of the family and cherish them as an heirloom. The ‘pankhis’ involve intricate patterns and display unique and delicate techniques adopted to highlight the exquisite workmanship of the village belle. So much so that these beautifully decorated ‘pankhis’ at one point of time used to be an indispensable part of a girl’s wedding trousseau. Over the years, the handmade woollen or embroidered ‘pankhis’ were replaced with the bamboo ‘pankhis’ made with interspersed bamboo leaves. Also, there was ‘foreign invasion’ of the Chinese and Japanese fans that carried the added advantage of being cheap and foldable. The Chinese fans were the stiff circular ones made by sticking paper on the leaf which was later painted in myriad colours. History tells us that in Japan, the warriors also known as Samurais used the foldable hand fan as a weapon and there are to this day schools in Japanese martial arts that give training in using these fans as a weapon against the enemy. Advancement in technology shunted out the handmade ‘pankhis’ with plastic ones that are readily available in countless colours and shapes. The onslaught of inverters in every household today has also played a pivotal role in relegating the ‘pankhis’ into oblivion. It has pushed the modest ‘pankhis’ either into the remotest corners of those trunks that are rarely opened or into a phase of being a vestigial entity that is no longer cared about. However, an impression still haunts many of us who have been witness to long hours of power cuts during sizzling afternoons and sweltering nights when the unpretentious ‘pankhis’ were not only an instrument of solace but also a means of community bonding; when men, women and children would come out of their houses to sit outside in circles, on stools or moorrhas with ‘pankhis’ in hand with many a tales to narrate, tales of wit and wisdom. sonrok15@gmail.com The writer is an Ambala-based college teacher||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/utility-over-pankhis-fan-memories-of-time-gone-by-101635339038097.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Villagers lost in snow found in south Kashmir’s Shopian district||Two villagers, who were reported missing from the upper reaches of Rajouri during snowfall last week, were found at a village in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, police has said.Javed Shah of Targain and his relative Khadam Shah of Hasote-Chassana were reported missing on October 24 during a trip to Kashmir. The men, who were on foot, also had their sheep and goats with them, a police officer said. The families of the two men lodged a complaint after they lost contact with them due to snowfall in high-altitude areas.A police party was dispatched to the upper reaches of the snowbound mountains for a search and rescue operation, police said. The army also joined the search party along with a team from Jammu’s Reasi district.The men were located at Mony Mahal area of south Kashmir’s Shopian district, the officer said. Rajouri senior superintendent of police Sheema Nabi Qasba has appealed people not to venture to snowbound areas and only use tracks that are safe in winter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/villagers-lost-in-snow-found-in-south-kashmir-s-shopian-district-101635338977799.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||Lakhimpur violence: SIT releases contact numbers urging eyewitnesses to come forward||LUCKNOW To encourage eyewitnesses to come forward and record their statements, the special investigation team (SIT) probing the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case released the contact numbers of its members on Wednesday. In a statement, the SIT said that details of such people would be kept confidential if they want and they will be given security. A member of the SIT confirmed that the contact numbers had been publicised so that more eyewitnesses turned up to produce evidences related to the incident.On Tuesday, the Supreme Court directed the Uttar Pradesh government to provide protection to the witnesses in the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri, where eight persons, including four farmers, were killed during a farmers’ protest.The contact numbers of five members, including SIT head Upendra Agarwal, DIG, were shared in an advertisement. He could be contacted on his official phone number - 9454400454.Senior member, superintendent of police, Sunil Kumar Singh’s number is 9454400394 while additional SP, Arun Kumar Singh’s number is 9454401072. The contact numbers of inspector Vidyaram Diwaker and Sudhir Chandra Pandey – investigating officers (IO) of the two cases related to the violence are 7017496741 and 9450782977, respectively.Minister’s son back to jail hospUnion minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashish Mishra, the main accused in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence case, was shifted back to the district jail hospital in Lakhimpur Kheri from the district hospital on Tuesday evening. He was shifted to the district hospital on Saturday after medical tests showed that his blood sugar had reached “critical level” and he was diagnosed with dengue.Before this, the SIT had put a petition in the chief judicial magistrate court, Lakhimpur Kheri, over Ashish Mishra being treated at the district hospital. The court had asked for a report from the chief medical officer and the jail superintendent on why he can’t be treated in the jail hospital.On October 3, the violence had erupted after Ashish Mishra’s car allegedly mowed down four farmers near Banbirpur village under Tikunia police station limits of Lakhimpur Kheri. As many as four other people, including two BJP workers, Shubham Mishra and Shyam Sunder, journalist Raman Kashyap and Hari Om Mishra, the driver of Ashish Mishra’s car were also killed. Two separate FIRs—the first for mowing down of four farmers and the second regarding the killing of four others — were registered at the Tikunia police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-sit-releases-contact-numbers-urging-eyewitnesses-to-come-forward-101635337957707.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||TGT Recruitment: Govt-aided schools in UP set to get 12,610 new teachers||Aspiring teachers, who had applied for the recruitment as trained graduate teachers (TGT) in government-aided secondary schools of the state, received good news in the run-up to the festival of Diwali. Their wait for a job is now over with Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Services Selection Board (UPSESSB), Prayagraj, declaring results of the TGT Recruitment-2021 for all 16 subjects late Tuesday night. With this, the teachers-starved 4,500 government-aided secondary schools of Uttar Pradesh will finally get 12,610 new teachers. Deputy secretary of UPSESSB Naval Kishore informed that the results of final selections of TGT Recruitment-2021 have been made available on the official website of UPSESSB— https://upsessb.pariksha.nic.in/. He said that the successful candidates have been given an opportunity till October 29 to fill their options for school allotments online. “The link for this has also been made available on the official website of UPSESSB,” he added. UPSESSB made it clear that in this recruitment differently abled candidates were provided 4% reservation as per norms. The Supreme Court had ordered UPSESSB to complete this recruitment process by October 31. The UPSESSB completed the entire recruitment process in less than a year by declaring the results of all 16 subjects, including Science, Hindi, Sanskrit, Home Science, Social Science, Mathematics, Art, English, Agriculture, Physical Education, Commerce, Sewing, Urdu, Music Instruments, Music Vocals and Biology. UPSESSB had conducted the TGT recruitment exam-2021 on August 7 and August 8. The total 12,610 posts of TGT (seven posts were added later) had attracted around 7.10 lakh applications. The UPSESSB had issued the online advertisement for these recruitment exams on March 15, 2021, and the last date of application was May 20, 2021. The amended advertisement for this recruitment exam was issued after a gap of four months. After cancelling the initial advertisement, owing to legal hurdles, UPSESSB also reduced 310 posts of TGT as compared to the first advertisement. Earlier, online applications for the 15,508 posts of TGT and PGT were invited by UPSESSB through an advertisement. These included 12,913 posts of TGT and 2,595 posts of PGT from October 29, 2020. However, the NIC website crashed for two days on November 13, 2020, due to the high number of candidates trying to apply. Later, on November 18, 2020, the UPSESSB cancelled the advertisement due to legal hurdles on the advice of its legal experts. With the declarations of TGT Recruitment Result-2021, now all eyes will be on UPSESSB to declare the final results of PGT Recruitment-2021, interviews for which are presently being conducted. This is for the first time that TGT and PGT recruitments for government-aided secondary schools are being held sans interviews, and solely based on the written exam. This has happened owing to the Central government doing away with the need for an interview round for recruitment to posts in certain categories, which also includes TGT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tgt-recruitment-govt-aided-schools-in-up-set-to-get-12-610-new-teachers-101635333218771.html
27-10-2021||Patna||‘Fewer infant deaths in Bihar than national average’||In a big leap, Bihar has reduced its infant mortality rate (IMR) to 29, less than the national average of 30, as per Sample Registration System (SRS), 2019, bulletin of the office of the Registrar General of India. In the last SRS report for 2018, Bihar’s IMR was equal to the national average of 32. However, the cause of concern is that the IMR among girls still remains significantly higher than boys in Bihar.This SRS bulletin presents the estimates of birth rate, death rate, IMR (all recorded per 1000 population) and natural growth rate for the year 2019 for India and its States/Union Territories. The SRS is a large-scale demographic survey conducted every year.In urban areas of Bihar, however, the IMR is 27, which is significantly higher than the national urban average of 20.In rural IMR though, Bihar has fared much better with an IMR of 29 against the national average of 34. The IMR in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh (41), Madhya Pradesh (46) and Assam (40) is much higher. IMR is widely accepted as a crude indicator of the overall health scenario of a country or a region.Also, IMR data for Bihar shows it is higher in case of female at 33, against 26 for male. The same trend is seen in both rural and urban areas with higher IMR for female at 33 and 30, respectively.For the third most populous state, however, birth rate of 25.8 remains remarkably high, against the national average of 19.7. In rural areas of Bihar, the birth rate is even higher at 26.5, though it drops to 21.2 in urban areas. It is the highest in the country and followed by Uttar Pradesh (25.4).The death rate in Bihar is less than the national average both in rural and urban areas with an overall rate of 5.5 against the national average of six.Dr Vikash R. Keshri, public health expert, The George Institute for Global Health, India, said the latest SRS report indicates an encouraging trend in reduction in IMR in Bihar.“Over four years from 2015 to 2019, IMR for Bihar has declined by 13 points (42 to 29) as compared to 7-point reduction at the national level (from 37 to 30). This indicates the success of targeted public health intervention in the state. However, a wide gap in IMR for male and female, and high birth rate are points of concern which need immediate attention and policy action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fewer-infant-deaths-in-bihar-than-national-average-101635333217371.html
27-10-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: Sarasbaug and Hirabaug remind us of visages of 18th century Pune||To an average outsider, Pune may seem to be a city of paradoxes and irony! A bridge called “Lakdi Pul” is not made up of wood; a god called “Khunya Murlidhar” or murderous Murlidhar but is an innocent-looking idol. A “Talyatla Ganpati” (Ganesha situated in a lake) but actually sits within a garden, today. And most confusing is the bustling peth area named as gardens such as Tulshibaug, Belbaug but not a plant in sight.All the above names referred to the quintessential Peshwa period Pune which was developed in the 18th century under the able vision of Peshwas such as Nanasaheb Peshwa. Today, the true nature of these places is lost under subsequent changes and alterations but the names have stayed and essence lingers through historical memories.Parvati lake was created near Pune city as an alternative to the Katraj lake which was the primary supply of water through the aqua ducts. Thus, the lake of approximately 25 square kilometres (550 yards into 220 yards) was built in the year 1751-52. An island of 25 square feet was kept at the centre of the lake which was subsequently developed into a striking garden. Tall trees were planted on the banks of the lake to create a natural ambience. With the availability of water, vegetation and food, a variety of birds flocked the lake making for a lively scene. Another garden, Lotanbaug was created to the west of the lake.Construction of the lake was an activity close to Nanasaheb’s heart. Legend informs us that once as Nanasaheb’s palanquin passed by the construction site, he was enraged by the apparent lax attitude of workers who were delaying the work indefinitely. In order to teach them a lesson by example, he got down the palanquin and personally started digging the grounds with a spade. Site workers were ashamed and assured him that work would complete within the promised duration.Ambil stream flew near the lake and arrangement was made such that excess water from Katraj aqua duct would drain in Ambil stream which in turn would drain into river Mutha. A small stone dam wall was built along the Parvati lake which would regulate the flow of water in the Ambil stream throughout the year. Thus, excess water coming to Parvati lake due to flooding of the Ambil stream was regulated, too. British gazetteer mentions that the Parvati lake was used to be full of lotus flowers. Sawai Madhavrao Peshwa later installed a Ganesha idol in an open temple on the island of Sarasbaug, naming it as Siddhi Vinayak in 1774. Saras cranes were brought to the garden to reside in the lake waters, by Sawai Madhavrao Peshwa, thus, giving it the name “Sarasbaug”.During the Peshwa period, the lake provided a great spot for boating aka “Nauka vihar”. Many important strategies were discussed between Sawai Madhavrao Peshwa, Mahadji Shinde and Nana Phadnavis while they took the boat ride around Parvati lake.Today, this Siddhi Vinayak at Sarasbaug is a popular destination and place of worship flocked by Punekars. It is known by various names such as “Sarasbaug Ganpati”, “Talyatlya Ganpati” and so on. The original temple was built in the Maratha style of architecture, but it has been renovated later in 1969. The idol of Ganesh was replaced three times to date due to damage caused by ageing, in 1882 and 1990.The lake suffered heavy neglect during colonial times and most of the land except the island was handed over by the British to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for repairs. In order to reduce the maintenance cost and prevent epidemics due to mosquitoes, the corporation filled the lake with debris to make way for an extended garden.Today, the temple houses a fascinating exhibition of a number of Ganesh sculptures and is surrounded by lawns and gardens. Shri Devdeveshwar Sansthan Trust, who is in charge of managing various temples of the Peshwa period, oversees the temple maintenance and management.Similar such garden exists near Tilak road today, called Hirabaug, situated next to Sarasbaug Ganesh temple, as we travel from Bajirao road to Parvati hill.Some anecdotes inform us that Mastani might have been put under house arrest at Hirabaug by Chimaji Appa, Bajirao’s younger brother, but in all likelihood, it may not be true.The picturesque garden is called Hirabaug and the bungalow or Peshwai wada within was mostly, commissioned by Nanasaheb Peshwa in 1753. Contemporary British records mention it by the names” Pleasure house” or “Diamond palace’. The palace faced east direction and was equipped with a fountain, paved courtyard and the view of Parvati lake. A “Khajina buruj” (water tower) was erected to source water for the fountain and water was fed to the tower using a Persian wheel.The first mention of the Hirabaug bungalow is seen with reference to a feast arranged for fulfilling the vows to Brahmins by Nanasaheb Peshwa. The venue was utilised yet again for the wedding feast during Madhavrao Peshwa I’s marriage ceremony.The bungalow and the garden suffered substantial damage due to fire during Nizam’s attack on Pune in 1763. Later, the elder Madhavrao Peshwa resurrected the garden by ordering fresh plantations. Nana Phadnavis the able minister under Madhvrao Peshwa, then personally issued orders to remove the debris, repair and rebuild the bungalow at Hirabaug in 1764.Young Sawai Madhavrao Peshwa is known to practise his hobby of rearing the silk moths in the gardens of Hirabaug for a while as per his personal diaries. It was frequently used as a lodging for guests of Peshwas as seen during Sawai Madhavrao’s elaborate wedding festivities. Nizam of Hyderabad was housed in Hirabaug and treated with characteristic Peshwai feasts in gold and silver dining sets. Peshwa records are filled with the description of extravagant affluence that was seen and celebrated in Hirabaug on multiple occasions.The British guests were hosted at Hirabaug after the famous Vasai treaty of 1803 who describe the Hirabaug and Parvati lake surroundings in great detail. It indeed served as a royal pleasure house for important occasions.After the fall of the Maratha empire in 1818, the Hirabaug came under the possession of the British government, but it was then occupied by a Parsi individual named Sorabjishet Rustamji who occupied it till 1865. Later the property exchanged many hands to finally be purchased by Rajaram Bhau Mhaske and Mahadev Kunte in 1866 at the cost of ₹15,050. The property was bought to establish “The Hirabaug town hall committee” in 1877. Mahadeo Govind Ranade was instrumental in raising the contribution to buy the property for the establishment of the “Hirabaug town hall committee”. The committee was to be used as a public platform to host lectures, discussions and debates and the garden was to be used for the purpose of a sports club. Later, in the year 1891, the Deccan club was established at Hirabaug.The purpose of public recreation and leisure continued through various regimes from Peshwas to British to present-day administrators as both the gardens became more public friendly. Though, both Sarasbaug and Hirabaug may not retain their original forms they continue to remind us of the gorgeous visages of what 18th century Pune once was!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-sarasbaug-and-hirabaug-remind-us-of-visages-of-18th-century-pune-101635332137699.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||UP to drop 3 lakh Covid-19 protocol violation cases against citizens||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday started withdrawal of around 300,000 cases registered under the Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act and for disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant for violation of Covid-19 pandemic containment guidelines.The relief will only be available to common citizens and for offences in which the maximum punishment is up to two years, the official said. Principal secretary, Law, Pramod Kumar Srivastava in a letter to all the district magistrates said, public prosecutors will move courts for withdrawal of non serious cases for violation of the Covid protocols and lockdown against the common people barring sitting or former parliamentarians (MP), and member of state assembly and council. On October 3, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had asked for the withdrawal of cases under the Epidemic Act in the larger public interest and on October 8, the Allahabad high court, too, asked the government to timely withdraw protocol breach cases related to Covid-19 guidelines. Also Read | Khadeda hobe: Akhilesh gives a UP twist to TMC’s winning slogan in BengalSrivastava also cited a February 3 letter by secretary, Union ministry of home affairs to chief secretaries of all the states, stating that the Disaster Management Act- 2005, Epidemic Act- 1897 and (Indian Penal Code) IPC 1860 Section were implemented to deal with the unprecedented situation in the country during Covid -19 pandemic, which was controlled due to “effective implementation” of the rules. The Central government directed the states to review the cases lodged against common people to save them from unnecessary court trials and procedure of the criminal cases, Srivastava said, referring to the letter.The process for withdrawal of the 300,000 cases in which charge-sheet have been filed in the court will start, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-drop-3-lakh-covid-19-protocol-violation-cases-against-common-citizens-101635331357540.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress chief Sidhu calls Capt Amarinder ‘spent cartridge’||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu said on Wednesday that former chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh will be remembered as Jaichand, an archetypal traitor in mythology, of Punjab’s political history. Also read: Farmers’ protest: Punjab ex-CM Capt Amarinder to meet Amit Shah tomorrowCalling him “truly a spent cartridge”, Sidhu alleged that Capt Amarinder was an arm-twisted, Enforcement Directorate-controlled loyal chief minister of Punjab who sold the interest of the state to save his skin. “You were the negative force stalling, justice and development of Punjab,” he alleged in a series of scathing tweets. Sidhu mounted the scathing attack on the micro-blogging site while the former chief minister was addressing a press conference in Chandigarh. The two have had a long-running tussle that saw Sidhu resign from Amarinder Singh’s ministry in July 2019, but he made a comeback as the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief exactly two years later despite the Capt’s objections. Last month, Capt Amarinder Singh was made to resign from the CM’s post following continued opposition by Sidhu and rebellion of several ministers and MLAs. He has now announced that he will float his own political outfit and is hopeful of a seat arrangement with the BJP. Sidhu accuses Capt of colluding with Badals, BJP Sidhu said that a three-member committee was formed (by the Congress high command) to make Capt Amarinder Singh accountable. “Why were MLAs against you? Because everyone knew you have collided with Badals! All you want is to defeat me, have you ever wanted Punjab to win? Your 75/25 dealings with Badals and BJP are crystal clear (sic),” he claimed. Sidhu asked if he (Capt Amarinder Singh) was unceremoniously dumped for good governance and the 18-point agenda was handed “to the poorest performing CM of Punjab”. Taking a dig at the two-time former CM’s political moves, Sidhu tweeted: “Last time you formed your own party, you lost your ballot, garnering only 856 votes… People of Punjab are again waiting to punish you for compromising on the interests of Punjab!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-chief-sidhu-calls-capt-amarinder-spent-cartridge-101635330277152.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Extortion row: Process to record Wankhede's statement underway, says NCB DDG||The Narcotic Control Bureau’s (NCB) deputy director general (DDG)-northern region, Gyaneshwar Singh, said on Wednesday a process was underway to recording the statement of the agency’s Mumbai zone director Sameer Wankhede as part of the investigation into extortion allegations in the drugs-on-cruise case.Speaking to reporters outside the NCB's Mumbai office, Singh said, "The documents pertaining to the case are being examined. All people related to the case will be called for probe. The process to record the statement of Sameer Wankhede is going on."Singh is heading a five-member team that landed in Mumbai earlier in the day to probe and collect documents and recordings from the NCB Ballard Estate office in south Mumbai in the case in which Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan’s son is behind bars. His bail application will be heard in a while at the Bombay high court.Also read | Not a crime, fulfilled my mother's wish: Wankhede on minister's 'Nikah' attackThe NCB initiated a probe after one of its independent witnesses, Prabhakar Sail, raised allegations of an extortion attempt worth ₹25 crore by some agency officials, including Wankhede, to let off Aryan.Singh initially said all the material witnesses in the probe will be called to record their statements. “I will not take the name of any individual," Singh said.Later, when prodded further, he said, "The statement of Wankhede is being recorded… it is a sensitive inquiry and it is not possible to share real-time information related to the probe, and we will not be able to share all the details.... We will definitely speak to Wankhede in connection with the inquiry and others also," he added.Also read | Drug case: How focus shifted from Aryan Khan to NCB’s Sameer WankhedeWhen asked if Wankhede will continue to probe the cruise drugs seizure case, Singh said he will not make any comments related to the investigation in that case as he is not directly connected to it, adding that was in Mumbai for a vigilance inquiry.Wankhede, who is leading the probe in the cruise drugs case, visited the NCB's headquarters in New Delhi on Tuesday and spent over two hours. A PTI report said, the NCB inquiry will also look at the aspect of KP Gosavi, another independent witness of the NCB in the case, for coming in close proximity of Aryan after the raids, and the procedures followed by the sleuths while entrusting custody of all the accused arrested on October 3 from the international cruise terminal in Mumbai.Photos and videos of Gosavi with Aryan have gone viral on social media and other news platforms. On Sunday, Wankhede wrote to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance-related issue. On Monday, he failed to get any relief related to an affidavit on the sensational extortion claims made by Sail, with a special court saying it cannot pass a blanket order barring courts from taking cognisance of the document.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/extortion-row-process-to-record-wankhede-s-statement-underway-says-ncb-ddg-101635329955751.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protest: Punjab ex-CM Capt Amarinder to meet Amit Shah tomorrow||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will lead a non-political delegation of agricultural experts to meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday to discuss possible solutions to the ongoing farmers’ agitation.Also read: Punjab CM Channi calls special assembly session on November 8Capt Amarinder Singh said he had been discussing various options with the Union home minister and others. “I think I can help in finding a solution as I have been the chief minister of Punjab and am also an agriculturist,” he said at a press conference. While there could be no pre-decided formula for the resolution of the farmers’ stir, something would emerge during the talks as both sides, the central government and farmers, want a resolution to the crisis triggered by the farm laws, he said, clarifying that he had not met any farmer leaders. Says back-channel talks are on Capt Amarinder said he had deliberately not interfered in the matter as the farmers did not want politicians involved. The farmer leaders had four inconclusive meetings with the Centre, but back-channel talks have been going on, he added. Made to resign as the chief minister following months of tussle and turbulence in the Punjab Congress, Capt Amarinder Singh has already announced that he is launching his party. He had earlier said any seat arrangement with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would be subject to a resolution of the farmers’ issue in their interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-protest-punjab-ex-cm-capt-amarinder-to-meet-amit-shah-tomorrow-101635327517056.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||DDMA allows public celebrations of Chhath Puja in Delhi||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has decided to allow public celebrations of Chhath Puja in Delhi, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced on Wednesday. In a tweet, Sisodia said that the festival can be celebrated publicly, though this should be done keeping in mind all necessary protocols to guard against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Also Read | DDMA meeting today, will reconsider ban on Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi“In today's DDMA meeting, a decision was taken to allow celebrations of Chhath Puja. Now all residents of the city can celebrate this festival together at pre-decided venues while following all norms to protect themselves from Covid-19,” a rough translation of Sisodia's tweet, which was posted in Hindi, read. DDMA की मीटिंग में दिल्ली में छठ पूजा के आयोजनों की भी अनुमति दी गई. अब सभी दिल्लीवासी पूरी श्रद्धा के साथ, लेकिन पूरी सावधानी के साथ, पूर्व निर्धारित स्थलों पर सामूहिक रूप से छठपर्व मना सकेंगे.In permitting the festivities, the DDMA reversed its September 30 order in which the body, for a second year in a row, barred public celebrations of Chhath, including along the banks of river Yamuna, as well as around water bodies and at temples. However, with the pandemic situation in the national capital under control, various groups, including members of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) demanded that outdoor celebrations of the festival be allowed.On October 14, Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convenor Arvind Kejriwal wrote to lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, who heads the DDMA, to allow Chhath celebrations in the city. Earlier, Sisodia, in a letter to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya, too, urged the central government to issue guidelines for this “as soon as possible.”Also Read | Kejriwal urges Baijal to allow Chhath Puja celebrations in DelhiChhath Puja, which falls on November 10 this year, is a major festival in Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh. Delhi is home to a large number of people who celebrate this festival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ddma-allows-public-celebrations-of-chhath-puja-in-delhi-101635323877285.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Channi calls special assembly session on November 8||After chairing a cabinet meeting in Ludhiana on Wednesday, Punjab chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi announced a special assembly session on November 8 to discuss the Centre’s notification enhancing the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) in the state besides the three farm laws. Also read: Punjab elections: Former CM Capt Amarinder Singh will launch own partyAddressing the media after the cabinet meet, Channi said: “We will convene a special Vidhan Sabha session on November 8 to decide on the BSF jurisdiction and farmers’ issues.” The Punjab chief minister demanded that the Centre withdraw the notification citing the increase in BSF range from 15km to 50km. “If the Centre does not withdraw its notification on the BSF range, we will be forced to stop it by November 8,” Channi said. He said the Centre and state relations are bound to face hurdles if the decision is not taken back. “We will also be moving the Supreme Court if nothing is done,” he said. The chief minister had convened an all-party meeting on the issue on Tuesday, which was attended by representatives of the Aam Aadmi Party and the Shiromani Akali Dal, but the BJP boycotted the meeting stating that there’s no conflict between the BSF and Punjab Police. Senior BJP leader Manoranjan Kalia said, “The BSF is a concurrent list subject. Along with the BSF, Punjab Police can also carry out searches and register cases. Drones are used to smuggle weapons and drugs and to stop these illegal activities, the jurisdiction of BSF has been widened.” Abolishes institutional tax for industry Announcing a slew of measures for the state industry ahead of the Progressive Punjab Investors Summit, 2021, Channi said the Cabinet has decided to abolish institutional tax, which was a long-pending demand of industry. Channi said that he has been a shopkeeper and he knows what Diwali means to every businessman. “There will be no police interference, a complete end to inspector raj and I will ensure there is no problem for shopkeepers,” he said. Reminiscing the days he himself used to sell crackers on Diwali, he said his father was a tent shop owner and he managed to pay the fee of an academic year by selling firecrackers. “So I know what business is and my heart goes out to shopkeepers,” he said. Film City near Chandigarh, exhibition centre in Amritsar Channi announced a Film City near Chandigarh and an exhibition centre in Amritsar besides ₹147 crore for the development of focal points in the state. State finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said the tax department will be totally faceless. He said of the 48,000 pending VAT (value-added tax) refunds, 40,000 will be waived and the remaining 8,000 will be pushed for one-time settlement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-channi-calls-special-assembly-session-on-november-8-101635324576878.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur and Agra gets new IG range, 12 IPS officers transferred||The Uttar Pradesh government late on Tuesday transferred 12 Indian Police Service (IPS) officers including inspector generals of Kanpur and Agra ranges.The IPS officer of 2003 batch Nachiketa Jha, who was in waiting since his return from Central deputation for past few months, has replaced Naveen Arora as new IG of Agra range while Prashant Kumar -II, who was also in the waiting, has been made the new IG of Kanpur range in place of Mohit Agarwal. Arora has been shifted as IG Budget at the director general of police (DGP) headquarters in Lucknow while Agarwal has been sent as IG Technical services.Also Read | ‘PM Modi bhagwan ka…’: Yogi’s minister’s praise ahead of UP electionsYogesh Singh has replaced Arvind Bhushan Pandey as commandant of the 25th battalion of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), Raebareli while Pandey has been made superintendent of police (SP) Technical Services. Kalpana Saxena has replaced Yogesh Singh as the commandant of 47 battalion of PAC, Ghaziabad; Sanjay Singh has been shifted from 45 battalion PAC, Aligarh to 2nd battalion PAC, Sitapur; Rahul Yadvendu has been made SP DGP headquarters; Rajesh Kumar Saxena has been moved as commandant 8th battalion PAC, Bareilly from 37 battalion PAC, Kanpur Nagar, while Vikas Kumar Vaidya has replaced him and Bharti Singh has been shifted as commandant of 49 battalion PAC, Gautam Buddha Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpur-and-agra-gets-new-ig-range-12-ips-officers-transferred-101635324336508.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Schools in Delhi to reopen from November 1 as Covid cases dip: Deputy CM Sisodia||The Delhi government announced on Wednesday that all schools in the national capital will reopen for all on-campus classes from November 1. However, parents will not be forced to send their children to attend physical classes, the Aam Aadmi Party-led government added.Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Delhi's deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “Experts suggested that no parent will be forced to send their children to school. All schools will have to ensure that classes take place in hybrid mode with a max of 50% strength in classrooms.”Sisodia also said that schools have to ensure that all their staff, whether teaching or non-teaching, have received at least one dose of the vaccine against Covid-19, adding, the second dose should be administered as soon as possible.The deputy chief minister reiterated his point that parents will not be forced to send their wards to school and online classes will go on. “Parents consent is a must for attending physical classes,” he further said during the briefing.Also Read| DDMA panel recommends reopening of Delhi schools for classes 6 to 8The above decision was taken a day after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) panel recommended on Tuesday that schools should be reopened for students of classes 6 to 8 with 50% strength.Amid an improvement in the overall pandemic situation, the Delhi government in September allowed reopening schools in a phased manner. Initially, schools reopened for classes 9 to 12 from September 1.Schools were also set to resume for classes 6 to 8 from September 8. However, the reopening did not take place. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal said on September 29 that a decision to resume physical lectures for students of the above classes will be taken after the festival season.Delhi has so far recorded 1,439,671 cases, 25,091 deaths, 1,414,257 recoveries and 323 active cases due to the coronavirus disease. On Tuesday, 41 cases and 25 recoveries were recorded while no patient succumbed to the viral disease.Also Read| DDMA allows public celebrations of Chhath Puja in DelhiDuring Wednesday's press conference, deputy chief minister Sisodia also announced that Chhath puja will be permitted in accordance with strict Covid-19 norms. “This (Puja) will be done with very strict protocols at the spots decided by the government beforehand,” Sisodia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/schools-in-delhi-to-reopen-from-november-1-as-covid-cases-dip-deputy-cm-sisodia-101635323307115.html
27-10-2021||Kolkata||Bengal's former chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay receives death threat via letter sent to wife||Former West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay has allegedly received a death threat through a letter sent to his wife, police said on Wednesday.Bandyopadhyay's wife Sonali Chakrabarty, vice-chancellor of Calcutta University, received the typed letter, undersigned by Gourhari Mishra, who claimed to be from the Department of Chemical Technology of Rajabazar Science College in the city, they said."Madam, your husband will be killed. Nobody can save the life of your husband," read the letter, dated October 22, a police officer said.A complaint has been registered and investigation is underway, he said.Bandyopadhyay, who retired in May, is at present the chief advisor to chief minister Mamata Banerjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengals-former-chief-secretary-alapan-bandyopadhyay-receives-death-threat-via-letter-sent-to-wife-101635321882988.html
27-10-2021||Noida||26 new dengue cases take October tally to 547 in Ghaziabad||As many as 26 dengue cases were reported on Tuesday in Ghaziabad, taking the tally to 547 in October alone, said Chief Medical Officer (CMO) in Ghaziabad district.According to the health authorities, of the 26 dengue patients, 18 are admitted to hospitals in the district.Until now, the cumulative cases of dengue stand at 859 in the district.According to the data shared by the district health department, there are 108 patients admitted to hospitals until now. Of these patients, 56 are in government hospitals while the remaining are in private hospitals, as per data available till Tuesday.Dr Bhavtosh Shankhdhar, CMO, said, "Children should be fully dressed in order to protect themselves from dengue. Symptoms of dengue are found in children who go out to play without taking the required precautions. We are not advising that children should not go out to play but extra precaution is needed."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/26-new-dengue-cases-take-october-tally-to-547-in-ghaziabad-101635321547755.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||'Amarinder sold Punjab's interest to save his skin', says Sidhu; Ex-CM hits back||Punjab Congress president Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday took a dig at former chief minister Amarinder Singh by saying that the latter sold the interests of the state. Sidhu said that Captain Amarinder was the negative force that stalled the justice and development of Punjab.Earlier in the day, Amarinder Singh announced the formation of a new political party, months before the high-stakes assembly elections in Punjab next year.Also Read| Amarinder Singh says will form new party ahead of Punjab polls, targets SidhuSingh claimed that he might form an alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). "Yes, I will be forming a new party. The name will be announced once the Election Commission clears it, along with the symbol. My lawyers are working on it," he said while addressing a press conference in Chandigarh on Wednesday.Moments after the announcement, Sidhu tweeted, “We the 78 MLAs of Congress, could never imagine that we received an arm-twisted, ED controlled BJP loyal chief minister of Punjab @capt_amarinder… who sold the interests of Punjab to save his skin! You were the negative force stalling Justice and development of Punjab,”You wanted to close doors on me, as i was raising voice of the People, speaking truth to power !Last time you formed your own party, you lost your ballot, garnering only 856 votes … People of Punjab are again waiting to punish you for compromising on the interests of Punjab !!“You wanted to close doors on me, as I was raising the voice of the People, speaking truth to power! The last time you formed your own party, you lost your ballot, garnering only 856 votes … People of Punjab are again waiting to punish you for compromising on the interests of Punjab,” the Sidhu said in a subsequent tweet.Meanwhile, Amarinder Singh reacted sharply to the Punjab Congress president's tweets and said that Sidhu just keeps 'shooting nonsense from his mouth', adding he had been meeting all central ministers to discuss the state issues.'This man knows nothing. He just keeps shooting nonsense from his mouth. I'd been meeting all central ministers to discuss state issues. States can't function unless they work with Centre. But I don't expect @sherryontopp to know anything about good governance': @capt_amarinder https://t.co/qgzRoK2XFzSidhu has been in a war of words with Amarinder Singh for months. In September, Singh resigned as Punjab's chief minister following a bitter power tussle with Sidhu. He was replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi.Recently, a squabble broke out between Amarinder Singh and other leaders of the Punjab Congress over the former's friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam.Also Read| Had Capt worked, he would not have been replaced, say Navjot Kaur SidhuCongress Navjot Kaur, the wife of Sidhu, hit out at Singh by saying that not a single post of any official took place in Punjab without any money or gifts to Aroosa Alam.Amid sharp exchanges between Punjab Congress and Singh over this friendship, Sidhu said on Sunday that the state should concentrate on real issues that concern every Punjabi and future generations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-sold-punjab-s-interest-to-save-his-skin-says-sidhu-ex-cm-hits-back-101635317100251.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Haryana reports 15 fresh Covid-19 cases, no new death||Haryana recorded no new coronavirus-related fatality, even as it added 15 fresh cases on Tuesday, pushing the infection count to 7,71,189, according to an official bulletin.The death toll remained unchanged at 10,049, the health department's daily bulletin said.Among the districts, seven cases were reported from Gurugram and three from Faridabad.The number of active cases stands at 103 in the state while the recovery count has reached 7,61,012.Haryana has a Covid-19 recovery rate of 98.68 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-reports-15-fresh-covid-19-cases-no-new-death-101635320852836.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Cruise drugs case: Police appoint officer to probe allegations against NCB investigator Wankhede||The Mumbai Police appointed an ACP-level officer to probe the allegations levelled against Narcotics Control Bureau's zonal head Sameer Wankhede, the lead investigator in the cruise drugs raid case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan has been arrested.According to news agency ANI, the Mumbai Police officer will probe all allegations against Wankhede so far. Four police stations in Mumbai have received complaints against the top NCB official.The pivot of the October 2 cruise drugs case has shifted from Aryan Khan to Sameer Wankhede. Prabhakar Sail, a key witness in the case, has levelled allegations of corruption against Wankhede.Also Read| Key witness in Mumbai cruise ship drugs raid case appears before Crime BranchIn an affidavit filed before a local Mumbai court on Sunday, Sail claimed he heard private KP Gosavi -- who reportedly accompanied the NCB team during the raid on the cruise ship off Mumbai coast on October 2 -- speak about a pay-off of ₹8 crore to Sameer Wankhede in the drugs raid case. The top NCB officer, however, denied the allegations.Sail also claimed to have overheard Gosavi and one Sam D'Souza trying to settle the cruise ship drugs seizure case allegedly for ₹18 crore.Meanwhile, Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik has levelled several other charges against Wankhede, including use of a fake caste certificate to get a government job under a reserved quota.The minister also said that he received a letter from an unnamed NCB official which stated that Wankhede framed innocent people in 26 fake drug cases. Malik said he has forwarded the letter to NCB's director-general SN Pradhan. However, the anti-narcotics cell has refused to probe the anonymous letter.In a fresh attack on Wednesday, the Maharashtra minority minister tweeted a copy of Sameer Wankhede's 'Nikah Nama' or marriage certificate and the top NCB official's photograph with his first wife, Shabana Qureshi.“On Thursday 7th December 2006 at 8 pm, a Nikah was performed between Sameer Dawood Wankhede and Sabana Qureshi at LokhandWala complex, Andheri (west) Mumbai,” Malik tweeted.Also Read| Aryan Khan case: Nawab Malik posts photos of Sameer Wankhede’s ‘nikah’"Meher amount was ₹33,000. Witness no 2 was Aziz Khan Husband of Yasmin Dawood Wankhede, elder sister of Sameer Dawood Wankhede," he said in a subsequent tweet.Malik pointed out that his expose of Sameer Wankhede has nothing to do with the latter's religion but to highlight the fraudulent means by which he obtained a caste certificate to get a job in the Indian Revenue Services (IRS).Meanwhile, Wankhede has denied all allegations against him and said that he will fight the Maharashtra minister legally. Wankhede also said that he is being targeted and is ready for a probe into the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cruise-drugs-case-police-appoint-officer-to-probe-allegations-against-wankhede-101635314094418.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||16 houses gutted in fire in remote Malana village of Himachal||At least 16 houses were destroyed and three partially damaged when a fire broke out in the remote village of Malana in the Kullu district of Himachal Pradesh late on Tuesday. Village pradhan Raju Ram said one person was injured while putting out the blaze, which started in an old wooden structure and spread fast to adjoining houses due to windy conditions. Soon after the Kullu district administration was informed, a team of firefighters was rushed to the village that lacks road connectivity. “Villagers struggled to control the fire. It took us hours but we managed by early in the morning,” said Roop Lal, a resident of Dharaberh in Malana panchayat. “The fire has been brought under control,” said State Disaster Management Authority director Sudesh Mokta. Kullu deputy commissioner Ashutosh Garg said firefighters left from Kullu around 1.30am, but since the village was inaccessible by the road, firefighting equipment was sent to the village through ropeway and firefighting teams trekked for an hour to reach the village at midnight. “Water for dousing the fire was brought from local perennial sources, but the fire spread from one wooden structure to another due to the wind,” said sub-divisional magistrate Vikas Shukla and superintendent of police Gurudev Sharma. Teams have been sent to the village with relief material for the affected families. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. At least half of Malana village, including the temple of the presiding deity, Jamdagni Rishi or Jamlu Devta, was reduced to ashes in a fire in January 2008 Union Home Minister Amit Shah, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and BJP national president Jagat Parkash Nadda also expressed grief over the fire tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dozen-houses-gutted-in-fire-in-remote-malana-village-of-himachal-101635317975945.html
27-10-2021||Kolkata||Only 'green crackers' permitted in Bengal for 2 hours during Diwali||The West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) on Wednesday announced that only green crackers can be sold in the state and bursting of such firecrackers shall be allowed for two hours -- between 8pm and 10pm -- during Diwali and for two hours on Chhath. “2 hours during Chhatt Puja from 6-8am and 35 minutes during Christmas and New Year's eve from 11:55pm to 12:30am,” the board added.“Considering the fact that bursting of fire crackers releases harmful chemicals, having severe impact on the respiratory health of vulnerable groups and the fact that such pollutants aggravate health conditions of Covid-19 positive persons and persons staying in home isolation and considering the latest assessment of the air quality across the state of West Bengal…” the order stated.The board ordered a complete ban on the sale and bursting of all kinds of firecrackers except green crackers in the state until further orders. “Prior permission of the district magistrate /commissioners of police/ superintendents of police shall be required for use of only green crackers for a limited period (not more than two hours) in the state,” the order stated.Mentioned the earlier ruling of the Supreme Court regarding the bursting of firecrackers, the state pollution control board order said that there shall be strict compliance of all terms and conditions mentioned in the order passed by the Supreme Court.Bursting of firecrackers is not allowed in the national capital this Diwali. The neighbouring Gurugram will also observe a cracker-free festival of light while the Rajasthan government, too, has banned their sale and use from October 1.Earlier this month, the Supreme Court said that under the guise of green crackers, banned articles are being used by firecracker manufacturers and reiterated that its earlier order banning joint crackers must be complied with by every state.“Our order must be complied with. It is not the question whether one content or the other. It is being sold openly in the market and used by people. We would like to know if a ban is there, how come they are available in markets," the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/only-green-crackers-permitted-in-bengal-for-2-hours-during-diwali-101635314113691.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||Aryan Khan's bail hearing today; more allegations against Wankhede: Top updates||In a few hours from now, the Bombay high court will resume hearing of the bail plea of Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan in connection with seizure of drugs on a cruise ship on October 2. This is the third time that Khan has applied for bail since his arrested on October 3, along with seven others.Here are the latest updates on this case:> On Tuesday, Aryan's legal team, headed by former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi, told the high court that there was no evidence against him in the drugs case and he was wrongly arrested.> Rohatgi said on Tuesday that the 23-year-old was invited to the cruise as a special guest and no drugs were recovered from him. He also pointed out that Aryan was not subjected to any medical examination to show that he had indeed consumed drugs.> Sameer Wankhede, the zonal director of the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB’s) Mumbai unit who is the lead investigator of the cruise drugs case, is himself facing a slew of allegations including corruption.> Maharashtra minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Nawab Malik, accused Wankhede of using a fake caste certificate to get a government job under reserved quota.> Malik said on Tuesday that he received a letter from an unnamed NCB official which stated that Wankhede framed innocent people in 26 fake drug cases.> On Tuesday, the NCB refused to probe the anonymous letter sent to Nawab Malik which he forwarded to NCB Director General SN Pradhan.> Amid the allegations levelled against Sameer Wankhede, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general Secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya alleged that ministers of Maharashtra government are influenced by underworld don Dawood Ibrahim.> Meanwhile, Aryan Khan has distanced himself regarding the allegations against Sameer Wankhede. “Aryan has no complaints whatsoever against any officer of the NCB including its zonal director Sameer Wankhede. He is not concerned with these unsavoury controversies,” former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi Mukuk Rohatgi told the Bombay high court.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/aryan-khan-s-bail-hearing-today-more-allegations-against-wankhede-top-updates-101635299586081.html
27-10-2021||Patna||Lalu Prasad in Bihar after 3 years, to campaign for RJD in bypolls||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, who returned to Bihar after almost three-and-half- years, will be campaigning for his party on Wednesday for the upcoming by-polls to two assembly seats – Kusheshwarsthan and Tarapur. Earlier this week, the former chief minister told reporters that he will go to Munger and Darbhanga on October 27 to campaign for the RJD in the October 30 by-elections.According to party functionaries familiar with the matter, Lalu Prasad Yadav will be addressing one meeting each in both the assembly constituencies. Earlier this week, Yadav said that he will ensure the “visarjan” of chief minister Nitish Kumar and the ruling NDA in the state.Also Read | He can get me shot, can’t do anything else: Nitish on Lalu’s ‘visarjan’ claimCampaigning for the two seats of Tarapur and Kusheshwarasthan will come to an end on October 28 evening. Congress has also fielded candidates for the two seats after RJD announced its decision to contest the two seats, creating a rift between the two parties which were allies in the state but later separated from the Mahaghatbandhan (Grand Alliance).Meanwhile, the ruling NDA as well as the Congress have claimed that Lalu Prasad's re-entry into the Bihar political scene will make hardly any difference. “When Lalu Prasad will go to these places, people will definitely ask why he ditched Congress. He should mention that whenever he tried to play games with the Congress, he had fallen flat,” said Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore.The NDA camp is also stepping up its campaigning game ahead of the upcoming by-polls. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and Union minister Pashupati Paras have already joined the electioneering from Monday. Reacting to Lalu Prasad's “visarjan” remark, Nitish Kumar said that Yadav can get him shot but nothing more than that.BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel, speaking on Lalu Prasad's attempts to gain favour for the RJD, said that the campaign was not going to make an impact this time.“The GA is disintegrated. When they fought the last election together, both the seats were won by the NDA,” said the BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lalu-prasad-in-bihar-after-3-years-to-campaign-for-rjd-in-bypolls-101635297435205.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Five arrested over sextortion racket, targeted 40 men||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they have busted a gang of extortionists led by a 42-year-old woman, who was previously convicted in a criminal conspiracy case, and arrested her and four of her associates for allegedly extorting money from men after threatening to frame them in bogus rape cases.The alleged accused befriended the victims through an online dating application and lured them to a house, where they drugged the man and clicked his objectionable photographs and videos with women in the gang. Police said the gang hatched elaborate plays to hoodwink victims and each gang member had specific roles.“We have recovered some police file covers, extorted money and other articles from the arrested persons. The gang members have confessed to extorting valuables from nearly 40 men in the past couple of years. We have recovered a diary containing details of 34 victims and their self written statement admitting guilt and a signed compromise agreement. All of them will be contacted during the probe,” said an investigator, who asked not to be named.On October 23, a businessman dealing in timbers in Dabri filed a complaint alleging that around a month ago, he received a call from a woman named Pooja, who wanted to purchase a ply board. On October 21, he was in Janakpuri area when the woman called him on WhatsApp and met him after five minutes.“She lured him to a house and gave a glass of water to drink. He fell unconscious after that and when he came to, the businessman found himself on a bed naked. Six women and three men present there assaulted him and robbed him of ₹15,700, his wristwatch and gold ring. They threatened to kill him if he did not pay them ₹7 lakh,” said deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Shankar Choudhary, adding that a case of extortion and threat was registered on the man’s complaint.During investigation, the police collected information about the gang and learnt that the crime was masterminded by Shivani alias Sonu Suri, who was convicted in a criminal conspiracy case in which she had used a woman to file a bogus rape case against a man.The police arrested Suri and her four associates, identified as Revti Devi (33) and her husband Vaibhav (37), both residents of Jeewan Park; Sheetal Arora alias Pooja (40), a resident of Burari; and Harbinder Singh (60), a resident of Tagore Garden.Suri’s interrogation, the DCP said, revealed that she used to get mobile numbers of targets using an online dating application. She used to provide their mobile numbers to Arora, who then invited the targeted person to the residence of Revti. “They extorted money from the victim on the pretext of filing a false rape charge,” said Choudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-five-arrested-over-sextortion-racket-targeted-40-men-101635298315018.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board to do away with intermediaries||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) approved a slew of measures during its board meeting on Tuesday and said it plans to set up zonal and ward level committees, with the representation of civil society members, to improve its grievance redressal mechanism.DJB chairman Satyendar Jain said the board has also decided that all the household water connections will now be provided by DJB itself and intermediaries will be removed from the process. A proposal to this effect was cleared by the board on Tuesday.Jain said the water utility will provide household connections to consumers and that will include laying of pipelines and installation of meters on the consumer premises. Jain said while the DJB maintains over 13,000km of water pipeline network, the connection from the DJB pipeline to individual households is currently the responsibility of consumers.“This policy approval will help in resolving complaints of water contamination and reduce unauthorised connections. In several cases, it was observed that damaged pipelines and leakage from pipe joints resulted in water contamination, but these faults could not be resolved by the DJB as they were beyond its purview,” he said.For getting new meter connections, the board has approved a charge of ₹4,000 for colonies in categories A, B and C; ₹2,000 for categories D and E; and ₹1,000 for categories F, G and H, and villages.DJB has approved the constitution of the water and sewerage committee at the ward and zonal level and these will comprise both civil society representatives and DJB officials. The ward level committee will have seven members while the zonal committee will have 12.DJB vice-chairmain Raghav Chadha said the civil society representative will be chairperson of the ward level committee while the constituency MLA will chair the zonal committee.The water utility has also simplified the financial assistance scheme provided for installing rainwater harvesting systems in houses. “For residential houses having an area of less than 500 square metres, a financial assistance of ₹25,000 will be provided, and for residential houses having an area of 500 square metres and above, an assistance of ₹50,000 will be provided,” DJB said in a statement.The board also approved a project for installing a 20MGD RO (reverse osmosis) plant at Okhla water treatment plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-to-do-away-with-intermediaries-101635297891979.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Don’t be misled by online health aggregators: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday observed that people should not be misled by online health service aggregators, and blood samples should go only to the accredited labs for accurate results.“The concern is that if you are taking samples of Delhi residents, it should go to accredited labs and the results must be accurate. The court’s concern is that citizens should not be misled and samples should not be collected by an agency which is not approved,” Justice Najmi Waziri said.The court was hearing a plea against the authorities for not adhering to the court’s earlier direction to take action against illegal online aggregators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-be-misled-by-online-health-aggregators-delhi-hc-101635296525929.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||DDMA meeting today, will reconsider ban on Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) will hold a meeting on Wednesday to discuss the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the national capital. It is also expected to reconsider the ban imposed on Chhath Puja celebrations at public places.The Chhath Puja celebrations were banned by the DDMA in public, including at Yamuna riverbanks, water bodies and temples in Delhi, after a meeting on September 30. But since then, the Covid-19 situation has improved a lot in the national capital and demands have been made by various groups and political parties to allow Chhath Puja to be celebrated.It is a major festival celebrated by those in East Uttar Pradesh and Bihar (Purvanchali community). The community has sizeable number in the national capital and are concentrated mostly in East Delhi.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in Delhi, including party MP Manoj Tiwari, had attacked the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government over the ban and asked it to send a proposal to the DDMA for allowing the celebration of the festival at public places in Delhi.Also Read | Drive to vaccinate over 10,000 devotees before Chhath Puja launched in DelhiTiwari, who is the BJP's Purvanchal face in the national capital, has been advocating for allowing public celebrations for Chhath Puja in Delhi ever since DDMA put a ban on it while allowing Dussehra, Ramlila and Durga Puja celebrations in the city.In the backdrop of protests by the BJP and Congress against the Chhath Puja ban, Kejriwal had earlier this month urged Lt Governor Anil Baijal to call a meeting of the DDMA as soon as possible to allow celebrations in public, saying the Covid situation in Delhi was under control.Baijal then directed the chief secretary to convene a meeting of the DDMA to discuss the issue.Chhath is celebrated after Diwali by people from Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh and the ritual involves the offering of 'Arghya' by fasting women to the Sun god in knee-deep water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ddma-meeting-today-will-reconsider-ban-on-chhath-puja-celebrations-in-delhi-101635293002197.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A young man’s evening||It’s late October. That explains the nip in the air. But is it so chilly that Shambhu Yadav has to wrap himself in a blanket? The young man is perched on the pavement, outside a five-star hotel in Delhi’s diplomatic enclave of Chanakyapuri. It is late evening, and already dark. He is sitting behind a kerosene stove. Rice is on the boil.“I’m making dinner for us all,” he says. Mr Yadav is among a troupe of labourers charged with laying underground cables in the vicinity for a telecom company.He attributes the blanket to fever: “I’m shivery.” His colleagues have asked him to rest, and to check on the rice rather than exerting himself in strenuous physical activity. They themselves are fiddling around with hefty loops of red and yellow cables, dragging them along the roadside.“I’ve been having light fever for the past few days,” Mr Yadav says gloomily. Some onions and tomatoes are lying on a tiny chopping board beside him. He is supposed to slice them to garnish the dal that’s already been prepared. But right now he is choosing to stay still. “I feel…,” he doesn’t finish his sentence.At 20, Mr Yadav is already talking like a man who has been disillusioned by the world. “Mann bhar gaya hain,” he mutters, explaining his disillusionment with the course of his life. “I came to Delhi eight-nine years ago, and have been a labourer since then.” He says that the extreme poverty of his family back home in the village in Gaya, Bihar, prevented him from attending school. “There was no money for my education.”In the night, it will certainly get cold, but Mr Yadav will not have a restful slumber in a warm cozy bedroom, protected from the elements by tightly locked windows and doors. “I don’t have a kamra (room) in Delhi…. we sleep where we work.” Tonight, he says, he and his team will stay right here on this pavement, across the road from the high-security British embassy. They have a truck into which they might retire to sleep.“But my fever is light… it will be over soon, and then I’ll feel better,” he remarks, resting his chin on his knees, as the steam from the bubbling rice pot partially hides his face.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-young-man-s-evening-101635292698642.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Politics of hate is shielding communal elements: Farooq||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday urged the party cadre to gear up for the challenges facing Jammu and Kashmir, cautioning to maintain vigil against the elements inimical to religious harmony and unity. “Enemies of people in general and the National Conference in particular are spreading hate to divide the society, which has withstood all these machinations with courage and fortitude in the past,” he said while addressing a rally at the border township of Surankote in Poonch. He asked the cadre to further intensify their mass contact, fan out in their areas and generate awareness among the people against divisive agenda of disruptive forces, which are exploiting the sentiments of the people on the basis of religion and region. “There is no threat to any religion and if there is a danger to anything at all, it is the politics of hate, which has been serving as a shield to communal elements,” he said and added that the politics of mistrust and suspicion will take a toll on the nation. He said that attempts of dividing the people of J&K were not new. Mehbooba has a Talibani ideology: J&K BJP chiefVarious social, religious and political organisations on Tuesday celebrated Accession Day. A large number of people converged at Maharaja Hari Singh Park to pay their respects to the visionary ruler. J&K BJP led by its president Ravinder Raina and other senior leaders also celebrated the historic day and were joined by Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh. Raina reacted to PDP president Mehbooba Mufti’s statement supporting those who celebrated Pakistan’s T20 victory against India in Srinagar. “She has a Talibani ideology. Anyone who celebrated Pakistan’s recent win over India in a T20 World Cup match would be jailed for conspiring against the country,” he said. “Some leaders need security cover and are protected round-the-clock by our forces but their hearts beat for Pakistan. Mehbooba is of Talibani ideology and she is answerable to the people for supporting an enemy nation which is pushing armed terrorists, conspiring against us and bleeding J&K. She has committed a grave sin,” he said. Centre for Ladakh and Jammu Kashmir Studies also celebrated the 75th Accession Day at University of Jammu. The J&K High Court Bar Association under the leadership of its Jammu president MK Bhardwaj also celebrated the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/politics-of-hate-is-shielding-communal-elements-farooq-101635287717728.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Modi government has zero-tolerance policy against terrorism: Amit Shah in Pulwama||Union home minister Amit Shah concluded his three-day J&K visit by paying tributes to the CRPF personnel who were killed in a terror attack in 2019 at Pulwama memorial on Tuesday morning. Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha also laid a wreath at the memorial and paid his tributes to the Pulwama bravehearts.On Monday night, Shah, while addressing a ‘Sainik Sammelan’ at Pulwama’s Lethpora, said that alertness of CRPF and other security forces had “saved Kashmir from a bloodbath” post-abrogation of Article 370.He said after the abrogation, there were a lot of apprehensions and speculations about backlash. “But it was expected. There also were speculations of a bloodbath. It was due to your alertness that not a single bullet was fired at any place,” he told the gathering comprising police, CRPF, army and CISF personnel. “Today, the foundation of a ₹2,000-crore medical college has started from Pulwama, which was previously known for attack on our jawans in the country and in the world,” Shah said, adding that big investments were coming to J&K. “There has been big improvement in the law and order situation. The number of civilian and security personnel killings has come down since 2014 till this year as compared to those between 2004 and 2014.”Shah said that incidents of stone pelting have also decreased drastically and added that the Modi government has zero tolerance towards terrorism. “Our priority should be to save people of Kashmir from terrorism,” he said. During his three-day visit to J&K, the home minister, besides reviewing the security situation, addressed a public rally and members of youth club and panchayat representatives, along with visiting the border in Jammu. He also inaugurated several development projects and a houseboat festival in Srinagar. This was the first visit of the home minister to J&K post-revocation of Article 370 and bifurcation of J&K state into two UTs. Shah, however, didn’t hold any meeting with the leaders of any mainstream political parties during his stay in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/modi-government-has-zero-tolerance-policy-against-terrorism-amit-shah-in-pulwama-101635287597662.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Special NIA court sentences 2 Hizbul operatives to 12-year jail||A special NIA court in Delhi announced sentence against four Hizb-ul-Mujahideen operatives convicted in the Jammu and Kashmir Affecters Relief Trust (JKART) case, said officials. “On Monday, NIA Special Court, Delhi announced sentence to the four accused persons convicted on September 27 in JKART case registered under sections 120 B IPC, 121A IPC and sections 17, 18, 18A, 18B, 20, 38 and 40 of UA(P)Act,” stated an NIA spokesperson. Those convicted are Mohammad Shafi Shah, alias Doctor, alias Dawood, alias Nisar, who has been sentenced to rigorous imprisonment of 12 years and a fine of ₹15,000; Talib Lali, alias Waseem, alias Abu Umer, who has been sentenced to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment and a fine of ₹10,000; Muzaffar Ahmad Dar, alias Gaznavi, alias Mohammad Ali, who has been awarded 12 years’ rigorous imprisonment and a fine of ₹15,000; and Mushtaq Ahmad Lone, alias Mushtaq Aalam, who has been sentenced to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment and a fine of ₹10,000. “This case was registered by NIA at New Delhi on October 25, 2011 against Mohammad Yusuf Shah, alias Syed Salahuddin, and others, who as members of the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen were carrying out terrorist activities in India and were regularly receiving funds from neighbouring jurisdiction,” the spokesperson added. “The funds so collected by HM through Jammu Kashmir Affecters Relief Trust (JKART), an NGO and frontal organisation of HM, were being given to active terrorists and families of Hizbul terrorists killed in J&K,” he added. After investigations, 12 accused were chargesheeted in this case. Four have been convicted and sentenced and remaining eight accused are active cadres of Hizbul, including Syed Salauddin, who are absconding and currently based in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-nia-court-sentences-2-hizbul-operatives-to-12-year-jail-101635286697486.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Jammu and Kashmir: Arms, ammo recovered by security forces in Poonch||Security forces on Tuesday recovered some arms and ammunition from Nar Khas forest near Bhata Dhurian of Mendhar subdivision in Poonch, said officials. However, success continues to elude the security forces as terrorists hiding in the dense jungle were well trained in guerilla warfare tactics and had been using natural caves and poor visibility to their advantage. “In the ongoing anti-terrorist operation at Mendhar in Poonch, army and police have recovered arms and ammunition from the encounter site,” said a police spokesperson. The recoveries included an AK-47 assault rifle with magazine, 29 AK rounds, two grenades, two detonators, four biscuit packets, socks, a jacket and blankets besides two syringes. On Sunday, an arrested member of terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba was killed and three security personnel were injured when terrorists opened fire on a search team of the army and police in the same forests. The police said that Zia Mustafa, an LeT terrorist from Pakistan, was taken to Bhata Durian forest to identify the terrorist hideout where the search team was attacked in which three security personnel and Mustafa was killed. A total of nine personnel have died in the ongoing operation which began on October 11 when terrorists ambushed a search party, killing five soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jammu-and-kashmir-arms-ammo-recovered-by-security-forces-in-poonch-101635285377527.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Over 600 students contract Covid after schools reopen in HP||The rising cases of Covid among schoolchildren in Himachal Pradesh have started giving jitters to the authorities. As on Monday, 634 students of government and private schools had been found infected with the virus since the schools reopened on September 27. Seventy-eight students, including 46 in Kangra, were tested positive on Monday alone. Hemraj Bairwa, mission director, national health mission, said Sirmaur is the only district where no student has been found infected. Kangra has the highest 219 cases of Covid reported among the schoolchildren to date followed by Hamirpur, where 200 students have been tested positive. A total of 113 students have been detected positive in Una, 30 in Mandi, 22 each in Bilaspur and Shimla, 14 in Kinnaur, eight in Kullu, four in Solan and one each in Chamba and Lahaul-Spiti. Till Monday, 305 students had recovered while the remaining ones were in home isolation. One 13-year-old student of Government Senior Secondary School, Saleti, in Rakkar tehsil of Kangra had died of the contagion on October 21. Bairwa said the deceased child probably contracted the infection when she attended an event with her parents. She had developed the symptoms like fever and sore throat after the event. She was not attending the school since October 12 and admitted to Hamirpur government hospital after her condition deteriorated.It is noteworthy that in the sero survey conducted few days ago, more than 61% children in the age group of 10-17 years were found to have antibodies against the virus.Bairwa said the teachers and parents should not get complacent and be alert against the virus. The pandemic is not over yet and there is a need to take adequate precautions while attending social gatherings like wedding ceremonies and festivals, he added. He urged teachers, parents, and elders to encourage children to wear masks, wash hands regularly, use sanitisers and follow the rule of physical distancing.In the wake of sudden surge, the state government has called a review meeting on November 8. Currently, only those schools where infections were reported are closed down for 48 hours. Meanwhile, Himachal’s Covid caseload rose to 2,23,145 on Tuesday with 255 people tested positive for the virus. The active case tally climbed to 1,761 while recoveries reached 2,17,645 after 149 people recuperated. The death toll has mounted to 3,723 after two patients succumbed to the contagion in Kangra.In Jammu and Kashmir, 97 people tested positive for the virus and one person death died due to the disease on Tuesday.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 77 with active cases reaching 854.The government’s daily health bulletin also said that 63,426 vaccine doses were administered. The number of people who have recovered reached 3,26,510, prompting the recovery rate to mount to 98.40%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,31,795 and the death toll stands at 4,431.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-600-students-contract-covid-after-schools-reopen-in-hp-101635285137599.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal: Remote Kangra village to get gift of light this Diwali||Hidden away deep in the majestic Dhauladhar range of the Himalayas, the remote Bara Bhangal village of Kangra district would light up with solar power this Diwali after years of darkness. The Himurja, in collaboration with KL Solar Company, will install 168 solar panels in the secluded twin hamlets of Ghraan and Phaal that constitute the Bara Bhangal. Residents of Bara Banghal, a nearly inaccessible valley, were living in the dark and struggling to get the electricity for long, submitting representations to the successive governments regarding their demand. In absence of electricity, they used ‘jugnus’ (wooden sticks put on fire) or kerosene lamps to work at night. The only 40KW hydropower project commissioned in 2004 was lying defunct for over a decade for want of repair. Even as the state electricity board was exploring the possibilities to restore the power project, the government found solar power system the best option to light up the village. Kangra deputy commissioner Nipun Jindal said the solar panels were airlifted to the village on Monday while investors have already been transported on mules. “This is an off-grid solar system with each panel having a capacity of 250KW with a battery backup,” said Jindal. The battery comes with a five-year warranty. The power produced by one panel would be enough to light up four tubes and a TV, besides phones can also be charged. About three months ago, the DC said, the government had announced to set up solar power system in the village. This Independence Day, Baijanth subdivisional magistrate Saleem Azam had also visited the village and promised to install the system before winters. Since then, the district authorities were making efforts to set up the solar power system. Bara Banghal, located at 2,575 metre above the mean sea level, is so isolated that one has to undertake a 70km arduous trek from Bir village crossing over 4,665m high Thamsar Pass to reach the area. It takes two to three days to reach Bara Banghal on foot. Two more treks, one from Holi-Nayagran in Chamba and other one from Manali, are equally long and gruelling. The Holi-Nayagran trek that runs parallel to the Ravi is the most dangerous. The trek from Manali involves an arduous hike over 4,800m high Kalihani pass. Bara Bhangal has a population of about 700, most of whom are shepherds who migrate to Bir village in winters. However, elderly residents who cannot trek across the mountains stay back in the village during winters. The narrow valley also serves as grazing pastures for sheep of Gaddi tribe of Chamba and Kangra. The district administration stocks food grains for these villages in month of September before snow blocks the passages. The village was in news in 2018 after villagers ran out of food stock after the mule trek, the only supply route, to the village got destroyed by multiple landslides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-remote-kangra-village-to-get-gift-of-light-this-diwali-101635284957603.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Rape accused found ‘murdered’ in Kaithal village||Hours after being booked for raping a 12-year-old girl, a man was found dead in a village under the Siwan police station of Kaithal district on Tuesday. The aunt of the victim has accused the minor girl’s family members of murder and has registered an FIR against three people, including a woman. A case has been registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. It has been alleged that the rape accused was strangulated to death with a scarf, but the post mortem report is still awaited. Siwan police station in-charge Rajphool said a few hours before his death, a woman had accused the victim of raping her 12-year-old daughter after breaking into their house on October 25. The police had booked him under Sections 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Rajphool says the police have not ruled out the possibility that he may have died by suicide. The minor girl was also sent for medical examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rape-accused-found-murdered-in-kaithal-village-101635282257260.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Lakhimpur Kheri violence: Farmers stage protest in Haryana, demand action against Union minister Ajay Mishra||Hundreds of farmers gathered at district headquarters of the state on Tuesday to stage a protest against the Lakhimpur Kheri violence and demanded action against Union minister of state for home affairs Ajay Mishra Teni for the alleged involvement of his son in the incident.With the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws completing 11 months on Tuesday, a nationwide protest call was given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha to demand the arrest and dismissal of the Union minister. The agitators slammed the Union government for not taking the concerns of the famers seriously, despite protest at the Delhi borders completing 11 months.In Karnal, the protesters were led by local farmer leader Rampal Chahal and demanded that an FIR be registered against him under Section 302 (murder) and a probe be marked under the supervision of a sitting judge of the Supreme Court.The protesters alleged that the BJP government was protecting Mishra. Farmers from Kurukshetra held a protest at the district headquarters and demanded that the government repeal the anti-farmer laws without further delay.The protesters also raised the issue of shortage of diammonium phosphate (DAP) and the inconvenience being caused to the farmers in the mandis of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lakhimpur-kheri-violence-farmers-stage-protest-in-haryana-demand-action-against-union-minister-ajay-mishra-101635281417164.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ellenabad bypoll: Khattar, Dushyant hit campaign trail||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday hit the campaign trail for BJP nominee Gobind Kanda who is contesting the Ellenabad bypoll scheduled for October 30. Kanda has been fielded against Indian National Lok Dal’s Abhay Singh Chautala and Congress’ Pawan Beniwal in the Ellenabad bypoll. At a gathering in Randhawa village, Haryana CM Khattar hit out at INLD nominee Abhay Singh Chautala for resigning from the state assembly.“ The people of Ellenabad have the golden opportunity to elect the BJP nominee as it will usher in all-round development of the area. The people of Ellenabad have been struggling to get basic necessities for the last 17 years. The Congress has been trying to come into the limelight by provoking farmers against the three farm laws. Our government has been procuring crops on minimum support price and there is no question of mandis being shut down,” he said.The deputy chief minister held different programmes and a road show in the constituency where he faced protests from farmers who raised black flags in protest. In a direct attack on his estranged uncle Abhay Chautala, who is seeking a fourth consecutive term from Ellenabad, Dushyant said he (Abhay) had resigned from the state assembly amid farmers’ protest to gain political mileage.“ He (Abhay) claimed that he will not enter the Vidhan Sabha until three farm laws are repealed. Have these laws taken back? I urge you to elect Kanda,” hes said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ellenabad-bypoll-khattar-dushyant-hit-campaign-trail-101635281117013.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Worker decamps with ₹26 lakh from hosiery factory||Failing to get a police verification of his employees cost heavy for a hosiery factory owner of Model Town as one of his workers decamped with ₹26 lakh cash from his office on Monday.The worker has been identified as Rajesh Prajapati of Rafiganj of Bihar and police teams have been dispatched to the location where he is believed to be hiding. Complainant Amit Khurana of Model Town said he owns a hosiery factory in Sundar Nagar. He had received some payments from the market and kept the cash, his bank cheque books and other documents in a bag and locked it in an almirah in his office, before leaving for home.The next day when he reached the office, he was shocked to see that the cash was missing. He scanned the closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed in the office and found Rajesh Prajapati stealing the money. He immediately sounded the police and filed a complaint.The factory owner added that the accused had been working in the hosiery for the past seven years. During the lockdown, he had gone back to Bihar but had returned four months ago. Apart from working in the hosiery, Prajapati used to serve water and tea to him and his guests, so he had access to the office.Daresi station house officer, sub-inspector Davinder Singh said a case under Sections 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.The SHO added that several teams have been formed for the arrest of the accused.The cop further said the hosiery owner has around 150 employees and none of them have undergone police verification. Police will also take action against the hosiery owner as per the law.Joint commissioner of police (JCP, headquarters) J Elanchezhian has already issued orders to city residents to get police verification of their domestic helps, tenants and workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-worker-decamps-with-26-lakh-from-hosiery-factory-101635280517041.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers press for cotton crop relief, block Bathinda district administrative complex||Hundreds of farmers from eight districts under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) blocked the Bathinda district administrative complex (DAC) for the second consecutive day on Tuesday.The protesters said they would lift their indefinite dharna only if the state government announced compensation to farmers whose cotton crop was damaged in the pink bollworm attack.As farmers, including women, laid siege to the DAC, public dealing was paralysed for the second day.The entire team of top officials including, the inspector general of police (IGP), deputy commissioner (DC) and senior superintendent of police (SSP), could not enter their respective offices at the DAC.The public was harassed as they could not get their work done at the district secretariat. The protesters blocked entry to the secretariat by parking tractor-trolleys and locking the gates. BKU senior vice-president Jhanda Singh Jethuke said the rural economy of the cotton-growing belt was hit after the pest attack this season.The union is demanding financial assistance of ₹60,000 for farmers and ₹30,000 per family of farm labourers engaged in the cotton harvest.Deputy commissioner Arvind Pal Sandhu said the administration was in constant touch with protesting farmer leaders to end the agitation.“The entire matter is in the knowledge of the higher authorities and it will be resolved at the state government level,” said the DC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-press-for-cotton-crop-relief-block-bathinda-district-administrative-complex-101635280458342.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||End of the road for Justice Girish Agnihotri as his name removed from list of Punjab and Haryana HC judges||The Punjab and Haryana high court administration on Tuesday removed the name of justice Girish Agnihotri from the list of judges of the high court. His name also does not figure in the fresh roster released on Tuesday evening for the coming days. Justice Agnihotri’s tenure as an additional judge came to an end on October 25, but the notification on either the extension of his tenure as an additional judge or appointment as a permanent judge has not come, it is learnt. The high court administration has not come out with any official statement so far. “He ought to have been administered oath along with those who were appointed as a permanent judge on Monday. Now even those appointed after him have administered the oath of office,” a senior functionary said, hinting at the end of his tenure as a judge. Many said the move was unprecedented as in recent history no such name could be cited by even veteran lawyers, who was not made permanent after appointment as an additional judge. The son of a former high court judge, MR Agnihotri (retired), justice Girish Agnihotri took oath as an additional judge on October 26, 2019. His name did not find favour with either the apex court or the Central government even on an earlier occasion in 2013. However, he was recommended again in January 2019 and appointed as an additional judge in October 2019. Designated as a senior advocate in 2007, prior to his elevation, he mainly dealt with service and constitutional matters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/end-of-the-road-for-justice-girish-agnihotri-as-his-name-removed-from-list-of-punjab-and-haryana-hcjudges-101635280037224.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s sex ratio at birth touches 5-year low, shows data||Haryana has registered an alarming dip in the sex ratio at birth as per the data collated between January and September. The figures recorded are the lowest since 2016. Officials say 906 girls were born per 1,000 boys this year till September. This is the first time that the sex ratio at birth (SRB) has dropped by nine points after the launch of the ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ programme in 2015. The cumulative SRB up to September 2015 was 868 and it rose to 911 in 2016-17 during the first nine months. In 2018, the SRB came down to 909 (Jan-Sept cycle) and rose to 919 in first nine months of 2019. The cumulative SRB of Haryana in September last year was 915. The dip in the SRB, considered to be a critical indicator of gender equality, has set the alarm bells ringing in the state government, which has swung into action to keep the flagship programme firmly on track. Officials monitoring the programme say a series of meetings were held last week, after the SRB data was finalised, and instructions were issued to the concerned authorities to intensify surveillance and catch touts involved in gender determination to arrest this slide. Additional principal secretary to the chief minister Dr Amit Kumar Agrawal says the latest dip “is a matter of grave concern.” He said one of the primary reasons for the dip could be “variation in data.” The first signs of touts outwitting the government machinery and carrying out gender determination had emerged when the cumulative SRB till June 2021 had dipped to 911, from 920 in the corresponding period till June 2020. “The issue is linked to Haryana’s reputation. Necessary directions have been issued to the concerned authorities to take strict action. Those violating the law and opting for illegal gender determination tests will not be spared,” Dr Agrawal said. Rohtak leads, Sonepat lagging Rohtak led the state with an SRB of 955, followed by Charkhi Dadri 937, Panipat 930, Nuh 922, Jind and Sirsa 919 each, Hisar 916, Panchkula 910, Kurukshetra 909, Mahendergarh 905, Yamunanagar 902, and Gurugram 901. While the SRB of seven districts was between 916 and 955, the SRB of five districts ranged between 901 and 910. The SRB of 10 districts of 22 districts slipped below 900 against five districts during the same period last year. There was a difference of 21,355 births (10,267 male and 11,088 female) registered till September this year as compared to the corresponding period last year. The total births registered till September last year were 3,86,748 (2,01,929 male, 1,84,819 female) against 3,65,393 (1,91,662 male, 1,73,731 female) this year during the same period. The worst-performing 10 districts with the SRB hovering between 880 and 899 in the first nine months of 2021 are Palwal (899), Kaithal and Bhiwani (897), Karnal and Faridabad (896), Rewari (892), Ambala (891), Fatehabad (882), Jhajjar and Sonepat (880). Dr Agarwal said that he has already held meetings to sensitise the departments involved in this programme. “I have personally spoken to deputy commissioners of the districts where this dip in the SRB has been registered,” Dr Agarwal said. He urged the doctors of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to not shield those violating the PNDT (Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques) Act and the MTP (Medical Termination of Pregnancy) Act. Dip in annual SRB likely Haryana had registered 922 female births per 1,000 males in 2020 despite the Covid pandemic posing challenges. The annual SRB was 923 in 2019, the highest Haryana had recorded in at least a decade. From 833 in 2011, the annual SRB of the state had improved to 876 in 2015. It rose to 900 in 2016 and after remaining static at 914 in 2017 and 2018, it jumped to 923 in 2019. “The latest SRB figures are disappointing. We may barely hit 915-916 annual SRB this year. This is a wake up call because districts such as Sonepat that were earlier performing well are slipping. We must fix the gaps fast. There are multiple factors behind this slide,” said a key expert involved in the programme, cautioning that it will be wrong to blame Covid pandemic for this dip in the SRB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-sex-ratio-at-birth-touches-5-year-low-shows-data-101635279796867.html
27-10-2021||Dehradun||Harak Singh meets BJP’s Madan Kaushik amid speculation of his next move||Dehradun:  Uttarakhand minister Harak Singh Rawat on Tuesday met BJP state president Madan Kaushik at his Dehradun residence amid speculation that the minister is considering an offer to return to the Congress, the party he quit in 2017 to join the Bharatiya Janata Party.The development comes two days after an “ice breaker” telephonic conversation between Harak Singh Rawat and Congress national general secretary Harish Rawat, the former chief minister who was seen to be against Harak Singh Rawats’ return to the Congress. Harish Rawat’s condition that former Congress leaders who want to return to the party must give a public apology was seen in the context of speculation around Harak Singh Rawat’s return.After their telephonic conversation on Sunday, Harish Rawat toned down the rhetoric, saying “in disasters even animals come together then why not two brothers.” He was reciprocating Harak Singh Rawat’s gesture who had earlier in the day referred to him as his “elder brother” and told reporters his “place is always at his (Harish Rawat) feet.”The conciliatory tone of the rivals - Harak Singh Rawat’s exit from the Congress had hugely contributed to the collapse of Harish Rawat’s government in 2017 - had triggered concerns in the Uttarakhand BJP that there was a distinct possibility that Harak Singh Rawat could head back to the Congress. This, if he happens, would be the second setback to the party in the hill state that is due to go to the polls next year.“The leadership is definitely tensed with the development. It is wary of the fact that if Harak Singh decides to return to the BJP then it would be another big blow to it as he is a seven-time MLA and a very influential figure in state politics,” a BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.Harak Singh is considered to have played a key role in the rebellion of nine Congress MLAs in 2016 who switched to the BJP.The BJP leader cited above said, “Tuesday’s meeting with Kaushik is clearly an effort by the BJP state leadership to try to stop him from leaving the party amid speculation on the same.”Meanwhile, a Congress leader claimed that Harak Singh was likely “to join the Congress after Diwali”.“Now after a truce has been called between him and Harish Rawat, the path to his return to party seems to be clear. He is likely to join the party after Diwali or November 9,” he said.Harish Rawat fuelled speculation about BJP leaders quitting the party on Tuesday.“We welcome BJP leaders who want to come to Congress as there is an instability in the BJP,” he said on Tuesday.“We welcome any BJP leader who wants to come here. But having said that, it won’t be possible to accommodate all as we have to protect the rights of our own workers and leaders who have been fighting the BJP in all these years during its rule,” said Rawat.BJP state president Kaushik countered speculation that Harak Singh could join the Congress. “We had a meeting to discuss the upcoming polls as he is one of our senior leaders,” said Kaushik while refusing to reveal any more details on the meeting. Harak Singh couldn’t be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/harak-singh-meets-bjp-s-madan-kaushik-amid-speculation-of-his-exit-from-party-101635279557079.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Charanjit Channi’s dream project Chamkaur Sahib theme park nears completion||Chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s dream project of beautifying the city of Sri Chamkaur Sahib and building a theme park to commemorate the glorious life and sacrifices of Guru Gobind Singh’s eldest sons Baba Ajit Singh and Baba Jujhar Singh is on the verge of completion.Channi had initiated this project four years ago when he was the minister of tourism and cultural affairs. A first-of-its-kind theme park, a religious and recreational facility of international standards has been constructed with a budget of ₹55 crore by the state government.To give a final touch to the project, the CM reviewed all films last night and issued directions to the authorities concerned to make necessary changes.He also told them to plant trees and install streetlights on the road connecting the theme park.The park has 11 galleries of state-of-the-art techniques to exhibit films, including on the Sikh philosophy, the massacre of Sri Chamkaur Sahib, the departure of Sri Guru Gobind Singh Ji from the Sri Anandpur Sahib fort to the separation of Sarsa river, the story of supreme martyrs Chote Sahibzade and Banda Bhahdur’s march towards Punjab and the restoration of the Sikh empire.He said Padma Shri awardee Surjeet Patar had written all scripts of the project, while the animated films, songs and commentaries depicting the glorious Sikh history to be displayed in the galleries had been prepared by renowned studios in Mumbai and Delhi.The first gallery will depict the life of Guru Sahib while the second gallery will show the complete history of Bhai Jaita bringing the head of Guru Tegh Bahadur. The screen-based third gallery will present the life and history of Sri Guru Gobind Singh. The Battle of Chamkaur Sahib will be exhibited in the fourth gallery. In the fifth gallery, scrupulous history and separation of the Sarsa river associated with Chote Sahibzade will be broadcast to visitors.The projection mapping in the sixth gallery will be performed to narrate the scene of the supreme martyrdom of the Chote Sahibzade. Similarly, the history of Machhiwara associated with Guru Sahib has been narrated in Gallery 7. In the eighth gallery, the facts related to the battle of Muktsar and the Zafarnama written by Guru Gobind Singh will be presented.The ninth gallery depicts Guru Sahib’s meeting with Banda Singh Bahadur. While in the 10th gallery, Banda Singh Bahadur’s journey from Nanded to Punjab will be shown. In the last and 11th galleries, Banda Bahadur’s act of valour with the Mughal Empire and restoration of the Sikh empire will be shown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-charanjit-channi-s-dream-project-chamkaur-sahib-theme-park-nears-completion-101635279496887.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Interstate firearms syndicate busted in Delhi, two Haryana residents held||Delhi Police’s special cell has busted an interstate illegal firearms syndicate, with the arrest of two Haryana-based arms suppliers, officials said on Tuesday.The police seized 15 semi-automatic pistols and 30 live cartridges from them.Shakir (28) and Zunaid Khan (21), both residents of Nuh district in Haryana, were arrested on Monday evening.Both of them procured firearms and ammunition from arms manufacturers-cum-suppliers of Khargone in Madhya Pradesh and supplied it to criminals in Delhi NCR, Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh for the last three years, the police said.They have supplied more than 400 firearms in Delhi-NCR during the last three years, according to the police.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Jasmeet Singh said: “Our team had information about firearms trafficking by one such syndicate in Delhi NCR being run by Mewat-based Shakir in association with others.”“With source-based information and manual surveillance, the members of the syndicate were subsequently identified and on Monday, SI Devender Bhati got a tip off that Shakir would come in the evening near Surajkund Turning MB Road, to deliver the firearms and ammunition to one of his contacts Zunaid Khan,” the DCP said.A trap was laid near the spot and Shakir and his associate Zunaid Khan were arrested, Singh said.The police have recovered 15 semi-automatic pistols of .32 and 30 live cartridges from the duo.When interrogated, Shakir disclosed that he had procured the pistols and cartridges from an illegal firearms manufacturer in Khargone in MP.He had joined the arms trafficking syndicate around seven years ago, the officer said.Initially, Shakir worked as a carrier for someone for three years but subsequently he developed his own network, the DCP said.Meanwhile, Khan told police that Shakir had asked him to join the syndicate and help him in arms trafficking, Singh said.Shakir used to get a pistol from MP at a lower price and sell it to Khan on little profit. Khan further sold the same pistol at a higher price to the criminals in Delhi NCR and adjoining states of UP and Haryana, the police said.Shakir was arrested in 2013 in a case under the arms act, the police said, adding that efforts were being made to identify the remaining members of this syndicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/interstate-firearms-syndicate-busted-in-delhi-two-haryana-residents-held-101635279317419.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana gets third government college||MLA Sanjay Talwar inaugurated Government College, Ludhiana East, opposite Vardhman Mill on Chandigarh Road on Tuesday. After SCD Government College and Government College for Girls, Ludhiana, this is the third government college in the city. The new government college has a two-storey building. The city’s new college building has been constructed on GLADA’s five-acre land. Around ₹15 crore has been spent on the construction of the building.The admission process for the Government College East was started in August 2018. Initially, the classes for BA were started at a community centre but later shifted to SCD Government College, Ludhiana. The students of the first batch of BA have already completed their degree as the building construction work was delayed.Talwar said that Government College East has come after the country’s independence and it is a co-educational institute. The other two government colleges were inaugurated during the British rule. BA course classes have been started from the college premises. In the next session the courses of B.Com, BBA, BCA and BSc (medical and non-medical) would be introduced.Stone laid for sub-stationMLA Talwar also laid foundation stone of a 66 KV sub-station at Tibba road on Tuesday. The sub-station would supply power to ward number 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15.Addressing the gathering, the MLA said the cost of the project is ₹9 crore and it would be completed in six months. He added that earlier the areas got power supply from Tajpur road sub-division and Tajpur road sub-station used to get supply from Gaunsgarh feeder. During summers, the area residents used to face voltage problems in the power supply. With establishment of sub-station there would be no power supply problem in the areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-gets-third-government-college-101635279077124.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana high court dismisses Akali leader’s plea for stay on conviction ahead of polls||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed the plea of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Yadwinder Singh Yadu seeking a stay on conviction in a 2002 criminal case, to contest the upcoming assembly polls in Punjab.The high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia and justice Sant Parkash observed that a representative of the people should be a man of a clear antecedent, but to the contrary, there were 14 criminal cases registered against him, out of which he is undertrial in two cases. “The registration of criminal cases against the applicant shows his character, antecedents and mental propensity. Though he has been acquitted in most of the cases, the registration of so many cases would lead to an irresistible and unerring conclusion that he is certainly not entitled to the relief claimed,” the bench said, adding that it apprehends that if the order of conviction is stayed, there is every possibility and likelihood that he may indulge in similar activities and may cause obstructions in the coming elections.He was convicted in November 2016 in an FIR registered on July 30, 2002, at the Khanna police station in Ludhiana. He was convicted along with some co-accused to undergo three years of imprisonment on November 18, 2016. A convict of three and more years is barred from contesting polls. The FIR primarily was of causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapon among other offences.He had moved an application for a stay on the conviction that he wanted to contest assembly polls from the Khanna constituency and due to the conviction of three years awarded to him, he would not be able to contest the same.The court observed that relief against conviction could not be claimed as a right before the court of law and it had to stay the conviction in a judicious manner after considering the facts and circumstances of the cases.As such, discretion had always to be exercised by courts judiciously and not according to whim, caprice and there was no exceptional circumstance to exercise discretionary power in the case in hand, the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-dismisses-akali-leader-s-plea-for-stay-on-conviction-ahead-of-polls-101635278656725.html
27-10-2021||Other||Progressive Punjab Investors Summit: Punjab CM assures industry of conducive ecosystem||Chandigarh Assuring Captains of industry of providing conducive ecosystem for investment in Punjab, chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi on Tuesday reiterated his government’s firm commitment to act a true facilitator showing zero tolerance for political or bureaucratic corruption, negative attitude, delays and inertia. Delivering his keynote address on the plenary session of 4th Progressive Punjab Investors Summit 2021 at the Indian School of Business, Mohali, Channi said the state would live up to their expectations as Punjab is the best place to do business in India. He expressed his gratitude to all visionaries who joined in, virtually, on the first day of two-day summit for their valuable suggestions. Their inputs would help the state government to further fine tune the existing industrial policy by incorporating some requisite amendments to make it far more investor friendly, he added. “You have the capital, you have the risk-taking capacity and you have business ideas. I have the will, I have the intent and I have the commitment. I give my commitment to you all today that our government will work with you at every step to see that nothing from the government hinders your speed or create hurdles in your business plans,” he told the industrialists, inviting them to team up with the state government to work towards mutual growth and progress. The CM added that he wanted to improve the state’s ranking from top 10 to top 5 states in the country in terms of attracting Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs). He said the state has developed a land bank of 6,000 acre with Plug and Play facilities and created an efficient skill development ecosystem with active participation of industry. In his address, state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal lauded the immense contribution of stalwarts of industry in scripting the new chapter of industrialisation in the state, as Punjab has already reached a point of saturation in agriculture and providing a boost to the industry is the need of the hour. In his welcome address, industries and commerce minister Gurkirat Singh Kotli said this summit would go a long way in boosting the confidence of prospective industrialists and investors to further propel Punjab as the most preferred destination. Chief secretary Anirudh Tewari and principal secretary, industries and commerce, Tejveer Singh also spoke on the occasion. HUL chairman and managing director Sanjiv Mehta announced an investment of ₹1,200 crore and Amity University chancellor Dr Atul Chauhan announced an investment of ₹300 crore in next two years in the higher education sector. Apart from this, Mahindra Group chairman Anand G Mahindra also announced to set up its third tractor factory in the state shortly, besides setting up a hotel project near Pathankot. Ludhiana to host state session of summit todayOn Wednesday, the show will move on to Ludhiana, where Channi will introduce the Punjab Industrial Policy to new entrepreneurs. More than 500 industrialists are expected to participate in the event, which will be preceded by a state cabinet meeting at the local Circuit House. After the meeting, the CM will preside over the event at Kingsville Resort, Ferozepur Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/progressive-punjab-investors-summit-punjab-cm-assures-industry-of-conducive-ecosystem-101635278596775.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab assembly speaker disqualifies Jaitu legislator Baldev Singh||Punjab Vidhan Sabha speaker Rana KP Singh on Tuesday disqualified Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Jaitu, Baldev Singh, from the membership of the state assembly.Baldev Singh has been disqualified with effect from October 26 as per provisions of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, a statement from the Vidhan Sabha said. The first-time MLA had voluntarily left the party on whose ticket he was elected. As per the Tenth Schedule included in the Constitution in 1985 and popularly known as the anti-defection law, a member can be disqualified if he or she voluntarily gives up the membership of a party.The Jaitu MLA had resigned from AAP on January 16, 2019, in protest against Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira’s unceremonious removal from the post of leader of the opposition, accusing the party’s national convener Arvind Kejriwal of “dictatorial, arrogant and autocratic style of functioning”. He later joined Khaira’s Punjab Ekta Party (PEP) and contested the May 2019 Lok Sabha election from Faridkot seat on its ticket and polled just 4.51% votes, forfeiting his security deposit.A few months later, he returned to the AAP fold after a meeting with state unit president Bhagwant Mann on October 16, saying he realised that the party was the only alternative for Punjab and Punjabis. He was among seven AAP legislators who had turned rebel in 2019. Khaira, whose resignation from the assembly after he joined the Congress was accepted by the speaker last week, and two other AAP rebel MLAs are also facing proceedings under the anti-defection law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-vidhan-sabha-speaker-disqualifies-aam-aadmi-party-jaitu-legislator-101635278477077.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Former Punjab CM Badal seeks intervention of Modi in NRI’s deportation case||Reacting strongly to the IGI Airport authorities sending former cabinet minister Surjit Singh Rakhra’s brother Darshan Singh Dhaliwal, an NRI, back to the United States after denying him entry to India, Punjab former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Tuesday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to “intervene personally and effectively” to get the injustice vacated immediately.Badal also requested the PM to personally invite Dhaliwal as a “goodwill gesture which will send a positive signal to the NRIs”. The former CM also spelt an agenda for agriculture, which among other things, includes the revocation of three farm laws, taking stakeholders on board before any legislation affecting them, setting up a panel with farmers and farm experts to advise the government on agriculture policies and enlarging the list of crops for ensured marketing with MSP.A statement issued by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) claimed that Dhaliwal was sent back from the IGI Airport on October 23-24 night with the authorities saying that this was being done as a punishment for organising langar for the agitating farmers on the Delhi borders. Calling it an affront to the “sacred practice”, Badal also urged the PM to take stern action against the erring officials who “brought a bad name to the country with their action”.Detailing his agenda for agriculture, the SAD leader said any legislation, policy or administrative decision affecting the destiny of farmers must be undertaken only after taking the stakeholders on board. He said farmers must be effectively involved in decision-making processes on issues affecting their destiny. “For this, I suggest that the government should set up a statutory panel, with equal representation to representatives of farmers, agricultural experts and farm economists for the formulation of government policy on farming and farmers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-punjab-cm-badal-seeks-intervention-of-modi-in-nri-s-deportation-case-101635278416862.html
27-10-2021||Bangalore||RSS may pass resolution on attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh at 3-day meet||BENGALURU: The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), will hold a three-day meeting in Dharwad that will also discuss violence against Hindus in Bangladesh.A statement by RSS on Tuesday said there have been continuous attacks and incidents of violence on Hindus in Bangladesh. “These incidents have been condemned all over the world. In the meeting, the incidents of violence against Hindus will be discussed and after considering the opinion of members, a resolution is also likely to be passed,” according to the statement from the RSS on Tuesday.The statement comes at a time when there have been protests in neighbouring Bangladesh on the increasing attacks on Hindus after a video went viral, purportedly showing the Quran at a Durga Puja pandal in Cumilla, a town about 100 km from the nation’s capital, Dhaka.The rumours had led to widespread attacks by fundamentalists, prompting protests in the country as well as other parts of the world.The RSS on Tuesday also said that it had trained 1 million people to deal with the third wave of covid-19.“To deal with the third wave, special training of workers was planned in the meeting of Prant Pracharaks in July and training was held at more than 1.5 lakh places throughout the country. It is hoped that there is no third wave, but still, there will be a discussion about the preparation along with the review of the situation in the karyakari mandal meeting,” Sunil Ambekar, Akhil Bharatiya Prachar Pramukh said, according to a statement by the RSS on Tuesday.The RSS’s Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal meeting will be held from 28 October to 30 October at Rashtraotthana Vidya Kendra, Dharwad, about 430 km from Bengaluru.As part of the 75th year of Indian independence day celebrations, the RSS will also initiate programmes and a discussion about the awakening of the country’s “Swa”, which aims to bring to highlight unknown and unsung freedom fighters.Prant and Kshetra Sanghchalaks, Pracharaks, Karyavahs, members of Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari and Organising Secretaries of some organizations are expected in the meeting.The RSS, which was established in 1925, will also initiate a three-year plan to celebrate its centenary in 2025, the expansion plan of which will be completed by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/rss-to-pass-a-resolution-on-attacks-on-hindus-in-bangladesh-at-3-day-meet-101635278357793.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Hurting religious sentiments: Ludhiana police announce ₹1 lakh reward for information on accused||Police have announced a cash reward of ₹1 lakh for information on Hindu organisation leader, Anil Arora alias Bobby, who allegedly made some objectionable remarks against religious figures. Police have assured that the identity of the informer will be concealed. The move comes a day after some religious groups blocked the Samrala Chowk for eight hours, demanding Arora’s arrest. The move is also aimed at preventing blockades and protests on Wednesday, when chief minister Charanjit Singh Channi is set to visit the city. The religious groups, while lifting their blockade on Monday and shifting to a park from Samrala Chowk, had threatening to block the road again if the accused was not arrested within 48 hours. A case under Sections 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage reli¬gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli¬gious beliefs) and 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused at Division Number 3 police station on October 20. Division Number 3 station house officer, sub-inspector Madhu Bala said a hunt is on for the accused.Arora releases videoMeanwhile, Anil Arora released a video on his Facebook page stating that he was implicated in the case. He said someone had dubbed the voice to frame him. Arora also said he has lodged a complaint with the police seeking forensic examination of the audio recording. Six accused held for sheltering AroraMeanwhile, six persons, including three women, were arrested for allegedly sheltering Arora. The accused have been identified as Shalu Aggarwal of Sector-20 Panchkula, Rosy Jain and her husband Amit of Anand Vihar on Pakhowal Road, Mahesh Chander and his wife Sushma Rani of Janakpuri and Umesh Kumar of New Guru Nanak Nagar in Mundian Kalan.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 1) Pragya Jain said the accused were arrested for helping Arora evade arrest. The accused, however, continues to be on the run. The ADCP added a hunt is on for the arrest of Arora and anyone else who shelters Arora will also face action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hurting-religious-sentiments-ludhiana-police-announce-rs-1-lakh-reward-for-information-on-accused-101635278356611.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||AAP questions Punjab govt on action in drug cases||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and MP Bhagwant Mann on Tuesday questioned the Congress government in Punjab over the action taken against drug mafia in the state. Referring to the sealed reports in the Punjab and Haryana high court on drug trafficking, Mann said the state government and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) could undertake further investigation against drug smugglers, their bureaucrats and political leaders because the court did not restrain them from taking action. In a statement here, Mann said that like the previous SAD-BJP government, the present Congress government is also deceiving the people. Accusing the state government, Bhagwant Mann said that the present government was also using the sealed reports in the high court as an excuse to shun action. “Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, home minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and advocate general APS Deol, along with the ED, should show to the people legal and court orders to the people of the state which restrain them from further investigation or action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-questions-punjab-govt-on-action-in-drug-cases-101635278236807.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||23-year-old woman’s husband, in-laws booked for dowry death in Amritsar||AMRITSARA 23-year-old woman of Jandiala Guru was found dead under mysterious circumstances at her in-laws’ house at Verka in Amritsar on Tuesday.Police have registered a dowry death case against Amandeep Kaur’s husband Samsher Singh and his family members at the Verka police station.Police said the incident came to light around 11am when they were informed by the victim’s mother. The woman’s body was found lying on a cot, said the police. The victim was married to Samsher, a labourer, of Verka around six months ago. “At 10am, I got a call from my daughter’s in-laws saying she was not well. Later, her in-laws informed us that she hanged herself to death from a ceiling fan,” said the victim’s mother, Sukh Kaur.“My son-in-law and her in-laws used to thrash my daughter since the marriage for dowry,” she alleged. Verka station house officer (SHO) Gurinder Singh said: “We have registered a case under Section 304-B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against Samsher Singh and his other family members. Our raids are on to nab them. The body has been handed over to the family members after conducting her post-mortem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/23yearold-woman-s-husband-in-laws-booked-for-dowry-death-in-amritsar-101635278056839.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||2-hr window to burst green crackers in Punjab on Diwali, Gurpurb||The Punjab government on Tuesday announced a two-hour window to burst green firecrackers on Diwali and Gurpurb across the state, barring Jalandhar and Mandi Gobindgarh, where a total ban has been imposed from the midnight of October 28 onwards on account of poor air quality index (AQI) levels. The fireworks timing has been restricted to 35 minutes on the Christmas and New Year Eve.The government has allowed only green crackers (without barium salt), which are in compliance with the directives of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), as well as various judicial orders passed amid reports of firecrackers likely to aggravate the Covid problem, read the orders passed by the department of science and technology.The order says that while on Diwali (November 4), people can burst green crackers between 8pm and 10 pm, on Gurpurab (November 19), from 4 am to 5am and from 11.55pm to 12.30am, on Christmas Eve and New Year Eve from 11.55pm to 12.30am.Only licensed traders will be allowed to sell firecrackers, the order reads.The sale and use of any kind of firecrackers is prohibited in Mandi Gobindgarh and Jalandhar from the midnight of October 28-29 till midnight of December 31, reads the order. The order also directed the state government to promote community cracker busting to check pollution.What are green crackers? Green crackers are low-emission fireworks permitted by the Supreme Court for celebrations to a moderate degree during festivals, relaxing the complete ban on fireworks previously imposed in 2017 Green crackers, researched and developed by experts at the CSIR-NEERI (Council of Scientific & Industrial Research - National Environmental Engineering Research Institute), a government-funded research institute in the field of environmental science, have a small shell size compared to normal crackers Green crackers are produced with less harmful raw materials, in accordance with instructions issued by the top court, and are made in a way that suppresses the dust when they are burnt – thus reducing emissionsThey also do not contain harmful chemicals such as lithium, arsenic, barium, and lead and instead release water vapour that does not allow the dust to riseThough still impactful on the climate to an extent, the green crackers are believed to cause 30% less particulate matter pollution than traditional crackers and are thus considered generally less harmful than their conventional alternatives||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2hr-window-to-burst-green-crackers-in-punjab-on-diwali-gurpurb-101635277816861.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 19-year-old held for raping toddler||Division Number 6 police have arrested a 19-year-old labourer for allegedly raping a three-year-old girl residing in his neighbourhood on Gill Road on Tuesday.The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of the girl’s mother. The accused has been identified as Karan.The complainant said she and her husband are factory workers. When they are at work, their six-year-old son and three-year-old daughter stay at home. On October 23, when she returned home, she found her daughter was crying. She also found some blood stains on her clothes. On being asked, the toddler told her that Karan had come to the room and touched her. She was unable to give more details about the incident.Her son said the accused had taken the girl to a vacant room in the labour quarters on the pretext of playing. When she came back, she was crying.Inspector Amandeep Singh Brar, Division Number 6 station house officer, said police received a complaint on Tuesday after the accused was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-19-year-old-held-for-raping-toddler-101635277757983.html
27-10-2021||Other||Bhola drugs case: HC likely to pass order on Nov 18 on opening of sealed cover reports||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday said it would examine sealed cover reports pertaining to Punjab’s drug menace by the next date of hearing on November 18. After Tuesday’s hearing, Punjab advocate general APS Deol said the court has directed the registrar judicial to produce these status reports in sealed cover in chamber and observed that it will examine these reports prior to the next date of hearing.The bench of justice AG Masih and justice AK Verma also observed, orally, that the court was conscious of the fact that the matter had been pending adjudication without any effective order being passed since May 23, 2018 and, therefore, the court does not want to give an impression that it was sitting on the matter, Deol added. Earlier, Deol had requested that the status reports filed in the court in 2018 be taken up on priority basis and after examining the same, an order be passed to enable the prosecuting agency to proceed as per law. The court was dealing with two applications seeking the opening of some sealed cover reports on Punjab’s drugs menace. One set of reports is on the role of influential persons in drugs trafficking submitted in 2017-2018 by the state Special Investigating Team (SIT), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and a government panel. The second set of reports is of a panel headed by IPS officer S Chattopadhyaya on the “role” of police officers. One of the two reports in the latter’s case was singularly signed by Chattopadhyaya, but not by two other officers on the panel. Additional solicitor general Satya Pal Jain is also to submit status reports on the progress in the extradition of certain accused wanted in the drugs cases as well as the latest report by the ED and other central agencies by November 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhola-drugs-case-hc-likely-to-pass-order-on-nov-18-on-opening-of-sealed-cover-reports-101635277756731.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mandi bypoll | Tribals to use NOTA to protest against power projects||As campaigning for the Mandi parliamentary bypoll reaches a crescendo, environmental activists in tribal regions are disappointed that neither of the political parties have incorporated the threat to their fragile ecology in their agenda and are urging people to opt for the NOTA option to voice their discontent. In the wake of rising demand for electricity, numerous hydroelectric power projects have come up in the fragile mountainous terrain in Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur, which fall in the Mandi parliamentary constituency. The Sutlej River, which flows through Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur, a cold desert with a fragile topography, bears the biggest load of the state’s ambitious hydropower projects. Of the state’s total hydel capacity, 56% (5720MW) is installed on the Satluj basin. The ecological imbalance, thus caused, have impacted the livelihood of the residents and increased the probability of disasters. Kinnaur has around 30 hydel projects. Candidates given charter of demands Organisations at the forefront of opposing the power projects have submitted a charter of demands to candidates of both the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party and are urging the people to use NOTA to protest against the non-fulfilment of demands. “We want to draw politicians’ attention to the damage caused to the environment due to the power projects,” says RS Negi, a retired IAS officer and social worker, who has convened the Him Lok Jagriti Manch, which is running a campaign against the construction of hydro projects over the last two decades. “Villages such as Nathpa, Kandhar, Urni and Pangi face the threat of landslides due to construction of mega power projects. The National Highway 5 often remains closed for the same reason,”said Negi On August 26, a major demonstration was held at the district headquarters, Reckong Peo, under the joint aegis of local organisations such as the Himlok Jagriti Manch, District Forest Adhikar Sangharsh Samiti, Jangi Thopan Powari Prabhavitt Sangharsh Samiti and Hangrang Sangharsh Samiti. Agitating locals demanded that all proposed hydroelectric projects in the Sutlej River valley be cancelled. ‘Man-made disasters termed natural calamities’Roshan Lal Negi of the Jangi Sangharsh Samiti said, “We have held numerous discussions with the administration, government and scientists on the downsides of the proposed 804 MW Jangi Thopan power project, but to no avail. Scientists have termed the disasters as ‘natural calamities’ as opposed to ‘man-made disasters’ on the behest of the government to give the hydel projects a clean chit.”The tribals have been demanding implementation of the Forest Rights Act for a long time. “No political party is clear on the Forest Rights Act. Most panchayats in Kinnaur are still unaware of their rights. We will use NOTA to lodge our protest,” says Jiya Lal Negi, president, Forest Right Act Committee Kinnaur. The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers Act, or Recognition of Forest Rights Act, commonly known as the Forest Rights Act (FRA), was passed by Parliament in 2006 to address historical injustices and exclusion meted out to a large community of forest dwellers in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mandi-bypoll-tribals-to-use-nota-to-protest-against-power-projects-101635277636991.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||IT dept detects ₹130-cr after raids on cycle, immigration firms in Punjab||The income tax department (IT dept) detected undisclosed income of about ₹130 crore after it recently raided two Punjab-based businesses, one engaged in cycle trade and the other in providing immigration and visa services to students, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said on Tuesday.Searches on the entity engaged in cycle trade were carried out on October 21. “The action led to detection of unaccounted income of about ₹150 crore,” the CBDT, which frames policy for the tax department, said in a statement. Unaccounted cash of ₹2.25 crore and gold worth ₹2 crore were also seized during these raids, it said. “The group has been found to be involved in suppression of income by showing bogus intra-group transactions within group concerns,” the CBDT said, adding that “the group was also found to have been involved in receiving a substantial part of sale consideration in cash and thereby, suppressing the turnover”.The “seized documents” reveal suppression of turnover of around ₹90 crore per annum by a group concern of the cycle business, and “incriminating” documents related to undisclosed sale of scrap were also seized. The second group is based in Jalandhar and is engaged in providing immigration and study visa related services to students. Raids on this group were carried out on October 18. “The searches found that the group used to charge a package, ranging between ₹10 lakh to ₹15 lakh per student, depending on the country where the student wished to pursue education,” the CBDT said. “Almost the entire receipts of the group, aggregating to more than ₹200 crore in the last five years are in cash,” it said. It was also found that the bank accounts of the employees were used to receive money, which was subsequently withdrawn in cash, the CBDT added. The statement said “profit earned from such receipts was never disclosed in the income tax returns (ITRs) filed.” “Only the commission received from foreign universities has been shown as receipts in the ITRs by the members of the group,” it said. Unaccounted income of about ₹40 crore has been detected and ₹20 lakh cash and jewellery of ₹33 lakh has been seized, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/it-dept-detects-rs-130-cr-after-raids-on-cycle-immigration-firms-in-punjab-101635277576878.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||UP IAS Association president’s post lying vacant||Lucknow: The Uttar Pradesh IAS Association is yet to appoint a president, after the death of the incumbent in April this year due to Covid-19. It is also yet to hold its annual event, the IAS Week, in keeping with the resolution adopted on January 19, 2013, declaring that the IAS Week will be held every year. The association, once known for its exercise of introspection and effectively taking up issues with the government, is going headless for the past six months. It has not been able to appoint a new president following death of the incumbent and chairman Uttar Pradesh Revenue Board Deepak Trivedi (1985), who died due to Covid-19 on April 29 a day before his retirement. As per the established norms, the association requests the senior-most IAS officer to take over as the organisation’s president whenever a vacancy arises. So Mohammad Iftikharuddin (1985), being the next senior-most officer posted in the state, would have been the association’s obvious choice. The association, however, has apparently not taken a call on the issue. “Iftikharuddin has not taken over as the association’s president. He has not signed any paper,” said a senior IAS officer. Iftikharuddin was not available for comments. He is facing a SIT probe after a video purportedly showing him preaching Islam and allegedly making a pitch for conversions at his official residence in 2014-2016 surfaced. Iftikharuddin was then posted as the commissioner of Kanpur division. The state government ordered SIT probe against him on September 28 this year. “The association does not have any president as of now. It has not decided anything about making an appointment on the post. We will let everybody know once a decision is taken,” said a senior IAS officer. The association has also not taken a call on holding its annual IAS Week. On January 19, 2013 the Uttar Pradesh IAS Association resolved to hold the IAS Week and the Annual General Meeting (AGM) every year. The association decided to pass the resolution as it was not able to hold the week for five years from 2007 to 2012. After adopting the resolution, the association held the week and the AGM in 2014, 2015 and twice in 2016. After the 2017 assembly elections, though the association organised the IAS Week in December 2017 and AGM on December 16, 2017 and later in 2019 with AGM on February 2, 2019, unfolding developments at the IAS Week (held in February 2019) remained a cause of concern for some officers. A few minutes after chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s interaction with IAS officers at the senior administrative officers’ conference, the state government had asked the divisional commissioners and the district magistrates to rush to their respective divisions and districts to attend a video conference on February 2, 2019. The chief minister had convened the video conference to review the preparations for high school and intermediate examinations scheduled to begin on February 7, 2019. As a result, many divisional commissioners and district magistrates had to cut short their visit to Lucknow and thereby stayed away from the AGM, an integral part of the IAS Week. The association, however, continued to make efforts to hold the IAS Week till early 2020 but spread of Covid-19 led to enforcement of restrictions in March 2020. It stopped making efforts in this direction in view of restrictions. “Our members have been busy taking steps to fight Covid-19 and enforcing restrictions up to now,” said another senior IAS officer. The association has only a few weeks left to hold the week. Uttar Pradesh assembly elections are due early in 2022 and the state is likely to go into poll mode in the next few weeks. Asked whether the association proposed to hold the event in the next few weeks, an office -bearer of the UP IAS Association said “We can’t say anything. We can’t predict anything about holding the IAS Week this time. It’s a matter of three days only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ias-association-president-s-post-lying-vacant-101635277516611.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Permits issues for sale of crackers at 37 shops||The district administration issued 37 temporary licences for the sale of firecrackers ahead of Diwali, on Tuesday. As many as 582 applications were received for the licences and the allottees were selected through a draw of lots conducted at Bachat Bhawan in mini-secretariat.The 37 shops are to be set up at six locations in the city and the sale will be allowed from October 29 to November 4 (Diwali). Of the total, 13 shops will be set up at the grain market near Jalandhar bypass, five at Model Town Extension, four at Dugri Phase 2 near Dugri police station, nine at GLADA ground on Chandigarh Road, three at Chaara Mandi, Haibowal, on Hambran road and three in a ground near Lodhi Club road.Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian said temporary licences have been issued as per the directions received from the Punjab and Haryana high court in the past. “The applicants were allowed to submit the applications on October 21 and 22 and the draw of lots was conducted peacefully on Tuesday. The licensee can establish the temporary shop at the designated sites and the sale will be allowed from October 29 to November 4,” he said.Traders rue foul playMeanwhile, a few retailers and wholesalers cried foul over the application submission process. Tribhuvan Thapar, one of the traders, said it was mandatory to show experience in the trade to avail the licence. “Flouting norms, many of the residents used the previous licences of other traders to show experience and submitted the applications. Due to this, 582 applications were submitted for 37 licences only. The department also failed to scrutinise the applications, due to which many of the actual traders have not been able to avail the licence during draw of lots,” he said. “Now many of the residents, who are not in the trade of firecrackers, have availed the licence and they will now sub-let the licence to traders who have not been able to avail the licence. The licensee will charge a hefty amount for subletting the licence,” said Thapar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-permits-issues-for-sale-of-crackers-at-37-shops-101635277339390.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC to recruit 1,000 sanitation workers, sewermen||The Punjab local bodies department has approved over 1,000 posts of sanitation workers and sewermen for the Mohali municipal corporation. Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu said applications have been invited to recruit 959 sweepers and 61 sewermen. He said online forms can be filled and submitted on the MC’s website till November 8. Sidhu said the recruitment will be done on merit basis and the process will be conducted by Puncom to ensure transparency. The mayor said such an initiative for direct recruitment of sanitation workers has been taken for the first time, for which the MC House had passed a resolution that was sent to the local bodies department. Earlier, sanitation workers were working under contractors engaged by the civic body. Now, they will become contractual workers of the MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-to-recruit-1-000-sanitation-workers-sewermen-101635277336749.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Consumer court penalises travel firm, hotel for spoiling Chandigarh couple’s honeymoon||The district consumer disputes redressal commission, Chandigarh, has penalised a travel agency based in Shimla and a Manali hotel for spoiling the honeymoon of a couple from Sector 15.Holding the firm Travel Talkies and The Humsour View hotel deficient in services, the commission directed them to refund ₹10,302 booking amount along with 9% interest (from December 15, 2020, till realisation) besides paying ₹10,000 compensation to the complainant for causing mental agony and harassment and ₹7,000 towards the litigation cost. Manjeet Saini, 28, a resident of Sector 15, Chandigarh, in his complaint said that he was lured by the travel agency and hotel into a holiday package for four days and three nights. Its cost was ₹30,500 for two couples. The agency also sent him photographs through WhatsApp, showing the view from the room’s balcony.On the basis of these images and other promises, Saini booked the package and paid ₹10,302 on December 15, 2020. The travel agency and the hotel confirmed the booking with check-in date as December 25. He said that he along with his newlywed wife and another couple reached the hotel according to the booking schedule, but the travel agency and hotel failed to fulfil the assured commitments. Despite requests, the hotel flatly refused to arrange the rooms shown in the images. Left with no alternative, the complainant arranged rooms in another hotel and stayed there for two nights after paying ₹18,000. He claimed that due to the conduct of the hotel and travel agency, his honeymoon trip was spoiled. ‘Turned out to be a farce’Despite registered notices sent to Travel Talkies and The Humsour View, no one appeared on their behalf. Ruling in favour of the complainant, the consumer commission, presided over by Rajan Dewan, said: “Honeymoon holds special place and sentimental value in the lives of newlyweds who plan in advance after exploring and surfing various options and finally make the hotel, travel and other bookings as per their requirements and budget.” The order said that Saini had made the hotel booking and paid the consideration in advance after going through the images sent to him on WhatsApp, whereby he was assured the view visible from his balcony, which “turned out to be a farce and all his plans turned sour immediately upon reaching the hotel”. “Therefore, it was but natural for the newlyweds to be sulking and feeling cheated if the promised services were not provided. Hence, the complainant was well within his right to make alternative arrangements on his own in another hotel,” ruled the commission, adding that the travel agency as well as hotel are bound to refund the amount paid to them as well as compensate them for the inconvenience caused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/consumer-court-penalises-travel-firm-hotel-for-spoiling-chandigarh-couple-s-honeymoon-101635277287072.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Maharashtra man held for defrauding Chandigarh MC of ₹28.5 lakh||The UT police have arrested a Maharashtra man for fraudulently withdrawing ₹28.5 lakh from an account of the Chandigarh municipal corporation using a forged cheque.Identified as Kotta Gadvani Thirupathi, 43, he had also made another attempt to withdraw ₹1.2 crore, which brought the fraud to light.The accused was arrested from Wani village in Maharashtra’s Yavatmal district. He was produced in a Chandigarh district court on Tuesday and sent to eight-day police custody. Police have also identified his accomplice.“We have arrested one person who had got the forged cheque withdrawn while the other accused involved has been identified. Teams are in Wani to arrest him,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh. A case of cheating and forgery was registered at the police station in Sector 17 a week ago on the complaint of Virender Singh Thakur, chief accountant officer, MC, Chandigarh. Alertness of manager saved more loss The fraud came to light after the branch manager, Bank of Baroda, Sector 37, Chandigarh, called Thakur and informed him that two bearer cheques issued on October 13 and 16 in favour of one Husan Mutarik Shaikh have been deposited for the release of ₹98.51 lakh and ₹22.50 lakh, respectively. The payment of the cheques was stopped as these were not issued by authorised signatories of the MC. On checking with the bank, it came to light that an amount of ₹28.51 lakh had been paid to Kartikya Fish Plant in Wani on October 11. The cheque was also found forged. The account in question is used by the MC to deposit money collected from cow cess, which is imposed on the sale of liquor and is used for welfare of animals. The account belongs to the medical officer of health, as this MC department is entrusted with the responsibility of looking after gaushalas. MC to write to RBI for reimbursementThirupathi told police that he in involved in fish trade and has a current account with the Bank of Baroda. He had got the forged cheque enchased that was issued in the name of Kartikya Fish Plant. The bank, too, did not check how the money was diverted. Police said that the cheques were deposited for encashment at Amaravati in Maharastra. After not getting a response from the bank for reimbursement of ₹28.51 lakh withdrawn fraudulently, the MC will now be writing to the Reserve Bank of India. “The money was withdrawn due to the negligence of the bank and we have written to them for reimbursement. We have already clarified that if the bank fails to reimburse the amount, the MC will initiate legal proceedings. I will also be writing to the RBI to get the money reimbursed,” said Anindita Mitra, commissioner, MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/maharashtra-man-held-for-defrauding-chandigarh-mc-of-28-5-lakh-101635277285754.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh man shot at during carjacking in Mohali||Two men fired at a Chandigarh resident before fleeing in his car at a traffic junction in Mohali late on Monday night. The victim has been identified as Param Dogra, 26, of Sector 45. A bullet ripped his finger and he is to undergo surgery at the PGIMER, where he was admitted following the incident.Dogra, who works in a multinational company, was returning home after meeting a friend in Sohana when the incident took place near the Phase-7 light point around 11:30 pm. According to deputy superintendent of police Gursher Singh Sandhu, Dogra had slowed down his Toyota Etios car as there was a traffic jam after three vehicles collided with each other. As Dogra stopped on the road, two men approached him and threatened him to leave the vehicle. They allegedly asked to hand over his car keys, and when he resisted, one of them fired at him. They then forcibly removed him from the car and sped towards Chandigarh.In his statement to police, Dogra said he chased the car for around 200 metre. A delivery man who witnessed the incident told police that he saw Dogra shouting and chasing the car with blood oozing out of his hand. There was a traffic jam at the junction after two Toyota Innova and one Tata Tiago car had collided with each other, leading to heated arguments between the three drivers, said police. Senior superintendent of police, Mohali, Navjot Singh Mahal said: “We are checking CCTV footage of the area and are hopeful of arresting the accused soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-man-shot-at-during-carjacking-in-mohali-101635277284472.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Dengue death toll climbs to 26 in Mohali||A day after three people succumbed to dengue in Mohali, the viral disease on Tuesday claimed two more lives in the district. The deceased have been identified as two females, aged 16 and 42, from Mataur village. The death toll due to dengue has climbed to 26 this year, which is highest in at least a decade. As many as 24 fatalities have been recorded in October alone while two people had died in September. The highest toll in a day stood at four earlier this month.The mosquito-borne infection had claimed eight lives in 2018, and the toll stood at just one in the following two years. The Mohali health authorities also confirmed 30 fresh cases, taking this year’s tally to 2,221. Only 471 cases were detected in 2020. In the neighbouring Chandigarh and Panchkula, 42 and 23 new cases were reported, respectively. Of 696 cases confirmed in Chandigarh this year, 612 cases have been reported in October alone. In Panchkula, the year’s tally has reached 491. While Chandigarh has reported three deaths this year, Panchkula has recorded none.Rising cases in Dera BassiTo assess the situation due to the rising number of dengue fever in Dera Bassi subdivision, district epidemiologist Dr Vikrant Nagra visited the high-risk villages of Kuranwala, Saidpura, Mubarakpur and Bhankharpur on Tuesday.Dera Bassi town and its surrounding villages account for around 60% of cases confirmed in the district. Dr Nagra said that during the visit, the team found a lot of plastic waste, such as carry bags, empty bottles and disposable glasses, and stagnant water at various places in the villages. He said empty bottles, glasses and other plastic waste collect rainwater in which mosquitoes breed. The health officials also inspected village ponds. Meanwhile, arrangements were made to carry out anti-larvae spraying. Dr Nagra said that according to the villagers, the spraying was not carried out in the villages. He also appealed to the villagers to dispose of plastic waste as soon as possible, and said people can contact the health department’s helpline number 104 for any information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dengue-death-toll-climbs-to-26-in-mohali-101635277283287.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala sees fivefold rise in dengue cases this year||Ambala district reported the highest single-day spike in dengue cases this season, as 25 cases were confirmed on Tuesday. With this, the total number of cases this year has gone up to 215, a fivefold rise over 42 cases reported in 2020. Samlehri village in Mullana block is turning out to be a hot spot after 10 cases of the mosquito-borne viral disease were confirmed there recently and more people are coming forward with dengue-like symptoms. Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said medical officers at the primary health centre concerned have been instructed to increase sampling in the village. Health officials said poor hygiene and recent rain showers are primarily responsible for more cases in the countryside this year. Earlier this month, a similar situation was seen at Dahar village in Naraingarh block.District epidemiologist Dr Sunil Hari said lack of awareness has led to the outbreak at Samlehri. He said a team surveyed the village on Monday to trace mosquito-breeding sites. “There are several cow sheds with stored water that has not been replaced for weeks. Dumping grounds along the Mithapur road and open drains inside houses are also possible breeding sites,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-sees-fivefold-rise-in-dengue-cases-this-year-101635277282088.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC: 70,000 new rural voters to play key role in election||With 13 villages added to the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s jurisdiction three years ago, their 70,000 residents are set to play a key role in the upcoming civic body elections. From having no stake in the previous MC elections held five years ago, these voters now account for more than 10% of around 6.5 lakh electorate. There are 22 villages under the MC’s jurisdiction, of which 13 — Behlana, Raipur Khurd, Raipur Kalan, Makhan Majra, Daria, Mauli Jagran, Kishangarh, Kaimbwala, Khuda Ali Sher, Khuda Jassu, Khuda Lahora, Sarangpur and Dhanas — were taken over by the civic body in December 2018.MC wards were increased from 26 to 35 by the UT administration last year solely to incorporate these new villages. The fate of seven wards depend on residents of these villages. Ward 1 and 8 comprise exclusively of some of these villages. While the opposition Congress and Aam Aadmi Party are banking on poor development record of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in these wards as well as the farmer agitation, the saffron party has loosened the fiscal strings to spend ₹102 crore dedicated funds on these 13 villages.Development issuesDevelopment issues have been plaguing the villages, particularly since the areas were subsumed into the MC jurisdiction.“Though part of the City Beautiful, these villages are close in infrastructure levels to Zirakpur than to the city. The situation has only deteriorated in the past three years. Take our village, Daria. To get drinking water is a daily problem. Most residents are dependent on water tankers. Similarly, sewage is a big problem,” said Ajay Pandey, former Daria panchayat samiti member and local Congress leader. Opposition party members also complain that since the villages were subsumed within the MC, the residents have no voice in their governance.“The panchayats were disbanded in 2018, and for nearly three years the villagers had no public representatives. Earlier, people used to get their work done through the panchayat members. But MC officials are unresponsive. The ruling BJP leaders have not helped either,” said Jit Singh, Behlana resident and Congress District (Rural) president. New regulationsComing into the MC’s ambit has also brought the corresponding rules and regulations, which have irked many residents.“There are many cases where the MC is not giving water connection to people because they allege that a building doesn’t conform to its bylaws. Most buildings were constructed before 2019, but now people have to comply post facto. There is also a prospect of the MC imposing property tax on residents,” said Nitin Goel, AAP general secretary who lives in Dhanas.Both Congress and AAP are also looking to gain from the anti-farm laws agitation, which is directed against the BJP. There have been some instances wherein protesters have staged dharnas against BJP leaders visiting the villages.Stating that the BJP has infused large funds for development of these villages, party’s state president Arun Sood said: “Development works worth ₹102 crore have been started in villages. We are close to resolving issues like lal dora and provision of basic amenities outside it. A land pooling policy is in the offing for village development.”Sood also contended that the BJP has expended its base in villages in the last five years. “In all the recent elections, village residents have predominantly voted for the BJP and its policies,” he said. On the farmers’ agitation impacting party’s chances, Sood said, “It is a non-issue in Chandigarh’s villages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-70-000-new-rural-voters-to-play-key-role-in-election-101635277280920.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Onion gets 30% dearer in a month||Amid rising fuel prices and unexpected rains in the region, vegetables are getting dearer in Chandigarh. Onion prices, which had remained on the lower side earlier this year, have gone up by 30% this month. Priced at ₹35 per kilogram on October 1, the staple veggie was available for ₹45 at an apni mandi on Tuesday. Onions prices vary according to its variety. At the wholesale market in Sector 26, the retail price of Indore’s white onion ranges from ₹40 to ₹50 per kg. In comparison, the red Rajasthani produce is available for ₹30-40 per kg. However, according to the mandi officials, the wholesale rate is starting to go down even as retail rates remain high. While earlier the wholesale rate had reached up to ₹38 per kg, it is now around ₹32 per kg.“Earlier, there was a problem with supply. With the government intervening and adding to the supply from its own reserves, onion prices are expected to drop in the coming days,” said a mandi official.Tomato prices also continue to remain high, though there has been a dip from the peak of ₹80 per kg seen earlier this month. Now, the rate is down to ₹60, but it is still 33% dearer than ₹45 at the beginning of the month. “The main reason for the hike in tomato prices is the rising cost of fuel, which adds to the transportation cost. The recent rains have also damaged some of the local crop,” said Punjab Mandi Board superviser Satbir Singh.Singh said vegetables such as cauliflower and bottle gourd, which are abundant around this time of the year, have also been affected by the rains, leading to a rise in their prices. “However, prices are likely to come down in the next few days as the supply starts to improve,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhonion-gets-30-dearer-in-a-month-101635277279566.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Temperature again goes up in Chandigarh||After dropping down to 13.2°C on Monday, the minimum temperature in Chandigarh once again rose to 15°C on Tuesday. Still one degree below normal, it will continue along similar lines, according to the weatherman. The maximum temperature also increased from 27.5°C to 28°C, still three notches below normal.“After the Sunday rains, the sky cleared and cold winds blowing from Himachal Pradesh cooled down the city. Now the temperature has gone back to normal and it is expected to continue this way with dry weather likely ahead,” said an official of the India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh.While Sunday was the coldest October day in the city’s recorded history, the night that followed was coldest in October in the past three years.In the next three days, the maximum temperature will remain around 28°C while the minimum temperature will remain between 14°C and 15°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/temperature-again-goes-up-in-chandigarh-101635277277990.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali residents get only two hours to burst crackers on Diwali||The Punjab government on Tuesday announced a two-hour window to burst green firecrackers on Diwali and Gurpurb across the state. The fireworks timing has been restricted to 35 minutes on the Christmas and New Year Eve.Mohali deputy commissioner Isha Kalia said that bursting of crackers is allowed between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali (November 4), and between 4am and 5am and 9pm and 10pm on Gurpurb (November 19). In Chandigarh, the administration has imposed a blanket ban on the sale and bursting of crackers while the Panchkula administration is awaiting the Haryana government’s order.40 licences issuedMeanwhile, the Mohali district administration on Tuesday held a draw to allot 40 temporary licences for the sale of firecrackers.Kalia said the administration had received 1,192 applications for 40 licences across the district. She said the sale of crackers will be allowed only at designated places.The sale of Chinese crackers is banned. The designated places and conditions for sale of firecrackers can be seen on the website of the district administration www.sasnagar.nic.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-residents-get-only-two-hours-to-burst-crackers-on-diwali-101635277276624.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 13 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Tuesday reported 13 fresh cases Covid cases, lowest single-day count this year, taking the infection tally to 6,02,251, according to a medical bulletin.With no Covid-related fatality reported in the state, the death toll stood at 16,554, it said. Among new cases, Ludhiana reported four, followed by three in Amritsar.The number of active cases dropped to 226 from 237 on Tuesday.Twenty-three people recovered from the infection, taking the number of those who have been cured to 5,85,471, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-13-fresh-covid-cases-101635277156703.html
27-10-2021||Other||Reasi CJM’s two daughters killed in SBS Nagar mishap||Jalandhar Two young women, Zahva Adnan 22, and Aqsa Adnan, 18, daughters of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Reasi, 64km from Jammu, were killed in road mishap near Khatkar Kalan in Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar, during the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. The maternal uncle of the women, Ajaz Jan, is a leader of the National Conference (NC) in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). The elder daughter was scheduled to appear in an entrance examination at Chandigarh on October 27, while the younger one had got selected for MBBS course at Dhaka University in Bangladesh.Police said four people were in the car, a Chevrolet Cruze, that had the two women on it on the Chandigarh-Jalandhar national highway when the tyres of the vehicle burst at Khatkar Kalan village, and the vehicle rammed into the walls of the Satsang Bhawan by the roadside. The women were rushed to a private hospital in SBS Nagar where they were declared brought dead. Police, however, have not disclosed the identity and the health status of the two other people in the vehicle. The CJM Syed Adnan, 56, said his daughters, along with two other friends, had left for Chandigarh on October 25. Police said inquest proceedings have been initiated under Section 174 (unnatural death) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) at Sadar police station, Banga. The bodies have been handed to the family, which has refused to have a post-mortem of the victims, police said. Investigating officer Manjit Kaur did not interact with the media. “Condolences to CJM Reasi, Syed Adnan on tragic demise of his daughters in a road accident in Chandigarh {sic}. Our hearts go out to the entire family at this time of grief. Condolences to their maternal uncle. @ajazjan. Sending prayers. May Allah grant them a place in Jannat. Ameen!”, tweeted, J&K NC.Former chief minister of J&K Omar Abdullah also tweeted, “My heartfelt condolences to my colleague @ajazjan (Ajaz Jan). Two of his nieces died in a tragic road accident earlier today...May the young ladies find place in Jannat and may their families find strength at this difficult time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/reasi-cjm-s-two-daughters-killed-in-sbs-nagar-mishap-101635277096691.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Two held with 15kg opium in Tarn Taran||Police on Tuesday arrested two persons from the Noordi Adda roundabout in Tarn Taran city with 15 kg of opium.The contraband was concealed in two bags. The accused have been identified as Sarabjit Singh, alias Ladi, of Ghurakwind village and Sakattar Singh of Balehar village in Bhikhiwind sub-division.The accused were on their way from Bhikhiwind to Tarn Taran to supply opium on a motorcycle when they were intercepted by a team of the Tarn Taran city police station led by assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Harpal Singh.Addressing a press conference, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harwinder Singh Virk said: “The team was patrolling near the Noordi Adda chowk when it got secret information. The informer told the team that two men were smuggling opium from Rajasthan to Punjab. While 9kg of opium was seized from Sarabjit, Sakattar was arrested with 6kg of contraband, the SSP said. He said their investigation to ascertain the identity of those from whom the accused had been getting opium in Rajasthan was still on. Superintendent of police (SP) Jagjit Singh Walia said there are some more members of the gang and efforts are on to nab them.A case under Sections 18-C/61-85 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered against the duo at the Tarn Taran city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-held-with-15kg-opium-in-tarn-taran-101635276977496.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Truck overturns, narrow escape for driver||A truck driver had a narrow escape after the vehicle overturned while he was trying to turn it to get on to the slip road on the old bridge near Chand Cinema on Tuesday morning. The truck was loaded with material weighing 10 tonne and was coming via the Jalandhar Bypass side.Due to the incident, traffic remained affected on the stretch for around seven hours. It was restored after a crane was brought to the site around 1pm to lift the truck. According to inspector Gopal Krishan, Salem Tabri station house officer, the truck was going towards Alamgir village through the Ludhiana-Malerkotla road. As the bridge is closed for the movement of four-wheelers, especially heavy vehicles, the driver turned the truck towards the slip road, causing it to overturn. Passersby rescued him after breaking open the windshield of the truck. He suffered minor injuries in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-truck-overturns-narrow-escape-for-driver-101635276857074.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder likely to launch Punjab Lok Congress today||Former Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh is on Wednesday likely to launch a new political party, the Punjab Lok Congress, according to people familiar with the developments.A formal announcement is expected at a media conference called by the two-time former CM in Chandigarh.“The event will be telecast live on his Facebook page. Do tune in,” Singh’s media adviser Raveen Thukral tweeted on Tuesday morning, extending an invite to the media. Lt General TS Shergill (retd), who was senior adviser to CM, is set to be made an office-bearer in the new outfit. A week ago, Singh said that he planned to soon announce the launch of his political party and was hopeful of a seat arrangement with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) if the farmers’ issue was resolved. “The battle for Punjab’s future is on. Will soon announce the launch of my own political party to serve the interests of Punjab and its people, including our farmers who have been fighting for their survival for over a year,” his media adviser quoted by him as saying on Twitter on October 19. The former CM is also tentatively scheduled to meet Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi on Thursday to discuss the way forward to find an amicable solution to the stir, a person privy to his efforts in this direction. Those expected to accompany include three-four state leaders and farm experts. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) has denied being part of any such effort. Singh, who is still to formally quit the Congress, was camping in Delhi last week and held detailed consultations with his supporters in the party. However, some of them are learnt to have advised him to float the separate outfit and reach an agreement with the BJP only after a resolution has been to the ongoing imbroglio over the three farm laws. He was made to resign as the chief minister on September 18 following months turbulence and tussle in the state unit during which Navjot Sidhu, who was appointed the state Congress president despite Singh’s objections, and several ministers and legislators rebelled against him. The Congress later picked Charanjit Singh Channi as the chief minister. Ashutosh Kumar, professor of political science, Panjab University, said: “This (launch of new party) was on the cards from the time he announced he will quit the Congress. The main aim appears to be to dent the Congress. Though his next step will be to have an arrangement with the BJP as he has already indicated, the farmers’ protest will be a tricky issue...”A big mistake, says deputy CM Randhawa Deputy chief minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, who had rebelled against Capt Amarinder and has been targeting him over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, said that no one can be stopped from charting his own political course, to stay in the party (Congress) or leave it. “Whether he is doing it because the BJP has asked him to or of his own accord, it will be a big mistake,” Randhawa said, questioning his (Singh’s) decision to leave the party that had given him so much. He said the former CM’s exit will not dent the Congress in any way. “If he had so much sway, then he would have continued as CM,” the deputy chief minister added. Capt accuses opponents of threatening supportersAmarinder on Tuesday accused his detractors in the Congress of threatening and harassing his supporters in Patiala and elsewhere. Singh, who was made to resign as the Punjab CM in September following months of tussle and turbulence in the state Congress, told them that they cannot defeat him with such low-level political games. “From personal attacks they’ve now stooped to threats and harassment of my supporters in Patiala and elsewhere. Let me tell my rivals they can’t defeat me with such low-level political games. They will neither win votes nor people’s hearts with such tactics,” the former CM’s media adviser Raveen Thukral quoted him as saying on Twitter. Singh further said that those who have stood by him have so because they believe in and want to continue working for peace and development in the state. “They will not be scared away by such petty acts of intimidation or persecution. We will continue to fight for Punjab’s future,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-likely-to-launch-punjab-lok-congress-today-101635276736730.html
27-10-2021||Other||Dengue menace: BJP slams civic body over inadequate fogging in Ludhiana||Slamming the municipal corporation (MC) for its alleged failure in taking up proper fogging drives in the city to prevent the spread of dengue, the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders handed over a memorandum to MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal at the MC Zone D office on Tuesday. The BJP leaders led by state executive member, Bikram Sidhu, stated that the MC had failed to take up proper fogging in many parts of the city, and the water puddles formed due to the recent rainfall had become a breeding ground for the mosquitoes. The BJP leaders stated that unhygienic conditions prevail in areas including, Haibowal, BRS Nagar, Salem Tabri, Ghumar Mandi, Chander Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Rani Jhansi Road, Hargobindpura, Nehru Nagar, etc. They added that the failure of departments including, health and MC, to keep a check on mosquito breeding is taking a toll on the residents’ health.They further stated that they will be forced to move on roads if the civic body fails to improve its work in the coming days. Sidhu said, “A large number of lives have been lost due to the ongoing pandemic, and the rising number of dengue cases has added to the misery. The civic body has failed to take up proper fogging drives even as dengue cases are reported every year during this period. Regular fogging and extensive drives should be conducted in every ward of the city to destroy mosquito larvae.”Meanwhile, MC commissioner Sabharwal said that proper fogging is being done in the city. “The ground staff has been directed to share the pictures of the fogging process with senior officials daily,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dengue-menace-bjp-slams-civic-body-over-inadequate-fogging-in-ludhiana-101635276319713.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: With 77 fresh cases, dengue count crosses 900-mark this season||With 77 more dengue cases surfacing in the district, the cumulative count of the season crossed the 900-mark on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 65 infections surfaced from Ludhiana city. So far, Ludhiana has recorded 904 confirmed cases, of which 674 cases are from Ludhiana city. The district also has 2,507 suspected cases.Meanwhile, four fresh cases of Covid-19 were also reported in the city. A total of 87,599 people have tested positive for the virus till date in the district, of which 85,464 recovered. Ludhiana currently has 30 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-with-77-fresh-cases-dengue-count-crosses-900-mark-this-season-101635276317076.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Staff crunch ails Ludhiana fire brigade, 79% sanctioned posts vacant||Even as authorities are working to upgrade firefighting equipment ahead of Diwali, the Ludhiana fire department is facing an acute shortage of staff. Of the 147 sanctioned posts, 117 are lying vacant. Besides, no new post has been created in the last four decades. As per department officials, the existing posts were sanctioned in the early 80s after which no new post was created even as the city has grown in terms of area and density. Of the total 86 regular posts of firemen, 77 are lying vacant. Similarly, 18 out of the 19 posts of regular drivers are vacant. The department has, however, deployed 50 firemen and 23 drivers on outsource/contractual basis to deal with the staff shortage. But officials maintain that it is difficult for outsourced employees to match up to the trained regular staff.Eleven posts of sub-fire officer (SFO) and six of leading firemen are also vacant. There is no regular assistant divisional fire officer (ADFO) so a fire station officer (FSO) has been given the additional charge of ADFO. Two posts of FSO are also vacant. ‘Forced to work over-time’An official requesting anonymity said the department has 17 big fire tenders, each of which requires a team of six persons, including leading fireman, firemen and driver, during every shift. As per norms, there should be three shifts (of eight hours each) in a day. “As there are 12 leading firemen, 59 firemen and 24 drivers, including those employed on contractual and outsource basis, the employees are forced to work on 12-hour shifts. But they are not paid overtime. Sometimes, the staff members have to give up on their rest days to ensure staff strength,” said the official, adding that the matter regarding overtime is currently sub-judice.The official further remarked that the department’s efforts at upgrading the equipment will be of no use unless the staff crunch is addressed first. Sitting on a tinderbox“As per municipal records, there are around four lakh properties in the city, including one lakh industrial units. The population is around 30 lakh. If we do not count the peon and clerk deputed in the department, there are 101 firefighters, including the SFOs, FSO etc. This means there is one firefighter for 4,000 properties and 29,700 people,” said a firefighter while adding that sometimes they are also summoned to Sahnewal, Samrala, Jagraon and even Jalandhar when a major mishap occurs.The fireman added that the staff shortage issue has been raised several times at the state-level. “We are promised regularisation ahead of elections but it remains on paper. Recently, the state had also demanded a list of vacancies and it was said that more staff will be deputed in the department, but nothing has been done so far,” said the firefighter. FSO Swarn Chand, who holds the additional charge of ADFO, said, “The fire brigade falls under the local bodies department. The state department has been apprised of the issue in the past and demand for deputing more staff members has also been tabled. The state government has to take the final call.”MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “The civic body is working to upgrade the fire brigade under the Smart City Mission and modern equipment, including life-detectors, thermal scanners, safety suits etc, have already been provided. The state government is also working to fill vacancies not only in the fire brigade, but in the MC too. The demand from our side has been forwarded to the state.”Fire brigade seeks 20 addl drivers for DiwaliOfficials said the fire brigade has sought 20 additional drivers from the MC for dealing with fire incidents during Diwali. The drivers are expected to report a day before Diwali. Temporary stations will also be established in different parts of the city, including Samrala Chowk, Aarti Chowk, Jalandhar bypass etc, to reduce reaction time during Diwali.Proposal to establish two fire stations hangs fireThere are five fire stations in the city as of now, including the headquarters situated near railway station, Focal Point, Gill road, Haibowal and Sundar Nagar. As demanded by industrialists at Bahadurke Road, Tajpur Road and surrounding areas, the authorities had proposed establishment of two stations at Tajpur road dairy complex and vegetable market at Bahadurke road in the past. But the projects have been hanging fire. An official said the department will also need more staff to operationalise these stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/staff-crunch-ails-ludhiana-fire-brigade-79-sanctioned-posts-vacant-101635276138793.html
27-10-2021||Other||Dire need for revival of MSMEs: CICU president||Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertaking (CICU) has forwarded a slew of measures for the growth of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the state to the Punjab government. “There is a dire need of aid for revival to boost MSMEs’ morale,” said CICU president Upkar Singh Ahuja and secretary-general Pankaj Sharma.The association sought the abolition of orders of urban and housing department as per which ‘Rasta’ for industrial units has been changed from 16 feet to 33 feet and the required minimum size of the industrial plot has been changed to one and a half acres.“Such orders should be abolished with immediate effect,” CICU demanded.The other suggestions included a reduction in electricity charges for MSMEs up to 100KW and termination of institutional tax.Further, the industrial body asked for the abolition of enhancement charges levied by PSIEC.It also stressed on allotment of plots at Dhanansu Focal Point for MSME at special rates.JS Bhogal, publicity secretary, CICU; Rajat Gupta, press secretary, CICU and Sarvjit Singh, vice president, CICU, jointly mentioned that former chief minister Amarinder Singh had announced ₹32 crore for a complete facelift of the Ludhiana Focal Points in his visit to the city last year but no significant development has taken place till date.They also pointed out that the construction of roads in Focal Point areas is still pending and other development works related to adequate street lighting, sewerage, and green belts are also yet to commence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dire-need-for-revival-of-msmes-cicu-president-101635275956836.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Mentally challenged man makes hoax bomb call to bank||After his brother refused to give him money, a 29-year-old mentally challenged resident of Sector 40 made a hoax bomb call to the manager of a bank.After he made the call, the police were informed and the staff rushed out of the bank and closed the shutters. After the police reached the spot, they found out that it was a prank. The police said that the caller is under treatment.He had played such pranks on the police earlier as well by making calls to the police control room reporting that a cobra and wild animals have entered his house. MORE NEWS IN BRIEFSTwo girls, aged 13 and 15, were traced to the Delhi railway station after they went missing from Mauli Jagran on Monday. The two cousins were about to board a train to Kolkata, said police. They are being brought back to the city.Cops take integrity pledgeDirector general of police Praveer Ranjan administered an integrity pledge to all employees of Chandigarh Police as part of the Vigilance Awareness Week, which kicked off on Tuesday. All senior officers of the department were present during the event at the police headquarters in Sector 9. Fire at market in Sector 49Two ATM booths and a shop were gutted after a fire broke out due to a short-circuit at the market in Sector 49B on Tuesday. About 10 fire tenders pressed into service took 30 minutes to douse the flames. The staff and customers present in the banks rushed out as smoke engulfed the area. No one was reported to be injured.PU Student FC log win PU Student FC carved out an impressive 6-5 win over Uttarakhand FC in a match played during the ongoing Chandigarh Police Shaheed Memorial football Trophy at the Sports Complex, Sector 46, Chandigarh, on Tuesday. For the winning team, Charanjeev, Soham, Aditya, Ashish, Ahmad and Sahil scored goals. In other matches, LE professor FC beat Sandhu FC by 3-0 and Liberty FC drubbed Maruti FC by 4-1. Tricity Youth United beat PGGC-46 FC by 3-0 while JSM FC outplayed Burail FC by 5-0. In the last match, Rajeshwar FC blanked Blue Star FC by 6-0.GGDSD College inaugurates television, radio studioThe department of journalism and mass communication of Goswami Ganesh Dutta Sanatan Dharma (GGDSD) College inaugurated its television and radio studio on Tuesday. Rabindra Narayan, MD and president of PTC Network, was the chief guest on the occasion. Dr Ajay Sharma, principal of the college, stated, “Our college is an institution that learns and changes itself with the times. There is a need to have tie ups with the industry today as we need to go beyond traditional learning methods.”Vigilance awareness week celebrations at PGGC-46The department of public administration, Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, organised Vigilance Awareness Week. A pledge to follow neither take nor offer bribe and to perform all tasks in public interest with full integrity was administered to the members of teaching and non-teaching staff of the college by principal Abha Sudarshan.Talk on breast cancer awareness heldTo mark Breast Cancer Awareness month, an awareness talk was organised Fortis Hospital, Mohali. Dr Naval Bansal, endocrine and breast cancer surgeon at the hospital, gave an insight into the causes, symptoms, precautions and treatment options to detect the disease at an early stage. HCS officer to join UT admn from Nov 1The Haryana government has placed the services of Haryana Civil Service (HCS) officer Rajiv Prasad, joint commissioner of the Gurugram municipal corporation, at the disposal of the Chandigarh administration with effect from November 1. Earlier, the Haryana government had turned down the extension in service to three HCS officers, including Ruchi Singh Bedi, Virat and Radhika Singh, and after completion of their deputation with the UT administration, they were repatriated to their parent state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhmentally-challenged-man-makes-hoax-bomb-call-to-bank-101635275536486.html
27-10-2021||Other||20 booked for attempt to murder after group clash in Ludhiana||City Jagraon police lodged a case of attempt to murder against 20 persons of two groups that indulged in a scuffle at the Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road near Jagraon on Monday and opened fire at each other. However, no one was hurt in the clash.ASI Darshan Singh, who is investigating the case, said the police lodged the case following a complaint filed by chicken shop owner Jaspreet Singh alias Jassi.The police booked Harman Singh of Amargarh Kaler village, Mandeep Singh and Shivam of Jagraon, of one group, and Gulshan Kumar alias Sheru, Monu, Mithu of Kothe Sherjung village of the other group and their 13 accomplices, who are yet to be identified.The complainant stated that the accused had indulged in a scuffle at a dhaba near his chicken shop. When he went out of his shop on hearing a commotion, he saw that the accused were pelting stones, bricks and later opened fire at each other.The customers and the staff hid under the tables to avoid injury and informed the police immediately. The accused managed to flee before the cops could reach the spot.A case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 294 (Obscene acts and songs), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), and 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code was lodged against the accused. A hunt is on to nab them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-after-group-clash-in-ludhiana-101635275185426.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula clash: Unidentified vocational teachers booked for rioting||Several unidentified vocational teachers from Haryana, who had held a protest on Monday and tried to march towards chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence in Chandigarh, were booked by Panchkula police under charges including rioting and unlawful assembly on Tuesday.The protesting teachers were protesting to press for their demand for a wage hike and eight cops and at least 15 protesting teachers were injured in the ensuing clash.Police tried to stop the protestors by installing several barricades and asked them to hand over their memorandum, but not to avail. The police had to resort to lathicharge and the use of water cannons to disperse them.Police constable Anju Rani of Mitra Kaksh, Sector 14, said that the protestors thrashed the on-duty police officers and were cane charged on the orders of the duty magistrate. “The protestors pelted stones and thrashed and injured several police officers including women. If the duty magistrate had not issued light lathicharge orders, they would have entered the border areas of Panchkula and Chandigarh and damaged public vehicles. The protest led to a traffic blockade of 2-3 hours,” Rani told the police. The case was lodged under sections 147, 149, 186, 283, 323, 332 and 353 of the IPC at the sector 14 police station on Monday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-clash-unidentified-vocational-teachers-booked-for-rioting-101635275183168.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||Before 2017, UPPSC was mired in controversy: Yogi||Lucknow Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday urged the newly recruited social and minority welfare officers to work honestly in the interest of the public. The chief minister was speaking after handing over appointment letters to 40 newly recruited district social welfare officers and minority welfare officers selected through UPPSC, in an event held at his official residence in Lucknow. “As you have been selected through a fair and transparent process, without any ‘recommendation’ or bribe, you are expected to perform accordingly,” the CM told the young recruits. He said the basic premise of the administration should always be to provide the benefit of government schemes to the public without discrimination. “Before 2017, the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission used to be a hotbed of controversy. There were allegations against the commission. Even CBI investigation was done. The court had to stay recruitments,” Yogi recalled, adding, “had the same discrepancies taken place in the process of appointment, you would never have been selected.” He said his government provided 4.5 lakh government jobs, recruitment to which was stalled owing to corrupt practices during the previous government. “The department of social welfare is nodal department for Mukhyamantri Samuhik Vivah Yojana under which more than 1.52 lakh girls have been helped to get married. Even Abhyudaya Coaching is being run by this department,” he said. Hitting out at the opposition, the chief minister said that the intention of the previous governments was not pure. “After coming to power, we removed the discrepancies and today youth are getting jobs,” he said. Highlighting the achievements of his government, the CM said, “Uttar Pradesh is now moving forward as a new economy. The team of Lucknow was announced in IPL. This is the result of teamwork. Today, Uttar Pradesh is the second-largest economy in the country.” Minister for social welfare Ramapati Shastri, minister for minority welfare Nand Gopal ‘Nandi’ and state minister Mohsin Raza were also present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/before-2017-uppsc-was-mired-in-controversy-yogi-101635275056869.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administrator: Infrastructure growth needs to be envisioned at tricity level||The two-day visioning workshop on “Future Ready Chandigarh 2030 & Beyond”, concluded on Tuesday with discussions on health and social protection. The workshop was organised by the UT administration with the objective to set-up a future roadmap for Chandigarh and was supported by United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) . UT administrator Banwari Lal Purohit congratulated the experts for highlighting the importance of involvement of the common people in defining the vision for the city. “The quality of amenities should not be distinguished between sectors. Aspirations of the people must be kept in mind and social cohesion is very important”, added the administrator. Focusing on future planning of the City Beautiful, the administrator stressed that with the growing population, it is imperative to enhance the infrastructure and meet the demands of the residents. He also shared that the visioning exercise should be at the tricity level of Chandigarh, Mohali, Panchkula and the peripheral areas. Ensuring the UT’s commitment to continue this visioning exercise in the future, the administrator officially concluded the workshop and congratulated all the stakeholders for their valuable contribution. During the workshop, deputy commissioner Mandip Brar and Nitika Pawar, secretary, social welfare, showcased the initiatives taken by the administration to achieve goals like zero poverty, zero hunger and gender equality. Further, case studies and best practices were shared related to social equity, welfare and protection, inclusivity in large cities, social protection and safety nets for informal workers. UT adviser Dharam Pal lauded the experts for their active participation and ensured that the report submitted by them will be thoroughly examined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-administrator-infrastructure-growth-needs-to-be-envisioned-at-tricity-level-101635274996441.html
27-10-2021||Pune||Pune businessman duped of ₹5 crore under pretext of doubling investment||PUNE: The Pune police have registered a case against the directors of two companies for duping a city-based businessman of ₹5 crore under the pretext of doubling his investment.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Aman Gupta, 38, a resident of the Magarpatta area of Hadapsar.Gupta told the police that the directors of a Chennai-based LLP and a diagnostic centre had offered to double his investment in three years. In November 2015, the complainant invested ₹5 crore, crediting it in the bank account of the diagnostic centre. He was expecting to receive ₹10 crore in 2018 however much to his shock and disappointment, the directors failed to deliver on their promise.A case under sections 406, 420, 120(b) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3 of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act, 1999 was registered at Bund garden police station. Assistant police inspector Harish Thakur is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-businessman-duped-of-5-crore-under-pretext-of-doubling-investment-101635274699049.html
27-10-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Body building competition on November 7||Fitness International Federation (FIF) will hold body building and men’s physique competition ‘Iron man of Punjab’ at Ambedkar Bhawan, Mullanpur, on November 7.Harminder Dulowal, president, FIF India, said they have already started receiving entries for the competition and are expecting more than 500 participants in various categories.Dulowal stated that they are not charging any fee from the participants but will give cash prizes, trophy and certificates to winners and medals and certificates to all participants. He added that the main motive behind the competition is to make youth aware of the need to maintain health and fitness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-body-building-competition-on-november-7-101635274697815.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Punjab minister releases book penned by Class-12 student||A book titled “The Missing Prophecy- Rise of the Blue Phoenix” penned by Khushi Sharma, a Class 12 student, was released on Tuesday at Punjab Bhawan by education and higher education and language minister Pargat Singh. Singh said that children in the modern era are very talented, which is exemplified by Khushi.MLAs Kuljit Singh Nagra and Gurpreet Singh GP and senior officers of the civil administrations of the state including K Siva Prasad, Tejvir Singh, Neel Kanth Avhad, AS Miglani, DK Tiwari, Pardeep Aggarwal, Gurpreet Kaur Sapra, Parminder Pal Singh and Sukhjit Pal Singh were also present here.Sharma is a student of Carmel Convent School in Sector 9 and is a two-time national medal winner in squash. A pianist and a Kathak dancer, she has also staged a few performances on this Indian classical dance form. She is also a yoga teacher.She worked on her novel during the lockdown. The lead female protagonist, Ember Hart, wanders across the universe for three centuries in order to find a way to bring back her beloved Niklaus. The book is now available in book stores and on Amazon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-punjab-minister-releases-book-penned-by-class-12-student-101635274579134.html
27-10-2021||Noida||Two arrested for stealing ₹5 lakh from senior citizen’s house in Greater Noida||Two persons were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly stealing ₹5 lakh from a 70-year-old retired air force officer’s house in Greater Noida. The duo entered the house posing as Unani medicine practitioners, the police said. The suspects were identified as Mohammad Chand, 26, and Arish, 25, natives of Rajasthan. The duo was presently staying at Masuri in Ghaziabad, the police said, adding that the incident took place on October 21. According to the police, victim Jai Prakash’s son Yauvan Pal Sahrawat filed a complaint at Sector Beta 2 police station. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the police received information about movement of the two suspects near P-3 roundabout in Greater Noida. “A team from Sector Beta 2 police station reached the spot and stopped them for checking. The police found ₹4.5 lakh in cash, some medicines, and oil bottles, among other items, from their possession. During interrogation, the suspects revealed that they used to roam in different societies and cheat people by pretending to be Unani medicine practitioners,” Pandey said. Anil Kumar, station house officer, Beta 2 police station, said that the suspects had found the victim walking with the help of a stick two weeks ago in Greater Noida. “They approached the victim and said that they knew a doctor who can cure his knee pain using Unani medicines,” he said. The SHO said the suspects gave Prakash a visiting card and asked him to call for a doctor’s appointment. “When the victim called the number, the suspects themselves received the call and said they would visit his home on October 21. The duo visited the house and identified themselves as a doctor and an assistant. They applied some oil on Prakash’s knee and asked him to go to the washroom, saying his pain will be cured,” he said. When the victim went to the washroom, the suspects ransacked the house and fled with ₹5 lakh, the police said. “A case was registered against the suspects under Section 380 (burglary) and Section 420 (cheating) of IPC. They were produced in court that sent them to judicial custody,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-arrested-for-stealing-5-lakh-from-senior-citizen-s-house-in-greater-noida-101635274577792.html
27-10-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 217 new Covid cases, 3 deaths||On Tuesday, Pune district reported 217 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths due to the infection, as per the state health department data. This took the progressive count to 1.15 million out of which 1.12 million have recovered, 19,928 deaths reported and 6,837 are active cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 100 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 364,841 and the death toll stood at 6,877 as two more deaths were reported.Pune city reported 64 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive count to 520,421 and the death toll stood at 9,199 as one more death was reported.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 53 new Covid-19 cases and the progressive count went up to 268,374 and the toll stood at 3,503.Pune district also saw 33, 685 vaccinations on the day as per the Co-Win dashboard and in total 1,19,64, 444. Out of which 77,86,717 are first doses and 41,77, 727 are second doses. A total of 686 sites saw vaccination out of which 495 were government centres and 191 were private centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-217-new-covid-cases-3-deaths-101635274576468.html
27-10-2021||Other||Mishap-prone: Foggy days ahead but Ludhiana MC yet to start radium tagging of bovines||Failing to deal with stray cattle menace despite recovering over ₹29 crore as cow cess in the past, the municipal corporation (MC) has failed to commence the project of tying reflective radium belts around the necks of stray cattle.With a large number of stray cattle posing grave danger to the lives of residents, the project was mooted long back. The civic body had initiated a trial in April this year. MC has not initiated the project at ground level yet even as the city is likely witness foggy days soon which will disrupt the visibility of the commuters.Hundreds of stray cattle roam around in different parts of the city including the residential areas, putting commuters’ lives at risk. The animals can be seen in large numbers at Hambran Road, Tajpur Road, Jalandhar Bypass, Rahon Road, and Jamalpur, among other areas.Sunny, a resident of Haibowal, said, “A large number of cattle roam at Hambran Road as the dairy farmers at Haibowal dairy complex leave the dry cows to stray. The black-coloured animals are not even visible during night hours as most of the street lights also remain defunct. The civic body should find a solution and should at least tie reflective belts around the animals as roads accidents may prove to be fatal for the commuters.”Rahul Verma, a member of the road safety council, who is associated with the civic body and has been participating in the meetings, also slammed the officials for only being restricted to their offices.Verma stated that no department, including MC and PWD, is serious about road safety. The officials show concern over the issue only during the meetings and don’t take any steps at ground level. Repeated reminders/complaints have been sent to the MC, but to no avail.Meanwhile, MC senior veterinary officer (SVO), Dr Harbans Dhalla, stated that MC has already purchased 500 reflective belts, and the project will be initiated in a few days. Apart from deploying its staff, MC will also rope in NGOs and staff of different gaushalas for tying the belts around the animals. ₹7.8 crore spentEven after collecting over ₹29 crore as cow cess since January 2017 and spending over ₹7.8 crore out of the same, the civic body has failed to bring respite from the menace.The officials rue shortage of space to shelter the stray animals due to which arrangements are being made with managements of different gaushalas in exchange for a certain fee.Dr Dhalla said that recently MC established a shed in Burj Powat village for sheltering 150 animals. Around 1,500 animals have already been sheltered in different gaushalas across the district, he added.Past incidentsFebruary 10, 2020: A Haryana-based banker died in a road mishap near Hardy’s World on NH-44 as his car overturned after hitting a road divider in a bid to save stray cattle.September 28, 2019: Two men were severely injured after the car in which they were travelling hit a stray cow at Jeevan Nagar of Focal Point.March 24, 2019: A labourer, Akashdeep Singh, 20, of Umedpur village met with a road mishap after his motorcycle collided with a stray cow in Nandpur village. Akashdeep had sustained multiple injuries.March 24, 2019: A 32-year-old man Hardeep Singh had died when his motorcycle collided with stray cattle in the Koomkalan area.July 2018: Sanjiv Kumar, 55, of Dayal Nagar of Ludhiana and his son Lakshya, 17, died after they met with an accident in a bid to avoid a collision with stray cattle near Doraha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mishapprone-foggy-days-ahead-but-ludhiana-mc-yet-to-start-radium-tagging-of-bovines-101635274516495.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Vicky Middukhera murder: Gangster in Mohali police custody for seven days||Gangster Amit Dagar, who has been nominated in the FIR pertaining to the murder of Youth Akali Dal leader Vikramjit Singh Middukhera, aka Vicky Middukhera, 33, was brought on production warrant from Mandoli Jail in Delhi on Tuesday and produced before a Mohali court, from where he was sent to seven-day police remand. Middukhera was shot dead in broad daylight in Sector 71, Mohali, on August 7. Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said Dagar is the second gangster to have been nominated in the FIR after Kaushal Chaudhary, who is accused of hatching a conspiracy to murder Middukhera while lodged in Karnal jail. Dagar and Kaushal had contacted the main shooters who killed Vicky in Mohali after getting tips from Armenia-based gangster Gaurav Padial. Mahal said, “With Dagar on production warrant, we are hopeful of arresting the shooters soon as we have already identified them. However, Mohali police have so far failed to arrest the two identified shooters as the teams conducted unsuccessful raids at their suspected hideouts in Delhi, Haryana and Western UP. On August 7, four shooters came to murder Middukhera, out of which two executed the killing whereas the other two were waiting in a car nearby. Out of all the four, two shooters were of Bhola-Latth gang and other two were of Bambiha gang run by Gaurav Padial. The SSP said that while studying and connecting the vital evidence, Mohali police brought Kaushal Chaudhary from Karnal jail and during interrogation, he revealed the names of Sajjan Singh alias Bhola and Anil Kumar alias Latth as Middukhera’s killers. Kaushal also told the police that he and Amit Dagar liasoned with Armenia based gangster Gaurav Padial and gave the contacts of Bhola and Latth to have further let out the contract to kill Middukhera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vicky-middhukhera-murder-gangster-amit-dagar-brought-sent-to-mohali-police-custody-for-seven-days-101635274457504.html
27-10-2021||Other||After complaints of exam mismanagement, health department serves notice to Nyasa||PUNE: Following series of complaints from candidates pertaining to mismanagement, state health department on Tuesday served a show-case notice to Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL), a private firm contracted by the Maharashtra government to operate its recruitment examination for 6,200 posts of the state health department. Confirming about the notices Dr Archana Patil, director of the state health services department, said, “Today we have served a show cause notice to Nyasa seeking explanation regarding the mismanagement reported on October 24 at some of the centres in Pune, Nashik and Mumbai.” The state health department also asked aspirants as not to consider the earlier hall tickets issued for the class ‘D’ exam to be held on October 31 and new hall tickets will be issued soon amid call given by candidates to boycott Sunday’s exam, while demanding the private agency be replaced. Earlier in September, the exam had to be cancelled as Nyasa informed government about its lack of preparations last moment, bringing embarrasment to the government as over 8 lakh candidates have applied for the exam. After series of issues, seen at the first recruitment exam of the state health department on Sunday, October 24, The MPSC Students Coordination Committee has initiated a campaign against Nyasa Communication Private Limited (NCPL) to whom the state government has outsourced the conduct of its exams and against whom there are a series of allegations. The MPSC Students Coordination Committee has started a social media campaign demanding cancellation of the forthcoming exam on October 31 and re-examination for both days to be conducted by a new agency instead of NCPL. Mahesh Gharbude, a student and coordinator of the MPSC Students Coordination Committee, said, “We all have seen how students had to suffer on the exam day with most of them not getting their hall tickets, question papers reaching late, and wrong papers being distributed. The state government should stop playing with the lives of lakhs of students who are appearing for these exams in the hope of finding jobs and helping their families in the time of crisis.” “To ensure that our voice reaches the state government and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, we have started this online campaign on social media platforms demanding cancellation of the upcoming exam and the conduct of a re-exam for both days by another firm. We are going to boycott the October 31 exam in large numbers and protests will be held by students at all the examination centres across the state,” Gharbude said. The state government has outsourced the conduct of its exams to NCPL and as per the existing agreement between the two parties, the department only provides the question papers and all other arrangements including designing the website, handling online applications, providing hall tickets to students, allotting examination centres, seating arrangements and publishing the merit list are carried out by NCPL. Earlier too, NCPL was blamed for the fiasco wherein the government had to cancel the exam at the eleventh hour owing to lack of preparation in filling up over 6,200 vacant posts in the state health department. The same recruitment exam was originally scheduled on September 25 and 26 however as NCPL could not make the necessary arrangements in time and students faced several issues with the hall tickets and examination centres, the exam had to be cancelled. As many as 800,000 job aspirants have applied for various posts under groups C and D in the public health department. Speaking to HT earlier on Oct 17, Puneet Kumar, NCPL MD had “We are doing our preparations well to conduct an error-free examination, learning lessons from previously scheduled exams. The allegations made against us are not true and we are going through the policy set by the state government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-complaints-of-exam-mismanagement-health-department-serves-notice-to-nyasa-101635274398908.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||UP Police make two arrests in FIR into killings of BJP workers, driver||Uttar Pradesh Police on Tuesday arrested two people in connection with the deaths of two Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and their driver in violence at Lakhimpur Kheri three weeks ago. These are the first arrests made by the police in connection with a second FIR lodged in the case.Gurwinder Singh, 32, and Vichitra Singh, 24, were arrested from Gola and Bheera towns, respectively, said Prashant Kumar, additional director general, law and order, in a statement. The two were sent to jail after being produced before a local court, a senior official said on the condition of anonymity.On October 3, eight people -- four of whom were farmers -- died in violence in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. Farm groups say a Mahindra Thar owned by Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra mowed down protesters from behind while they were returning from a demonstration in Tikunia village on October 3. A video clip that is yet to be authenticated forensically shows the same.The minister and his son, however, deny the charge that the latter was in the vehicle and say farmers pelted the car with stones that led to the driver losing control of the vehicle. They accuse the protesters of lynching two BJP workers and the car’s driver. A local journalist, Raman Kashyap, was also killed.A day after the incident, the first FIR in the case was filed by Jagjit Singh which named Ashish Mishra and 15-20 unknown people. At least 13 people have been arrested in connection with this FIR.On October 4, BJP worker Jaiswal filed a second FIR and alleged that “antisocial elements” among farmers attacked and lynched two BJP workers and the driver. This FIR makes no mention of the death of the farmers and only names unidentified people.“The bad elements in the farmers’ protest had attacked the vehicle with bamboo sticks, bricks and stones due to which driver Hari Om got injured and stopped the car on the road side,” read Jaiswal’s FIR.Jaiswal is one of the 13 people arrested in the first FIR.Tuesday’s arrests were made after ascertaining the involvement of the two people, the second official said.Statements of 30 witnesses have been recorded, and the process to record the statements of 13 other witnesses is underway, the second official said.The state police will analyse the security risk of the witnesses and provide protection, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lakhimpur-violence-two-arrested-in-connection-with-second-fir-101635274396556.html
27-10-2021||Noida||1 booked for killing advocate over property dispute in Noida Phase 2||Police have booked an unidentified person for shooting dead a 30-year-old advocate allegedly over a property dispute in Ilhabas village in Noida Phase 2 on Monday night.The victim, identified as Nishant Pilwan, had gone to visit a relative in the same village on Monday afternoon, where a person had died that day. On his way home, a motorcycle-borne man allegedly shot and killed him, said police, adding that they have detained two persons in connection with the crime.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said, “Pilwan was about to enter his house around 9:30pm on Monday when the suspect, on a motorcycle, opened fire at him. Pilwan suffered two gunshot wounds to the chest and back, and collapsed on the spot.”Advocate Dinesh Awana, a friend of Pilwan’s, said the victim’s family members and locals reached the spot on hearing the gunshots, and rushed Pilwan to a private hospital in Noida Sector 110 where the doctors declared him dead.“This is a very sad incident, and we urge the police to arrest the suspects at the earliest,” Awana said, adding that a number of locals also gathered in front of the victim’s house to protest against the crime. Pilwan’s father Prem Singh filed a complaint against an unknown person at the Phase 2 police station. Chander said a team from the Phase 2 police station and forensic experts visited the spot on Monday night.Sujeet Upadhyaya, SHO Phase 2 police station, said a case has been registered against an unknown person under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder). “Preliminary investigation shows that the victim had a dispute with his 30-year-old cousin Sandeep, over a piece of land. Police have launched a search for Sandeep, who is on the run. We have also announced ₹25,000 reward on information leading to his arrest... His sister also had disputes with her in-laws. We have formed four teams and detained two persons for questioning in the case. We are trying to solve the case at the earliest,” Chander added.Manoj Bhati, president of Gautam Budh Nagar Bar Association, said that the association had called a condolence meeting on Tuesday. “Police have found that there is a property dispute angle in the case. We hope that the case is solved at the earliest,” he said. Pilwan is survived by his wife and two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/1-booked-for-killing-advocate-over-property-dispute-in-noida-phase-2-101635274276433.html
27-10-2021||Other||BJP leader shot at in Prayagraj||A BJP leader was shot at, allegedly due to old enmity, under the trans-Ganga Jhunsi police station area of the district, late on Monday night. The injured was admitted to the hospital and a named FIR was lodged against some persons with whom the BJP leader, Awadhesh Maurya, had an old issue with. Raids are being carried out to arrest the persons named in the FIR, police said.Maurya, a resident of Isipur village, in Jhunsi area, is Mandal president of the BJP. Late on Monday night, villagers spotted him lying injured outside the village and raised an alarm. Jhunsi police also reached the spot and admitted him to SRN Hospital. Investigations revealed that Maurya took a bullet near his waist. Police questioned locals in connection with the incident but they said that they failed to see the assailants.In his complaint to the police, Maurya’s father, Subhash Maurya, said that his son was going for some work when assailants waylaid him. They opened fire at him when he tried to escape. Subhash Maurya named one Babbu, Irfan and another person of Malawa Buzurg village in his FIR.SP trans-Ganga Abhishek Agarwal said, on the complaint of the father, an FIR has been lodged and raids were being carried out to arrest the accused. Primary questioning revealed that the incident may be due to old enmity, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-leader-shot-at-in-prayagraj-101635274164333.html
27-10-2021||Other||Three more Covid cases reported in Lucknow||Lucknow Three more fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the state capital on Tuesday. At present, there are 25 active cases in the city. District administration has started aggressive contact tracing of the positive cases and now only two districts, Lucknow and Gautam Budh Nagar, have Covid patients in double digit, according to a health department data. 28 new dengue casesAs many as 28 new dengue cases were reported from different parts of the city on Tuesday. The areas from where cases were found include Sarojini Nagar, Alambagh, NK Road, Chander Nagar, Aliganj, Indira Nagar Road and Tooriaganj. The district malaria officer issued notices to 20 houses where larvae of mosquitoes were found. Around 11 teams of the CMO office surveyed 3,111 houses for mosquito larvae on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-more-covid-cases-reported-in-lucknow-101635274163160.html
27-10-2021||Pune||Pune police teams in UP on hunt for Gosavi||PUNE The Pune Police have sent at least two teams to Uttar Pradesh, to apprehend KP Gosavi, a key witness in Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) Cordelia cruise-ship drug bust case. Gosavi is wanted in connection with a cheating lodged against him in 2018.DCP (Zone 1) Priyanka Narnavre said, “We have sent teams to UP and two other places, but he has not been arrested till now.” Gosavi’s selfies with Shahrukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan, while allegedly taken while Aryan was in NCB custody have gone viral.The city police have already arrested Gosavi’s assistant Sherbano Kureshi in connection with the cheating case filed by one Chinmay Deshmukh, who alleged that Gosavi cheated him of ₹3.09 lakh on the pretext of providing him a job in Malaysia. Kureshi had received the money in her account.Pune police issued a lookout circular to prevent Gosavi from leaving the country. Speaking to news channels, Gosavi claimed he was planning to surrender, before he disappeared. Pabhakar Sail, a former driver/bodyguard of Gosavi, has alleged that ₹25 crore was demanded by an NCB official and others, including a private detective, to let Aryan Khan off in the drug case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-teams-in-up-on-hunt-for-gosavi-101635274156519.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU teachers’ body elections: Contesting on basis of performance, says incumbent group||Members of the incumbent teachers’ body of Panjab University (PU) on Tuesday said that their group is contesting the upcoming polls on the basis of performance. Mritunjay Kumar, current president of Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA), and his team addressed the media on Tuesday. They highlighted various issues on which they have worked during their term including CAS promotions of teachers and counting of past service. While talking about the pending promotion policy of dental teachers, Kumar said, “If PUTA can sit in dharna for the promotion of other teachers for 62 days, we can go to any extent to get our colleagues their due.” “PUTA also had to struggle alot to ensure that the governing body of Panjab University is in place and democracy is saved,” he said. Supinder Kaur, who is contesting for the post of vice-president, said, “Our team has only focused on serving the teaching community and we have faith in the teachers, who are intelligent enough to read between the lines and make the right choice during the election.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-teachers-body-elections-contesting-on-basis-of-performance-says-incumbent-group-101635274044216.html
27-10-2021||Noida||Noida sees drop in mercury after icy cold winds sweep NCR||Icy cold north-westerly winds swept the National Capital Region on Tuesday as daytime temperature dropped in Noida and adjoining areas, according to weather analysts. Temperatures are likely to fall over the next three days, and later stabilise only to drop further when the next western disturbance hits the region later this week.According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum and minimum temperatures in Noida on Tuesday were recorded at 27.4 degrees Celsius (°C) and 17.6°C against 28.5°C and 17°C, respectively, a day earlier.Maximum and minimum temperatures will hover around 29°C and 15°C on Wednesday, said an IMD official, requesting anonymity.“The mercury may drop further over the next three days as the icy cold winds will continue to flow from the mountain region which recently received snowfall. After three days, the temperature will be stable for some time until the next western disturbance, when temperatures will start to fall again,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.Meanwhile, pollution monitoring agencies predicted that the air quality may drop as stubble burning incidents are likely to increase ahead of the winter season.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) reading -- on a scale of 0 to 500 -- in Noida on Tuesday was recorded at 154 against 150 a day earlier. Similarly, Ghaziabad’s AQI was 176 against 80 on Monday, and 149 at Greater Noida against 90 a day earlier.An AQI reading between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 ‘severe’.The air quality is likely to worsen in the region, according to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) on Tuesday. “Fire emission is expected to increase due to dry weather over North India (upwind region) in the next three days, due to which the particular matter -- PM2.5 -- is likely to increase. Drier conditions tend to increase PM10. Thus, the overall AQI is likely to degrade to ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category for the next three days. The effective fire count over the northwest region is 348 and its share in PM2.5 is 8% as westerly winds are partly favourable,” according to a statement issued by the SAFAR on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-sees-drop-in-mercury-after-icy-cold-winds-sweep-ncr-101635273978590.html
27-10-2021||Pune||Police identify 4 “black spots” along killer stretch leading to Navale bridge||PUNE The Pune police have identified four “black spots” along a 3.5-km stretch from the new Katraj tunnel to the Navale bridge chowk.The black spots are where regular accidents are happening, in this case, since 2014, a total of 56 people have lost their lives on this stretch. As per the information released by the police department, the four black spots identified are – the turn at Dari Pul bridge, the Swami Narayan temple chowk, the Narhe selfie point and the Navale bridge chowk. Last week, three accidents at different points on this stretch left three people dead and several injured. “We have identified four of these black spots where accidents regularly happen. Many drivers of heavy vehicles, to save fuel, switch off the engine and roll down the slope in neutral gear, where the vehicle then becomes difficult to control,” senior inspector Devidas Gheware of the Sinhgad road police station. “The Dari Pul bridge turn is so sharp that it can lead to an accident. At the Swami Narayan temple chowk the service road uneven so two-wheeler riders cannot judge it,” he said. “We are working on turning these black spots into safe spots and accordingly precautionary measures have been taken. We are now going to take a review of these spots along with the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and if needed infrastructural changes or any other preventive measure to curb down the accidents will be considered,” said PI Gheware. Of the 56 fatal accidents on this deadly stretch since 2014, half have been due to the “human error”, as per the police. On October 22, a tanker rammed into an SUV car, another four-wheeler and a container in which two persons died and two were injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-identify-4-black-spots-along-killer-stretch-leading-to-navale-bridge-101635273977269.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Day after contractor booked for extortion, illegal parking lots under scanner in Gurugram||A day after a private parking contractor was booked for extortion, police on Tuesday formed six teams to check if commuters were being charged illegally at any other parking lot.Police said the parking lot business has expanded in the city in the last 10 years and several people charge fees for parking on private land without informing the landowner.The teams will survey illegal parking spaces in the city, said police, adding that crime investigation units are also likely to conduct surprise raids. Commissioner of police KK Rao said that many private contractors are operating unauthorised parking lots in the city and the police have registered cases against at least 50 people in the last three years. “They charge parking fees without even informing the landowner--such cases have been reported from Galleria, Sushant Lok, Sector 57 and Palam Vihar areas. Strict directions have been given to all police stations and crime units to keep a check on such illegal activities. Anyone found operating unauthorised parking spaces will be booked for extortion,” he said.On Monday, a private contractor of a car park facility in Rajiv Chowk was booked on charges of extortion for allegedly charging a trucker ₹40,000 for parking his impounded vehicle at the lot for 18 days. The contractor was charging ₹100 per tyre per day, against a maximum charge of ₹100 per vehicle per day. Police said the most complaints of overcharging at parking lots have been received from Rajiv Chowk, Sector 57, Sushant Lok, and Sadar market area.Rao said contractors will have to display the charges at the entry of the parking lot. “The charges are fixed. Residents should inform police if they find anyone asking them to pay extra and not giving them a receipt,” he said.Residents have alleged that parking contractors are fleecing them, and despite repeated complaints to the nearest police stations, nothing has been done.Vatsala Sharma, a resident of DLF Phase 4, said people charge a minimum of ₹30 for them to park their vehicle on any vacant land adjacent to commercial complexes or local markets. “Despite paying, the risk is ours if anything is stolen from the car. One cannot question the parking staff as they are not even polite and end up threatening us if we ask for a parking receipt,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/day-after-contractor-booked-for-extortion-illegal-parking-lots-under-scanner-in-gurugram-101635273861762.html
27-10-2021||Other||Noida launches helpline to file complaints on waste dumping||The Noida Authority on Tuesday released a helpline for the public to file complaints regarding waste dumping at undesignated sites. Authority officials said residents can get other cleanliness-related issues resolved by seeking help via the helpline.The authority released a WhatsApp number 9717080605 and a toll-free number 18001808695 for sanitation issues, a toll-free number 18008919657 for construction and demolition (C&D) waste-related complaints, and a toll-free number 18001807995 for door-to-door waste collection-related complaints.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed the authority to take effective measures to clean the city ahead of Diwali, which will be celebrated on November 4 this year.“Residents can file complaints on WhatsApp and other toll-free numbers for sanitation issues in general. And if they have any issue with the door-to-door waste collection system, they can call the given numbers. If any resident wants to hand over their construction and demolition waste, then they can contact us on the toll-free number for help,” said SC Mishra, the project engineer of the Noida Authority.Noida has a C&D waste plant built on five acres of land in Sector 80. There are 14 collection points in the city from where the waste can be collected and transported to the plant for recycling. The authority can treat 300 metric tonnes of C&D debris at the plant on a daily basis and plans to make bricks/tiles out of the treated waste. Bulk waste generators such as contractors and realtors will be charged ₹494 per tonne for the collection of the C&D debris, authority officials said. Residents do not have to pay for the service, they added.They said they will ensure that C&D debris does not remain unattended on roads, pavements, and residential areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-launches-helpline-to-file-complaints-on-waste-dumping-101635273859048.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Rightwing groups submit memo to Gurugram admin, threaten to disrupt Friday prayers||Members of Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti, a consortium of 22 local units of rightwing organisations, gave a memorandum to Gurugram’s deputy commissioner Yash Garg on Tuesday, seeking that the offering of namaz in open areas is stopped. The members said they plan to disrupt prayers on Friday yet again if the issue is not resolved by then.Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, a Samiti member who has been a part of the protests, said, “This time, if we find anyone offering prayers in the open and not in mosques then we will be forced to disrupt the law and order situation and things can take an ugly turn,” he said.Bhardwaj said they had a problem with outsiders gathering in residential areas to offer prayers in the open. Members of the Muslim community, meanwhile, said there weren’t enough mosques in the city, leading to them having to gather in the open at certain sites to pray on Fridays.Garg said he had received the memorandum and the administration was trying to resolve the issue at the earliest. He said the administration was on high alert. “We are coordinating with the police to ensure that Friday is peaceful. We have deployed duty magistrates at all locations where a protest can take place and we shall ensure that communal harmony is maintained,” he said.Senior officials said that protesters were likely to gather at multiple sites and police deployment would be planned after discussions with the commissioner of police on Wednesday.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that heavy police deployment is planned for Friday. “The prayers will be held under police protection and we will ensure law and order situation is under control. Police have been instructed accordingly and an assistant commissioner of police will be deployed to take action at each spot if required. No one will be allowed to raise religious slogans at prayer sites,” he said.Protests against namaz in open areas started in September in Sector 47. On October 8, the sector residents and members of some Hindu groups protested for the fourth consecutive week by raising slogans and singing bhajans even as members of the Muslim community offered prayers amid heavy police presence. Though police shifted the site of the Friday prayers around 100 metres from the originally designated spot to avoid confrontation, local residents demanded they wanted prayers to be stopped completely in their area.After a joint meeting of both communities with the deputy commissioner that week, it was decided that residents of Sector 47 would not protest until Diwali (which will be celebrated this year on November 4); however, protesters gathered at Sector 12A last Friday.Members of the Muslim community said that they were being harassed by the protesters. “Police and the administration should take action against those who are conducting these protests at the sites. Designated land should be given to us so we can set up mosques so that members of our community do not have to offer prayers in open,” said Altaf Ahmad, founder member, Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch.Haji Shehzad Khan, the chairman of Muslim Ekta Manch, said that they have demanded police protection for people praying at the designated sites. “We have chosen three sites to offer prayers – DLF Phase 3, Sector 12A, and Sector 47. The administration has promised us it will take action against those who protest or disrupt our prayers at any of the sites,” he said.He also said they are offering prayers at sites designated by the administration but people are still are disrupting them.The Sanyukt Hindu Sangarsh Samiti had earlier carried out protests against the offering of namaz in the open in May 2018. After their protests, the administration had discussed the issue with both communities and designated 37 sites in the city for offering namaz, one of which is Sector 47.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rightwing-groups-submit-memo-to-gurugram-admin-threaten-to-disrupt-friday-prayers-101635273856467.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: 4 test positive in Chandigarh tricity||The tricity on Tuesday recorded four fresh infections of Covid-19, down from six on Monday.Panchkula reported a case each from Sector 25 and Amravati Enclave. Both Mohali and Chandigarh reported one case each. Meanwhile, no death was recorded for the 21st consecutive day.The tricity’s active caseload stands at 76, with 31 patients in Mohali, 27 in Chandigarh and 18 in Panchkula.Chandigarh has so far reported 65,326 positive cases, of which 64,479 have been cured and 820 have died. In Mohali, total cases recorded till date are 68,806. Among these, 67,707 patients have recovered and 1,068 have died.Panchkula’s caseload of 30,764 includes 30,368 recoveries and 378 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-4-test-positive-in-chandigarh-tricity-101635273796393.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Paediatric ICU beds increased in view of possible third Covid wave in Gurugram||The district health department on Tuesday started a paediatric intensive care unit (ICU) with 10 beds at Civil Hospital in Sector 10, said officials. Sixteen paediatric ICU beds were also added to the Polyclinic in Sector 31, they said. The paediatric ICU at Civil Hospital was inaugurated by deputy commissioner of Gurugram Yash Garg in the presence of chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav. “On Tuesday, we started a 10-bedded paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) with four ventilator beds, X-ray facilities and defibrillators, among other facilities. Sixteen more PICU beds are also ready at the Polyclinic in Sector 31. These facilities have been readied anticipating a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and we are preparing to treat children,” said the chief medical officer. Meanwhile, the health department on Tuesday also issued an advisory for the public to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour this festive season. The health department advised people to avoid visiting crowded places during the festive season and asked people to follow the Covid-19 safety protocols seriously. The advisory said that the festive season lasts from October to December, so it is necessary that people avoid events where crowding is likely. The advisory added that Gurugram reported an increase in Covid-19 cases in the past few days. While the number of active cases in the district was 150 in the month of September, in the last three weeks of October it has increased to 165. The advisory said that people need to be more careful and alert. People above 60 years of age who are suffering from serious illness, pregnant women and children below 10 years of age have been advised to stay at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/paediatric-icu-beds-increased-in-view-of-possible-third-covid-wave-in-gurugram-101635273676344.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||PU senate elections conclude: 11 more elected from graduate constituency||With counting of votes culminating on Tuesday, 11 more candidates were declared elected to the Panjab University (PU) senate from the registered graduate constituency. With this the election process of the senate, which was pending since last year, has drawn to a close.The counting of votes for the registered graduate constituency began last week and four candidates had already been declared elected including former senators and a student leader.The candidates who were declared elected on Tuesday include Manish Wayyer, who secured 3,022 votes, followed by Varinder Singh with 2,676 votes, Ravinder Singh with 2,418 votes, Prabhjit Singh with 2,305 votes and Balbir Chand Josan with 2,289 votes. The other elected candidates include Harjodh Singh, Lajwant Singh Virk, Jagwant Singh, Naresh Gaur, Sanjeev Kumar Bandlish and Kapil Sharma.Ravinder Sigh, who is a former student leader and Phd scholar at PU, said, “I will ensure student representation in the senate and make efforts to ensure that their issues are addressed properly.”The registered graduate constituency is the largest among the eight constituencies of the PU senate. Even though it had 3.61 lakh eligible voters, the voter turnout was only 14.57%.Naresh Gaur, who has been elected for the third time to the senate from the graduate constituency said, “A lot of issues in the university are pending and we will ensure they are addressed in a timely manner now. We will also check whether all the work done during the absence of the senate were carried out as per rules and regulations.”Jagwant Singh, general secretary of Punjab Federation of University and College Teachers Oganisations (PFUCTO), said, “The college community is suffering a lot and that needs to be addressed on priority. Also, the university working has also deteriorated which needs to be improved for better results and better service to students.”47 candidates elected from eight constituenciesFrom eight constituencies, 47 candidates have been elected into the 91-member senate. As many as 36 members are nominated by the university chancellor, two from the Punjab assembly and six are ex-officio members. The four-year term of the previous senate had ended on October 31, 2020The results of the election are sent to the chancellor for final approval before a gazette notification is issued. The 36 members have already been nominated by Vice-President of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the PU chancellor.As of now, there is no clarity on when the next meeting of the PU senate will be held. The last meeting was held in December 2019. PU is also functioning without a syndicate, which is the executive arm of senate, since January this year and there are no deans as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-senate-elections-conclude-11-more-elected-from-graduate-constituency-101635273626705.html
27-10-2021||Other||AMU celebrates India’s one billion Covid-19 vax doses||The Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) celebrated the feat of administering one billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in the country, on Tuesday. A webinar, ‘Billion Doses: A celebration of Science & Governance’ attended by senior doctors and other stakeholders and alumni across the globe was organised by J N Medical College of AMU.Vice-chancellor, Prof Tariq Mansoor, while presiding over the webinar extended congratulations to all the health workers for their tireless effort due to which the country was able to achieve the target.He also urged various stakeholders to prepare for the vaccination of children in the future. “We need to vaccinate our children. Once we are able to achieve it, then the academic activities can normalise. We need to focus on research and clinical trials of children. However, safety is our major concern. AMU is ready for vaccine trials for children, as and when required,” he said.The webinar was also attended by Dr Krishna M Ella, chairman & managing director, Bharat Biotech International Limited; Dr Ajai Ghai, state immunisation officer & joint director, family welfare; Pankaj Somani, senior national programme manager-health, UNDP; Prof M M Sufyan Beg, chairman alumni affairs committee of AMU; Prof Shahid Ali Siddiqui, principal, J N Medical College; Prof Mohammad Shameem, principal investigator, vaccine trials; Dr Ali Jafar Abedi, AMU health officer; Prof Mohammad Aftab, additional medical superintendent, chairpersons of departments and several other senior faculty members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amu-celebrates-india-s-one-billion-covid-19-vax-doses-101635273616749.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Chhatbir Zoo: Now, scan QR code to get info on various animal species||With the increase in the number of species from 106 to 126 in the past three years, Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir Zoo, has now installed smart services for visitors. The authorities have installed 60 signboards with QR code, which can be scanned using any smartphone to get details on a variety of species in many languages. Also, new interpretative and informative signboards have been put in front of the animal exhibits, with detailed information on the species concerned in English and Punjabi. Hygiene metal barriers made of grade stainless steel have been put up in front of major carnivore exhibits to ensure visitors’ safety. These barriers are seven-feet high and the difference between the grill is up to four inches, so the viewing isn’t affected and clicking pictures is easy with any type of camera. Zoo field director of Chhatbir Zoo, Naresh Mahajan, said they are also strengthening the lion-safari wall along the Ghaggar riverside. This boundary wall was constructed four decades ago and made with bricks and chain-link-wire-mesh. Now, it is being strengthened and the height is being increased with extra layers of bricks up to nine-feet high and 2.000 feet long, which will make it safer for visitors and the animals. He said that other initiatives are also being taken to bring Chhatbir Zoo up to international standards and safety and amenities of the visitors are being taken into consideration while planning and developing the infrastructure, he added. In August this year, Dinosaur Park was inaugurated to bring the facility up to international standards of zoo education. Chhatbir Zoo, in collaboration with the Altrview Group, developed the dinosaur park on PPP mode, where real size, lifelike and interactive robotic models of dinosaurs are being exhibited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chhatbir-zoo-now-scan-qr-code-to-get-info-on-various-animal-species-101635273441841.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Two years on, Gurugram’s wait for e-buses just got longer||Even after a delay of two years, Gurugram will have to wait longer before electric buses start plying on the city roads. In 2019, the Haryana government had announced that 50 electric buses will be added to the fleet at Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) by the end of that year, but the buses have still not been procured. According to officials in the know, the process initially got delayed because of procedural issues and then the lockdown imposed due to the nationwide Covid-19 outbreak in March 2020. “The government announced two years ago that 50 electric buses will be added to the fleet and arrangements were made accordingly. A parking space was created at the Sector 10 bus depot and charging stations were installed. It was first decided that the authority would purchase the buses, but now, in accordance with the state’s policy on electric vehicles, it has been decided that the state government will purchase and distribute the buses to every district,” said Arun Sharma, GMCBL manager of Sector 53 and Sector 10 depots in the city. The official said that the number of buses to be given to Gurugram and by when they will be given had not been decided yet. In August 2019, the department of heavy industry (under the ministry of heavy industries and public enterprises) announced the sanction of 5,595 electric buses to 64 cities, including Gurugram, under the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Electric Vehicles in India (Fame) subsidy. It was the only city in Haryana to have been allotted the e-buses under the second phase of Fame. There are currently over 160 GMCBL buses plying on 29 different routes in Gurugram and Faridabad. Earlier this year, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram in August launched the city’s first electric three-wheelers zone (ETWZ), where only electric autos and e-rickshaws can ply, to promote the use of e-vehicles. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had flagged off these vehicles as part of the Parivartan project from Galleria Market in DLF Phase 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-years-on-gurugram-s-wait-for-e-buses-just-got-longer-101635273436317.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Pilot project to identify local pollution sources||The Commission for Air Quality Management in Delhi and adjoining areas (CAQM) along with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has launched a pilot project to control pollution and to help identify local pollution sources.In a statement released on Tuesday, the CAQM said non-point pollution sources, which are mainly the contributors of pollution that is not confined to a single point or a pollutant that does not arise from a single identifiable source, is a major concern in a megacity like Delhi and it is important to identify such sources and control it.The pilot project was initiated with SDMC along with an NGO Air Pollution Action Group, which identified 17,290 pollution issues across 104 wards in south Delhi. “Supported by a robust review and monitoring programme, the pilot project was successful in identifying about 17,290 issues in 104 wards of SDMC, of which 10,900 (63%) issues pertain to the SDMC and the remaining 6,400 (37%) issues have been assigned to other agencies. Under this pilot project, SDMC has successfully resolved 95% of the issues pertaining to its own jurisdiction,” CAQM said in a statement.The major pollution sources that have been addressed under this pilot project include garbage dumping sites, overflowing dhalaos, burning of garbage, construction and demolition sites, debris dumped on public land, road dust from unpaved roads, barren lands, industrial emissions and vehicular pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiair-quality-panel-sdmc-join-hands-to-identify-local-pollution-sources-101635273378070.html
27-10-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Cops on alert against betting, gambling rackets during T20 WC, Diwali season||PRAYAGRAJ: Prayagraj police have launched a drive against gambling and betting rackets being run in the city amidst the ongoing T20 World Cup and fast approaching festival of Diwali. Actions have been taken against many during the last few days as part of this drive while SOG teams are continuously at work to identify and trace persons who may try to take advantage and run betting rackets during T20 matches. “All police stations have been asked to carry out regular checking drives at places from where betting rackets may be operated. Different teams of SOG are on alert and are using their informer networks to identify bookies,” superintendent of police (crime) Ashutosh Mishra said. Previously also, many betting rackets were busted by cops during IPL matches. Moreover, gambling dens were also raided by police teams on regular basis in different parts of the city. But despite regular raids, alerts bookies managed to run betting in many parts of the city and even in rural areas during T20 India Pakistan match on Sunday held in Dubai. “As persons involved in betting rackets usually use phones for bookings, it becomes difficult to trace and identify them. They may operate from densely populated localities, posh areas or even remote villages to avoid suspicion of police,” said the official. According to police, bettings are booked not only offline but also online. Bookies remain active on phone and at their hideouts and take money for betting on scores, wickets and speculations on who will play first etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-cops-on-alert-against-betting-gambling-rackets-during-t20-wc-diwali-season-101635273376782.html
27-10-2021||Other||Greater Noida: RWAs encouraged to recycle their waste||The Greater Noida authority has decided to organise a competition in December this year for residents’ welfare associations which are engaged in making compost out of biodegradable waste. The move is aimed at encouraging residents to do their bit to make the city a better place to live in, officials said. “We can decentralise the waste handling process by engaging the citizens in the move and that will help us reduce the waste that goes to the landfill for treatment. We want the RWAs or other social groups to come forward to recycle the biodegradable waste at their premises via compost making process,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.After the competition, the authority will honour those RWAs which are doing the best in waste recycling, the officials said. According to official estimates, Greater Noida produces around 300 metric tonnes of waste daily. The authority wants to reduce the quantity of waste that goes to the landfill site in Astoli, the officials said.Bhooshan also directed the health department to spread awareness about the dire need of recycling of waste in the city. The authority wants that along with the bulk waste generators such as housing complexes and educational institutions, among others, individuals should also recycle their kitchen waste by making compost, the officials said.According to the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, the housing complexes or other buildings, which are built on 5,000 square metres of land or above area and produce 100kg waste daily, then they need to treat it at their premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/greater-noida-rwas-encouraged-to-recycle-their-waste-101635273317649.html
27-10-2021||Gurugram||Civic body to fix potholes on all Gurugram roads by November 15||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has decided to fix potholes on all city roads, including national highways, by November 15. MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja issued these directions during an internal meeting related to the beautification of the city on Tuesday.The MCG commissioner also directed the civic body officials to repair footpaths, road dividers, lift and clean debris, garbage and horticultural waste, repair walkways and tiles in parks, and plant more saplings by November 15.“MCG officials will be anyway lifting waste and clearing debris from areas across the city, including national highways and main roads. Hence, I have directed officials to fix potholes across all roads in the city in coordination with departments concerned such as Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), and Public Works Department (PWD) by November 15,” said Ahuja.According to MCG officials, superintending engineer Vivek Gill has been entrusted with the responsibility of getting the main roads and national highways repaired.Last month, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had directed departments in Gurugram to fix all roads damaged by rains during the monsoon season by November 30.On Sunday, HT had reported that MCG had floated tenders to get roads repaired in areas under their jurisdiction while GMDA had already started on-ground work at several stretches under its jurisdiction such as the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) and Basai Road.GMDA chief engineer Jaspal Singh said on Sunday that officials had been given a deadline of November 15 by the administration to complete all road-related patchwork.All arterial roads such as internal sector roads and colony roads are under the jurisdiction of MCG while master roads such as the Golf Course Extension Road (GCR), Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road, Netaji Subhash Marg are under the jurisdiction of GMDA.The Gurugram section of National Highway 48, Dwarka Expressway, Sohna Road (NH 248 A) is under the jurisdiction of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) while roads connecting to peripheral areas such as Pataudi, Bajgehra, and Farrukhnagar are under the jurisdiction of Public Works Department (PWD).The MCG commissioner also said in the meeting that all MCG executive engineers would be the nodal officers of their respective divisions for the above works, all the joint commissioners will supervise their respective zones and the chief engineer will monitor and supervise all the projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/civic-body-to-fix-potholes-on-all-gurugram-roads-by-november-15-101635273077788.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Forest dept seeks DUSIB help to clear Ridge slums||To begin the work of demolishing slum colonies and multi-storeyed buildings, built illegally in forest land in the southern Ridge, the Delhi forest and wildlife department has sought the help of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) to find alternative land parcels where the slum dwellers could be rehabilitated.While demolition drives are currently ongoing to remove the smaller structures in villages such as Devli, Asola and Pul Pahladpur, forest officials say denser areas such as Neb Sarai are next up, and to carry out demolition there, a rehabilitation package needs to be chalked out first.A forest official said the demolition drives have been going on for over two years now and encroachment are being removed from 19 villages of Asola, Bhatti, Chhatarpur, Aya Nagar, Maidangarhi, Satbari, Sahoorpur, Saidulajab, Neb Sarai, Jaunapur, Dera Mandi, Devli, Rajpur Khurd, Tughlaqabad, Pul Pehladpur, Rajokri, Rangpuri, Ghitorni and Mahipalpur.However, the department said denser areas with tall structures such as Neb Sarai, Saidulajab, Prem Nagar as well as Aya Nagar will require assistance from the district task force (south), as slum colonies have to be rehabilitated first, as per law.“We are unable to act on these thickly populated pockets and we have now approached the district task force for manpower and DUSIB for rehabilitation purposes. Work cannot commence in certain areas until locals are rehabilitated. A meeting will again be held in the next couple of weeks,” said the official, asking not to be named.Amit Anand, deputy conservator of forest (south), who is overseeing the encroachment removal drive, said over the past few months, the department has adopted a strategy of removing encroachments and building a permanent wall within a matter of days. The area freed form encroachment is then rejuvenated by the planting of native saplings.“Within 15-20 days, the boundary wall is up and saplings are planted so the land cannot be reclaimed or used for other activities. The ecological task force is also deployed there immediately,” Anand said.A senior DUSIB official when contacted said they were awaiting a request from the forest department to begin rehabilitation work. “Rehabilitation can be done by the Delhi development Authority (DDA), or any other land-owning agency. While we identify areas that they can be rehabilitated, the cost has to be borne by the land-owning agency. Once we receive a formal request, we will begin the process,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/forest-dept-seeks-dusib-help-to-rehabilitate-slum-dwellers-free-up-ridge-land-101635273076341.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi ministers to take part in ‘Red Light On, Gaadi Off’ campaign||The Delhi government on Tuesday said all its ministers will start taking part in the “Red Light On, Gaadi Off” campaign from Wednesday to sensitise people and request them to turn off their vehicles when the light turns red at traffic intersections. While food minister Imran Hussain will take part in the campaign on Wednesday, social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam will be joining volunteers on October 29, followed by deputy speaker Rakhi Birla on November 2.On November 8, speaker Ram Niwas Goel will make people aware of the need to switch the ignition off at the Mandoli traffic intersection in Nand Nagri. Health minister Satyendar Jain will take part in the drive on November 12, while transport minister Kailash Gehlot, along with deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, will take part in the campaign at India Gate on November 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-ministers-to-take-part-in-red-light-on-gaadi-off-campaign-101635272904127.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two held for killing man during robbery||Four days after a 42-year-old electrician was stabbed to death on a busy road in central Delhi’s West Patel Nagar for resisting an armed robbery, the police on Tuesday said they arrested two men and apprehended six minor boys in connection with the crime. The alleged accused stabbed the electrician in his abdomen before robbing him of his mobile phone, ₹3,000 cash, a gold ring and Aadhaar card, police said.The electrician, identified by his first name as Manoj, lived with his family in Baba Faridpuri area near West Patel Nagar and worked at an electronics showroom in Baljeet Nagar, police said. “The knife used in the crime was recovered along with Manoj’s stolen phone and Aadhaar card. The suspects spent the looted money,” said a senior police officer, adding that nearly 60 police personnel scanned footage from over 400 CCTV cameras in a 1km radius of the scene of crime to identify and nab the suspects.The arrested men were identified as Sikahdar alias Sikku, 21, and Vivek Singh, 20. The six apprehended teenagers are between the age of 15 and 17, police said. One of them was previously involved in a case of assault and wrongful restraint. All of them have been booked for murder and dacoity, said deputy commissioner of police (central) Shweta Chauhan.The incident is the latest in a series of snatching and robbery cases in which the victims suffered fatal or serious injuries besides losing their valuables. According to Delhi Police data, Delhi reported 5,108 snatching cases till August 15 this year -- 851 more than what was reported during the same period in 2020. Similarly, robbery cases increased by 178 till August 15 this year to touch 1,264, as compared to 1,086 cases reported during the same period in 2020.On October 22 around 8.30 pm, Manoj was returning home from his workplace when a group of eight persons allegedly cornered him on a busy road in Block 35, West Patel Nagar. They held him at knifepoint and made him hand over the cash and other belongings. But Manoj resisted their bid to rob him and ran towards a lane while screaming for help.But the suspects chased him and one of them stabbed him in the abdomen. “We scanned the footage from over 400 CCTV cameras and identified all suspects. All of them have been caught,” said DCP Chauhan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhitwo-men-arrested-six-minors-apprehended-for-killing-man-during-robbery-101635272716786.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC restrains ED from taking further action in Amnesty India funds case||The Delhi high court on Tuesday restrained the Enforcement Directorate (ED) from taking any further action pursuant to the attachment of Amnesty International India’s funds in connection with a money laundering case.The money laundering case of the ED is based on the November 2019 Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) FIR against Amnesty International India Private Limited (AIIPL), Indians for Amnesty International Trust (IAIT), Amnesty International India Foundation Trust (AIIFT), and Amnesty International South Asia Foundation (AISAF) in connection with the alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) and the Section 120B of the Indian Penal Code (criminal conspiracy).The ED also froze various bank accounts and fixed deposit accounts of Amnesty International India and Indians for Amnesty International Trust on November 26, 2020.Justice Rekha Palli, while hearing a petition by the human rights agency to prevent the transfer of attached funds, also directed that a status quo be maintained until the organisation’s appeal against the confirmation of the attachment order is taken by the appellate tribunal, which is currently not functional.The judge clarified that her order shall “merge” with any order that may be passed by the appellate tribunal subsequently.“The writ petition is partly allowed by directing that till the appeal and the stay application are taken up by the appellate tribunal, parties will maintain status quo. Consequently, the respondent (Enforcement Directorate) will remain restrained from taking action pursuant to the impugned order. This order will merge with any order passed by the appellate tribunal,” justice Palli said.Similar directions were passed by the judge on a petition against the confirmation of a provisional attachment order against the Indians for Amnesty International Trust.The order was passed after the two petitioners stated that while they have preferred a statutory appeal against the confirmation of the attachment order, passed by the adjudicating authority, the same is unlikely to be taken up on account of the appellate tribunal being non-functional.The judge noted that the petitioners’ claim about the status of the appellate tribunal was not disputed by the lawyer appearing for ED, Amit Mahajan.In its petition filed through lawyer Arshdeep Singh, Amnesty International India stated that on August 6, the adjudicating authority confirmed the attachment of its fixed deposits and certain bank accounts, which were provisionally attached earlier this year pursuant to a money laundering case being probed by the ED.It said since April, all matters before the appellate tribunal are being re-notified en bloc after the expiry of the tenure of its acting chairman and therefore, there was an apprehension that the appeal would be rendered infructuous.In a scenario where the Centre has not issued any notification for the appointment of a chairman and/or members, the functioning of the appellate tribunal is likely to remain suspended for an indefinite period of time, the petition said.Amnesty International India also said that while conforming to the provisional attachment order, the adjudicating authority not only acted in blatant violation of the principles of natural justice but also overlooked the complete “non-application of mind” by ED officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-restrains-ed-from-further-action-against-amnesty-india-101635272657172.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Share of farm fires in bad air on rise, may peak near Diwali||Rain and favourable wind might have delayed the onset of winter pollution in the national capital, but air quality forecasts for the coming days suggest that Delhi is headed towards an air emergency as stubble fires are expected to peak -- coinciding with Diwali (to be celebrated on November 4), when pollution levels usually spike because of large-scale bursting of firecrackers in violation of bans.Air quality forecast by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology’s (IITM) decision support system — an air quality monitoring and forecasting system that helps government agencies take prompt decisions to prevent pollution peaks —said the contribution of stubble smoke in Delhi’s PM 2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) levels is expected to reach around 65% by the first week of November. The current contribution of farm fires to Delhi’s particulate matters is around 40%.Experts said the stubble smoke coupled with firecracker-bursting across states in north India during Diwali (November 4) is likely to push the Capital’s air into hazardous zone.
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt sets up centre to track adverse effects of Covid, other vaccines||The Delhi government has set up a state-level centre — consisting of doctors from several departments including medicine and cardiology — to monitor and investigate cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) at the Maulana Azad Medical College associated with Lok Nayak hospital.The team will begin by investigating the adverse events after the Covid-19 vaccination, and then move onto monitoring complications after vaccinations under the government’s universal immunisation programme, officials from the hospital said.“When a vaccine is administered, especially a new one like that for Covid-19, there are always reports of people fainting or getting diarrhoea. And, in some cases, people also link deaths, which could have happened because of any other condition, to the vaccine. It will be the job of this multi-disciplinary team to go over all the medical records of such people to determine whether or not a reaction is linked to the vaccine,” said Dr Pragya Sharma, professor in MAMC’s department of community medicine, which is coordinating the state-level centre.Surveillance data after inoculation – including Covid-19 and other vaccines under the government’s immunisation programme – is collected by the government’s immunisation cell.“The data will continue to be collected as it is currently, but this centre has been started to strengthen the mechanism. Our centre will carry out all the tests and diagnostics as well as provide multi-disciplinary expertise for investigating the cases,” said Dr Sharma.There have been 0.009% AEFI related to Covid-19 vaccinations in the city, according to data from the government’s CoWIN platform. This is more than the national average of 0.004%.“There is a very small percentage of people who report adverse events after Covid-19 vaccination; and among those reported, most are symptoms such as fever, rash, or pain at the site of the injection,” said Dr Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-sets-up-centre-to-monitor-adverse-event-cases-after-immunisation-101635272058800.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Four of family die in fire at northeast Delhi home||Four members of a family died after a fire broke out at their third-floor house in northeast Delhi’s Old Seemapuri in the early hours of Tuesday. Police said the fifth and the only surviving member of the family escaped as he was sleeping in a room on the second floor of the four-storey building.Although the exact reason for the fire has not been ascertained, police officers said that an oil lamp that the family kept lit round-the-clock may have caused the blaze. Police are also examining the possibility of a short-circuit in the decorative lights that were placed around a small temple in the room.“The fire was most likely caused by the big oil lamp that was kept lit under a wooden table in the room. The house was inspected by forensic experts who are trying to establish the exact reason for the blaze,” said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.Delhi fire services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the fire was small, and limited to just the one room where the four victims were sleeping.The victims were identified as Horilal (59), a peon at Shastri Bhawan; his wife Reena (55), a sanitation worker in East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC); and their two children – Ashu Chauhan (24), and Rohini (18). Horilal’s third son, Akshay (22), who worked as a housekeeping staff in a private logistics firm, escaped as he was sleeping on another floor.According to Akshay, his brother Ashu, a housekeeping staff in the North Block, was scheduled to get married in November. Horilal was due to retire from his job in March next year, he added.The DFS chief said that the fire control room received a call around 4am about the fire. Four fire tenders were rushed to douse the flames and the fire was immediately brought under control, he said. The blaze spread due to inflammable items in the room that was bolted from inside. The windows were also closed, said fire officials.“Four bodies were found on the floor. They died because of smoke inhalation,” said Garg. The bodies also had burn injuries, fire and police officials said.DCP Sathiyasundaram said a case of death by negligence under IPC section 304A was registered against unknown persons. Although no foul play is suspected so far, section 436 of the IPC has been added to probe if there was any mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy the house, he said.The four-storey building where the fire broke out is built in a 25 square yard plot. The ground and the first floor belong to Sunil Kumar Dhingan, a relative of the family, and the second and third floors were occupied by Horilal and his family. The only entry-exit point through the stairs has an iron gate that was locked from inside, police said.Futile attempts to escapeAkshay as well as some locals said that after the fire, they noticed marks on the room’s wooden door, suggesting that the victims made unsuccessful attempts to break it open.They suspect that the family members fainted during the efforts due to the toxic fumes. Police also said that this may have been the case.Sunder Pal, who lived on the second floor of a nearby building, first noticed the fire and alerted the neighbourhood. “We all began knocking the building’s iron gate and calling out names of Horilal’s family. Nobody responded initially and after a few minutes, Akshay came out on the second floor,” said Pal.Another neighbour, Radhey Shyam, said Akshay then rushed to the third floor after being told about the fire but he could not open the door. Later, police and firefighters broke open the door and the victims were rushed to GTB hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-of-family-die-after-fire-breaks-out-northeast-delhi-home-101635272057483.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Two more Tihar jail staff suspended over links to ex-Unitech promoters||The Delhi government on Thursday suspended a superintendent and deputy superintendent of Tihar jail for allegedly helping jailed Unitech ex-promoters Sanjay and Ajay Chandra violate prison rules. and run a “secret underground office in south Delhi” from inside the jail, officials privy to the development said.On October 14, the prison’s director general suspended 28 junior officers and terminated the services of two contractual employees in connection with the case, after the Delhi Police commissioner Rakesh Asthana named 32 people who abetted the Chandra brothers.The prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel wrote to the Delhi government’s home department to suspend one superintendent and a deputy superintendent, who were named in the case, since it needed approval of the government’s home department.
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Police rescue six from fire in house in Palam village||Six people, including three children, were rescued from a fire at the ground floor of a four-storey residential building in Palam Village in southwest Delhi’s Raj Nagar 2 on Monday evening.Police said a 24-year-old constable suffered burn and cut injuries during the rescue operations.Police said the injured constable and at least eight police personnel, including the station house officer (SHO) of Palam Village police station, carried out the rescue work for nearly half hour, during which they manually pushed four parked cars out of the building.The constable, Ashish, cut his hands as he broke the windowpane of two parked cars to release the hand brakes. He also suffered minor burns on his hand while dousing flames from the headlight of one of the parked cars, said a senior police officer of the police station.Police said the fire was reported at the residential apartment in Raj Nagar Part-2 around 6pm on Monday.Initially, constable Ashish and three more personnel reached the fire spot and found that the blaze was coming out of one of the servant rooms near the parking lot on the ground floor.“They found four cars parked near the servant rooms that were hampering the fire fighting and rescue operation. The SHO and other personnel also arrived there. Constable Ashish broke the windows of two cars while others pushed the cars out of the building, making space to carry out the rescue operation,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Gaurav Sharma.According to the officer, six people, including three children aged between one and three, were subsequently rescued.Later, two fire tenders arrived at the spot and doused the flames.In another fire reported from the area on October 23, police said they saved seven members of a family who were trapped in the house after a fire broke out due to a leakage in a cooking gas cylinder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-rescue-six-from-fire-in-house-in-palam-village-101635271756263.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: AAP MLAs, councillors to take up mega fogging drive to fight dengue||Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led municipal corporations of inaction, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday said that its MLAs and councillors in Delhi will start a fogging initiative across the city from Wednesday in its fight against dengue. The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless”.While the AAP is in charge of the city government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD). Delhi goes to municipal polls next year.“After BJP’s reckless governance failure, AAP’s workers will take charge of public health. AAP MLAs and councillors will start a mega fogging campaign from October 27. The BJP’s inaction regarding dengue control is costing lives,” said AAP’s MLA and spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj at a press conference.He further said, “The BJP has not taken a single step to keep dengue in check. They are on a continuous quest to defame Delhi by putting the lives of the people of Delhi at risk. The BJP doesn’t want to protect Delhiites. Fogging this year has been done in only 5-7% of the state and anti-malaria inspectors haven’t even gone to the ground yet. AAP workers will take the onus of protecting the people of Delhi. Every ward, locality and lane will be covered in the drive.”Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor called the allegations baseless.“It is really shocking to see AAP stooping down so low that they have started using sensitive issues such as dengue to politically malign BJP-ruled civic bodies. In the process, they are even denying credit to municipal health, sanitation and domestic breeding checkers who are working over time currently. Due to the hard work of municipal staff, the spread of dengue and malaria is well under control but sadly, just to indulge in dirty politics, AAP leaders, including MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj, are unnecessarily creating fear among people with baseless allegations,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiaap-mlas-councillors-to-take-up-mega-fogging-drive-to-fight-dengue-101635271396384.html
27-10-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Ashram underpass mess to extend beyond November||Relocation of a nearly 7km-long, high-power transmission line is set to hit the administration’s plans to finish the ongoing work on the Ashram Chowk underpass by November-end, officials involved with the project said.The transmission line, which is being handled by the Delhi Transco Limited (DTL), runs between Maharani Bagh and the AIIMS trauma centre. A senior DTL official, who asked not to be named, said it is expected to be completed only by November 15, which will impact the entire project.The 750-metre underpass, which has missed four deadlines since the work began on the project in 2019, connects Nizamuddin railway bridge and CSIR Apartments at the Ashram intersection. However, protracted construction work, poor site management, and haphazard dumping of construction material and debris has ensured years of chaos at one of the busiest traffic intersections in the Capital.Though the fifth deadline for the completion of the underpass is December 31 — it was set on August 17 — Delhi Public Works Department minister Satyendar Jain on September 17 said the work may be completed by November.“There has been a slight delay as high-voltage cables surfaced in the area where the ramp of the underpass is to be constructed. The cables are being shifted and that is likely to take around a month’s time. We have expedited the process and are resolving all the issues. The entire work of the underpass will be completed in two months,” Jain said at the time.When asked about the relocation of the high-power transmission line, Jain’s office, in a statement on Monday, said necessary directions have been issued to maintain the pace of work as scheduled and concerned officials have been asked to ensure smooth flow of traffic across the stretch.The senior DTL official quoted above said that the 220KV line originates from the substation near Maharani Bagh, and goes up to AIIMS trauma centre. “Due to high population density in this area, an overhead power supply line cannot be considered. The deadline of November 15, 2021 has been fixed for completing this task,” the official said.A PWD official overseeing the project confirmed that the digging work around the power line has started. “Most of the civil work for this underpass has been completed from both sides of the approach roads but the pending work of installing the last concrete block now depends on how long does DTL takes to relocate the power line. We will take around one month to complete the remaining work, after the power lines are shifted,” the official said.Meanwhile, traffic snarls at the key intersection that witnesses movement of over 300,000 vehicles every day continued. The Delhi Traffic Police issued an advisory on Saturday, stating that due to underpass construction work only one lane is open for traffic moving from Ashram to Badarpur, and that the commuters should avoid this route.“Vehicles coming on Ring Road from Sarai Kale Khan, and taking left towards Badarpur are advised to take CV Raman Marg-Mathura Road or Ashram flyover-Capt Gaur Marg- Modi Mill Flyover for Badarpur. Likewise, traffic on Mathura road from Nizammudin seeking to cross Ashram for Badarpur are advised to turn right and take Capt Gaur Marg-Modi Mill flyover for the onward journey,” the Delhi Traffic Police stated in the official statement.The initial deadline for the Ashram underpass project was December 2020, then it was shifted to April 2021, since most of the work was yet to be completed. That deadline too was, however, missed and the next deadline provided by the government officials was that of June 2021. After this, PWD missed the August 31 deadline too and later said that the work will be completed before the end of the year.Air pollution ban (starting 2019 September), assembly polls (March 8), pandemic-induced lockdowns (between March 2020 and June 5, 2021), labour shortage and financial crunch have also hit progress of work on the project.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning in the School of Planning and Architecture, said the project completion should be top priority as more than 500,000 passengers use the Ashram intersection every day.“Ideally, such intersections involving arterial roads and national highways should be grade separator interchange points with no restriction in flow of traffic movement. We are already a decade late in the intervention at this intersection. With other projects like Delhi-Meerut highway getting completed, the traffic volume at this intersection was bound to increase. The vehicular flow is coming at higher rate and getting stuck at the Ashram intersection,” he said.Prof Ram said, “We should also create a plan to facilitate pedestrian movement at this intersection as it will have flyover, underpass, Metro lines and at-surface movement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiashram-underpass-mess-to-extend-beyond-november-101635271336182.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||To prepare for UP polls, Amit Shah to meet 2019 Lok Sabha in-charges||Union home minister Amit Shah would sit down to chart BJP’s 2022 UP election roadmap from Friday by consulting Lok Sabha (LS) in-charges in 2019 general election when the party won 64 out of 80 seats from the state. The BJP had won these many seats despite an alliance between the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)—the reason why meeting with 2019 Lok Sabha in-charges is listed prominently in Shah’s Friday itinerary. Shah, who will reach Lucknow in the morning, will spend Friday night in the state capital. “Those LS poll in-charges would have an in-depth view of things. They have on-the-ground estimate of how we did well despite a tough caste arithmetic that the coming together of SP-BSP presented before us in 2019 LS polls. That’s why his meeting with them would be important because he would surely base his campaign strategy, either wholly or in part, on the basis of his meetings with them,” a BJP leader said. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev held a meeting on Tuesday evening to finalise the agenda for the series of meetings that Shah is scheduled to hold through the day on Friday. Shah is to also meet poll-in charges for each assembly segment in 2022 UP polls besides a meeting with all important party functionaries including members of the UP election panel headed by Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan and comprising among others information and broadcasting minister Anurag Thakur, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev, state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal and UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh. The Union home minister is also scheduled to launch party’s membership drive from Vrindavan scheme, Sector 17 Colony, after his arrival in Lucknow. Just as he had done in 2014 Lok Sabha polls and the 2017 UP polls when he was the party’s UP in-charge. Shah would also flag off party’s campaign vehicles for various parts of the state.BJP eying Dalit votesThe BJP is eyeing Dalit voters, the reason why after holding a meeting of Jatav Dalits on Tuesday, the BJP is to hold meeting with another influential caste group – Sonkars – on Wednesday. At the Jatav meet, BJP lined up leaders of the influential Dalit sub-caste, prominently showcasing Baby Rani Maurya, a Jatav Dalit woman tasked with holding meetings to connect with this key Dalit subcaste considered to be staunch supporters of Bahujan Samaj Party. Former BJP MP and now an MLC Vidyasagar Sonkar, who visited the Panchayat Bhawan venue for the meeting, said the BJP was connecting with all. “The opposition is busy in slander campaign but in these social representative meetings, we are telling the people how the benefits of the government schemes have reached one and all. The Modi-Yogi governments at the centre and the state have connected with the poorest of the poor and this is the reason why a desperate opposition is busy spreading rumours,” Sonkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/to-prepare-for-up-polls-amit-shah-to-meet-2019-lok-sabha-incharges-101635269596386.html
27-10-2021||Pune||After attacking man in Hadapsar, leopard caught by forest officials||PUNE A man was injured after he was attacked by a leopard on Tuesday morning in Gosavi Vasti, Hadapsar, forest officials confirmed. This is the first incident of a direct conflict between man and a wild animal in Pune city in 2021, according to forest department officials. The man was identified as Sambhaji Athole (45), and he was out for a morning walk when the leopard attacked him. He has sustained wounds on his left side and was rushed to a nearby private hospital, where he was reported stable. “He has injuries on his stomach and back, but he is stable now. We have caught the leopard,” said Rahul Patil, district forest officer, Pune. “The leopard was suspected to be hiding in a nearby abandoned house or in the vegetation nearby, according to residents,” said a spokesperson of fire department. Forest department officials were later informed and a team was moved to the spot for rescue and capture of the animal. There have been over a dozen sightings of big cats and the Pune district forest department has rescued 12 leopards in the past two years. The department has issued guidelines for the residents living in areas where leopards have been spotted. An awareness campaign is also part of the department’s initiative. However, there is no defined policy to channel the police, local administration, and forest department efforts if leopard sightings keep increasing. The attack came days after the citizens residing in Undri and Mohammedwadi area had spotted a leopard. However, despite motinoring the area, the forest officials did not get any clear evidence of a big cat’s presence in the vicinity. On October 10, a calf was reportedly killed in what was believed to be an attack by a wild animal in Mohammadwadi. The forest officials said they could not identify whether it was killed by a leopard or a hyena. After the calf was killed, forest range forest officer MJ Sanas appealed residents not to venture out during night. “Mohammedwadi almost touches the main city area, so wild animals don’t come here on a regular basis,” said Sanas. Apart from the leopard scare in Mohammedwadi, the sighting of leopard has been common in Junnar, Ambegaon belt of Pune district. Earlier in August this year, the 11-member committee set up by the Maharashtra government to study leopard-human conflict, had re-stated the importance of co-existence with the big cats and focus on engagement with locals. The committee rejected suggestions of capturing or trans-locating leopards from the conflict zone besides suggesting a “Living with Leopards” (LwL) programme. The man-animal conflict in Junnar forest division has claimed lives of 33 persons during past 230 years. At the same time, deaths of big cats in Maharashtra during 2020 went up to 174, 60% more than the figure registered in 2019 that saw 110 leopard deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/leopard-attacks-man-on-morning-walk-in-hadapsar-101635267915970.html
27-10-2021||Mumbai||NCB’s Sameer Wankhede framed people in 26 fake cases: Nawab Malik||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday kept up his attack on Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB)’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede even as Mumbai Police started probing a series of allegations and rebuttals between the senior leader and the Indian Revenue service officer.Malik said he received a letter by an anonymous NCB employee who accused Wankhede of allegedly framing people in 26 fake drug cases. The minister, who tweeted a copy of the four-page letter, said he will send it to the NCB chief and ask him to look into the issue. He also wrote to NCB chief SN Pradhan. “The contents of the letter are very serious in nature and need thorough investigation. Since NCB has already started a probe against Wankhede, I will request...NCB (chief) to make the letter part of their investigation.”The officer visited the agency’s headquarters in Delhi on Tuesday.The developments came a day after the agency started probing allegations that Wankhede was part of a ₹25 crore extortion racket after the arrest of actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son, Aryan Khan, in a drug raid. Mumbai Police said it started probing Malik and Wankhede’s statement.“An officer of the rank of assistant commissioner of police will conduct an inquiry into all these matters and we will register an FIR if the material discloses commission of a cognisable offence,” said a senior IPS officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malik-releases-letter-that-claims-26-fake-drug-cases-filed-by-wankhede-s-team-101635264315898.html
27-10-2021||Lucknow||Delhi govt will include Ayodhya in free pilgrimage scheme: Arvind Kejriwal||The Delhi government will include the temple town of Ayodhya in its free pilgrimage scheme, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal promised on Tuesday after a visit to the Ram Janmabhoomi and Hanumangarhi temples.“I was fortunate that I got the chance to bow before Ram Lalla, and I wish everyone must get this chance,” the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said. “Whatever capability I have, I will use that to make more and more people have darshan here.”The Delhi government has the Chief Minister’s Teerth Yatra Yojana (chief minister’s pilgrimage scheme), under which city residents can travel to pilgrimage sites such as Vaishno Devi, Rameshwaram, Dwarka Puri, Haridwar, Rishikesh, Mathura and Vrindavan free of cost.“A special cabinet meeting of the Delhi government is scheduled on Wednesday,” Kejriwal said. “In this meeting, Ayodhya will be included in the list of free pilgrimage tour programmes.”“I prayed to lord Ram for the prosperity of my country and for the Covid-19 pandemic to end,” the Delhi chief minister said.“AAP opposed the Ram temple. Arvind Kejriwal had suggested a university instead of Ram Mandir at Ram Janmabhoomi,” Ved Prakash Gupta, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Ayodhya Sadar, said, reacting to the visit on Tuesday.Meanwhile, as the Delhi chief minister’s cavalcade was passing through near the Amava Ram Mandir, some youth raised slogans in support of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Kejriwal, whose party has decided to contest all 403 assembly seats in the 2022 UP polls, had offered aarti on the banks of the Saryu river on Monday, saying it was an honour to visit the birthplace of Lord Ram. The AAP leader was on a two-day visit to Ayodhya, which ended on Tuesday.Some Hindu seers not aligned with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, led by Mahant Dharam Das, head of Nirvani Akhada, accompanied the Delhi CM on his visit to the Ayodhya temples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-to-be-included-in-delhi-s-free-pilgrimage-scheme-says-kejriwal-101635252795134.html
27-10-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal BJP expels 20 more office-bearers in poll-bound Jubbal Kotkhai||Barely four days before the by-elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday expelled 20 more office-bearers of its Jubbal-Kotkhai unit, where rebel candidate Chetan Bragta is posing a challenge to party nominee Neelam Saraik. The office-bearers from the block and district units of the BJP have been expelled for anti-party activities. Those expelled are Mahavir Jhagta, Inder Chauhan, Surinder Dhaulta, Krishan Chand Manta, Virender Chauhan, Narendra Chauhan, Ashok Chauhan, Nikkam Singh Baltu, Balbir Thakur Prince, Shyam Sharma and Mohinder Jhagta. District unit chief Ajay Shyam said the 20 office-bearers have been expelled from the party for six years. BJP’s Kisan Morcha president Rakesh Sharma (Babli ) has expelled five office-bearers of the farmers’ wing from the party for six years in Jubbal Kotkhai. The expelled leaders include Kitab Singh Negi, district president; Rajendra Chauhan, district secretary; Mahavir Jhagta, and Manoj Sunta, block president. The convener of the party’s Scheduled Caste cell has expelled Nitin Kumar, Satish Hemta, Moti Lal Shakti Singh, Ravindra Rawal, and Anant Lal Kesta. So far, the BJP has expelled 50 workers from block units of its youth body, BJYM, and women’s wing Mahila Morcha. No scope for returning: State BJP chief The block unit of the party resigned soon after the BJP denied the ticket to Chetan Bragta and preferred Neelam Saraik over him. The party expelled seven office-bearers of the Mahila Morcha on October 23. “All those who have been expelled will not be taken back in the party fold,” state party chief Suresh Kashyap said in a statement here on Tuesday. “The BJP is a disciplined party and the workers are the backbone of the party. But anti-party activities will not be tolerated at any cost in the party,” he said, adding that the party’s Himachal affairs in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna and co-in charge Sanjay Tandon have time and again warned the dissidents. Virbhadra was the Messiah of development, says Pratibha Congress nominee from Mandi Pratibha Singh on Tuesday hit out at the government over Lok Sabha member Ramswaroop Sharma’s death. She said that government is shying away from probing his death. “Bypolls are taking place because Sharma is no more between us. People of the state have every right to know,” she said. She also flayed HP chief minister and other BJP leaders for their remarks against her. “BJP leaders’ remarks over a woman only reflect their frustration,” she said while addressing a series of poll meetings. Neither am I weak nor helpless,” she added. Pratibha said her husband Virbhadra Singh was the “Messiah of development”. She said with his death, the state lost one of its leaders of masses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bjp-expels-11-more-office-bearers-in-poll-bound-jubbal-kotkhai-101635246134706.html
